








i T 

$*w* 

Wtm 

- *i : lSf 8/' 


^ r'Jffic&KB v : {]:£ §&/* 














PRIVATE UBR' A n 
CHARD c. HAL- 








CYCLOPS t»IA 

" V 

. ■ OF 

BIBLICAL, 

THEOLOGICAL, AND ECCLESIASTICAL 
LITERATURE. 


PREPARED BY 


THE REV. JOHN M'CLINTOCK, D.D., 

AND 

JAMES STRONG, S.T.D. 


Vol. V.— K, L, Me. 


PRIVATE UBRARY 

HARD C. h'ALVERCOW 

NEW YORK: 

HARPER & BROTHERS, PUBLISHERS, 

FKANKLIN SQUARE. 

18 8 2 . 


Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1873, by 
HARPER & BROTHERS, 

In the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington. 


PREFACE TO VOL. V. 


Of this volume, as of that which immediately preceded it, the editorial responsi- 
bility and general supervision have rested upon Dr. Strong. He has, however, been 
greatly aided by Professor Won max, who has continued to assist in the department 
left incomplete by the late Dr. McClintock. Professor Sciiem has likewise rendered 
important aid, chiefly in national history and statistics. The comprehensive scope 
and detailed character of the work, as a trustworthy book of reference on all relig- 
ious topics, have been maintained without change, except such improvements as ex- 
perience in its progress has suggested. Increased attention has been given to the 
non-Christian religions and nationalities, as the advance of missionary, scientific, and 
mercantile exploration has made them more and more the subjects of public notice 
and interest. The vocabulary, in the branches of philosophy, ethics, and memoirs, 
will also be found to be somewhat more full, and, we trust, not less satisfactory, than 
heretofore. 

The contributions of the numerous assistants and special collaborators are indicated 
by their initials appended to their respective articles. The following is a complete 
list of contributors to this volume only. Other eminent names, both in this country 
and abroad, have been secured for the future volumes, and will be announced in due 
time. 


S. L. B— The Rev. S. L. Baldwin, A.M., missionary to China. 

C. R. B.— The Rev. C. R. Barnes, A.M., Jersey City, N. J. 

C. B.— Charles Bruciihausen, M.D., Ph.D., Norwich, N. Y. 

J. K. B. — The Rev. J. K. Burr, D.D., Iloboken, N. J. 

II. A. B. — Professor H. A. Buttz, A.M., of the Drew Theological Seminary. 

T. W. C. — The Rev. T. W. Chambers, D.D., New York City. 

G. R. C.— The Rev. George R. Crooks, D.D., editor of the Methodist, New York. 

D. D. — The Rev. Daniel Devinne, Morrisania, New York. 

E. H. G.— Professor E. II. Gillett, D.D., of the University of the City of New York. 

D. R. G. — The Rev. D. R. Godwin, D.D., of the Protestant Episcopal Divinity School, Philadelphia, Pa. 

J. T. G. — The Rev. J. T. Gracey, A.M., missionary editor of the Northern Christian Advocate. 

J. D. H.— J. D. Hammond, A.B., of the Drew Theological Seminary. 

G. F. II. — Professor George F. Holmes, LL.D., of the University of Virginia. 

R. II.— The Rev. R. Hutcheson, A.M., Washington, Iowa. 

D. P. K. — Professor D. P. Kidder, D.D., of the Drew Theological Seminary. 

C. P. K.— Professor Charles P. Ivrauth, D.D., of the Lutheran Divinity School, Philadelphia, Pa. 

J. F. M.— The Rev. J. F. Marla y, Dayton, Ohio. 

G. M. — The Rev. George Miller, B.D., Wallpack Centre, N. J. 

E. B. O.— The Rev. E. B. Otheman, A.M., Rhinebeck, N. Y. 

N. P.— President Noah Porter, D.D., LL.D., of Yale College. 

J. N. P. — Mr. Jules N. Proesciiel, late of Paris, France. 

E. de P. — The Rev. E. de Puy, A M., New York City. 

J. D. R. — The Rev. J. D. Rosii, M.D., Ph.D., Summit, N. J. 

A. J. S. — Professor A. J. Sciiem, editor of the Deutsch-amerikanisches Conversations-Lexikon. 

E. de S.— The Right Rev. E. de Schweinitz, D.D., bishop of the Moravian Church, Bethlehem, Pa. 

L. E. S. — Professor L. E. Smith, D.D., of the Examiner and Chronicle , New York. 

J. L. S.— The Rev. J. L. Sooy, A.B., Titusville, N. J. 

M. L. S.— The late Professor M. L. Stoever, D.D., of Pennsylvania College. 

G. L. T. — The Rev. George L. Taylor, A.M., Hempstead, L. I. 

W. J. R. T.— The Rev. W. J. R. Taylor, D.D., Newark, N. J. 

N. V.— The Rev. N. Vansant, of the Newark Conference. 

C. W. — Professor C. Walker, D.D., of the Theological Seminary, Alexandria, Va. 

T. D. W. — The Rev. Theodore D. Woolsey, D.D., late president of Yale College. 

J. H. W.— Professor J. H. Worman, A.M., late librarian of the Drew Theological Seminary. 




LIST OF WOOD-CUTS IN VOLV 


The Kaaba at NIecca Page 

Figures on Rocks at Kanah 

Ancient Egyptian Key 

Interior of Khan at Aleppo 

Mouth of the Kishon 

English Merlin 

Red Kite 

Figure of Kneph 

Ancient Etruscan Knife 

Ancient Egyptian Knives 

Various Ancient Knives 

Egyptian Flint Knives 

Egyptian Slaughtering-knives. . . . 

Ancient Assyrian Knives 

Border of Assyrian Slab 

Krishna trampling on the Serpent. 

Serpent biting Krishna’s Heel 

Roman Labarum 

Monogram of Christ 

Attack of Lachish by Assyrians.. . 
Assyrian Ground-plan of Lachish. 

Jewish Capiives from Lachish 

Ancient Egyptian Ladder 

Ancient Assyrian Ladders 

Figure of the Dalai Lama 

Agnus Dei 

Ancient Egyptian Cylindrical Lamp 

Bronze Lamp and Stand 

Various Ancient Egyptian Lamps. 

Ancient Assyrian Lamps 

Classical Hand-lamps 

Classical Hanging Lamps 

Oriental Wedding Lantern 

Oriental Hanging Lamps 

Enlarged View of the Kanull 

Egyptian Knives and Lancets 

Lancet-window 

Ancient Roman Lantern 

Modern Oriental Lantern 

Ancient Egyptian Lantern 

Ordinary Eastern Lantern... 

Architectural Lantern of St. Helen’s 

Copper Coin of Laodicea 

The Hoopoe 


1 

11 

59 

69 

111 

113 

113 

125 
120 

126 
126 


The Pewit Page 246 

Lattice Window at Cairo 26S 

Lattice-work at Cairo 269 

Specimen of the Laudian MS 275 

Lavatory at Selby 2S0 

The Laver, after Thenins 2S1 

The Laver, according to Paine. . . . 2S2 

Costume of a Lazarist 300 

Ancient Egyptians working in 

Leather 30S 

View of Lebanon 310 


127 A suppliant Native of Lebanon... 314 

127 Felling Trees on Lebanon 314 

127 Lectern at Ramsay Church 317 

135 The Leek 324 

164 Trigoiiella Fceymm-Grcecum 324 

165 Ancient Legionary Soldiers 329 

177 Ancient Egyptians cooking Len- 
177 tiles 347 

151 The Lentile 34S 

131 Syrian Panther 370 

152 Levitical City, Diagram I, a 394 

190 Levitical City, Diagram I, & 394 

191 Levitical City, Diagram II — 394 

202 Levitical City, Diagram III 394 

206 Levitical City, Diagram IV 394 

220 Levitical City, Diagram V. 395 

221 Levitical City, Diagram VI, a 395 

221 Levitical City, Diagram VI, b 395 

221 Egyptian Gnat magnified 422 

221 Aquilaria Agallochuvi 42S 

221 The Water-lily 432 

222 White Lily 433 

222 Scarlet Martagon 434 

222 African Lion 446 

225 Claw in Lion’s Tail... 446 

225 Persian Lion 447 

235!Lion atArban 447 

235 1 Lion let out of a Cage 447 

235 Egyptian Hunting with a Lion. . . . 44S 

235|A Lion devouring a Man 448 

235 'Ancient Egyptian Palanquin 455 

237<Modern Persian Palanquin 455 

246, Syrian Double Palanquin 455 


Camel hearing the Hodaj Page 455 

Chamceleo Vulgaris 469 

Lacerta Stellio 47o 

Ancient Roman Bread 472 

Ancient Egyptian Bread 472 

Modern Egyptian wooden Lock. . . 477 

(Fdipoda Migratoria 484 

Acridium Lineola 485 

Acridium Peregrinum 4S5 

Locust flying 4S5 

Dried Locusts 486 

Locust-eating Bird 4SG 

“Lot’s Wife” 521 

Coin of Lycia 5S4 

Lych-gate at Blackford Church.. .. 5S4 
PersepoJitan Emblem of Macedou. 617 

Coins of Macedonia 61S 

Mosque at Hebron 621 

Ancient Egyptian Cuirass 659 

Jews’ Mallow 684 

Sea-purslane 6S4 

Vicinity of Abraham’s Cemetery.. 637 

Map of Manassek — East 69o 

Map of Manasseh— West 691 

Atropa Mandragora Officinarum. . . 700 

Tamarix Gallica 712 

Alhagi Maurorum 712 

Modern Egyptian Mantle 71S 

Specimen of Odessa MS 722 

Specimens of Greek MSS 72S 

Maronite Sheik and Wife 769 

Table of Prohibited Marriages 779 

Mohammedan Bridal Procession. . 797 

Figure of Mars 812 

Mary Queen of Scots 849 

Rock of Massada 856 

Mask Corbel 85S 

Masonry at Hebron 85S 

Pistacia Lentiscus 871 

Mater Dolorosa \ 872 

Ancient Egyptian Hoes 902 

Ancient Throw-sticks 903 

Coin of Maximin 1 916 

Coin of Maximin II 917 



CYCLOPAEDIA 

OF 

BIBLICAL, THEOLOGICAL, AND ECCLESIASTICAL LITERATUKE. 


K. 


Kaab, a celebrated Arabian poet, author of one of 
the seven poems which were suspended in the temple 
of Mecca, was originally a strenuous opponent of Mo- 
hammed, whose doctrines and person lie satirized. He, 
however, recanted by writing a poem in honor of the 
prophet. As a reward, the prophet gave him his green 
mantle, which one of the descendants of Kaab sold for 
ten thousand pieces of silver. lie died in GG2. 

Kaaba (Arabic Al-Kaabah, “Square House,” or, 
more properly, now Beit- Allah, “House of God”) is 
the name of an oblong stone building inclosed in the 
great mosque at Mecca. From time immemorial tra- 
dition makes Mecca to have been a place of pilgrimage 
from all parts of Arabia “ within a circuit of a thousand 
miles, interrupted only by the sea. The Kaaba, the 
Black Stone, and other concomitants of worship at Mec- 
ca have a similar antiquity” (Muir, Mahomet , i, 211). 
There are intimations of the Kaaba to be found in He- 
rodotus and Diodorus Siculus. It certainly existed be- 
fore the Christian rera (Sir W. Jones, Works, x, 35G ; M. 
C. de Percival, i, 74; ii, 532). See Mecca. 

Origin and History. — Mr. Muir (ii, 34) thinks the 
Kaaba to be of Yemen origin, and to have been connect- 
Vl with the systems of idolatry prevalent in the south- 
eiy' portion of the Arabian peninsula. The Mussulmans 
say that Adam first worshipped on this spot, after his 
explosion from Paradise, in a tent sent down from heav- 
en for this purpose. Seth substituted for the teift a 
structure of clay and stone, which was, however, de- 
stroyed by the Deluge, but afterwards rebuilt by Abra- 
ham and Ishmael. But this tradition may have arisen 
in connection with a traditional Jewish inscription found 
on a stone in the Kaaba about forty years before Moham- 
med, and which would suggest the possibility that some 
remote Abraliamic tribe acquainted with Syriac may 
have been at an early period associated with aboriginal 
Arabs in the erection of the Kaaba. Some have sup- 
posed it to have been devoted to the worship of Saturn 
(Zolial).’ Certain it is that it has been the holy em- 
blem at different periods of four different faiths. Sa- 
biean, Hindu, Gueber, and Moslem have all held it in 
veneration (Burton, iii, IGO). According to the Koran, 
it is “ tlit; ancient house,” the first house built and ap- 
pointee! for God’s worship (Sale’s Koran , p. 27G), and the 
guardianship of it was by express revelation given to 
Otliman (Sale, p. 1G7). 

It was originally without a roof, and, having suffered 
material damage by a flood, was considered to be in 
danger of falling. The treasures it contained were con- 
sidered insecure, and some of them were alleged to have 
been stolen. In A.D. G05 Mohammed rebuilt the edi- 
fice, but in A.D. 1G2G it was again destroyed by a great 
torrent, and in A.D. 1G27 was rebuilt substantially after 
its present form. 

structure. — It stands now on a base about two feet in 
V.— A 


height, which is a sharp inclined plane; and, as the roof 
'is flat, the building becomes an irregular cube, the sides 
of which vary from forty to fifty feet in height, and 
eighteen by fourteen paces in extent. It is inclosed by 
a wall some two hundred and fifty paces on two sides, 
and two hundred paces on the others. 

The Kaaba has but one door, which is raised some 
four or five feet from the ground, and is reached by a 
ladder. It is allowed to be entered only two or three 
times a year, though it is reputed to be susceptible of a 
money influence, and to be opened clandestinely much 
more frequently. The door is wholly coated with sil- 
ver, and has gilt ornaments. Wax candles are burned 
before it nightly, together with perfuming-pans contain- 
ing musk, aloes, etc., and other odorous substances. 



The Kaaba at Mecca. 

Black Stone. — The most important feature of the Ka- 
aba is the*“ Black Stone,” which is inserted in the north- 


IvAABA 


2 


KADESH 


east comer oi the building) at the height of four or five 
feet from the ground. It is in shape an irregular oval, 
about seven inches in diameter. There are various 
opinions as to the nature of this stone. Burekhardt 
supposes it to be a “lava” stone. Others suggest that 
it is an aerolite. Muir calls it “ a fragment of volcanic 
salts sprinkled with colored crystals, and varied red 
feldspatli upon a dark black ground like a coal, one pro- 
tuberance being reddish.” Burekhardt thinks it looks 
as if it had been broken into several pieces and cement- 
ed. He says, however, that it is difficult to determine 
the quality of it, because it is so worn by the millions 
of kisses and touches of the pilgrims. Muir says it is 
worn “until it is uneven, and has a muscular appear- 
ance.” It is bordered all round with a large plate of 
silver about a foot broad. The part or angle exposed is 
semicircular. So much of the merit of the Kaalm de- 
pends on this stone that at the time of the rebuilding 
of the edifice by Mohammed a great contest arose be- 
tween the families of the Koreisli for the honor of plac- 
ing it in the new structure. Mohammed settled this 
dispute by placing it on his own mantle, and causing a 
chief of each tribe to lift it, and then put it himself in 
its position in the Kaaba. See Kokeisii. Pilgrims, 
on arrival at Mecca, proceeding to the Ivaaba and mak- 
ing the circuit of it, start at the corner where the black 
stone is inserted. 

Fabulous stories abound relative to the black stone, 
such as that it was originally white, but became black 
because of the silent and unseen tears which it wept on 
account of the sins of«men. This, however, only affect- 
ed its exterior. Others attribute its change of color to 
the innunKfrable touches and kisses of the pilgrims. It 
is one of the precious stones of Paradise, which came to 
earth with Adam, and was miraculously preserved dur- 
ing the flood, and brought back to Mecca by the angel 
Gabriel, and given to Abraham to build originally in 
the Kaaba. It was taken at one time by the Karma- 
thians (q. v.),wlio refused to release it for five thousand 
pieces of gold, but they finally restored it. 

Veiling. — There is a custom, very remote in its origin, 
of covering the outside of the Kaaba with a veil, which 
has at various times been made of Yemen cloth, of 
Egyptian linen, of red brocade, and of black silk. To 
supply it became at one time a sign of royalty, and it 
was accordingly furnished by the caliph of Egypt, and 
later by the Turkish sultan. There seems to be some 
conflict of authorities about some things pertaining to 
the custom of veiling. About one third from the top 
of the veil is a band about two feet in width, embroi- 
dered with texts from the Koran in gilt letters (see 
Muir, ii, 32; Burton, iii, 205, 300). 

Admission. — Since the ninth year of the Ilegira an 
order has obtained that none but Islamites shall be ad- 
mitted to the Kaaba. Formerl}' the General Assembly 
of Ocadh convened at Mecca. In it poets contested for 
a whole month for prizes, and those poems to which 
prizes were from time to time awarded were by public 
order written in letters of gold on Egyptian silk, and 
hung up in the Kaaba (Sale, p. 20). 

Other Features. — In the south-east corner of the Ka- 
aba is a smaller stone, less venerated than the above, 
being touched only, and not kissed, by those walking 
round the Kaaba. On the north side of the Kaaba is 
a slight hollow, large enough to admit three persons, 
where it is specially meritorious to pray, it being the 
place where Abraham and Ishmael kneaded chalk and 
mud for the original structure. From the west side of 
the Kaaba a water-spout carries rain from the roof and 
pours it on the reputed grave of Ishmael, and pilgrims 
are not unfrcquently seen “fighting to catch it.” This 
water-spout is said to he of pure gold, and is four feet 
in length and about six inches in width. It is declared 
to have been taken to the Kaaba A.I1. 981. The pave- 
ment round the Kaaba is a mosaic of many colored stones, 
and was laid in A.ll. 82G. There is on one side of the 
Kaaba a semicircular wall, which is scarcely less sacred 


than the Kaaba itself. The walk round the Kaaba is 
outside this wall, but the closer to it the better. This 
wall is entitled El Ihittim , and is of solid stone, five teet 
in height and four feet in thickness. It is incased in 
white marble, and inscribed with prayers. The Kaaba 
has a double roof, supported by pillars of aloe-wood, and 
it is said that no bird ever rests upon it. The whole 
building is surrounded by an inclosure of columns, out- 
side which there are found three oratories, or places of 
devotion for different sects; also the edifice containing 
the well Zem-Zem, the cupola of Abbas, and the Treas- 
ury. All these are further inclosed by a splendid colon- 
nade, surmounted by cupolas, steeples, spires, crescents, 
all gilded and adorned with lamps, which shed a brilliant 
lustre at night. These surroundings, between which 
and the Kaaba run seven paved causeways, were first 
devised by Omar for the better preservation of the Ka- 
aba itself. According to Burekhardt, the same holy 
Kaaba is the scene of such indecencies as cannot with 
propriety be particularized; indecencies which are prac- 
ticed not only with impunity, but publicly and without 
a blush. See Mohammedanism. 

Since the second year of the Ilegira the Kaaba has 
been for the Mussulman world the Keblah, or place to- 
wards which all Moslems turn in prayer. See Keblaii. 

See Narrative of a Pilgrimage to El Medinah and 
Mecca, by Bichard F. Burton, vol. iii (Loud. 1855)*; Sale’s 
Koran; Muir, Life of Mahomet, vol. ii and iii (London, 
1858) ; Sprenger, Life of Mahomet, ii, 7 ; Ley. be iempli 
Meccuni origine (Berlin, 1840, 4to). (J. T. G.) 

Kaath. See Pelican. 

Kabbala. See Cabala. 

Kabiler is the name of a nephew of Brahma, and 
one of India’s greatest saints, llis father was Karta- 
men, the ancestor of the Brahmin race. It is in. the 
person of this Hindu that Vishnu took the form of man 
some twenty-four different times. See Yollmer, Wbr- 
terbuch der Mgthologie, p. 987. 

Kab'zeel (Ileb. KabtseeV, gathering of 

God, i. e. perhaps confluence of waters; Sept. 
in Joshua, elsewhere KafiavmjX v. r. K«/3f etc.), a 
town on the extreme south of Judah, near Idumaea, and 
therefore probably included within the territory' of Sim- 
eon (Josh, xv, 21) ; the native place of Benaiah (son of 
Jehoiada), one of David’s chief warriors (2 Sam. xxiii, 
20; 1 Chron. xi, 22). It was inhabited after the cap- 
tivity under the similar name of Jekabzeel (Xcli. xi, 
25). Its locality can only be conjectured as being near 
the edge of the Ghor, south of the Dead Sea (see Ma- 
sius. Comment, on Josh, ad loc.). The name and vicin- 
ity are probably still represented by the wady El~Ku~ 
seib, a small winter torrent running into the Dead Sea 
from the south (Bobinson, Researches, ii, 497). Here 
the boundaries of Palestine, Edom, and Moab would con- 
verge, as is implied in the above Scripture references, 
and the region is still the resort of wild animals (Lynch, 
Jordan, p. 319; De Sauley, Dead Sea , i, 298), and char- 
acterized by a deep fall of snow in winter (Burekhardt, 
Syria, p. 402), as is stated in the account of Benaiah’s 
adventure with the lion. 

Ka'des.(K«cb/c), a town of Palestine, apparently in 
the south (Judith i,9) ; probably the same as Kadesii- 
BAHNEA (q. V.). 

Ka'desh (Ileb. Kaclesh', holy, perhaps as be- 

ing the site of some ancient oracle [compare the early 
equivalent name “fount of judgment”], Gen. xiv, 7; 
xvi, 14; xx, L; Numb. xiii, 26 ; xx, 1, 14, 1G,22; xxvii, 
14; xxxiii, 3G, 37 ; Dent. i,4G; xxxii,5l; Judg. xi, 16, 
17; Psa. xxix, 8; Ezek. xlvii, 19 ; xlviii,28; Sept. Kd- 
cb/c, but in Ezek. xlvii, 19, Kaib/c v. r. Kacijy) or, more 
fully, KA'DESl I-BAB'XEA (Hebrew Kadesh'-Bame'a , 
the latter portion of the name being re- 
garded by Simonis, Lex. s. v., as compounded of “13, open 
country, and P‘2, wandering ; Numb, xxxii, 8; xxiy, 4; 


KADESH 


3 


KADI 


Deut. i, 2, 19; ii,14; ix,23; Josh. x,4I ; xiv,G,7; xv,3; 
Sept. K.cidi]Q [rou] BaovtQ, a site on the south-eastern 
border of the Promised Land, towards Edom, of much in- 
terest as being the point at which the Israelites twice 
encamped (their nineteenth and thirty-seventh stations) 
with the intention of entering Palestine, and from which 
they were twice sent back; the first time in pursuance 
of their sentence to wander forty years in the wilder- 
ness, and the second time from the refusal of the king 
of Edom to permit a passage through his territories. It 
is probable that the term “ Kadesli,” though applied to 
signif} r a “city,” yet had also a wider application to a 
region, in which Kadesh-meribah certainly, and Ka- 
desh-barnea probably, indicate a precise spot. Thus 
Kadesli appears as a limit eastward of the same tract 
which was limited westward by Sliur (Gen. xx, 1). Shur 
is possibly the same as Sihor, “ which is before Egypt” 
(xxv, 18; Josh, xiii, 3; Jer. ii, 18), and was the first 
portion of the wilderness on which the people emerged 
from the passage of the lied Sea. See Siiun. “Be- 
tween Kadesli and Bered” is another indication of the 
site of Kadesh as an eastern limit (Gen. xvi, 14), for the 
point so fixed is “ the fountain on the way to Shur” (v, 
7), and the range of limits is narrowed by selecting the 
western one not so far to the west, while the eastern 
one, Kadesh, is unchanged. Again, we have Kadesh as 
the point to which the foray of Chedorlaomer “return- 
ed” — a word which does not imply that they had previ- 
ously visited it, but that it lay in the direction, as view- 
ed from Mount Seir and Paran, mentioned next before 
it, which was that of the point from which Chedorlao- 
mer had come, viz. the north. Chedorlaomer. it seems, 
coming down by the eastern shore of the Dead Sea, 
smote the Zuzims (Ammon, Gen. xiv, 5; Dent, ii, 20), 
and the Emims (Moab, Deut. ii, 11), and the llorites in 
Mount Seir, to the south of that sea, unto “ El-Paran 
that is by the wilderness.” lie drove these Horites 
over the Arabah into the Et-Tih region. Then “ re- 
turned, ”i. e. went northward to Kadesh and Ilazezon 
Tamar, or Engedi (eomp. Gen. xiv, 7 ; 2 Chron. xx, 2). 
It was from Kadesh that the spies entered Palestine by 
ascending the mountains; and the murmuring Israelites, 
afterwards attempting to do the same, were driven back 
by the Amalekites and Canaanitcs, and afterwards ap- 
parently by the king of Arad, as far as Ilormah, then 
called Zepliath (Numb, xiii, 17 ; xiv, 40-45 ; xxi, 1-3 ; 
Deut. i, 41-44 ; compare Juclg. i, 7). There was also at 
Kadesh a fountain (En-misupat) mentioned long be- 
fore the exode of the Israelites (Gen. xiv, 7) ; and the 
miraculous supply of water took place only on the sec- 
ond visit, which implies that at the first there was no 
lack of this necessary article. In memory of the mur- 
murs of the Israelites, this fountain afterwards bore the 
name of “ the Waters of Meuibah” (Deut. xxxii, 51). 
The adjacent desert was called the “Wilderness of Ka- 
desh” (Psa. xxix, 8). On the second visit to this place 
Miriam died there, and Moses sent messengers to the 
king of Edom, informing him that they were in Kadesh, 
a city in the uttermost part of his border, and asking 
leave to pass through his country, so as to continue 
their course round Moab, and approach Palestine from 
the east. This Edom refused, and the Israelites accord- 
ingly marched to Mount Ilor, where Aaron died; and 
then along the Arabah (desert of Zin) to the Red Sea 
(Numb, xx, 14-29). The name of Kadesh again occurs 
in describing the southern quarter of Judah, the line de- 
fining which is drawn “from the shore of the Salt Sea, 
from the bay that looked southward; and it went out 
to the south side of Akrabbim, and passed along to Zin, 
and ascended up on the south side to Kadesh-barnea” 
(Josli. xv, 1-3; compare Numb, xxxiv, 3,4). In Gen. 
xiv, 7 Kadesh is connected with Tamar, or Ilazezon Ta- 
mar, just as we find these two in the comparatively late 
book of Ezekiel, as designed to mark the southern bor- 
der of Judah, drawn through them and terminating sea- 
ward at the “ river to,” or “ towards the great sea” 
(Ezek. xlvii, 19^; xlviii, 28). There is one objection to 


this view. The Kadesh from which the spies were sent 
was in the wilderness of Panin (Numb, xiii, 26); Ka- 
desh-barnea was in the Avilderness of Zin (xx, 1). This 
is easily removed, Paran Avas the general name for the 
Avhole desert A\ r est of the Arabah, extending from Pales- 
tine to Sinai (Gen. xxi, 21 ; Numb, x, 12; xii, 16; 1 
Sam. xxv, 1). It even seems to have included the Ar- 
abah, reaching to the very base of Mount Seir (Gen. 
xiv, G). Zin Avas a specific name for that part of the 
Arabah Avhich bordered on Edom and Palestine (Numb, 
xiii, 21 ; xxxn 7 , 3, 4 ; Josh, xv, 1-3). If Kadesh Avas sit- 
uated on the AA'estern side of the Arabah, then it might 
be reckoned either to Paran or to Zin ; or, if Ave agree 
Avitli Keil, Delitzsch, and others (Keil on Josh, x), that 
Paran was the general name for the Avhole, and Zin the 
specific name of a portion, the objection is removed at 
onee. — Kitto; Smith. Compare Kedesii, 1. 

To meet these \ r arious indications, tAA r o places by the 
name of Kadesh Avere formerly supposed to exist.; but 
the editor of the Pictorial Bible has shoAvn (note on 
Numb, xx, 1) that a single Kadesh Avould answer all 
the conditions, if placed on the AA’estern border of the 
Arabah, opposite Nit. Hor. Accordingly, Dr. Ilobinson 
locates it $t A in el-Webeh, AA’hich he argues coincides 
Avith all the circumstances mentioned ( Researches , ii, 
388). But this is someAvhat too distant from the pass 
es-Sufa, which is probably the Zephath Avhcre the Isra- 
elites encountered the Canaanites, and on this account 
Eaumer has Avith greater plausibility fixed Kadesh at 
Ain es~ flash ( Der Zug der fsraeliten, Leipz. 1843, p. 9 
sq.). See Exode. Mr. Rowlands, who tra\ r elled through 
this region in 1842, thinks lie discovered Kadesh (as Avell 
as numerous other ancient localities in this vicinity) at 
a place Avhich he calls A in Kmles (Williams’s Holy City , 
2d edit., i,4G7). A Avriter in Fairbairn’s Dictionary ar- 
gues at length in faA 7 or of this position at A in Cades , 
but all bis reasoning partakes of the character of special 
pleading, and rests upon inconelushe grounds. His only 
real argument is that Kadesh appears to haA 7 e lain be- 
tAveen Avady Feiran (Paran) and Engedi (Ilazezon-ta- 
mar), on Cliedorlaomer’s route (Gen. xiv, 7); but that 
route is given so A r aguely that Ave can lay no particular 
stress upon it. The other arguments eA r en tell the other 
Avav ; espeeially do the passages adduced go to sIioav that 
Kadesh Avas at the extreme east from Shur (Gen. xx, 1) 
and el-Arish (Numb, xxxiv, 5; Josh.XA r ,5), and the same 
Avas the case Avith Zin (Numb, xiii, 21 ; xxxiii,36). This 
position also is avo\v r edly not onl} r inconsistent Avitli the 
location of Iluzeroth at Ain lludheirah, but even re- 
quires ns to enlarge the borders of Edom far to the AA’est 
(Numb, xx, 1G), and aetually to remoA'e Mt. Hor from 
its AA T ell-defined traditionary situation (Dent, i, 2). Capt. 
Palmer has more lately A’isited the site thus assumed for 
Kadesh, and particularly describes it {Quart. Statement 
of the “Palestine Exploration Fund,” Jan. 1871, p. 20 
sq.) as “consisting of three springs, or rather slialloAV 
pools, one of them OA'crflowing in the rainy season but 
his advocacy for the identity adds no additional argu- 
ment. In fact, the agreement in the name is the only 
plea of any force. This is counterbalanced by the scrip- 
tural notices of the position of the place. See Dr. Rob- 
inson, in the Bibliotheca Sacra , 1849, p. 377 sq. ; also 
Palmer, Desert of Exodus , p. 28G; eomp. Kitto’s Scrip- 
ture Lands , p. 7*8-82; Ritter. Erdkunde, xiv, 1077-1 0<s9. 
Sclrwarz ( Palestine , p.23) en<leaA’ors,from Rabbinical au- 
thority, to locate Kadesh at a place named by him AA'adv 
Bier in, about forty-five miles south of Gaza ; but his 
AA'liole theory is imaginary, besides indicating a posi- 
tion too far Avest for this Kadesh, and requiring anoth- 
er for En-Mishpat (p. 214), Avhich is stated by Eusebius 
and Jerome {0 nomast. s. a'. B apid], Cades) to 

have been in the vicinity of Mt. Ilor. From this last 
statement Stanley ( Sinai and Palestine, p. 95) uiiAvar- 
rantably infers that Kadesh AA-as identical Avith Petra. 

Kadi (Arabic) is among the Mohammedans the title 
of an assistant judge of civil laAA", and, like the judge 
himself (molla), is classed among the higher clergy, be- 


KADKOD 4 IvAFFRES 


cause all civil law of the Mussulman is based on the Ko- 
ran. See Koran. 

Kadkod. See Agate. 

Kad'miel (TIeb. KadmieV, b>p*2‘7i?> before God , i. 
e. his servant ; Sept. Kadfin)\ ), one of the Levites who 
returned with Zerubbabel from the captivity (Neh. xii, 
8), and assisted in the various reforms of that period, 
being always named in connection with Jeshua (Ezra 
iii, 9 ; Neh. vii, 43 : eomp. Ezra iii, 9) ; sometimes only as 
a descendant in common of Ilodaviah (Ezra ii, 40 ; Nell, 
vii, 43 ; comp. Ezra iii, 9), but once as a son (Neh. xii, 
24). The length of time over which these notices seem 
to extend (B.C. 536-410) leads to the suspicion that 
they relate to two individuals (perhaps a brother and 
also a son of the Levite Jeshua), one of whom may have 
been concerned in the earlier events, and the other in 
the later. 

Kad'monite (Heb. Kadmoni eastern, as 
in Ezek. x, 19, etc., ox former, as in Ezek. xxxviii, 17, 
etc. ; only once of a nation, collect, in the sing., Gen. xv, 
19; Sept. Kefyuovcuoi, Vulg. Cedmoiuei, A. V. “ Kadmon- 
ites”), the name of a Canaanitish tribe, who appear to 
have dwelt in the north-east part of Palestine, under 
Mount Ilermon, at the time that Abraham sojourned in 
the land, and are mentioned in a more than ordinarily 
full list of the aborigines of Canaan (Ccn. xv, 19). As 
the name is derived from n^jr, Icedem, “ east,” it is sup- 
posed by Dr. Wells and others to denote a people situ- 
ated to the east of the Jordan, or, rather, that it was a 
term applied collectively, like “Orientals,” to all the 
people living in the countries beyond that river. At 
least it may be a term of contrast with the more western 
Zidonians. As the term likewise signifies ancient, it 
may designate the older or aboriginal races of that re- 
gion in’ general, who were recognized as the earliest in 
origin. Doth these explanations may be correct, as the 
Kadmonites are not elsewhere mentioned as a distinct 
nation ; and the subsequent discontinuance of the term, 
in the assigned acceptation, may easily be accounted for 
by the nations beyond the river having afterwards be- 
come more distinctly known, so as to be mentioned by 
their several distinctive names. See IIivite. The 
reader may see much ingenious trifling respecting this 
name in Boehart (Canaan, i, 1 9) ; the substance of which 
is that Cadmus, the founder of Thebes, in Boeotia, was 
originally a Kadmonite, and that the name of his wife, 
llermione, was derived from Mount Ilermon. By oth- 
ers the name Kadmonites has been extended as equiva- 
lent to “the children of the East” (S^p "OSD, i.e. those 
living beyond fhe Euphrates (Ewald, Isr. Gesch. i, 300) 
[see Bene-Kepem], and Belaud (Pahestina, p. 94) has 
sought to identify them with the Nabatlueans of Ara- 
bia; but these were Ishmaelites. It was probably ap- 
plied collectively to various tribes, like the Saracens of 
the Middle Ages or the. Bedouins of modern times (Bit- 
ter, Erdhmde, xv, 138). According to Dr. Thomson, 
the name is still preserved among the Nusariyeh north 
of Tripoli, who have a tradition that their ancestors 
were expelled from Palestine by Joshua, and who seem 
in physiognomy and manners to belong to the most an- 
cient inhabitants of the country ( Land and Boole, i, 242). 
See Canaanite. 

Kadroma is the name of a Thibetian Jewish divin- 
ity. Strangely enough, the Darwinian theory seems to 
have been entertained at a date considerably anterior 
to our century, for this goddess the Thibetians claim to 
have belonged to the ape race, and, after marriage to an 
ape, to have become the mother of the entire population 
of Thibet. See Vollmer, Worterb. d. Mythol. p. 990. 

Kaffres (from the Arabic Kafr, infidel, i. e. non-Mo- 
hammedan), a people in south-eastern Africa, who re- 
ceived tills name from the Moorish navigators of the In- 
dian Ocean. When the Dutch colonists came in contact 
with the most southern tribe of the Kaffres, the Koosas, 
or Amakosa, the Moorish name was given to them exclu- 


sively, and in this restricted sense it is commonly used 
by the Dutch and English colonists. It is, however, 
well ascertained that not only the tribes now commonly 
called Kaffres, but the Tambookies, Marabookies, Zulus, 
Damaras, the inhabitants of Delagoa Bay, Mozambique, 
and the numerous Bechuana tribes who occupy the inte- 
rior of the continent to an extent as yet unexplored, are 
but subdivisions of one great family, allied in language, 
customs, and mode of life. The Kaffre languages (in 
the wider sense of the word) are divided (by Fr.M idler) 
into an Eastern, Middle, and Western group. The for- 
mer comprises, l. the Kaffre languages (in the narrower 
sense of the word), embracing, besides the Kaffre proper, 
also the Zulu dialect; 2. the Zambesi languages, em- 
bracing the languages of the Barotse, Bayeye, and Ma- 
shona ; 3. the languages of Zanzibar, embracing the lan- 
guages of the Kisuahili, Kinika, Kikamba, and the Ki- 
llian. The Middle group contains, 1. the Seehuana 
languages (Sesuto, Serolong, and Siilapi); 2. the Te- 
keza languages, embracing the languages of the Manco- 
losi,Matonga, and Maloenga. The Western group con- 
tains, 1. the Bunda, Ilerero, and Londa languages; 2. 
the languages of Congo, Mpongwe, Dikele, Isuba. and 
Fernando Po. The Kaffre languages are sonorous, flexi- 
ble, and definite. The southern tribes have adopted the 
peculiar smacking sounds of the Hottentots, which fre- 
quently change the meaning of words. The govern- 
ment of the Kaffre tribes is feudal — an aristocracy of 
chiefs, acknowledging the supremacy of the sovereign, 
but, except on extraordinary occasions, acting inde- 
pendently of him. The general chief is the sovereign 
of the nation, and in a council of chiefs is very power- 
ful, and is looked upon by all the nobles and people 
with unbounded respect. The kraals (hamlets) gener- 
ally consist of a dozen low, conieal huts, the diameter 
of which is no more than about ten feet, into which one 
has to creep through a low opening, closed during the 
night by trees. In the middle of the hut is a room for 
the cattle. Wars generally arise out of the stealing of 
cattle. In personal appearance the Kaffres are a re- 
markably fine race of men. They are of dark brown 
color, have a beautiful and vigorous constitution, dark 
woolly hair, a lofty front, and bent nose like the Eu- 
ropeans, projecting cheek-bones like the Hottentots, 
thick lips like the negroes. Their beard is thin. The 
women are handsome and modest; their clothing con- 
sists of cloaks of skin, while the men are almost naked. 
The)' have no national religion; there are some traces 
of a belief in a supreme being and in subordinate spir- 
its, but no kind of religious worship and no priests. 
They are very superstitious, and pay a high tribute to 
sorcerers. “ They have no idea,” says Philip ( South 
Africa, i, 118), “of any man’s dying except from hun- 
ger, violence, or witchcraft.” Like many other savage 
tribes, they practice the worship of their ancestry, 
‘•They sacrifice and pray to their deceased relatives, 
although it would be asserting too much to say abso- 
lutely that they believe in the existence and the im- 
mortality of the soul. In fact, their belief seems to go 
no further than this, that the ghosts of the dead haunt 
for a certain time their previous dwelling-places, and 
either assist or plague the living. No special powers 
are attributed to them, and it would be a misnomer to 
call them deities” (comp. Lubbock, Primitive Condition 
of Man, N. V. 1871, 8vo, eh. iv sq.). They practice cir- 
cumcision, but only as a custom, not as a religious rite. 
Polygamy is allowed, and as the heavy work is chiefly 
performed by the women, it has proved a great obstacle 
to the introduction of Christianity. 

The various tribes of the Kaffre family are estimated 
by Bov. J. J. Freeman, secretary of the London Mis- 
sionary Society, at 2,000,000, spread from the eastern 
frontier of Cape Colony beyond Delagoa Bay, and then 
across the whole continent, without break, to the Atlan- 
tic in latitude 20°. A part of the territory of the Kaf- 
fres, from which, in, particular, constant raids were made 
into English territory, was annexed to^ the British do- 


KAGBOSSUM 


5 


KALDERON 


minions under the name of Queen Adelaide province. 
It was subsequently restored to the chiefs of the Kaffres ; 
in 1847 it again became an English province, under the 
name of British Kaffraria, and King William’s Town, on 
the Buffalo River, was made the capital and the mili- 
tary head-quarters. The capital has a population of 
2760, the sea-port, East London, of 2510. The population 
of the towns consists chiefly of English and German set- 
tlers, while the country people are Kaffres. In 1857 the 
province numbered 3942 kraals, and had a population of 
104,721 , but a terrible famine, which was caused by a false 
prophet of the name of Umhlakasa, reduced it in 1858 
to 1291 kraals, and a population of 52 } ,18G. In 1871 the 
province embraced about 3900 sq. miles, and a popula- 
tion of about 90,000. The British influence more and 
more extends over Kaffraria proper, which is situated 
between British Kaffraria and Natal, and embraces about 
14,457 sq. miles and 100,000 inhabitants. North of Na- 
tal and the Transvaal republic extends the land of oth- 
er Kaffre tribes, the territory of which is estimated at 
62,930 square miles, with a population of about 440,000. 
Cape Colony, according to the census of 1865. had a Kaf- 
fre population of 100,536. 

As the Dutch government of Cape Colony was hos- 
tile to all Christian missions, the missions among the 
Kaffres did not begin until the government had passed 
under British rule. The Moravians, who then for the 
first time found the necessary protection for their re-es- 
tablished missions among the Hottentots [see Hotten- 
tots], extended in 1818 their labors also to the Kaffres, 
in particular to the tribes of the Fongus and Tambakis, 
whence in 1862 a station was established among the 
last named tribe of Independent Kaffraria. The mis- 
sionary Von der Kemp, who in 1798 was sent out by the 
London Missionary Society, laid the foundation of the 
missions of this society among the Kaffres. The Wes- 
leyan missionaries have (since 1820) numerous stations 
in all parts of the Kaffre territory. Their missionaries 
have for a long time been almost the only ones who ven- 
tured to penetrate into the uncultivated districts of the 
free Kaffres. The Free Church and the United Presby- 
terians of Scotland have a number of stations in British 
Kaffraria, and have begun to extend their labors to (in- 
dependent) Kaffraria, among the natives whom the Brit- 
ish government has induced to settle there. The Ber- 
lin missions have also, since 1834, established a number 
of stations in British Kaffraria. The Anglican Church, 
which has bishops at Capetown (1847), Grahamstown 
(1853), and in the Orange Free State (1863), has sta- 
tions both in British and in Free Kaffraria, and is eager- 
ly intent upon extending its work. The Dutch Re- 
formed Church had done nothing for the Kaffres until 
the establishment of a special missionary board in 1863 
(Synodale Zendings Comissie in Znyd Africa), which 
displays a great zeal in the establishment of missions 
among the pagan population. More recently the Ger- 
man Baptists have sent out missionaries to British Kaf- 
fraria. The Roman Catholic Church has also a few sta- 
tions in British Kaffraria. See Grnndeinaun, Missions- 
atlas (2d number, Gotha, 1867); Newcomb, Cyclopaedia 
of Missions; Moffat’s Southern Africa (Lond. 1842); T. 
B. Freeman's Tour in South Africa (Lond. 1857); Lich- 
tenstein, Travels in South Africa ; Burehell, Travels in 
Southern A frica. (A. J. S.) 

Kagbossum is the name of a crow which the Hin- 
dus assert embodies the soul of one of their celebrated 
sages ; some of them say even of Brahma himself. See 
Vollmer, Worterh. d. Mythol. p. 991. 

Kahanbarha, the Persian name for the period in 
which the world was created, and which in their cos- 
mogony, as in that of the Christian dispensation, covers 
six days; but, like some* of our theorists, they say that 
each day of creation corresponds in length to a period 
of one month. See Zoroastrianism. 

Kahler, Johannes, a Lutheran theologian of some 
note, was born at Wolmar, Hesse Cassel, Jan. 20, 1649, 


and was educated at the University of Giessen, lie 
began his lectures at that university in 1673 on the Car- 
tesian philosophy, and became one of its ablest expo- 
nents. In 1677 he was called as extraordinary professor 
of metaphysics to Rinteln, and shortly after was pro- 
moted to the full or ordinary professorship. In 1683 he 
became also professor of theology. He died May 17, 
1729. Kahler was highly esteemed by his contempo- 
raries, and enjoyed the confidence and good will of his 
colleagues to such a degree that he was chosen rector at 
six different elections. His writings, consisting mainly 
of dissertations on theology and philosophy, were col- 
lected and printed in 2 vols. 12mo. See Allgem. 1 list . 
Lex. vol. iii, s. v. ; Jocher, Gelehrten Lexifcon, vol. ii, s. v., 
gives a complete list of Kahler’s productions. 

Kaisersberg. See Geilek. 

Kaiserswerth. See Fliedner. 

Kajomorts, the Persian name for the first man, 
who they say was a direct descendant of a bull (Abu- 
dad), and was both man and wife at the same time. So 
sacred was his person that even angels worshipped him. 
Ahriman, however, was bent upon his destruction, and 
for thirty years he persecuted Kajomorts. until success- 
ful in slaying him. But the seed of Kajomorts fructified 
the earth, the sun purified it, and after forty years a 
plant sprang up, which became a mighty tree, bearing, 
instead of fruit, ten human pairs, one of which, Meshia 
and Meshiane, became the ancestors of the human race 
(see Vollmer, Worterb. d. Mythol. p. 992). See Ormuzd ; 
Zoroastrianism. 

Kakusandu is the name of the third Buddha who 
preceded Gotama (q. v.),and, according to Major Forbes’s 
(Journ. Asiatic Society, June, 1836) calculation of Hin- 
du chronology, must have lived on the earth B.C. 3101 
(see Hardy, Manual of Buddhism, p. 87, 96, et al.). See 
Buddha. 

Kalasutra, the Hindu name for a place in hell to 
which the trespassers of Hindu tradition are consigned, 
particularly those who, after offering a sacrifice for their 
ancestors, d^re to remove from the altar any portion of 
the offering which the flames might* have left uncon- 
sumed. See Vollmer, Worterb. d. Mythol. p. 993. 

Kalderon (more accurately Cali>eron\ the most 
celebrated poet of Spain, born of a noble family at M ad- 
rid Jan. 1, 1601, was educated at the University of Sala- 
manca, but at length went into the army, and fought in 
Milan and Flanders, until in 1651 he entered the priest- 
hood. Already, as a soldier, he had devoted much time 
to the cultivation of his poetical talents; now, as a priest, 
he devoted most of his time to it, and it is for his influ- 
ence on the religious poetry of Spain, for his relation to 
the history of Roman Catholic poetry, that we make 
room for a short sketch of this religious (Roman Catho- 
lic) Shakespeare. Shortly after his admission to the 
priesthood he took a chaplaincy at Toledo, but the king, 
with whom Kalderon was in special favor, soon gained 
the poet for his court by assigning Kalderon a lucrative 
position in the royal chapel. lie died about 1681, per- 
haps somewhat later. He wrote no less than five hun- 
dred dramas, many of which have a religious tendency, 
and display most accurately the religious and moral 
character of his time and people. Those of his produc- 
tions which have been preserved are divided into three 
different groups. The first contains his comedies of fa- 
miliar life; the second, the heroic; and the third em- 
braces his religious pieces, or “Sacramental Acts” (Au- 
tos Sacrament ales), and these only concern us here. 
They are compositions which bear a strong resem- 
blance to the miracle-plays of the Middle Ages, and are, 
like them, deformed bv fantastic extravagances of re- 
ligious opinion and feeling. Some of them, however, 
are beautifully poetical. One of the most character- 
istic, held also by some critics to be the best, is “ The 
Devotion of the Cross,” a strange farrago of the wildest 
supernatural inventions, and the most impraetically-mo- 
tived exhibitions of human conduct, but breathing apo- 


IvALDI 


6 


KALI 


etic spirit which is wonderfully impressive. One of its 
main incidents is the legend of one dead man shriving 
another, which had been used by another poet. An- 
other successful effort of his is “The steadfast Prince.” 
Both of these have frequently been translated into En- 
glish and other languages. See, however, Ticknor, His- 
tory of Spanish Literature (new edition, 1871, with In- 
dex). One of the ablest Roman Catholic critics, pro- 
fessor Frederick Sehlegel, thus speaks of Kalderon’s po- 
sition as a Christian poet: “The Christianity of this 
poet, however, does not consist so much in the external 
circumstances which he has selected, as in his peculiar 
feeling, and the method of treating his subject, which is 
most common with him. Even where his materials fur- 
nish him with no opportunity of drawing the perfect 
development of a new life out of death and suffering, 
yet everything is conceived in the spirit of this Chris- 
tian love and purification, everything seen in its light, 
and clothed in the splendor of its heavenly coloring. In 
every situation and circumstance, Kalderon is, of all 
dramatic poets, the most Christian, and for that very 
reason the most romantic” (History of Literature , p. 280, 
281). Se.e also Eichendorff, Geistliche Schauspiele von 
Don Pedro Kalderon de la Barca ; Schmidt, Schauspiele 
Calderons (Eberfeld, 1857) ; Herzog, Real-Encyklop. vii, 
218 sq. (J.H.W.) • 

Kaldi, Geo no, a celebrated Hungarian Jesuit, was 
born at Tyrnau (Hungary) in 1570. After filling vari- 
ous positions in the Jesuitical order, preaching at Vienna, 
and teaching theology at 01mutz,he became at last rec- 
tor of the college at Presburg, and remained there until 
his death in 1634. lie was the first Roman Catholic to 
furnish his co-religionists a Ilmigarian translation of 
the Bible. It was published at Vienna in 1626, folio (the 
Protestant translation, by Visoli, was made in 1589). A 
portion of Kaldi’s sermons were published at Presburg 
in 1631. 

Kalendar. See Calendar. 

Kali (or Ivalee) is the name of one of the many 
forms of Doorgii , so popularly and variously worshipped 
in Hindustan. » 

Names and History. — Doorgfi is the female principle 
in the production of the world who appears throughout 
the Hindu Shastras as Prakriti or Bhagwati . She is 
said to have had a thousand names, and to have appear- 
ed in a vast number of forms in different periods : thus, 
as Sati, she first became the wife of Siva, but renounced 
her life on hearing her father reproach her husband. 
She again appeared as “the mountain-born goddess” 
under the name of Parwati . and again married Siva. 
After giving birth to her sons Ganesli and Katik, she 
became renowned for her achievements in war against 
the giant enemies of the gods. 

This goddess assumed the name of Kali on the occa- 
sion of a battle with a thousand-headed giant demigod 
whom she slew. In her excessive delight over her vic- 
tory, she danced till she shook the foundation of the 
earth, and the gods were compelled to induce her hus- 
band Siva to influence her to stop, which, however, he 
found no means of doing till he resorted to the expedi- 
ent of throwing himself among the bodies of the slain. 
Kali, observing herself dancing on the body of her hus- 
band, was shocked, and, protruding her tongue in her 
surprise, stood still. In this attitude she is represented 
in the images of her now made, and sold, and worship- 
ped throughout Bengal. 

Images. — In allusion to the above contest with the 
giant, Kali is often represented as “ a ten-armed god- 
dess.” Her image in this aspect is that of a yellow 
woman with ten arms, richly dressed and ornamented, 
standing erect, resting her left foot on the back of a 
prostrate buffalo, and her right on that of a couehant 
lion, holding in her hands a spear, an axe, a discus, a 
trident, a club, an arrow, and a shield. 

Her most common image, however, is that of a black 
or very dark blue-colored woman with four arms; the 


upper left arm holding a cimeter, the lower left a hu 
man head by the hair. The other right arm is held up 
to indicate cither that she is bestowing a blessing or the 
restoration of nature from the devastation which she has 
caused, and to which her lower right hand is pointing. 
All her hands are bloody. In this form she is standing 
on the body of her husband, who is a white man, stretch- 
ed at full length upon his back.* Around her waist, as 
a covering, she wears a string of bloody human hands. 
She wears an immense necklace, reaching below her 
knees, which is composed of human skulls. In some 
images a pair of dead human bodies hang by the hair 
from her ears. Her tongue, as above set forth, protrudes 
from her mouth upon her cliin. 

She appears, moreover, under other forms: sitting on 
a dead body, with two giants’ heads in her arms; as a 
blaek female sitting on a throne, etc. 

Character. — Kali, in Hindu mythology, is nothing 
more nor less than a female Satan. She is a very san- 
guinary goddess; her eyebrows are bloody, and blood 
falls in a stream down her breast. Her eyes are red, 
like those of a drunkard. 

Sacrifices. — Mr. Ward makes a summary from one of 
the Buranas to the effect that a tiger’s blood offered to 
her in sacrifice will please her for a hundred years: that 
of a lion, a reindeer, or a man, a thousand years; and 
that of three men for ten hundred thousand years. In 
the event of a human person being offered in sacrifice, it 
must be performed in a cemetery, or at a temple, or in a 
mountain. Only a person of good appearance should be 
offered. The victim should be adorned with chaplets 
and besmeared with sandal- wood, after various ablu- 
tions. The deformed, timid, leprous, or crippled must 
not be offered ; nor must a priest, nor a childless broth- 
er. The victim must be prepared the day before the 
offering, his neck being besmeared with blood from the 
axe with which he is to be sacrificed. Besides this, 
however, persons may draw blood from their own bod- 
ies, or cut off their flesh, to be presented to this goddess 
as a burnt-offering, or burn the body by the flame of a 
lamp. 

1 Yor shippers. — Many Hindus adopt the ten-armed 
Doorgii as their guardian deity, and she is considered as 
the image of the divine energy. Her worship in Lower 
Bengal is so popular that on the occasion of a great an- 
nual festival all business is suspended, and even the Eu- 
ropean courts, custom-house, and other public offices are 
closed. 

The professional robbers and murderers so long known 
and dreaded throughout India, and notorious elsewhere 
as Thugs , are the special devotees of the four-armed 
Kali. In the hope of greater success in their work, 
they consecrate to her their instruments of death, and* 
their victims are held to be immolated in her honor. 
These men will join travellers, and accompany them for 
days, gaining their confidence if possible, under some 
disguise, until, watching their opportunity, they can ad- 
minister drugs, or choke them with a small cord, and then 
rob them of all they possess. Formerly, it is supposed, 
the goddess rendered them much more assistance than 
of late, by putting out of the way the corpses of those 
slain; but, in consequence of one of their number look- 
ing behind him after a murder, she ceased to render 
them so certainly this assistance, as this was a violation 
of the express condition on which she kept secret all 
traces of their deeds. The accounts of the occasion of 
their losing her assistance in this particular are con- 
flicting, and scarcely worthy of reproduction. Persons 
wishing to trace the matter may refer to Illustrations 
of the History and Practices of the Thugs (Lond. 1837). 
See Thugs. 

Ceremonies. — Distinct from the great festival alluded 
to above in honor of Doorga as the “ten-armed goddess” 
is a famous and popular festival held in her service un- 
der the special form of Kali. It is observed with much 
the same form as the other. Annual sacrifices of sweet- 
meats, sugar, garments, rice, plantains, and pease are of- 


KALI 


1 


KALMUCKS 


fered in great abundance. The first day ends with 
singing, dancing, and feasting, and with the lower class- 
es in great debauchery and shameless licentiousness, the 
arak , an intoxicating liquor, being consecrated to the 
idol goddess. On the second morning images of all 
sizes representative of the goddess are made, and, after 
consecration by the Brahmans, are carried through the 
streets in procession to the Ilooghly River, and there, 
carried out in boats, are thrown into it, and with this 
act terminate these wild and terrible orgies. Immense 
sums are expended by many of these devotees during 
these festivals. Mr. Ward estimates as much as £9000 
sterling to have been expended annually at the single 
shrine in Calcutta, and narrates cases of individual offer- 
ings, at one time, of £10,000, comprising rich beds, sil- 
ver plate, and food for the entertainment of a thousand 
persons. 

Temples. — There are many buildings devoted to her 
worship. The greatest and most popular of these is 
that of Kali-Gliat, about three miles to the south of 
Calcutta. There are fifty other edifices in various parts 
of India devoted to Doorgii nnder her variety of forms 
and names. All these are said to have originated in an 
incident connected with her history previous to her 
having assumed the shape of Parwati, when Vishnu sev- 
ered her body into fifty-one separate pieces, which were 
strewn over the earth, and conferred a peculiar sanctity 
on the places where they happened to fall. All of these 
became sites of temples, in which an image' of some one 
of her thousand forms was set up. The whole of the 
country to the south of Calcutta, including the spot 
known as Kali-Ghat, was thus rendered sacred, the toes 
of the right foot being deposited at the latter place. 
The temple at Kali-Ghat consists of one room, with a 
large pavement around it. The image of Kali is in this 
temple (Ward, ii, 157). 

There is, perhaps, no fabled impersonation in all the 
Hindu mythology exerting a greater or more gloomy 
influence over millions of men than Doorgii under the 
title of Kali. 

Literature. — Journ. of the Asiatic Society ’s Research - 
es, vol. v. ; Coleman, Mythology of the Ilhuloos ; Moor, 
Hindoo Pantheon; Ward, Hindoo Mythology ; account 
of temple at Kali-Ghat in the Calcutta Christian Ob- 
server , Sept. 1833 ; Col. Sleeman, Journey through Oudh . 
(J.T.G.) 

Kali. See Parched Corx. 

Kalighi is the name of one (the tenth) impersona- 
tion of the Hindu god Vishnu. See Krishna. 

Kaliph (more generally Caliph), originally a depu- 
ty or lieutenant, but afterwards applied chiefly to the suc- 
cessors of Mohammed. As a representative of the proph- 
et and Islam, the caliph exercised a power which was 
primarily spiritual, and in theory, therefore, he claimed 
the ‘obedience of all Mohammedans. I 11 practice the 
claim was soon disregarded, and the Fatimite caliphs of 
Africa and the sovereigns of the Ommiad dynasty of 
Spain each professed to be the only legitimate represent- 
atives of Mohammed, in opposition to the Abasside ca- 
liphs of Bagdad, The latter caliphat reached its high- 
est splendor under llaronn al-Raschid, in the 9th cen- 
tury; but his division of the empire among his sons 
showed how completely the caliph had lost sight of the 
spiritual theory of his office. For the last two hundred 
years the appellation of caliph has been swallowed up in 
shah, sultan, emir, and other titles peculiar to the East. 
See Braude and Cox, Dictionary of Science; Literature, 
and A rt, i, 350. 

Kalir, Eleasar Ha-, one of the oldest Jewish poets 
of Italy, generally regarded as the founder of the syna- 
gogual poetry of the non-Sephardite Jews in Europe, 
flourished about the beginning of the 8tli century. Of 
his personal history nothing further is known. lie wrote 
some one hundred and fifty different sacred poems, many 
of which were inserted in the liturgies of the Babylonian, 
Italian, German, and French Jews. He was a disciple of 


Jannai, and was greatly admired by his contemporaries. 
See Griitz, Gesch. d. Juden, v, 181 sq. ; Sachs, Religiose 
Poesie d. Juden in Spanien, p. 180 sq. ; Ziiuz, Synagogale 
Poesie d. Mittelalters, p. 1 28 sq. See also Liturgy, J ew- 
isii; Maciisor; Synagogual Poetry. 

Kaliyuga, or the Kali Age, is the fourth or last 
age of the Maha, or great age [see Yuga], and bears 
some resemblance to the Iron Age of classical mythol- 
ogy. The Hindus, recognising, like all religionists of 
antiquity, that man by sin has fallen from his high es- 
tate, have divided the world’s existence into four pe- 
riods, which are marked by successive physical and mor- 
al decrements of created beings. They hold that the 
present period is the last one, that it consists of 432,000 
solar sidereal years, and that the Kali Age began B.C. 
3102. “In the Krita (or first) age,” M ami says, “the 
(genius of) Truth and Right (in the form of a bull) 
stands firm on bis four feet, nor does any advantage ac- 
crue to men from iniquity. But in the following ages, 
by reason of unjust gains, he is deprived successively 
of one foot; and even just emoluments, through the 
prevalence of theft, falsehood, and fraud, are gradually 
diminished by one foot (i. e. by a fourth part).” The 
estimate in which Kaliyuga, our present age, is held by 
the modern Hindus may be gatheied from one of tlieir 
most celebrated Puranas, the Padnia-rurana. In the 
last chapter of one of the books (Kriyayogasara) of 
this Furana, the following account, which we take from 
Chambers, Cyclopaedia (s. v. Kaliyuga), is given of it: 
“ In the Kaliyuga (the genius of) Bight will have but 
one foot ; every one will delight in evil. The four castes 
will be devotee! to wickedness, and deprived of the nour- 
ishment which is fit for them. The Brahmans will neg- 
lect the Vedas, hanker after presents, be lustful and 
cruel. They will despise the Scriptures, gamble, steal, 
and desire intercourse with widows. . . . For the sake 
of a livelihood, some Brahmans will become arrant 
rogues. . . . The Siulras will endeavor to lead the life 
of the Brahmans, and, out of friendship, people will 
bear false witness . . . they will injure the wives of 
others, and their speech will be that of falsehood. 
Greedy of the wealth of others, they will entertain a 
guest according to the behest of the Scriptures, but af- 
terwards kill him out of covetousness ; they are indeed 
worthy of hell. The twice-born (i. e. the first; three 
castes) will live upon debts, sell the produce of cows, 
and even their danghters. In this Yuga men will be 
under the sway of women, and women will be exces- 
sively fickle. . . . In the Kaliynga the earth will bear 
but little corn; the clouds will shed but little rain, and 
that, too, out of season. The cows will feed on ordure,, 
and give little milk, and the milk will yield no butter;, 
there is no doubt of that. . . . Trees, even, will wither 
in twelve years, and the age- of mankind will not exceed 
sixteen years ; people, moreover, will become grav- 
haired in their youth ; women will bear childrim in 
their fifth or sixth year, and men will become troubled 
with a great number of children. In the Kaliyuga the 
foreigners will become kings, bent upon evil ; and those 
living in foreign countries will be all of one caste, and 
out of lust take to themselves many wives. In the first 
twilight of the Kaliyuga people will disregard Vishnu, 
and in the middle of it no one will even mention his 
name.” There is a remarkable identity of the Hin- 
du belief with that of the Hebrew as to redemption 
from this sinful state by a Messiah. See Hardwick, 
Christ and other Masters, i, 303 sq., 329 sq. ; Weber r 
Indische Studien , ii, 41 1 ; Wilson, Asiatic Researches, x, 
27 sq. ; Alger, History of the Doctrine of a Future Life r 
p. Ill sq. 

Kallah. See Talmud. 

KalTai (Heb. Kallay ', runner; Sep*t. Ka\- 

\at), a chief priest, son of Sallai, contemporary with the 
high-priest Joiakim (Neh. xii, 20). B.C. post 536. 

Kalmucks (Tatar KhaTimik , i. e. apostates), also 
called Olok or Kleutes , a Mongolian tribe of nomads, 


KALONYMUS 


8 


KAMA 


a portion of whom live under Chinese rule, while the 
greater number, during the last two centuries, have set- 
tled in or belong to Russia. They are similar to the 
Mongols proper, but inferior to them in point, of civiliza- 
tion. They are divided into nobles, people (serfs), and 
priests ; the last have, in particular, a very great in- 
ti nence among the Buddhistic Kalmucks. They are 
divided into tribes (Uluss), at the head of which are 
Tchaidas; and the tribes are subdivided into Aimaks 
(of from 150 to BOO families each), at the head of which 
are the Saisans. They call themselves Derben Eret 
(Dorbbn-Oirat), i. e. the four allies, because, from time 
immemorial, they have been divided into four chief 
tribes : 1 . The Dsongars, after whom Dsongaria is called, 
formerly the most powerful of the tribes, but subse- 
quently subdued by the Chinese, and now extant only 
in small number. 2. The Koshotes (i. e. warriors), un- 
der princes from the family of Jenghis Khan, num- 
bering from 50,000 to GO, 000; they voluntarily plaeed 
themselves under the sceptre of Russia, and are loyal 
subjects; their favorite drink is the kumiss (fermented 
horse milk). 3. The Derbets, living, in the 16th and 
17tli centuries, on the Volga and Ural, now on the Don 
and the Ili. 4. The Torgots (Torga-Uten), or Kalmucks 
of the Volga, have, for the most part, left Russian terri- 
tory; only the tribe Zoochor, under the prince Dundu- 
kor, a grand-uncle of the powerful khan Ayuka, remain- 
ed. Dundukor himself was baptized, and, by order of 
Alexander I, the title passed over to his son-in-law Nor- 
kasov. Some of the Kalmucks live scattered in the gov- 
ernment of Simbirsk (15,000 souls, all in connection with 
the Greek Church), others east of the Ural, on the Jhet 
River (professing Islamisra), and in several commercial 
towns of Russia, altogether about 120,000 souls, of whom 
73 per cent, live in the government of Astraehan. The 
majority of the Kalmucks are still Buddhists. They 
were all originally adherents of that form of Buddhism 
known as Lamaism , which the Mongols in general re- 
ceived from Thibet. In Dsongaria they have two cel- 
ebrated temples; the one is situated on the Tckes, the 
other on the Hi. In the latter resides the Tchamba 
Lama in the winter, and with him a number of priests, 
who here teach reading and writing. They are joined 
by pious pilgrims and numerous Chinese merchants, 
who set up their shops around the temple. The chiefs 
of the Chinese Kalmucks used to reeeive from the man- 
darin the insignia of their rank, but of late the virtual 
independence of Dsongaria has severed the former re- 
lation of the Kalmucks to the Chinese government ; 
and, after the occupation of Kultsha by the Russians 
in May, 1871, the Cliinese Kalmucks generally declared 
their submission to the Russian government. The lan- 
guage of the Kalmucks is a branch of the Mongolian 
language; grammars of the language have been pub- 
lished by Bobrovnikov (Kasan, 1849) and Zwieck (Don- 
auesGhingen, 1857). The literature consists almost ex- 
clusively of translations of Buddhistic writings from 
India. A collection of legends (Siddhi-Iyiir), with Ger- 
man translation, was published by Jiilg (Leipzig, 1866). 
(A.J.S.) 

Kalonymus ben- Kalonymus, a Jewish writer 
of some note, was born in Italy in 1287, but lived for 
some time in Southern F ranee, and was there picked up 
by king Robert of Naples. lie returned with the latter 
to liis native land, and fdled some important offices in 
his service. Kalonymus was an accomplished scholar, 
translated into Hebrew medical, astronomical, and phil- 
osophical works of the Arabians, wrote a number of sa- 
tirical treatises on the low moral state of his contempo- 
raries, and labored in this and other ways to ameliorate 
the miserable condition of his countrymen. lie died 
about 1$37. The best of his later works is *}!3R } 
or The Stone of Weeping (Naples, 1489; translated into 
Jewish German, Frkft. 1746). He also edited with great 
ability a part of the Arabian En cyclopaedia of the Sci- 
ences (known as “Treatises of the Honest Brethren”) for 


the use of the Italian Jews. See Griitz, Gesck. d. Juden , 
vii, 305 sq.; Zunz, in Geigers Zeitschrift, ii, 313 ; iv, 200 
sq. ; Fliigel, Zeitschrift der deutsch. Morgenliind . Gesellsch. 
1859. (J.li.W.) 

Kalottinocracy is a new word sometimes used 
instead of hierarchy. The word is derived from the 
French calotte (cap, such as the Roman Catholic clergy 
wear), and the Greek Koareiv (to govern). 

Kalpa designates in Hindu chronology the Brah- 
minical period of one day and night, and corresponds 
to a period of 4,320,000,000 solar sidereal years, or years 
of mortals, measuring the duration of the world, and, ac- 
cording to many, including even the interval of its anni- 
hilation. Th e Bharishya-Purdna admits of an infinity 
of kalpas; other Puranas enumerate thirty. A great 
kalpa comprises not a day, but a life of Brahma. In 
Vedic literature, kalpa is a Vedanga (q. v.). Sec Hardy, 
Manual of Buddhism , p. 1 sq., 7 sq. See Kalpa-Sutra. 

Kalpa-Sutra is, in Vedic literature, the name of 
those Sanscrit works which treat of the ceremonials 
usual at a Vedic sacrifice. See Veda. In Jaina litera- 
ture it is the name of the most sacred religious work of 
the Jainas (q. v.). It chiefly relates the legendary his- 
tory of Mahavlra, the last of their twenty-four deified 
saints, or Tirthankaras, but contains also an account of 
four other saints of the same class. The author of the 
work was Bliadra Bahn, and it was composed, Stevenson 
assumes, in the year A.D. 41 1. It is held in high respect 
by the Jainas, who, out of the eight days which, in the 
middle of the rains, they devote to the reading of their 
most sacred writings, allot no less than five to the Kalpa- 
Sfitra. See Stevenson, The Kalpa-Sutra and Kara 
Tatva (London, 1848). 

Kalteisen, Heinrich, a celebrated Dominican of 
the 15th century, was born near Coblentz, and educated 
at Vienna and Cologne. In the latter city he was af- 
terwards professor of theology, preaching at the same 
time. Later he removed to Mentz, and became general 
inquisitor of Germany. He was present at the Council 
of Basle, and took quite a prominent part in the delib- 
erations against the Hussites. He was one of the four 
doctors on the Roman Catholic side who disputed with 
the Bohemians. See Hussites; Basle, Council of. 
In 1443 pope Eugeni us IV made him Magister sacri Pa- 
latii, and in 1452 pope Nicholas V created him arch- 
bishop of Drontheim. He died in 1465. Kalteisen’s 
literary abilities are generally spoken of as moderate. 
He wrote much, but little has been published. See 
Basnage-Canisius, Lect. Antiq. iv, 628 sq. ; Quetif and 
Echard, Script. Ord. Freed, ii, 828 ; Schrbchk, Kirchen- 
gescli. xxxi v, 707 ; Wetzer u. Welle, Kirchen-Lex. vi, 1 5. 

Kama, the Hindu deva or deity of Love, one of the 
most pleasing creations of Hindu fiction, is, in the San- 
scrit poetry of later periods, the favorite theme of de- 
scriptions and allusions. The genealogy of this deity is 
quite obscure; according to some Puranas, he was orig- 
inally a son of Brahma ; according td others, a son of 
Dharma (the genius of Virtue), by Sraddha (the ge- 
nius of Faith), herself a daughter of Daksha, who was 
one of the mind-born sons of Brahma. The god Siva, 
being on one occasion greatly incensed at Kama, re- 
duced him to ashes; but ultimately, moved by the af- 
fliction of Rati (Voluptuousness), the wife of Kama, lie 
promised her that her husband should be reborn as a 
son of Krishna, and he was accordingly born under the 
name of Pradyumna , who was the god of Love. “ But 
when the infant was six days old it was stolen from 
the lying-in chamber by the terrible daemon Sambara; 
for the latter foreknew that Pradyumna, if lie lived, 
would be his destroyer. The boy was thrown into the 
ocean, and swallowed by a large fish. Yet he did not 
die, for that fish was caught by fishermen, and delivered 
to Mayavati, the mistress of Sambara’s household ; and, 
when it was cut open, the child was taken from it. 
While Mayavati wondered who this could be, the di- 
vine sage Narada satisfied her curiosity, and counselled 


KAMA 


9 


KAMI 


her to rear tenderly this offspring of Krishna. She act- 
ed as he advised her; and when Pradvumna grew up, 
and learned his own history, he slew the daemon Sam- 
bara. Mayavatt, however, was later apprized by Krish- 
na that she was not the wife of Sambara, as she had 
fancied herself to be, but that of Pradyumna — in fact, 
another form of Iiati, who was the wife of Kama in his 
former existence. In the representations of Kama we 
find him holding in one hand a bow made of sugar-cane, 
and strung with bees, in the other an arrow tipped 
with the blossom of a llower which is supposed to con- 
quer one of the senses. Ilis standard is, agreeably to 
the legend above mentioned, a fabulous fish, called Ma- 
kara ; and he rides on a parrot or sparrow — the symbol 
of voluptuousness. Ilis epithets are numerous, but easi- 
ly accounted for from the circumstances named, and 
from the effects of love on the mind and senses. Thus 
he is called Makariulhwaja , ‘ the one who has Makara 
in his banner;’ Mada , ‘the maddener,’ etc. Ilis wife, 
as before stated, is Rati; she is also called Kamakala , 
‘a portion of Kama,’ or Priti, ‘affection.’ His daugh- 
ter is Trisha, ‘thirst or desire;’ and his son is Anirud- 
dha, 1 the irresistible.’” — Chambers, Cyclop, s. v. See 
Muller, Chips, vol. ii, ch. i, especially p. 127-135; Voll- 
mer, Mythol. Worterbuch, p. 1008. 

Kama. See Talmud. 

Kamawachara, the Buddhist name of one of the 
three divisions of the Sahcala (q. v.), and refers to 
the worlds in which there is form, with sensual, enjoy- 
ment. The Buddhist affirms that there are innumera- 
ble worlds, but only three kinds of them, viz. (1) worlds 
in which there is ho perceptible form ; (2) worlds in 
which there is form, but no sensual enjoyment; (3) and 
lastly, the Kamawachara explained above. Sec Hardy, 
Manual of Buddhism, p. 3 sq. 

Kamenker. See jMeir, Mose. 

Kami (or Happy Spirits) is the name given in Jap- 
anese mythology to certain spirits or divinities who 
founded the first terrestrial dynasty. All primitive my- 
thologies are coupled with and made to rise out of cos- 
mogony. Unfortunately, however, the cosmogony of 
the Japanese is not only of the wildest sort, but so mixed 
with that of the Chinese that it is very difficult to 
speak with any certainty of this ancient religion. F rom 
prirmeval chaos, say the Japanese, there sprung a self- 
created, supreme God, who fixed his abode in the high- 
est heaven, and could not have his tranquillity disturb- 
ed by any cares. Next there arose two plastic, creative 
gods, who framed the universe out of chaos. The uni- 
verse was then governed for myriads of years by seven 
gods in succession. They are called the Celestial Gods. 
The last of them was the only one that had a wife, and 
to him the earth we inhabit owes its existence. In 
what may be called the Genesis of the Japanese Bible 
the creation of the world is thus narrated : 

“ In the beginning there was neither heaven nor earth. 
The elements of all things formed a liquid and troubled 
ma^s, similar to the contents of an undeveloped egg, in 
which the white and the yellow are still mingled together. 
Out of the infinite space which this chaos filled a god 
arose, called the divine Supreme Being, whose throne is 
in the centre of heaven. Then came the celestial reason, 
exalted above the creation ; finally, the terrestrial reason, 
who is the sublime spirit. Each one of these three prim- 
itive gods had his own existence, but they were not yet 
revealed beyond their spiritual natures. Then, by de- 
grees, the work of separation went on in chaos. The 
finest atoms, moving in different directions, formed the 
heaveus. The grosser atoms, attaching themselves to 
each other, and adhering, produced the earth. The for- 
mer, moving rapidly, constructed the vault of the firma- 
ment which arches above our heads; the latter, being 
slowly drawn together in a solid body, did not form the 
earth until at a much later period. When the earthly 
matter still floated as a fish that comes to the surface of 
the waters, or as the image of the moon that trembles on 
a limpid lake, there appeared between the heavens and 
the earth something similar to a piece of reed, endowed 
with movement, and capable of transformation. It was 
changed into three gods, which are: the August one, 
reigning perpetually over the empire; he who reigns by 
virtue of water ; and he who reigns by virtue of tire.’ Ail 


three were of the male sex, because they owed their origin 
to the action of the divine reason alone. After the first 
three males there came three pairs of gods and goddesses, 
•reigning over the elements of wood, metal, and earth. 
This second dynasty contained as many goddesses as 
gods, because the terrestrial united equally with the celes- 
tial reason in producing them. The first of the seveu 
gods commenced the creation of the earth, and all to- 
gether personify the elements of the creation. The ter a 
of the celestial gods, commencing with the first and ter- 
minating with the last male and female pair, who were 
called Izannghi and Izanami, continued for millions on 
millions of years.” 

But the world, and, most important of all, the empire 
of Japan, was not yet created. The account given, 
therefore, is very circumstantial. One day, when the 
god and goddess were sitting together on the arch of 
the sky, they happened to talk of the possible existence 
of an inferior world. “There should be somewhere,” 
said Izanaghi at length to his wife, “a habitable earth. 
Let ns seek it under the waters that are seething beneath 
us.” He plunged his spear into the water, and, as he 
withdrew it, some turbid drops trickled from the dia- 
mond point of his javelin, congealed, and formed a great 
island, upon which the pair descended, determined to 
make it the beginning of a grand archipelago. From 
out the waters Izanaghi raised the island of Awadzi, 
then the mountainous Oho-yamato, rich in fruits and 
with fine harbors; then the others in succession, until 
the empire of the eight great islands was completed. 
The smaller islands were then made, six in number; 
and .the islets scattered here and there formed them- 
selves afterwards from the mixture of the sea-foam and 
the deposits of the rivers. Eight millions of gods (ge- 
nii) were then called into existence, and ten thousand 
kinds of things, out of which came everything that can 
be found in the earth. Upon the completion of this 
work, Izanaghi and his wife made the earth their habi- 
tation, and became the progenitors of the five dynasties 
of terrestrial deities, who in turn governed the earth 
during two million and odd years. The last of these, 
having married a terrestrial wife, left a mortal son upon 
earth named Linmou-temvon, the ancestor and progen- 
itor of the races of men, the first of the mikados. See 
Mikado. Born upon earth, Linmou-tenwou was of 
course mortal. Ilis parents, especially the tender Iza- 
nami, trembled at the thought that she must one day 
close the eyes of her children, and yet continue to enjoy 
immortality herself. They therefore conferred upon 
their terrestrial offspring the gift of immortality, the 
power of mediation between the gods and man — made 
them immortal kamis, happy spirits, worthy of divine 
honors. This is the point where the Japanese com- 
mence their history, and hence their doctrine, that the 
spirits of human beings survive the body, and, accord- 
ing to the actions of the individual in life, receive re- 
ward or punishment. When a man’s life has been dis- 
tinguished for piety, for patriotism, or for good works, 
the Japanese deify him, after death, as a kami, and 
thus the number of these demigods has beeome indefi- 
nite. Some of these spirits preside specially over the 
elements and powers of nature. 

The worship of these demigods or Kami is called 
Kami-no-mitsi, or “the way of the Kami.” It pos- 
sesses some features which are found in the religious 
observances of no other race. There are chapels dedi- 
cated to the several Kamis in all parts of the empire, 
but they are most numerous and celebrated in the south- 
ern islands. “These chapels are called mias. They are 
always built in the most picturesque localities, and es- 
pecially wdiere there is a grove of high trees. Some- 
times a splendid avenue of pines or cedars conducts to 
the sacred place, which is always approached through 
one or more detached portals, called tons, like the pvlas 
of the Egyptian temples. The chapel is usually set 
upon a hill, natural or artificial, buttressed with Cyclo- 
pean walls, and with a massive stone stairway leading 
to the top. At the foot of the stairs there is a small 
building containing a tank of water for ablutions. The 
chapel itself is usually small, and very simple in its plan, 


K AMMON* 


10 


KAN AH 


much resembling the native dwelling-house. Three 
sides are closed, and one is open to sun and air. The 
woodwork is kept scrupulously clean, and the floor is 
covered with the finest matting. The altar, which 
stands alone in the centre, is ornamented with a plain 
disk of metal, but no statues or symbolical figures are to 
be seen, and very rarely emblems of any kind. Never- 
theless, there are sometimes stationed at the head of the 
staircase, outside of the chapel, sitting figures resembling 
dogs ami unicorns, which are said to represent the ele- 
ments of water and fire. The interior is generally hung 
with strips or ribbons of colored paper, the exact signif- 
icance of which is not yet clearly understood. The 
chapels are also ornamented by their pious votaries with 
colored lanterns, vases of perfume, and of flowers or ever- 
green branches, which are renewed as fast as they with- 
er. At the foot of the altar there is a heavy chest with 
a metal grating, through which fall the pieces of money 
contributed : it is hardly necessary to say that the priest 
carries a key to the box. These mias were originally 
commemorative chapels, erected in honor of Japanese 
heroes, like that of Tell by the lake of the Four Forest 
Cantons. The prince of the province which had given 
birth to the hero, or where his deeds had been perform- 
ed, took upon himself the charge of keeping the chapel 
in repair; there was no priest to officiate at the altar of 
the karui; no privileged caste interposed between the 
adorer and the object of his worship. The act of ado- 
ration, in fact, performed before the mirror (represent- 
ing that bequeathed by the goddess Izanami to her chil- 
dren), passed beyond the guardian spirit of the chapel, 
and reached the supreme god above him. The chapel, 
therefore, was open to all; the worship was voluntary, 
and offered as the individual might choose, no ceremo- 
nial being prescribed. With the introduction of Buddh- 
ism, however, an important change took place. The 
new faith was sufficiently incorporated with the old to 
transfer the chapels to the special charge of the priests 
[called Kami-nusi , or ‘ministers of the spirits’], and to 
introduce, in place of the voluntary, formless worship of 
the people, a system of processions, litauies, offerings, and 
even of miracle-working images. Indeed, .almost the 
only difference between this system and the worship 
of the saints in Catholic coimtries lies in the circum- 
stance that the priests who officiate only put on their 
surplices for the occasion, and become secidar again 
'when they leave the chapel” (Bayard Ta} r lor’s Japan, p. 
255 sq., in the excellent collection of Scribner’s Library 
of Wonders, Travels , etc., N. Y., 1872, 12 mo). Compare 
Humbert, Sojourn in Japan, transl. in Ladies’ Reposito- 
?'!/, March, 1870, p. 184 sq. ; Macfarlane, Japan (London, 
1*852, 8vo), p. 204 sq.; Siebold, Nippon , i, 3 sq. ; ii, 51; 
Ivampfer, Japan , in Pinkerton, vii, 672 sq. ; Tylor, Prim- 
itive Culture (London, 1871, 2 vols. 8vo), vol. ii (see In- 
dex). (J.ILW.) 

Kammon. ■ See Cummin. 

Kampanton, Isaac ben-Jacob, a Jewish rabbi of 
some note, was born in Castile in 1360. Of his personal 
history but little is known. He was gaon of Castile, 
and is particularly noted for his contributions to Tal- 
mudical literature, and his influence, through his pupils, 
on Jewish literature of the 15th century in the Spanish 
peninsula. He died at Pcnjafiel in 1463. One of his 
most important works is (ITnys of the 

Talmud, first published at Mantua in 1596), an introduc- 
tion to the study of the Talmud (really a methodology). 
See Griitz, Gesch. d. Juden, viii, 152; Jost, Gesch . d.Ju- 
denthums , iii, 87 ; FUrst, Biblioth . Jud, i, 140. (J. II. W.) 

Karnsin. See Simoom. 

Kamtcliatka, a peninsula in the extreme north- 
east of Asia, occupied by the Russians from 1696 to 
1706, extends between the seas of Kamtcliatka and 
Oehotzk, frpm latitude 51° to 61° N., and contaius 20,800 
square miles, and abont 4500 inhabitants, one third of 
whom are Kussians. The former principal place, Nish- 
uei Kamtschatk, on the mouth of the Kamtcliatka 


River, has hardly 200 inhabitants. Petropaulovsk, the 
present capital, is the seat of a Russo-Amcrican trading 
company, and has a population of about 1000. Until 
1856 Kamtcliatka was a separate district ; at present it 
constitutes the district Petropaulovsk, of the coast dis- 
trict of Eastern Siberia. The Kamtchadales inhabit, 
besides Kamtcliatka, also a part of the Kurile Islands. 
They belong to the Mongolian race, are small, have thick 
heads, anil flat, broad faces, and small eyes, which are fre- 
quently inflamed by the snow. Though baptized, the 
Kamtchadales are still addicted to Shamanism (q. v.), 
and, in particular, practice sorcery. They are fond of 
hunting and fishing, good-natured, and hospitable. (A. 
J. S.) 

Kana (Heb. ^EO), the name of one of the 

later cabalistic works treating of the religious rites of 
the Jews, has attained considerable notoriety on account 
of its decided opposition not only to all the Jewish ritu- 
al, to Talmudical interpretation, and to the Talmud itself, 
but for its fierce attacks even against Biblical Judaism. 
Its authorship is undecided, but of late most Jewish crit- 
ics lean to the opinion that Kana and another cabalistic 
work entitled Pella (fsiO^ 5, published at Kores in 1784, 
and often), an interpretation of the first book of the Law 
(Genesis), were written by one and the same person, and 
belong to a Spanish Jewish heretic of the 15th century 
or thereabout. Dr.Jellinek (Bet- Ida- Mid rash , iii; Einl. 
p. xxxviii sq.) thinks both the production of an Italian 
or Greek Jew. See, for further details, Griitz, Gesch. d. 
Juden, viii, 230 sq., 458 sq. See also Cabala. (J. HAY.) 

KaTiah (Heb. Ranald, reedy ; Sept. K ava v. 
r. Kaj'3'fh'), the name of two places in Palestine. 

1. A stream (bnD, torrent or wady, q. d. “the brook 
of reeds,” as in the marg.) that formed the boundary be- 
tween Ephraim and Manasseh, from the Mediterranean 
eastward to the vicinity of Tappuah (Josh, xvi, 8); ly- 
ing properly within the territory of Manasseh, although 
the towns on its southern bank were assigned to the 
tribe of Ephraim (Josh, xvii, 9 ; see Kcil, Comment, ad 
loc. prior.). See Tribe. Schwarz says it is to be still 
found in the equivalent Arabic name Wady al-Kazah 
(valley of reeds), that rises in a spring of the same name, 
Ain al-Kazah , one mile west of Shechem, and, after 
flowing westerly, acquiring a considerable breadth, and 
irrigating fields on its way, finally falls into the Medi- 
terranean south of Ctesarea ( Palestine , p. 51). Other 
travellers, however, do not speak of such a stream unless 
it be the Nahr el-Kczib (river of reeds) spoken of in the 
Life of Saladin (p. 191, 193) as existing between Ciesa- 
rea and Arroplo (Arsuf), and supposed to be represented 
by the Nahr-Arsuf (otherwise cl-lvassah) which enters 
the Mediterranean due west of Sebustieli (Samaria). 
Dr. Robinson, in his last visit to Palestine, discovered a 
Wady Kanah, south-west of Shechem, which he de- 
scribes as originating in a spring of the same name in 
the plain el-Mukhna (south of Nablus), and running be- 
tween deep and rugged banks westerly to the plain bor- 
dering the Mediterranean, near Hableh, where it is wide 
and cultivated, and bears a different name (Researches, 
new edit., iii, 135); from which it appears that it joins 
the Nahr el-Aujeh, as laid down on his map. This, 
however, is too southern a position for the stream in 
question ; for it would wholly cut off Ephraim from the 
sea-coast, and confine its territory within very narrow 
limits (Thomson, Land and Bool', ii, 259). In the ab- 
sence of more specific information respecting this region, 
we may conclude that the name “Brook of Reeds” is a 
designation of the sedgy streams that constitute the 
Nahr Falalk (comp, the A rundinetis, between Civsarca 
and Apollonia, spoken of by Schidtens, Vita Saladini, p. 
191, 193), perhaps including its middle branch, called 
Wady Mussin or Sileh (on Van de Velde’s Map). Dr. 
Thomson ( ut sup.) thinks it is the present A bu Zubura ; 
but this, again, seems rather too far north. 

2. A town in the northern part of Asher, not very 


KANDEKUMARAIO 


11 


KANT 


far from its eastern border, mentioned in connection 
with Hamilton and Zidon (Josh, xix, 23). Dr. Robinson 
identifies it with Kana, a large village on the brow of a 
valley not far south-east of the site of Tyre ( Research- 
es , iii, 384). So also Schwarz ( Palest . p. 132), Van de 
Velde ( Memoir , p. 327), and Porter {Handbook for Pal- 
estine, p. 325, 442). About a mile north of the place is 
a very ancient site, strewn with ruins, some of them of 
colossal proportions; and in the side of a ravine not 
very far distant are some singular figures of men, wom- 
en, and children cut on the face of a cliff (Thomson, 
Land and Book, i, 298). Tristram {Land of Israel, p. 
58) regards them as Phoenician. See Inscriptions. 


Kandekumaraio, another name for the Hindu 
deity known as Ivartikeya (q. v.). 

Kaneh. See Reed. 

Kanne, Johann Arnold, a German mystic, was 
born at Detmold in 1773, and educated at the gymna- 
sium of his native city. While but a youth he attempt- 
ed the restoration of the exceedingly marred text of 
Yarro, l)e Lingua Latina . He studied theology at the 
University of Gottingen, where the rational exegesis of 
Eichhorn nearly stilled all his religious belief. From 
Gottingen he went to Leipsic, thence as a teacher to 
Halle, and finally to Berlin. In 1805 he wrote at Wiir- 
temberg a work on the mythology of the Greeks (Wei- 
mar, 1805). 11 is study of this subject led him to read 

the Old Testament, and ultimately resulted in the pub- 
lication of Die erste Urkunde der Geschichte , with a 
Preface by Jean Paul (1808, 2 vols. 8vo). During the 
war with the French he joined the Prussian army, but 
was captured by the French, from vdiom he soon es- 
caped, and then entered the Austrian army. But, pros- 
trated by disease, he was several times confined in the 
hospital at Linz, when, through the efforts of Jean Paul 
and president Jacobi, he was dismissed from the ser- 
vice. On Jacobi’s recommendation, in 1809 he was 
called to the chair of history in the College of Science 
at Nuremberg. Ills sufferings in the army seemed to 
have accelerated his previous religious decline, and his 
works published after his appointment at Nuremberg 
give evidence of his leaning towards extreme rational- 
ism. He wrote in this period Pantheon der altesten 
Xaturph ilosoph ie odcr die Pel if on der Volker (1811): — 
System der Indischen My the oder Kronus und die Ge- 
schichte des Gottmenschen (1813). He was, however, 
soon afterwards induced to renounce his antichristian 
views laid down in these books. He made an attempt 
to derive all languages from one primitive language in 
his wuyy\(#jrr<7TOP,but his request to king Alexander to 
aid his philological undertaking received no hearing. 
In Nuremberg his moral and spiritual condition was for 
a long time a turmoil of conflicting emotions, but the 
reading of religious writings and elevated conversation 
with distinguished Christians brought about a spiritual 
regeneration. In 1818 he was called to the chair of 
Oriental literature in the University of Erlangen. Here 
he withdrew from all society, and lived in seclusion from 
the world, wholly absorbed in contemplative mysticism. 


Doubtless his papers would have afforded a clear view 
of the state of his soul, but, according to his friends, to- 
wards the close of his life he destroyed all documents 
relating to this subject. He died Dec. 17, 1824. II is 
other religious works are : Sammlung \cahrer und er- 
vecklicher Geschichten aus dem Reiche Christi und far 
dasselbe (1815-17, 2 vols. ; 1822, 3 vols.) : — Leben, und aus 
dem Leben merheurdiger und erweekter Christen (1816- 
17, 2 vols.): — Fortsetzuny (1824): — Ronume aus der 
Christenwelt alter Zeiten (1817) \—Christus ini A. T., or 
U ntersuchungen iiber die 1 ’ orbilder und messianischcn Stel- 
len (1818, 2 vols. 8vo) : — Biblisclie Untersuchungen oder 
A uslegungen mit und ohne Polemik (1819-20, 2 vols. 

8vo). He edited also the follow- 
ing: Auserlesene christliche Lieder 
(Erlang. 1818) : — Weissagungen v. 
Verheissungen der Kirche Christi 
avf die letzten Zeiten der lleiden. 
— Katholische Real- Ency klop. v, 
1036. 

Kanon is one of the names by 
which the official list or register of 
the Church is known. It is also 
frequently spoken of as KardXoyoQ 
ispariKoc, list of the p>riesthood, and 
hence spiritual persons were denom- 
inated KavoviKoi, canonici, and oi 
too Kavovop, men of the canon, be- 
cause their names were entered in 
the list. The word Kavtov had also 
other significations. The assent of the catechumens to 
a summary of the leading articles of the Christian faith 
was required, and this creed was variously designated ; 
sometimes Kavwv. the rule, sometimes tt 'kjtiq, the faith, 
and symbolum, a badge or token (see Riddle, Christian 
A ntiquities , s. v.). See Canon. 

Kanouse, Peter, a Presbyterian minister, was bom 
in Boonton, N. J., August 20, 1784, of German descent; 
was educated for the ministry under Drs. Armstrong and 
Richards, and was licensed and ordained in 1822. Ilq 
successively preached at Suekasunna, N. J. ; Newark, N. 
J. ; Wantage, N. J. ; Newark, N. J. ; Poughkeepsie, N. 
Y.; again at Wantage, N. J., and then as a home mis- 
sionary in Dane Co., Wisconsin. He died May 30, 1864. 
“ He was an able and impressive preacher of the Gos- 
pel. . . . bearing the £ fruits of the Spirit,’ and instru- 
mental in the conversion of many souls.” — Wilson, Pres- 
byterian Hist. Almanac, 1866, p. 216. 

Kansa, ill Hindu mythology, is the name of a king 
of the race of Bhoja — considered also a daemon (Kala- 
nemi) in human shape, and notorious for his enmity to- 
wards the god Krishna [see Visiinu], by whom he was 
ultimately slain. 

Kant, Immanuel, designated by De Maistre “ the 
philosopher of nebulous memory,” acquired enduring re- 
nown as the author of the Critical Philosophy, as the 
father of the recent German or transcendental specula- 
tion, and as the most acute and profound metaphysician 
of tlie closing 18th century. The importance of his 
philosophical career is evinced by his furnishing the 
link of connection between the schools of Leibnitz, 
Locke, Berkeley, and Hume, and those of Hegel, Scliel- 
ling, and Comte. lie closes one great and brilliant era 
of metaphysical inquiry; he commences .another with 
singular fulness of knowledge, breadth of comprehen- 
sion, perspicacity of discernment, and logical subtlety 
and precision, lie exposed inveterate errors of proced- 
ure; he improved, sharpened, and refined the methods 
of investigation ; he surveyed and plotted out the boun- 
daries of metaphysical research ; and he rendered more 
distinct and precise the nature of the inquiry, the sub- 
ject with which it is concerned, and the instruments at 
our command for its investigation. These are inestima- 
ble services, the benefits of which are experienced even 
in the midst of the errors that have sprung from the 
system by which they were rendered. 



Ancient Figures on Rocks at Kanah. 


KANT 


12 


KANT 


Life. — Kant was born at Kbnigsberg April 22, 1724, 
and spent his whole life there or in its immediate neigh- 
borhood, never having journeyed more than forty miles 
from his native place. lie ended his tranquil life in 
the city of his birth, February 12, 1804. He was of 
Scotch origin. His father, John George Cant, removed 
from Tilsit, where his immigrant grandfather first set- 
tled, to Konigsberg, and followed the saddlers trade with 
little worldly success. Ilis pinched fortunes were enno- 
bled by stern and unostentatious integrity. All accounts 
commemorate the high character, intelligence, and au- 
stere piety of Anna Kegina Keuter, the philosopher’s 
mother — virtues alfectionately attested by her illustrious 
son, who ascribes all that was best in himself to her ex- 
ample and instructions, and to the purifying influences 
of his childhood’s home. lie lost his mother when he 
was eleven years of age, his father in his twenty-second 
year (1746). They lived long enough to transmit to 
him the memory of their virtuous example — ’twas all 
they had to bequeath. After receiving the first rudi- 
ments of education at the charitable schools of the city, 
lie was sent to the Frederick College in 1734, at the ex- 
pense of his uncle, a substantial shoemaker. Here he 
remained for seven years under the care of Dr. Schultz, 
an eminent adherent of Wolf, at the time when the 
Wolfian philosophy was a subject of acrimonious contro- 
versy. lie devoted himself chiefly to the classics and 
mathematics, the essential foundation of all thorough 
instruction, and had Kulinken for his fellow -student. 
From the Collegium Fredericianum lie passed in 1740 to 
the University of Kbnigsberg, and entered upon a course 
of theology; but his ill success in preaching discouraged 
him, and he attached himself to the mathematical and 
physical sciences, in the former of which his first dis- 
tinction was gained. During the latter period of his 
university career he supported himself by teaching in 
the humblest grades, in consequence of the increasing 
penury of his father, whose death in 174G compelled him 
to withdraw from the university, and to seek a living 
from his own exertions alone. For the nine following 
3 T ears he was employed as a private teacher in or near 
Kbnigsberg, and finally in the noble family of Kayscr- 
ling, by whom his merits were appreciated, and in whose 
society he acquired that polish of manner which distin- 
guished him through life, lie changed his family name 
of Cant to the more Germanic appellative Kant, but he 
did not thus divest himself of the Scotch characteristics 
of mind and morals. In the second year of his engage- 
ment in private tuition he published his first work, 
Gedanken von der teahren Schdtzung der lebendigen Kriifte 
{Thoughts on the true Measure of Living Forces , 1747), 
which was esteemed a valuable contribution to the fa- 
mous controversy on the subject. In 1754 he discussed 
the question proposed for a prize by the Berlin Acade- 
my, Whether the Earth had undergone any change, conse- 
quent upon iis revolution upon its Axis. This essay fa- 
cilitated his acquisition of the master’s degree in the 
next year. At this time be returned to the university 
as privat-docent, and maintained an uninterrupted con- 
nection with it thenceforth till the closing years of his 
life. He inaugurated his lectures by the composition of 
two theses: the first, He Igni; the second, Dissert utio de 
Principiis Primis Cognitinnis llnmancr, which was the 
first manifestation of the direction of his mind to meta- 




physical inquiry, and also showed that he had fixed on 
the central point of all philosophy. While employed in 
private teaching he had diligently prosecuted his cney- 
cloprcdieal studies, and had acquired the English lan- 
guage by his own exertions, in order to master the spec- 
ulations of Locke, Berkeley, and Hume. Another kin- 
dred treatiso belongs to this year — Principiorum Prime - 
rum Cognitionis Metaphysical Nora Dilucidatio , as also ' 
his Allgemeinc Naturgeschichte nnd Theorie des 1/immtls 
( Universal Natural History and Theory of the Heav- 
ens' ). The last work was issued anonymously, with a ' 
dedication to Frederick the Great. It is remarkable for J 
its bold views, and for announcing the probable resolu- 


tion of the nebulae into stars, and the probable discovery 
of new planets — scientific predictions fulfilled in much 
later years by Herscliel and Leverrier. This production 
occasioned a correspondence with Lambert (1761), the 
singularly profound president of the Berlin Academy, 
who espoused similar opinions. For fifteen years (1755— 
1770) Kant lectured to private classes in the university. 
His courses treated “pa?ne de omni scibili,” but were 
marked by a special addition to the physical sciences, 
and, after 1757, to physical geography, a novel branch 
of knowledge which he continued to expound annually 
till the close of his academical career. A life so retired 
as Kant’s, and so exclusively occupied with study and 
the duties of instruction, scarcely offers any events for 
biography beyond the development of opinions, the pub- 
lication of the treatises in which such opinions are set 
forth, and the academic distinctions attained. The 
chronicler finds little to report more exciting than Dr. 
Primrose’s migrations “from the blue chamber to the 
brown,” and lienee is compelled to mark the critical mo- 
ments of his career by the notice of the principal works 
as they appeared. Such indications, however, have a 
value of tlieir own, as they reveal the growth of spec- 
ulations which have moulded the intelligence of the 
world, and mark the times and modes in which the rev- 
olutions of thought have been effected. In 1762 ap- 
peared Kant’s criticism of the Aristotelian logic, in a trea- 
tise entitled Die falschc Spitzfndigkeit der tier syllogis- 
tischcn Figurcn {F alse Subtlety of the Syllogistic Figures'), 
The censors of Aristotle have usually misapprehended 
both his doctrines and his aims, and have imagined to 
be erroneous dogmas which the Stagvrite had medita- 
ted more profoundly, and had treated with a juster re- 
gard to practical convenience than themselves. In the 
course of the next year, 1763, Kant gave to the public 
his Der einzig mogliche Beireissgruncl zu einer Demonst ra- 
tion des Daseyns Gottes ( Ontological Demonstration of the 
Being of God), in which he repudiated alike the deduc- 
tions d priori of Anselm, Des Cartes, and Clarke, and 
the inductions a posteriori of the natural theologians, 
and regarded the conception of the possibility of God as 
attesting the reality of his existence. This treatise still 
bears the impress of the dominant Wolfian philosophy, 
which he had imbibed from his early teacher Schultz. 
In this year he contended for the prize offered by the 
Berlin Academy, his treatise on the Principles of Nat- 
ural Theology and Morals {Untersuchung iiber die Deut- 
lichkeit der Grundsdtze der naturlichen Theologie uml 
Moral) receiving the second honors, while the first were 
adjudged to Moses Mendelssohn. Three years more 
elapsed before he received his first public appointment 
as underkeeper of the Koval Library, with the scant sal- 
ary of fifty dollars. In this year he exposed the pre- 
tensions of Swedenborgianism. being always ready to 
assail new-fangled delusions, whether stimulated by en- 
thusiasm or by imposture. At length, when approach- 
ing the end of his forty-seventh year, he was promoted 
to the chair of logic and metaphysics in his own uni- 
versity, with a stipend of three hundred dollars, lie 
had suffered two previous disappointments. lie had 
failed to obtain the professorship extraordinary oflogic 
in 1756, and the ordinary professorship in 1758, and had 
declined the professorship of poetry in 1764, from distrust 
of his aptitudes and acquirements. lie had refused in- 
vitations from Erlangen and Jena, from reluctance to 
abandon his people and his native home. 

Custom demanded an inaugural dissertation from the 
professor elect. Kant’s subject was De Mundi Scnsibilis 
atque Intelligibilis Forma et Principiis . This essay con- 
tained the first distinct anticipations of his characteristic 
system, though his philosophy did not receive form or 
coherent development for many ensuing years. The re- 
mainder of his life was, however, consecrated to its defi- 
nite constitution and exposition. It early began to as- 
sume shape, for in 1772 he smoothed the way for a full- 
er discussion by bis Scheme of Transcendental Philoso- 
phy, No desire of change, no temptation of worldly ad- 


KANT 


13 


KANT 


vaneement and honor could seduce him from his calm lu- 
cubrations. lie refused to go to Halle, though a double 
salary was offered him. After eleven years of patient 
meditation he produced in 1781 his Critique of the Pure 
Reason ( Kritik dev reinen Vernunft), which proclaimed 
a new philosophy, and ushered in a new cycle of specu- 
lation — novns ordo sceclorum metaphysicorum. The work 
was modified in a second edition in 1787, to obviate the 
imputation of idealism and idealistic infidelity objected 
to it as to the previous system of Wolf. It long seemed 
as if this remarkable production — a revolution itself, and 
the parent of revolutions — would never reach a second 
edition. For six years it lay so unheeded on the pub- 
lisher’s shelves that he contemplated disposing of it as 
waste paper, when a sudden demand relieved his anxie- 
ties, and rendered a republication expedient. This time- 
ly interest in the book was scarcely due to Kant’s Pro- 
legomena to Metaphysics (Prolegomena zu einer jeden 
kiinftigen Metaphysik , die als Wissenschaft wird au fire- 
ten konnen , 1783), but may be attributed to striking no- 
tices of the doctrine in prominent German magazines. 
In 1785 the practical side of his system was exposed in 
his Metaphysics of Ethics (Grundlegnng zur Metaphysik 
der Sitten), and in the following year its extension to 
physical speculation was attempted in his Metaphysics 
of Natural Science (J letaphysische Aufangsgriinde der 
Nat ur wissenschaft). In 1788 the positive aspect of his 
philosophy was presented in the Critique of the Practical 
Reason ( Kritik der praktischen Vernunft ), which treats 
of the principles and objects of the moral law, and con- 
structs ethics on the formula, Act so that your principle 
of action may serve as a universal law. The foundation 
is narrow, and has the cold rigidity of Stoical pretension, 
but it was a stern and strict ride in the conception of 
its propounder, and was borrowed from his own line of 
conduct, and from the austere virtues of his parental 
home, as much as from the dictates of his reason. The 
defects of this canon will be indicated hereafter. The 
outline of the new philosophy was completed in 1790 by 
the Critique of the Practical Judgment (Kritik der Ur- 
tlieihkraft ), which is in some respects the most satis- 
factory work of the series. It is designed to unite the 
practical with the theoretical reason, the freedom of the 
will with the law of existence, by regarding the whole 
order of creation as a system of means effectually adapt- 
ed to the attainment of beneficent aims. It is thus a 
tractate of teleology or of final eauses. It is principally 
occupied with the theory of the beautiful and the sub- 
lime, and is in great measure a development of the Ob- 
servations on the Beautiful and the Sublime (Beobach- 
t ungen iiber das Gefuhl des Schonen und Erhabenen, 1 7 Gl), 
and the Metaphysics of Ethics (1785). 

Kant’s metaphysics had thus been exhibited by him- 
self in all its principal applications. It had attracted 
general notice; it had gathered around it numerous and 
enthusiastic disciples; it had secured for its author pro- 
found respect and earnest admiration. Distinguished 
men Hocked to his lectures ; princes and sovereigns com- 
missioned learned scholars to hear his teachings and to 
report his doetrines. His life was surrounded with ease, 
and his days were crowned with honor. His salary had 
been increased, and had given what was wealth to one 
of his simple tastes and frugal habits. lie had been 
twice appointed rector of tfie university. Ilis industri- 
ous and meditative career had passed its grand climac- 
teric, and was stretching serenely to its close. Just 
when the aims of life appeared to have been won, Kant 
was plunged into the only serious troubles which dis- 
turbed his tranquil existence. He became involved in 
a grave religious controversy by some articles in a Ber- 
lin magazine, afterwards reproduced in a volume under 
the title of Religion within the Limits of Pure Reason 
'(Die Religion inner hath der Grenzen der blossen Vernunft , 
1793). There was a ferment in the religious circles of 
Germany at this time, and Kant’s philosophy had early 
excited alarms which appeared now to be justified. A 
doctrine which rejected the accepted arguments for the 


being of God, the validity of revelation, the immortality 
of the soid, and the creation of the world, offended too 
many convictions, unsettled too many inveterate habits 
of thought, and substituted too shadowy and too ab- 
stract speculations for accredited precepts and dogmas, 
not to produce discontent and censure. Nor were the 
alarms entertained unreasonable, as was shown by the 
subsequent developments of the transcendental philoso- 
phy. The agitation excited by Kant’s theological in- 
novations was partially allayed by a royal mandate di- 
recting him to observe silence on religious topies. The 
king’s interference is supposed to have been induced by 
Kant’s sympathies with the French Revolution, despite 
of the Reign of Terror. On the death of the king in 
1797 he resumed his expositions, considering his engage- 
ment as a personal one with that monarch. But before 
this time he had narrowed the sphere of his activity. 
In 179d he withdrew from general society; in 1795 he 
discontinued all his instructions exeept in logic and met- 
aphysics, and he dosed his Academic labors altogether 
two years afterwards. In 1798 he composed his Strife 
of the Faculties ( Der Streit der Facultdten), reviving the 
religious dispute in which he had been entangled ; and 
he bade farewell to the public in his Pragmatical View 
of A nthropology (Anthropologie in pragmatisclier Ilin- 
sicht ). The last work from his own pen was a protest 
against Fichte’s doctrine, which gave to the new philos- 
ophy the subjective or idealistic east, against which his 
own -efforts had always been strenuously directed. In 
this paper were manifested his own failing powers, and 
his incapacity to appreciate other systems than his own 
— a natural consequence of his habitual disregard of the 
history of speculation. His pupils published several 
other works from his notes and papers during the last 
years of his life. That life was not long extended after 
ins retirement. His constitution gradually broke up; 
his health, so remarkably maintained, began to decline; 
appetite, teeth, strength, sight, voice, memory, all failed, 
and his pure, laborious, anil honorable existence was ter- 
minated by an apoplectic attack, Feb. 12, 1804. when he 
had nearly completed his eightieth year. His death 
produced profound emotion throughout Germany. The 
whole city of Kdnigsberg put on mourning; multitudes 
Hocked to his funeral, and his remains were escorted 
to the grave by a solemn procession. A characteristic 
medal was struck to commemorate his fame. It bore an 
emblem and a motto appropriate to his doctrine, “ Altius 
volantem ebereuit.” He was worthy of such honor. He 
left to his countrymen the example of a career rich in 
wholesome fruits — simple, sincere, upright, laborious ; 
devoted singly to the promotion of truth, and to the re- 
moval of error in the highest and most perilous regions 
of speculation, illustrated by seventy years of unbroken 
industry, and by half a century faithfully given to the 
instruction of successive generations of the young in va- 
rious branches of learning, from the humblest rudiments 
of knowledge to the most recondite metaphysical research. 
Humble, modest, and true, his life was a nobler crown to 
his memory than all the honors that men could bestow. 

In person, Kant was small and delicately built. Ilis 
blue eyes expressed benevolence, but his features were 
rugged, and seamed with the lines of habitual thought. 
Lavater mistook his portrait for that of a noted high- 
wayman. His manners were kindly and courteous. He 
was very genial in company, full of mirth and innocent 
wit, and scrupulously abstinent of learned or metaphys- 
ical discourse. As a leeturer he was easy and attrac- 
tive, displaying nothing of the repulsive aridity and 
elaborate awkwardness of his philosophical treatises. 
He was a reverential observer of all truth, and rigid in 
the practice of all justice. The like precise propriety 
regulated all his habits. He was plain in his tastes, ab- 
stemious in eating and drinking, chary of indulgences, 
frugal in his expenditures, methodical in every arrange- 
ment. “ Early to bed and early to rise” was the rule of 
his life. Ilis hour for rising was four in summer and 
five in winter; for bed, ten in summer and nine in win- 


KANT 


14 


KANT 


ter. By this regularity and moderation he reached ful- 
ness of years with health, cheerfulness, and perfect se- 
renity. He seems to have been deficient in poetic sen- 
sibility and poetic imagination. To this defect may be 
ascribed several imperfections in the exposition of his 
philosophy, and his total want of religions sentiment. 
►Shortly before his death he declared that he had no de- 
terminate notion of a future state, but was inclined to 
believe in metempsychosis. This was the flaw in his 
mental and moral constitution which produced many 
flaws in his speculation. 

Like his illustrious contemporary Hume, whom he 
survived nearly thirty years, Kant was never married, 
lie gave no ‘‘hostages to fortune,” but illustrated Ba- 
con’s dictum, that “ the best works, and of greatest merit 
for the public, have proceeded from unmarried or child- 
less men.” Of the works constituting Ivaut’s bequest to 
posterity, the most noted and important are those that 
expound the “Critical Philosophy,” and of this philoso- 
phy a brief notice remain.# to be given. 

Philosophy — Kant’s scheme of speculation is so com- 
prehensive, so extensive, so intricate, so systematic, so 
full of divisions and subdivisions, that it is impossible to 
attempt any complete summary of it within the limits al- 
lowed by this article. Not the fullest, but the most com- 
pact mode of exposition is required. Hence the notice 
of the numerous treatises not directly employed in the 
construction of the “Critical Philosophy” has been in- 
troduced into the biographical sketch. Hence, too, the 
reader who desires a formal outline of the system must 
he referred to some of the numerous synoptical views 
presented in German, French, English, and Latin. All 
that can be aimed at here will be to give a cursory ac- 
count of the distinctive peculiarities of Kant’s scheme. 
To do this, it may suffice to explain his relation to pre- 
vious philosophy, to point out his characteristic method, 
and to note the chief developments and applications of 
that method. 

To show the exact relation of Kant to antecedent 
and contemporary modes of speculation would require a 
detailed account of the fortunes of philosophy from Ba- 
con, and Gassendi, and Des Cartes. This is more than 
has been attempted by Kosenkranz. It must suffice to 
state that in the middle of the 18th century the Wolffian 
development and systematization of the philosophy of 
Leibnitz was predominant in Germany; the scepticism 
of Hume perplexed and alarmed Britain; and the mate- 
rialism of D’Alembert, Diderot, and Condillac was fash- 
ionable in France. The philosophy of Leibnitz was an 
effort to escape the pantheistic tendencies of Cartesian- 
ism as evolved in the idealism of Spinoza and the the- 
osophism of Malebranche. Hume’s philosophy was the 
sceptical evolution of the sensationalism of Locke, gener- 
ated by the collision between the mechanicism of Hartley 
and the Pyrrhonism of Berkeley. The infidel doet rine of 
the school of the French Encyclopaedia was the superfi- 
cial deduction of the French intellectual anarchists from 
the partial appreciation of the tenets of Locke, whose 
own principles were vague and incoherent. The prob- 
lem presented for solution was to find some ground of 
conciliation between all these divergent opinions, to de- 
tect and expose the fallacies on which they rested, to 
avoid the mischiefs caused or portended by them, anil to 
discover a trustworthy and intelligible basis for human 
knowledge. The situation was in many respects anal- 
ogous to that which characterized the Hellenic world at 
the time of Socrates. Kant undertook the investiga- 
tion of this arduous and urgent problem, and, like Soc- 
rates, he proceeded by the critical investigation of the 
nature of knowledge and of the intellectual faculties of 
man. By this procedure he was gradually led to the 
determination ol the conditions of the problem, and to 
the discovery of a solution partially true, and which ap- 
peared to himself complete and irrefragable. In meta- 
physics the method is the philosophy' and Kant’s jneth- 
od gave to his system the appropriate name of the Crit- 
ical Philosophy. 


It must be remembered that Kant’s early guide was 
Schultz, an earnest partisan of Wolf; that Kant pro- 
ceeds from the Woltian, that is, from the methodical 
Leibnifzian School; that he slowly emerges from the 
Wolfian circle, and that Wolfian characteristics may be 
traced throughout the whole construction of his scheme. 

The response made by Leibnitz to the thesis of Locke 
— “Nihil est in intellectu quod non prius in sensu” — a 
dogma by no means Aristotle's, and only virtually Locke’s 
— furnishes the key-note to the whole philosophy of 
Kant. “Nisi intellectus ipse,” replied Leibnitz ; thus 
distinguishing the faculty of thought from the impres- 
sions it receives, and offering a refutation at once of 
both the sceptical and the materialistic followers of 
Locke. The same just discernment may be found in 
Aristotle, though it has been little noticed ( Analyt.Post . 

ii, xix). What was required was the disco very of some 
principle of intelligence, some interpretation of the pro- 
cess of human thought, which would withdraw the mind 
of man from the arbitrary government of a Providential 
compulsion, a blind necessity, or a mechanical regula- 
tion by material constitution or by external chance. 
Kant sought this principle in the constitution and limi- 
tations of the human mind. He analyzed the products 
and the processes of thought. He found that in every 
perception, in every judgment, in every generalization, 
the mind communicated something of its own to what 
was presented as the object, of knowledge ; that in every 
apprehension, what was apprehended was moulded and 
determined by the intelligence which apprehended it. 
To use the language of the school, the form of knowl- 
edge was necessarily imposed by the constitution of the 
cognizant mind. This* seems to have been the doctrine 
of Aristotle ( r/}v '4 /0 X 1 ) v & vaL to7tov tldiov, De Anim. 

iii, iv), and was deduced from his teachings by his scho- 
liast, Asclepius. 

It was slowly that Kant reached this conclusion, 
which became very prolific in his hands. He tells us 
that it was due to the examination of Hume’s denial of 
any nexus between cause and effect, which of course re- 
duced the universe to a disconnected dream, and ren- 
dered all knowledge the mere aggregate of impressions 
fortuitously succeeding each other. He found that the 
same difficulty which had been exposed by Ilume in re- 
gard to cause and effect existed in the case of all syn- 
thetic judgments a priori , or those which unite two un- 
connected conceptions in one proposition. Truth was 
thus deprived of all validity, and experience became 
fallacy. IIow could a firm foundation be attained? 
Was experience as hollow, and spectral, and delusive as 
it had been represented by Ilume? Three questions 
presented themselves for solution, each corresponding to 
a distinct branch of metaphysical inquiry : “ What can I 
know?” “What ought I to do?” “What may I hope 
for?” The answer to the first question, which was the 
investigation of the nature of knowledge and of the na- 
ture of the mind, was given in the Critique of the Pure 
Reason. The answer to the second, which embraced the 
theory of duty, was propounded in the Critique of the 
Practical Reason. The answer to the third, which con- 
templated the summum homnn under a peculiar aspect, 
was presented in the Critique of the Judgment — a very 
ambiguous designation. This distinction of subjects and 
division of treatises sprung from the distribution of the 
matter of philosophy then prevalent in Germany. The 
distribution had itself descended from Aristotle (Stwpjj- 
rua) yap uai tt paKTiK)) uai Trottjrtm} Xtytrai soil, i— i- 
GTtjprj. — Top. vi, G ; comp. Metaph. v, 1 ; xi, 7 ; xii, 9). 

(I) The Critique of the Pure Reason contains the es- 
sence of Kant’s philosophy. It exhibits his method, 
illustrates his procedure, and presents his fundamental 
conclusions. The conception of the Pure Beason is in 
great measure his own, though both the name and what, 
is denoted by the name are found in previous systems 
(Plotinus, Ennead . v, 3, 3 ; Leibnitz, Theod. § 1 ; Nouv. 
Ess. ii, Iv. § 3). The pure reason is reason in its essential 
constitution — iv Cvvdptt, not: iv tvepyttq — the think- 


KANT 


15 


KANT 


ing faculty in its adaptation to thought — empty of the 
matter of thought, and distinct from its experiences. It 
is the mill without the grain which is to be ground by 
it. In analyzing the principle of thought, Kant detects 
an active as well as a passive factor. In every act of 
thought there is the reception of the impression from 
the object of thought, and the subjective reaction there- 
by excited, which reaction communicates the rational 
form to the conclusion , and differentiates ro vovptvov, 
the subject of thought, from ro (paivoptvov , the object 
of thought. 

Kant distinguishes the agencies which supply the 
materials of knowledge into three — sense, understand- 
ing, reason. The distribution of the faculties of the 
mind is always hazardous, and often beguiling. The 
mind is oue and complete. In the perceptions of sensa- 
tion, the elements derived from the mind, and not from 
the impression, are space and time. Such elements are 
called transcendental because they transcend, precede, 
and formulate the experience. They are consequently 
the forms or conditions of sensations. They are not 
supplied by the sensation, but they are added to it by 
the mind in the act of perception. There are indica- 
tions of this doctrine in Plotinus (Ennead. ii, 7, 9), Leib- 
nitz ( Xouv . Ess. liv. ii, chap, v), and in other writers. 
It is intimated, indeed, by Aristotle, and is a natural de- 
duction from the Ideas of Plato. It is singularly cor- 
roborated by recent expositions of the physiology of 
nervous action. In Kant’s theory the phenomena of 
the external world are all subject to the conception of 
space, the phenomena of the mind to the conception of 
time. The sensationalist is thus refuted, as space and 
time are not obtained from sensation. The dogmatic 
idealist is refuted, as the matter of knowledge must be 
supplied by external impressions. 

The understanding co-ordinates the perceptions of 
sense, and forms them into judgments by giving to 
them unity and interdependence. The transcendental 
elements supplied in this action of the understanding 
are arranged by Kant in twelve categories. The name 
of categories is taken from the Organon of Aristotle, but 
Kant’s categories are entirely diverse from Aristotle’s. 
Kant observed that metaphysical science pursued a de- 
lusive round, without making progress or securing sta- 
bility, while logic had received full, complete, and defi- 
nite form from its great founder. He ascribed this dif- 
ference of fortune to the fact that logic was simply the 
exposition of the procedure of the mind in reasoning, 
and he concluded that equal validity would be conferred 
on metaphysics, if it were reduced to an accurate repre- 
sentation of the procedure of the mind in the acquisition 
and employment of the materials of knowledge. Hence 
he invented a forced analogy between the two branches 
of speculation, and rendered his theory intricate, arbi- 
trary, and obscure by compelling it to assume a form 
fantastically corresponding with logical distinctions. In 
this spirit he devised his twelve categories, and ar- 
ranged them according to the forms of propositions, in 
the manner exhibited in the following table : 


I. Quantity. 


II. Quality 


III. Relation 


IV. Modality. 


Logical, 
f Universal. 

< Particular. 
(.Singular. 

{ Affirmative. 
Negative. 
Indeterminate. 
fCategorical. , 

-< Hypothetical. 
(Disjunctive. 
(Problematical. 
«< Assertory. 
(Apodeictic. 


Transcendental. 

Unity. 

Plurality. 

Totality. 


Reality. 

Negation. 

Limitation. 


Substance. 

Cause. 

Reciprocity. 

Possibility. 

Existence. 

Necessity. 


All judgments are framed by the mind under the in- 
fluence of these categories, four of them — one from each 
class — being inevitably applied in every instance. As, 
however, things are thus seen, not as they are, but as the 
intellectual predispositions make them appear to be — 
knowledge is purely relative to the human mind — ob- 
jective truth is not attainable, and all our experiences 


or knowledge have only a subjective validity. The 
mind cannot think except so far as it has been provoked 
by objective stimulation, therefore there is a real objec- 
tive existence of things. It thinks under the control 
of the categories pf the understanding, therefore knowl- 
edge's subjective in form, is moulded by the recipient 
mind, and cannot be known to correspond to the reality 
of things. The image is reflected from the mirror, but 
the object represented may be magnified or diminished, 
or strangely distorted by the character of the mirror, 
without being altered in itself. The image is all that 
constitutes knowledge ; there is, accordingly, no assur- 
ance of agreement between the image and the object. 
Thus all knowledge is conditional only — conditioned by 
the forms of the understanding, which mould it into the 
form in which it is received. Some principle was re- 
quired to give coherence, unity, confidence to the rela- 
tive knowledge obtained through such mental experi- 
ences. This was supposed to be given by the conscious- 
ness of personality which bounded, adunated, and har- 
monized all the qualified judgments that could be enter 
tained. It seems a misapprehension on the part of 
Kant, and at variance with his system, to claim any 
necessary truth for judgments formed in this manner. 
There can he nothing more than a relative or contin- 
gent necessity — an impossibility of thinking otherwise 
than the constitution of the mind necessitates. 

In the highest region of the mind — the reason or the 
faculty of ideas — there is also subjection of the matter 
of knowledge to transcendental forms. But the func- 
tions of the reason pass beyond the limits of experience, 
and are only regulative. In this branch of the subject, 
which is designed to explain the combination of the 
judgments of the understanding into ratiocinative con- 
clusions, Kant introduces three pure ideas , which are 
deemed to be analogous to the three forms of the syllo- 
gism — categorical, hypothetical, and disjunctive. These 
ideas are, 1. Absolute unity, or simple being, the soul, 
which gives origin to Rational Psychology ; 2. Absolute 
totality, the aggregate of phenomena in space and time, 
the world, which *is the basis of Cosmology ; and, 3. Ab- 
solute reality, supreme existence, the First Cause, which 
is the subject of Theology. From this point the later 
German schools diverge by ascribing a real and not 
simply a subjective validity to the forms of the abso- 
lute. With Kant they are merely postulates of reason, 
having no assured objective existence. Rational psy- 
chology only exhibits the phenomena of mental con- 
sciousness without guaranteeing anything in regard to 
the essential nature of the mind or to the immortality 
of the soul. Rational cosmology is equally unable to at- 
tain to any positive knowledge in regard to the creation. 
It lands us finally in four pairs of transcendental ideas, 
each pair producing twin contradictions. These are 
Kant’s celebrated antinomies: 1. In quantity, it may be 
proved that the world is both limited and unlimited ; 2. 
In quality, that its elements are ultimately simple and 
infinitely divisible; 3. In relation, that it is caused by 
free action, and by an infinite series of mechanical causes; 
4. In modality, that it has an independent cause, and 
that it is composed of interdependent members. Which- 
ever of these alternatives be asserted, it cannot be ex- 
clusively maintained, for it results in hopeless paralo- 
gisms: Both must be in some sense true, yet both can- 
not be simultaneously entertained, because they are con- 
tradictory. Hence no certainty, no complete compre- 
hensive knowledge can be attained. Metaphysics is 
simply inquisitive, speculative, critical, showing the lim- 
itations of the human mind, and the impossibility of 
knowing the reality of things, but at the same time fur- 
nishing glimpses of a reality which the mind can not 
compass — of existence and truth beyond the range of 
finite comprehension. It is the confession, if not the 
demonstration of the intellectual weakness of man. The 
same negative result is reached in rational theology. 
The ontological argument for the being of God — that of 
Anselm and Des Cartes, derived from the notion of per- 


KANT 


16 


KANT 


feet and independent existence — the cosmological argu- 
ment of Clarke, which proceeds from the conception of 
contingent to that of necessary being — and the physico- 
teleological argument of the natural theologians, which 
infers a supreme intelligent Designer from the evidences 
of design in the creation, are all equally inconclusive. 
“Thus the soul, the world, and God arc left by Kant’s 
speculative philosophy as problems not only unsolved, 
but demonstrably unsolvable.” To furnish a positive 
support for convictions on this subject indispensable for 
human guidance, and to give an authoritative rule for 
action, Kant constructed his ethical systems. 

(2) Critique of the Practical Reason. — Neither the 
name nor the conception of the practical reason was a 
novelty; both occur in Aristotle (Be Anim. iii, 10; 6 
fikv yap Sa o(H)tik6q vovq o i&iv rod 7rpaKroi f , ibid. c. 
ix). They are found in Aquinas (Summ. Theol . ii, 1 , 00, 
and especially 01,3), in linger Bacon (Opus Majus. p. 35, 
44), and in most philosophers, mediaeval and modern, 
who have accepted the Aristotelian doctrine. What- 
ever systems have recognised a moral sense, whatever 
theories have admitted a sustaining and guiding illumi- 
nation of the conscience, whatever schemes acknowl- 
edge the inworking spirit, and whatever expositions of 
the mysteries of man assume an abiding faith as the 
foundation of moral action, entertain substantially the 
same fundamental doctrine as Kant’s, though it is dif- 
ferently expanded and applied by them. The charac- 
teristic feature of Kant’s ethical system is what he terms 
the “ Categorical Imperative .” Speculative philosophy 
affords neither absolute truth nor certain guidance. 
Practical philosophy rests upon the enlightened con- 
science-enlightened by its own indwelling light. The 
“categorical imperative” is a rule of action — a moral law 
deriving its authority from itself — intuitively received — 
determining action by the idea — governing by the ra- 
tional form, not by the matter — thus advancing to the 
realm of the absolute, the unconditional, the noumenal , 
and passing from the shadows of speculation to the real- 
ities of action and duty. The formula of this “categor- 
ical imperative” is, Act so that your action may be ap- 
plied as a universal rule. It is obvious that a precept 
so vague and so abstract may represent an essential 
characteristic or property of right conduct, but cannot 
be accepted as its principle. It is indefinite, and it 
wants the authority of sovereign command. It would 
require the omniscient comprehension of all contempo- 
raneous relations, and all possible consequences for the 
regulation of every act, and at best would result in 
transcendental utilitarianism. It is too abstruse to be 
promptly and habitually applied to all the occurrences 
of life, and by all grades of men. It is limited to finite 
intelligences, and is sufficiently elastic to allow each 
one’s ignorance or obtuse conscience to be alleged as the 
individual rule of right. It might easily be stretched 
so as to sanction the Donat ist thesis, “Quicquid libet, 
licet.” On such a scheme, to employ the expression of 
Lyly’s Euphues, “it is the disposition of the mind that 
alteroth the nature of the thing.” Our morals would be 
shifting and casuistical. The wish would continually be 
the father to the thought; and all enthusiasm, all fa- 
naticism, all monomania might be presented as the can- 
on ol order. The conception of duty is the touchstone 
and stumbling-block of philosophy, and against it is 
shattered every scheme which does not rest upon the 
acceptance of revelation, and the acknowledgment of 
God, “ in whom we live, and move, and have our being.” 
There is no other mode of passing the chasm which sep- 
arates the negative results of speculative inquiry from 
the positive requirements of practical action. Specula- 
tive philosophy discusses the boundaries of the mind; 
practical philosophy is concerned with actions which are 
infinite in their consequences, and whose effects “wan- 
der through eternity.” 

(3) The Critique of the Judgment \Vrtheilskraft — Fac- 
ulty of Judgment). — This is the third of the systematic 
treatises devoted to the construction of the critical phi- 


losophy. The designation is infelicitous and ambigu- 
ous. The Imagination would be more appropriate, but 
would scarcely be applicable without some violence to 
the whole scope of the inquiry proposed. The depart- 
ment corresponds to the h -tori]f.ui i Ton/Tuci], or construc- 
tive science of the peripatetic distribution of knowledge 
and connects the domain of the pure with that of the 
practical reason. The imagination is the faculty of con- 
ciliation — of re-creation — uniting in emotional delight 
the obligations of action with the highest discoveries 
of speculation. In Kant’s critique of the judgment, are 
included the doctrine of the beautiful and the sublime, 
or aesthetics, and the doctrine of final causes, or teleology. 
His theory of beauty accords in substance with that of 
Plato, or rather that of Plotinus, but from his own singu- 
lar defect of imagination, and consequent limitation of 
view, it is denied the completeness, splendcr, and fulness 
of tar-reaching suggestion which illustrate that magnif- 
icent exposition of the grandest and most recondite sub- 
ject of metaphysical speculation. In beauty. Kant con- 
templates only the latent beneficent design, the harmony 
of means and ends, without dwelling upon the more sig- 
nificant conception of the primordial plan, the archety- 
pal perfection, from which the whole creation lias de- 
clined, but towards which man’s ideal ever strives to re- 
turn. The terms in which the doctrine is expounded 
are often confused and indistinct, but the essential prin- 
ciple of beauty, which is not in things, but in the mind, 
is the intuitive perception of the concord between the 
ideal perfection suggested and the order of the universe 
observed. The principle of the sublime is the intuition 
of the discrepance between the finite powers of man and 
the infinite towards which he aspires, producing pain 
from the sense of limitation, but exaltation from yearn- 
ing towards the limitless, beyond sense and conception, 
which is felt to be his natural home, his ultimate desti- 
nation. In the discussion of teleology proper Kant en- 
deavors to restore some efficacy to that reasoning from 
final causes which in earlier treatises he had repudiated. 
This part of the subject is inadequately unfolded, but it 
presents many vast and suggestive views, and in some 
sort prepares the way for the last of Kant’s treatises 
which can be specially noticed here. 

(4) Religion within the Limits of Pure Reason. — This 
is Kant’s theology, and is the most unsatisfactory of all 
his efforts. It was an attempt to reconstruct the foun- 
dations of religious belief, which had been sapped and 
in great measure overthrown by his critical investiga- 
tions. It was the work of his old age, and at all periods 
of his life he seems to have been at least as deficient in 
religions sentiment as in emotional imagination, which 
is closely allied to it. The work provoked much oppo- 
sition at the time of its appearance, and caused the only 
serious annoyance of his life. It scandalized many re- 
ligious minds, it was dangerously consonant with the 
revolutionary infidelity of France, and it presented the 
point of departure for the German rationalism of the 
19th century. It treats the revelations of Scripture in 
regard to the fall of man, to his redemption, and to his 
restoration as a moral allegory, the data for which are 
supplied by the consciousness of depravity, and of dere- 
liction from the strict principles of duty. It is Strauss 
in the germ. It is utterly inconsistent with any scheme 
of religion, and serves to show Kant’s profound sense cf 
the insufficiency of his own doctrine for the solution of 
the highest enigmas of humanity. The 7 roe ano — the 
solid locus standi was wanting to his elaborate system. 
The philosophy was wholly critical in its procedure, and 
negative in its results. It weakened or undermined 
those intuitive convictions — inexplicable, but irrefraga- 
ble — which enable man **to walk by faith, and not by 
sight.” 

This notice is too brief to allow the exhibition of the 
incongruities or fallacies of the transcendental system, 
or the suggestion of rectifications, as it has been too brief 
for any detailed account of the several parts of his com- 
plex and elaborate scheme. That scheme is a wonder- 


KANTOPLATONISM 


17 


KARAITES 


ful monument of patient industry, acute discernment, 
perspicacious analysis, and of bold and honest thought. 
It was soon felt to be unsatisfactory, and it engendered 
new swarms of speculative heresies; but its inliuenees 
must be sought in Rosenkranz’s history of Kant’s doc- 
trine, and in other treatises on the history of German 
speculation. 

Literature. — The bibliography of Kant’s philosophy 
would make the catalogue of an extensive library, and 
would include nearly everything in the highest branch- 
es of metaphysics which has appeared since the publi- 
cation of the Critique of Pure Reason. In all the gen- 
eral histories of modern speculation, tnueh space is of 
course conceded to this subject. The following treatises 
may be examined with advantage. Kant, 1 Verke, of 
course. The best editions are that of llartenstein (Leip- 
zig, 1838-9, 10 vols.), and that of Rozenkranz and Schu- 
bert (Leipzig, 1840-42, 11 vols.), including a full biogra- 
phy*of the philosopher by Schubert, and an elaborate 
appreciation of the relations and inliuenees of the phi- 
losophy by Rosenkranz. It gives also a chronological 
catalogue of Kant’s multifarious writings. Recent trans- 
lations into English are those of his Critik of Pure Rea- 
son , by Hayward (LoncL 1848, 8vo), and by Meiklejohn 
(Lond. 1850, 8vo) ; of his Metaphysics of Ethics , by Sem- 
ple (Lond. 1850, 8vo) ; of his Theory of Religion, by the 
same (Lond. 1858, 8vo). There are biographies by Bo- 
rowsky (1804 : this was revised by Kant); by AVasian- 
sky, his private secretary, giving an account of his last 
years (1804); by Jachmann (1804); by Ilasse (1804); 
and the ablest by Kunotisehen of Jena (1800). For the 
appreciation of the doctrine the following works may 
be consulted: Nitzseh, General and Introductory View 
(Lond. 1790) ; Schmidt-Phiseldek, Expositio Philosoph . 
Crit. (I-Iafn. 1790); Mellin, Eneyclop. Diet, of the Kan- 
tian Philosophy (1797,6 vols.); Willieh, Elements of the 
Critical Philosophy (London, 1798); Tillers, Philosophic 
de Kant (Metz, 1801) ; Degerando, Hist. Co?np. de Phi- 
losophic (Paris, 1804) ; Wirgman, Principles of the Kan- 
tesian Philosophy (London, 1824 — a recomposition of an 
able article contributed to the Encyclopedia Londinen- 
sis in 1812) ; Cousin, Lemons sur la Philosophic de Kant 
(Paris, 1842 ; translated by A. G. Henderson, Lond. 1871, 
8vo) ; Murdoch, Sketches of Modern Philosophy (1842); 
Barehou de Penlioen, Hist, de la Phil. Allemande depuis 
Leibnitz jusqu'a Hegel (Paris, 1837, 2 vols.) ; Erdmann, 
Gesch.der neueren Philosophic ; Michelet, Geschichte des 
letzten Systems ; Willm, Histoire de la Philosophie Alle- 
mande (Paris, 1847, 4 vols.) ; Morell, Philosophy of the 
19 th Century (1848) ; Chalybajus, Histor. Entvnekelung d. 
spekulatiren Philosophie von Kant bis Hegel (4th edit. 
Leipz. 1848) ; E. Remliold, Gesch.d. Philos. (4th eel. Jena, 
1854), vol. iii ; Lewes, History Philos. (3d ed. 1871 , 2 vols. 
8vo), vol. ii ; llurst’s Ilagenbaeh, Church Hist. 1 8th and 
19 th Cent. (X. York, 1870, 2 vols. 8vo), leet. iv, sq. ; Far- 
rar, Crit. Hist, of Free Thought. Very instructive no- 
tices of Kant and his philosophy are contained in the 
North British Review, vol. x, the Encyclopedia Britan - 
niea , and in Appleton’s A merican Cyclopedia. The crit- 
icisms of Pugald Stewart in the Supjrle merit to the Ency- 
Clop. Britannica are wholly unsatisfactory. (G. F. II.) 

Kantoplatonism, the Freneh term for a new 
mode of philosophizing which inclines to Idealism (q. 
v.). The Kantoplatonists are considered an offspring 
of the Platonic and Kantian schools of philosophy. The 
representative of Kantoplatonism is Cousin (q. v.). 

Kanute. See Denmark. 

Kaphar. See Kepiiar. 

Kapharnaites. See Lord’s Supper; Transub- 

STANTIATION. 

Kapila, the reputed author of the Sankhya (q. v.), 
one of the philosophical systems of the Hindus. As to 
the origin of Kapila, Hindu tradition is rather vague. 
Among his followers he is by some described as a son 
of Brahma, and by others, especially his later followers, 
as an incarnation of Vishnu. He is also recounted to 
V.— B 


have been bom as the son of Devahuti, and, again, is 
identified with one of the agnis or fires. Finally, it is 
said that there existed, in fact, two Kapilas — the first 
an embodiment of Vishnu ; the other, the igneous prin- 
ciple in human disguise. The probability is that Ka- 
pila was simply, like the great majority of bis educated 
countrymen, a Brahman. Spenee Hardy ( Manual of 
Buddhism , p. 132) quotes a legend by which it may be 
shown that the Hindus regarded Buddha as a later ex- 
istence of our Kapila, and that therefore Buddhism is the 
Sankhya philosophy modified; but professor Max M filler 
rejects this theory, and says that he has looked in vain 
for any similarities between the system of Kapila, as 
known to us in the Sankhya-sutras, and the Abhidhar- 
ma, or the metaphysics of the Buddhists. lie adds, 
however, that if any similarity of the two systems 
could be established, such proofs would be very valua- 
ble. “ They would probably enable us to decide whether 
Buddha borrowed from Kapila, or Kapila from Buddha, 
and thus determine the real chronology of the philo- 
sophical literature of India, as either prior or subse- 
quent to the Buddhist jera.” See Professor J. E. Hall, 
Bibliotheca Indiea, Sunkhyapr. p. 14 sq. ; Ballantyne, 
Lecture on the Sankhya Philosophy [Mirzapore, 1850] ; 
Hardwick, Christ and other Masters, i, 208 sq. ; Max 
Muller, Chips from a German Workshop, i, 223 sq. See 
also Sankiiya. 

Kapitorists, a sect of the Russian Church. See 
Russian Church. 

Karaites (Heb. Karaim, i. e. Readers) is 

the name of one of the oldest and most remarkable sects 
of the Jewish synagogue, whose distinguishing tenet is 
strict adherence to the letter of the written law (i. e. sa- 
cred writings of the O. T.), and utter disregard of the 
authority of the oral law or tradition (q.v.). 

Origin, — Up to our own day it has been impossible to 
determine the age in which the Karaites originated; 
certain it is that they existed before the 8th century, to 
which their origin was formerly assigned. The Kara- 
ites themselves claim to be the remains of the ten tribes 
led captive by Shalmaneser. The Rabbins (e. g. Aben- 
Ezra, Maimonides, ete.) unjustly assert that this sect is 
identical with the Saddncees (comp. Rule, Karaites , p. 
viii), and that they were originated by Alman (about 
A.D. 640), because the latter was ignored in the election 
of a new Resh-Gelutha (q.v.); but the investigations of 
our day lead us to believe that the Karaites must have 
originated immediately after the return of the Jews from 
Babylonian captivity, although they did not organize 
into a distinct sect until after the collection of oral tra- 
dition, and that for this, and no other reason, we find no 
mention of them as such in the New-Test, writings,, 
nor in those of Josephus and Philo. Upon the comple- 
tion of the Talmud it is well known that a great agita- 
tion prevailed in the Jewish community, especially in 
the western synagogues, and particularly at Constanti- 
nople, where, on the ides of February, A.D. 529, Justin- 
ian was obliged to interfere, and actually prohibited the* 
reading of the Mislnia in the synagogue. In the con- 
version of the Khazars (q. v.) to Judaism, the Karaites,, 
as we learn from the Sepher Cliozri [see Judah 1 1 a- 
Lkvi], already appear as a distinct sect. From inscrip- 
tions collected and examined by Abraham Firkovitch, 
the celebrated Russian Jew, within the last twenty years, 
there are indications that in the Crimea at least Kara- 
ites may have flourished as early as the first half of the 
4th century (compare Rule, p. 83 ; N. V. Nation, June 7, 
1800). The external unity, however, of the Jewish 
Church was not broken apparently until the time of 
Alman ben-David. It is true, even in the days of 
Christ, the internal peace of the Jewish fold was much 
disturbed ; synagogues differed greatly from each other,, 
but ostensibly these differences were provoked only by 
ignorance of the Hebrew, and the introduction of Greek 
and other foreign idioms; on doctrines and discipline 
there seemed to reign universal harmony. Not so after 


KARAITES 


18 


KARAITES 


the publication of the Talmud. There were many who 
inclined to pay strict deference only to the inspired 
writings of the 0. T. ; and when, in the middle of the 
8th century, a Luther in the form of Ahnan ben-David 
arose in the Jewish midst and declared his opposition 
to the Rabbinites, a party was formed in his favor at Je- 
rusalem itself, which soon extended throughout Pales- 
tine, and even far away through all the East, as well as 
towards the West. The personal history of this great 
Jewish reformer is rather obscured by the fables of 
Arabs, and the calumnies of some liabbinites ; and it re- 
mains to be settled whether, as the Karaites assert, he 
was bora at Beth-tsur, near Jerusalem (and of the lineage 
of king David), or in Beth-tsur (Bazra) on the Tigris, 
and consequently imbibed his reformatory notions from 
the Arabian or Persian dissenters from Mohammedanism 
known as Mutazilites (q. v.). Certain it is, however, 
that at the time of the election of a new Resh-Gclutha 
Ahnan must have enjoyed some distinction, or he could 
never have presented claims for the office of “leader 
in Israel.” In the year 701 we find him at Jerusalem 
in a synagogue of his own, expounding the new doc- 
trine, and, after kindling great enthusiasm among a host 
of disciples who had quickly gathered about him, send- 
ing forth from this centre of Judaism “letters of admo- 
nition, instruction, and encouragement to distant con- 
gregations, with zealous preachers who proclaimed ev- 
erywhere the supreme authority of the Law, and the 
worthlessness of all that, in the Talmud or any other 
writings, was contrary to the law of Moses” (comp. Pin- 
sker, Likate Kadmonioth , or Zur Geschichte u. Liter, des 
Karaismus, Append, p. 33 and 90). Ahnan died in 7G5, 
yet within that astonishingly brief period the Karaites 
had spread over Palestine, Egypt, Greece, Barbarv, Spain, 
♦Syria, Tartarv, Byzantium, Fez, Morocco, and even to 
the ranges of the Atlas, and by all the Karaites in these 
distant lands his death was mourned as the loss cf a 
second Moses. Under Rabbi Salomon ben-Jernkhim 
(born in 885) they prospered greatly in the 9th century, 
and even up to the 14th they seem to have increased, 
but thereafter their condition becomes obscure, and light 
first again breaks upon the Karaites’ history with the 
opening of the present century (see below). 

The reason why so little is yet known about the Ka- 
raites is that their writings are not generally accessible. 
Towards the close of the 17th century Protestant theo- 
logians interested themselves in their behalf, and in 1G90 
Peringer (then professor of Hebrew at the university at 
Upsala) was sent to Poland by the king of Sweden to 
make inquiries into their history. In 1G98 Jacob Trig- 
land (professor at Leyden) went thither for the same 
purpose, and the results of his investigations, which re- 
main of great value to this day, were published in the 
Thesaurus of Sacred Oriental A ntiquities, . Trigland says 
that he had learned enough to speak of them with as- 
surance. lie asserts that, soon after the prophets had 
ceased, the Jews became divided on the subject of works 
and supererogation, some maintaining their necessity 
from tradition, whilst others, keeping close to the writ- 
ten law, set them aside, and that thus Karaism com- 
menced. He adds that, after the return from the Baby- 
lonian captivity, on the re-establishment of the observ- 
ance of the law there were several practices found prop- 
er for that end, and these, being once introduced, were 
looked upon as essential, and as appointed by Moses. 
This was the origin of Pharisaism, while a contrary par- 
ty, who continued to adhere to the letter, founded Ka- 
raism. Wolfius, the great Hebrew bibliographer, depend- 
ing on the Memoirs of Mardacliai ben-Nissan, a learn- 
ed Karaite (published by Wolf under the title of Xoti- 
tia Karaonnn, Hamburg and Leipzig, 1714, 4to), refers 
their origin to a massacre among the Jewish doctors 
under Alexander Jan incus, their king, about a hundred 
years before Christ, because Simon, son of Shetach/and 
the queen's brother, making his escape into Egypt, there 
forged his pretended traditions, and, on his return to Je- 
rusalem, published his visions, interpolating the law af- 


ter his own fancy, and supporting his novelties from the 
notices which God, he said, had communicated by the 
mouth of Moses, whose depositary he was. lie gained 
many followers, and was opposed by others, who main- 
tained that all which God had revealed to Moses was 
written. Hence the Jews became divided into two 
sects, the Karaites and Traditionists. Among the first, 
Juda, son of Tabbai, distinguished himself; among the 
latter, Ilillel (q. v.). In later history he agrees with 
what has been said above. It remains only to be stated 
that Wolfius reckons not only the Sadducees, but also the 
Scribes, in the number of Karaites. But such a class- 
ification is wholly inconsistent with our present knowl- 
edge of the Sadducees and the Scribes. Karaism cannot 
be regarded as in any sense a product of Sadduceeism ; 
the two are the opposites both in principle and tendency, 
or, as Rule has it, “ Sadduceeism and Karaism are just as 
contrary the one to the other as unbelief and faith.” 

Doctrines and Usages. — Although the Karaites are 
decidedly opposed to assigning any authority to tradi- 
tion, they by no means reject altogether the use of the 
Talmud, etc. Quite to the contrary, they gladly accept 
any light that they can get in their investigation of the 

O.-T. Scriptures, but it is only as exegetical aids that 
the} r are ready to accept Jewish traditionary writings. 
Selden, who is very express on this point, observes, in 
his Uxor llebraica , that besides the mere text, they 
have also certain interpretations which they call hered- 
itary, and which they consider proper traditions. Their 
theology seems to differ only from that of the Kabbin- 
ites in being purer and free from superstition, as they 
give no credit to the explications of the Cabalists, chi- 
merical allegories, nor to any constitutions of the Tal- 
mud. In short, they accept only what is conformable 
to Scripture, and may be drawn from it by just and 
necessary consequences. The Karaites, in distinction 
from the Rabbinites, have their own Confession of Faith, 
which consists of ten articles. They are (as translated 
by Rule, p. 128) as follows: 

1. That all this- bodily (or material) existence, that is to 
say, the spheres and all that is in them, is created. 

2. That they have a Creator, and the Creator has his 
own soul (or spirit). 

3. That he has no similitude, and he is one, separate 
from all. 

4. That he sent Moses, our master (upon whom be 
peace !;. 

5. That he sent with Moses, our master, his law, which 
is perfect ; 

0. For the instruction of the faithful, the language of our 
law, and the interpretation, that is to say, the reading 
(or text), and the division (or vowel pointing). 

7. That the blessed God scut forth ihe other prophets. 

S. That God (blessed be his name !) will raise the sous 
of men to life in the day of judgment. 

I*. That the blessed God giveih to man according to his 
ways, and according to the fruit of his doings. 

To. That the blessed God has not reprobated the men 
of the captivity, but they are under the chastisements of 
God, and it is every day rierht that they should obtain his 
salvation by the hands of Messiah, the Son of David. 

A comparison of this confession with the thirteen ar- 
ticles of the Rabbinites [see Judaism] makes it evident 
that the Karaitic confession was framed later than that 
of the Rabbinites, with intent to put in bold relief the 
peculiar doctrines of Karaism. Prayer, fasting, and pil- 
grimages to Ilebron (evidently inspired by the Moham- 
medan pilgrimage to Mecca) are points of religions prac- 
tice to which they pay particular attention. They are 
eminently moralists (revering greatly Leviticus xix and 
xx), very conscientious in their dealings with their fel- 
low-men, temperate and simple in food and dress, al- 
though far from being ascetics. In distinction from 
the Rabbinites, they make the heads of their phylacter- 
ies round instead of square, and their prohibition of 
marriage among persons of affinity extends to degrets 
almost of infinity. Instead of facing their synagogues 
towards the east, as do the Rabbinites, they face them 
north and south, arguing that Shalmaneser brought them 
northward, so that in praying they must turn to the 
south in order to face Jerusalem. 


KAEEAH 


19 


KAREXS 


K amber and Present Condition. — The number of the J 
present adherents to Karaism has been variously esti- 
mated; nothing, however, can be definitely or even ap- 
proximately given until more shall be known of the 
Jews of Asia. They are strongest, according to modern 
accounts, in the Crimea, where there are over 4000 of 
them ; but, with Thile (p. 112), we believe that there are 
many Jews, ostensibly adherents of the Kabbinites, who 
are truly believers in Karaism; certainly the Reformed 
schools of Judaism are nothing else than Rationalistic 
Karaites. 

Under the Russian and Austrian governments the 
Karaites enjoy greater privileges than the Kabbinites; 
in many respects they are on an equality with the adhe- 
rents to the state religion of these respective countries. 
Fortunately for the Kabbinites, however, it is not any 
want of morality in them, but the excesses of the Chas- 
idim (q. v.) who belong to their number, that has de- 
prived them of the favors which are so freely bestowed 
on the Karaites. Strangely enough, the Karaites con- 
tend that the Messiah will issue from their tribe, and 
that their princes were once the sovereigns of Egypt. 

Literature. — The Karaites have, ever since the days 
of Ahnan, produced writers of great excellence and dis- 
tinction. Unfortunately, we have thus far succeeded in 
wresting from oblivion, comparatively speaking, only a 
few works, but these evince that Karaism has not failed 
to be active in urging its adherents to literary activity. 
They have produced an extensive special Hebrew liter- 
ature of their own, chiefly consisting of works on the- 
ology, philosophy, mathematics, astronomy, etc. The 
greatest number of these are deposited in the Imperial 
Library at St. Petersburg. So long as they lived prin- j 
cipally under Mohammedan rule they wrote in Arabic , 
but when they unfolded a literary activity in the Cri- 
mea and among the Tartars they originated a language 
peculiar to themselves — a mixture of Tartar and Turk- 
ish. Some of their principal later authors are little 
known to us, e. g. Joseph b.-Noah, Jeshua, Jehudah Ha- 
dassi, Aron b.- Joseph, Aron b.-Eliah, the celebrated op- 
ponent of Moses Maimonides; Eliah Beshitzi, Kaleb, 
Moses Beshizi, Mardochai b.-Xissan, Salomo b.-Abram 
Traki, Simcha b.-Isaac b.-Moses, etc. 

Se? Flirst, Gesch. d. Karuerthnms (Leipz. 18G9, 5 vols. 
8vo) ; Peer, Geseh. d.jihlisch. Sekten , vol. i (Leipz. 1822, 
8vo); Jost, Gesch. d.Judenthums , vol. ii (see Index in vol. 
iii); Griitz, Gesch. (l.Juden, ii. 407 sq., and later volumes; 
and the compendium of Rule, History of the Karaite 
Jeics (Lond. 1870, 8vo). (J. II. W.) 

Kare'ah (Heb. Karc'dch, FHjT, bald; Sept. Kdp?/g 
v. r. Krrois or Kopfi ; in 2 Kings xxv, 23, Kapri v. r. 
K«p//3', Auth.Tcrs. “ Careah”), the father of Jolianan 
and Jonathan, who attached themselves for a time to 
the loyal party under Gedaliah, the Babylonian gover- 
nor of Jerusalem (Jer. xl, 8, 13, 15, 1G; xli, 11, 13, 14, 
1G; xlii, 1,8; xliii, 2, 4, 5). 13. C. ante 588. 

Karena (also Carena , Quarena , Carentana) is the 
name of an ecclesiastical fast formerly observed in the 
Homan Catholic Church, forty days in length, and was 
generally imposed by bishops or monastic authorities for 
various venial sins. The Karenist was confined to bread 
and water, and deprived of all other temporal conven- 
iences and enjoyments, as well as all association with the 
world. See Aschbach, Kirchen-Lex. iii, G89. 

Karens, the name of a people of India, occupying 
various portions of Burmah between 28° and 10° N. lati- 
tude, and 99° and 93° E. longitude. The name Karen is 
of Burmese origin, and designates a class of the Mon- 
golian family of tribes who call themselves Pgah Ken- 
zaa, a term meaning man. They first became known 
to Europeans in A.D. 1824-7. They appear to be iden- 
tical with the Kakhyens , which Kincaid thinks to be 
only another name for Karen. He says that all these 
tribes, through the whole extent of the Shan country, 
and farther north, are called Kakhyens. They are found 
from the Martaban Gulf inward as far as the Barman 


population has ever extended. They are numerous 
about Rangoon and Ava, and are known to extend at 
least two hundred and fifty miles east of Ava. These 
tribes are supposed to number about five millions. 

Origin. — There is much doubt as to their origin. 
There are amongst them many distinct traditions which 
would point to a Thibetan, source. Mason (in his Ten- 
nasserim) says that they regard themselves as wander- 
ers from the north, and as having crossed “ a river of 
running sand,” by which name he says Fa Ilian, the 
Chinese pilgrim who visited India about the 5th cen- 
tury, constantly speaks of the great desert to the north 
of Burmah, and between China and Thibet. Bruce says 
that they are of Turanian stock, and allied with the Ta- 
rn Lilians of India and the inhabitants of Thibet (p. 145, 
147). A portion of northern Burmah and Yunnan has 
been suggested as the probable original seat of the Ka- 
ren race. Many authorities consider them as the abo- 
rigines of much of Burmah. Amongst the reasons as- 
signed for this view arc Jhc following; (1) They re- 
ceived from the Burmese their name of Karen , which 
means first or aboriginal. (2) Their habits arc much 
more primitive than those of the Burmese, and they dis- 
like their subjugation to the latter. (3) They have tra- 
ditions distinctly fixing their early location on the east- 
ern side of a body of water which they call Kaw or Kho, 
which is so ancient a term that they have lost the mean- 
ing of it altogether, but the tradition itself shows that 
this was the Bay of Bengal. (4) The Moans or Ta- 
laings, a people who are older residents than the Bur- 
mese in Farther India, say the Karens were in the coun- 
try when they first entered it, and were known as Be- 
loos or wild men by their forefathers (Journ. American 
Oriental Society , vol. iv). 

Description. — The Karens of the north are more ad- 
vanced in the arts and in the habits of civilization than 
those of the southern district. They reckon themselves 
not by villages nor by cities, but by families, having a 
patriarchal form of society, single families, occupants of 
one house, often numbering from three to four hundred 
members. Their houses are immense structures, made 
of posts, with joists at a height of seven or eight feet 
from the ground, the sides being lined with mats, the 
roof being of palm-leaves, and the partitions of bamboo 
matting. 

It is the southern section of these tribes, however, 
which is best known, especially those designated as 
Sgau and Pgho Karens. The latter are called by the 
Burmese Talaing Karens , and arc a vigorous people, ro- 
bust, full-chested, with large limbs, square cheek-bones, 
thick and flattened nose, but not specially prominent 
lips. The Sgau, or pure Karens, are smaller, with a com- 
plexion lighter than others surrounding them, and with 
a general languor about their movements. Mr. Judson 
in 1833 wrote of them as “ a meek, peaceful race, sim- 
ple and credulous, with many of the softer virtues and 
few flagrant vices, greatly addicted to drunkenness, ex- 
tremely filthy, indolent in their habits, their morals in 
other respects being superior to many more civilized 
races, though he. was told that they were as untamable 
as the wild cow of the mountains” (Wavland, Judson, i, 
542 sq,). 

Religious Traditions. — They have amongst them a 
great number of religious traditions which bear a mark- 
ed analog}" to Biblical history. The tradition respect- 
ing the creation specifies that man was created from the 
earth, and woman from one of mail’s ribs. The Creator 
said, “ I lose these, my son and daughter. I will bestow 
my life upon them,” and he then breathed a particle of 
his life into their nostrils, “and they came to life and 
were men.” God made food and drink ; rice, fire, and 
water; cattle, elephants, and birds. Traditions concern- 
ing man’s primitive state and first transgression, very 
similar to the Bible narrative, are also preserved amongst 
them. Nauk'plau , who answers to the serpent of Gen- 
esis, is variously impersonated as sometimes male and 
sometimes female : man is located in a garden, with sev- 


KARENS 


20 


KARENS 


on different kinds of fruits of which lie should eat. with 
one exception. Nauk’plau meets him and tells him the 
character of all the fruits, and assures him that the for- 
bidden one is the most delicious of all. lie prevails on 
the woman iirst to taste this fruit. She gives it to her 
husband, etc. On the morrow Ywah (on this name, see 
below, under Religious T lews) comes, etc. The very de- 
tail of the narrative is preserved to a marvellous de- 
gree. 

Other traditions point to a flood, in which the waters 
“rose and rose till they reached to heaven.” Others 
refer to an early separation of the human family. “ Men 
had at first one father and mother; but, because they did 
not love each other, they separated, after which they did 
not know each other's language, and became enemies 
and fought.” Still another says that when they were 
scattered, a younger brother, or the “ White Westerner,” 
came, begging the Karens to return to the place where 
they left God ; which tradition is said to have had much 
to do with the early success of the missionaries amongst 
these people, as the Karens applied these traditions to 
them. 

Religious Views. — They have remarkably clear views 
of God, whom they believe to be “immutable, eternal; 
that he was from the beginning of the world. The 
life of God is endless ; generations cannot measure his 
existence. God is complete and good, and through end- 
less generations will never die. God is omnipotent, but 
we have not believed him. God created man anciently, 
lie has a knowledge of all tilings to the present time. 
He created spirit and life.” This God is known as 
Ywah, “which approaches the word Jehovah as nearly 
as possible in the Karen language.” lie was not, how- 
ever, worshipped when the missionaries first went to the 
Karens. A great power for evil (Satan) since the fall has 
rendered relief to man by introducing charms against 
sickness, death, and other misfortunes, and this person- 
age, though without image, is widely worshipped. Thus 
originated their d ami on worship. They appear to be- 
lieve in the immortality of the soul, though it is doubt- 
ful if this obtains universally amongst them. Mr. Cross 
doubts if they have any proper idea of the resurrection 
of the dead. Transmigration is not accepted amongst 
them, and many think the soul “flies off in the air.” 
They are thus distinguished from the Buddhists, though 
long resident with them in Bnrmah. 

Spirit Worship. — Besides the Ywah and the dromons 
above alluded to, they believe in many other spiritual 
beings known as Kelalt , or, speaking more definitely, 
every object lias a kelah, whether men, trees, or plants, 
and even inanimate objects, such as axes and knives. 
The grain growing has its kelah, and when it does not 
flourish it is because the kelah is leaving it, and it must 
be called back by invocation. The human kelah is not 
the soul, nor is the responsibility of human actions lodged 
in it, nor any moral character attached to it. All this 
is attributed to the Thah. The kelah is the author of 
dreams; it is that nature which pertains to life, the sen- 
tient soul, the animal spirits. It can leave the body at 
will. When it is absent disease ensues; when yet lon- 
ger away, death results. Kelah seems to signify life , 
or existence in the abstract, or of the individual. It is 
more apt to forsake feeble persons and children. The 
kelah of one person may accompany that of another in 
going away, hence children are kept away from a corpse, 
and the house where a person dies is abandoned. Great 
(fforts are made to induce a departed kelah to return. 
Tempting food is placed on the public wayside or in 
the forest, and various ceremonies and rituals are gone 
through, which sometimes are thought to be successful 
in securing the return of the kelah. One might almost 
wonder that its return should Ijc considered desirable 
when we are further told that the kelah has seven sep- 
arate existences in one, wliieh endeavor to superinduce 
madness, recklessness, shamelessness, drinking propensi- 
ties, anger, cruelty, violence, murder, and are constantly 
bent on evil. But along with the kelah we learn of 


Tso, which means power, and seems to be a personifica- 
tion of reason. If the tso becomes heedless or weak, or 
is unfortunately circumstanced, then the kelah can do 
mischief, but otherwise it is powerless for evil. 

There are other spiritual beings, sueli as Kephoo , a 
species of vampire, which is the stomach of a wizard, 
and in the form of the head and entrails of a human be- 
ing goes out at night to seek food. It destroys human 
kelahs. The rets are spirits of those who have died by 
violence, as by tigers or other wild beasts, by famine, or 
sword, or starvation. These can neither go to the up- 
per region (Mfikhah), nor to that of the Flu, where men 
are punished, but must remain on earth, causing mortal 
sickness. Offerings and supplications are made to them. 
Tahmns or Tah-kas are spectres of those who have been 
dreadfully wicked in this life. They appear as appari- 
tions only, in form of horses, elephants, dogs, crocodiles, 
serpents, vultures, ducks, or colossal men. Sekhahs are 
spirits of persons left unburied, and of infants or aged 
persons who have become infirm because the tso has 
left them. Pluplio are inhabitants of the infernal re- 
gion, and are spirits of all who go naturally to their 
proper place, and renew their earthly employments, 
building houses, cutting riee, etc. The location is un- 
declared, but is above the earth, or below it, or beyond 
the horizon. It is presided over by king Coot ay or Thee- 
do. At his call the kelahs must go. and men die. Un- 
der his dominion they serve, as in an intermediate state, 
a probation, and if good go to heaven, if bad to hell or 
Lerah, which has two gradations of punishment, one be- 
ing more severe than the other. Tah-nahs or Nahs are 
the spirits of two sorts of fiends which take the form 
of any animals they please, and prey upon men. The 
Lord of men created them as a punishment in conse- 
quence of a disobedience on the part of men to one of 
his commands. They have a king who was the great 
tempter of man in the garden. Mukhalis are the an- 
cestors of the Karens who inhabit the upper region, and 
are the creators of the present generation. Sometimes 
they work imperfectly, and, as a consequence, ill-favored 
and imperfect persons are found. They preside over 
births and marriages, mingling together the blood of 
two persons. They are worshipped with offerings. The 
Keleepho create the winds; the Tali Yoornu cause eclips- 
es; the Cooda and Lauphoo preside over the wet and 
dry seasons. 

Priesthood. — There are amongst the Karens a class of 
people who serve as prophets, and assume conditions of 
mind and body much like those affected by the “ medi- 
cine-men” amongst North American Indians. What 
with writhing of the body, rolling on the ground, foam- 
ing at the mouth, etc., they are presumed to attain a state 
of clairvoyance favorable to the prediction of coming 
events. The prophecies uttered by these which are re- 
tained in tradition mostly pertain to the deliverance of 
the Karens from the oppression of the Burmese. These 
prophets are of two classes. The wees compose ballads 
and other poetry, and have great power in calling back 
departed kelahs. The other class are known as hook- 
hos , and are rather priests than prophets, taking the lead 
in the religious ceremonies of the people, instructing 
them in their religious obligations, and are a more re- 
spectable class, being heads of commiuiitics, though not 
hereditary chiefs. 

Missions. — Missionary work was commenced amongst 
these tribes about 1828, by Messrs. Boardman and dud- 
son, who were succeeded hv Messrs. Wade, Mason, and 
Kincaid. Twenty-five years after that the Karen apostle 
Ko-thau-Bu, a native convert, met with wonderful suc- 
cess amongst these people. Associated prominently with 
this great movement was Bev. 31 r. Vinton, who “in six 
years planted forty churches, opened forty-two houses 
of worship and thirty-two school-houses, and saw be- 
tween eight and nine thousand Karens raised to the lev- 
el of Christian worshippers. In 1852 alone he received 
five hundred Karens into the Church. In 18G8 the Bap- 
tist Mission report showed that they had amongst this 


21 


KARMATHIANS 


KARE-PATREPAXDAROInT 


people sixty-six native ordained pastors and evangel- 
ists; three hundred and forty-six native preachers un- 
ordained; three hundred and sixty native churches; 
nineteen thousand two hundred and thirty-one church- 
members, and nearly sixty thousand natives” of all ages 
known as Christians. A writer in the Madras Observ- 
er (India) stated that, in Oct. 1868, a gentleman, not in 
sympathy with the Baptists, but a great traveller, per- 
forming his journeys on foot through Burmah while 
amongst these Karen districts, said that on one occasion 
“he found himself for seventeen successive nights, at 
the end of his days’ journeys through the forest, in a na- 
tive Christian village. 

Literature. — Journal of the American Oriental Socie- 
ty , vol. iv; Wayland, Life of Judson ; Brace, Races of 
the Old World; Whitney, Language and the Study of 
Language ; Latham, Elements of Comparative Philology; 
Anderson, Foreign Missions (N. Y. I860); Mullen, Ten 
Years of Missionary Work in India ; Airs. Mason, Civil- 
izing Mountain Men , or Sketches of Mission Work among 
the Karens (1862) ; Mrs. Wylie, Gospel in Burmah. For 
a full history of the mission work amongst the Karens, 
see Mason, Gospel in Burmah ; Report of A merican Bap- 
tist Mission Union for 1868. A comparative vocabulary 
of the Sgau aiulPwo dialects of the Karen language, by 
the Bev. Dr. Nathan Brown, Baptist missionary, now of 
New York City, may be found in the Jour, of the Amer- 
ican Oriental Society, vol. iv. See also the article Bur- 
eau (II. Missions). (J. T. G.) 

Kare-Patrepandaron, the name of a class of 
Hindu ascetics, beggars of the Brahminic order, who have 
vowed eternal silence. Wholly naked, with only a sacred 
string, generally a snake’s skin, over their shoulders, 
they make their home under large shade-trees. When 
they enter a house they manifest their presence by the 
clapping of their hands, and generally share with the 
inmates the best of tlieir dainties, for a Brahmin consid- 
ers himself highly honored by such a visit. — Yollmer, 
Worterb. d. Mythol. p. 1020. 

Karg, Georg (the “ Parsimonious ”), a German theo- 
logian, was born at Ileroldingen in 1512. In 1538 he was 
ordained for the ministry by Melanethon, and became 
pastor first at Oettingen, later at Sehwabach ; and finally, 
in 1553, settled at Anspach, and became general superin- 
tendent of the churches of the duchy of Baireuth. He 
died in 1576. Karg acquired great notoriety during the 
difficulties concerning the Formula Concordice by main- 
taining that it was only by passive obedience that Christ 
made atonement for us : for active obedience (obedien- 
tia activa) he was bound to give as man; the law binds 
ns either to obedience or to punishment, but not to both 
together. Christ, while suffering the punishment for 
us, rendered obedience on his own account. What he 
has paid remains no longer for us to pay (i. e. the pun- 
ishment) ; obedience, however, w.e .are bound to render, 
as he rendered his, in order to be a pure and perfect of- 
fering unto God. See Imputation. He defended these 
opinions in 1563, but, as they provoked a great contro- 
versj", he finally retracted them in 1570. The same 
opinions were afterwards maintained by John Piscator, 
professor at Herborn, and by John Camero of Saumur. 
See Walch, Streitigkeiten innerh. d. luth. Kirche , xiv, 360 ; 
Schroekh, Kircliengeseh . seit d. Reformation , v, 358 ; Dol- 
linger, D. Reformation , iii, 564 ; Schweizer, Centraldog- 
men , ii, 16, 17 ; Herzog, Real- Ency Mop. vii, 379. 

Karigites, or Separatists, is the name of a Mo- 
hammedan sect who oppose all government, both eccle- 
siastical and spiritual. They hold that the person who 
is to preside in spiritual affairs should be a man of su- 
pernatural birth and altogether of a spiritual character. 
See Mohammedans; corap. Karmathians. 

Karim. See Carem. 

Kar'kaa, or, rather, Kar'ka (Hebrew Karka 
a floor, as in Numb, v, 17, etc.; with art. and !"l 
directive in pause, hak-Karka'a; Sept. ’Ak> 


Kapicd v. r. rgv Kara dvopae; K ddrfQ ; Vulg. Carcaa v. 
r. Cariatlui), a place situated at a bend in the southern 
boundary of Judah (i. e. Simeon or Palestine), between 
Adar and Azmon (Josh, xv, 3); probably about mid- 
way between the Dead Sea and the Mediterranean, per- 
I haps near the well marked as Bir Abu-Atreibe on Zitn- 
mermann’s map. See Tribe. 

Karkaphensian Version. See Syriac Ver- 
sions. 

Karkom. See Saffron. 

Kar'kor (lleb. Karkor', “i foundation ; Sept. 
Kapicdp v. r. Kapicti, Vulg. requiescebant), a place be- 
yond Jordan whither the Midianitish princes Zeba and 
Zalmunna had retired with their remaining army after 
the first rout by Gideon, who pursued and routed them 
again in its vicinity (Judg. viii, 10). From the context 
it appears to have been situated not far beyond Succoth 
and Penuel, towards the south, in a naturally secure spot 
cast of Nobah and Jogbeliah; indications that point to 
a locality among the southern openings of Jebel Zurka, 
north-east of llabbath Ammon. Schwarz supposes {Pa- 
lest. p. 223) that el-Kerah is meant, a place a few miles 
south-east of Draa or Edrei, in the llauran ; but this is 
too far distant north-easterly. Eusebius’s comparison 
of tlie castle (< ppovpiov ) Carcaria ( K apKapi a , Ono m ast .) , 
one day’s journey distant from Petra, is equally foreign ; 
and this may be the modern Iverak of Moab. See Ke- 

XATIl. 

Karl-Borromeeus Union, a Roman Catholic as- 
sociation in Rhenish Prussia, formed for the purpose of 
effecting in Roman Catholic society the same results for 
which the Gustavus Adolphus Society of the Protestant 
Church was founded. Perhaps, in a measure, it was in- 
tended to oppose any inroads of the Protestant associa- 
tion among the Roman Catholics. It originated in 1844. 
and makes it its special object to circulate at large the 
literary productions of Roman Catholics. The society 
publishes a monthly journal, and occasionally works of 
a religious character written in popular form. See Ka- 
tholische Real-Encyklopddie, xi, 835. 

Karlowitz, Christoph von. See Maurice of 
Saxony. 

Karlstadt, Andreas Rudolph Bodensteih. 

See Carlstadt. 

Karlstadt, Johannes. See Dracoxites. 

Karmathians (so called from Abu Said Al-Jena- 
bi, surnamed Al-Karmatha) is the name of a Moham- 
medan sect which originated in the 9th century, under 
the caliphate of Al-Motammed. Strictly speaking, the 
Karmathians were Shiites (q. v.; see also Ismail), for 
Karmatha, tlieir founder, was one of the missionaries in 
the province of Kufa. appointed by one of the apostles 
(Hussein Aliwagi) of Ahmed, the successor of Abdallah 
Ibn-Maimun, who flourished about the middle of the 2d 
century, and who first gave character to the Ismailite 
schism*. It was he likewise who projected and prepared 
the way for a union of the Arabic conquerors, and the 
many races that had been subjected since Mohammed s 
death, and the enthronement of what later was -called 
“ Pure Reason” as the sole deity for worship. With an 
extraordinary knowledge of the human heart and hu- 
man weakness, he found a way to attract the high and 
the low. To the believer he offered devotion ; liberty, 
if not license, to the “free in spirit:” philosophy to the 
“strong-minded;” mystical hopes to the fanatics: mira- 
cles to the masses. To the Jews he offered a Messiah, 
to the Christians a Paraclete, to the Moslems a Mnlidi, 
and to the Persian and Syrian “pagans” a philosophi- 
cal theology. The results of his exertions, so practical 
in tendency, were truly wonderful, and at one time it 
seemed as if Mohammedanism was doomed. He was 
soon persecuted by the authorities, and, driven from 
place to place, he finally died in Selamia, in Syria, leav- 
ing the work he had so successfully begun to his son 


KARMATIIIAXS 


KARMATHIANS 


Alimed. This Ahmed, profiting by the experience of 
his father, carried on the work of conversion somewhat 
secretly ; at least he did not dare to assume publicly the 
claims of an imam, as his father had done. He sent 
missionaries, however, to different parts of the country” 
to gain adherents for this extreme nationalistic move- 
mem, and one of the converts made was our Karmatha, 
who gave new life to this undertaking. lie quickly 
gathered about him a large number of converts, and, 
successful in securing their confidence, he soon made 
them the blind instruments of his will. He advocated, 
according to some authorities, absolute communism, not 
only of property, but even of wives, and founded one 
particular colony, consisting of eliosen converts, around 
liis own house at Kufa. (See below, Religious Belief) 
From this place, called the “ House of Ilcfuge,” there- 
after the whole religions movement of the Karmathians 
was conducted. Missionaries were created and sent to 
different parts of the earth to convert the nations, and 
gather them into the fold of Karmathianism. Among 
these converts was one Abu Said, whose success in 
Southern Persia, and afterwards at Bahrein, in the Per- 
sian Gulf, deserves special notice here. The inhabitants 
of this country, formerly a province of Persia, adhering 
partly to the Jewish, partly to the Persian faith, had 
been subjected by Mohammed, but bad been allowed to 
retain their own creed. After the prophet's death they 
had at once shaken off the unwelcome yoke, which, 
however, had again been put upon them by Omar. In 
the interior of this country lived certain Arabs, highly 
disaffected against Islam, the innumerable precepts of 
which they intensely disliked, and among these Abu 
Said made the most marvellous strides in his con- 
versions, until he finally gained the confidence of the 
Bahreinites generally, and in less than two years he 
brought over a great part of the people of Bahrein. To 
suppress this proselytism, an army of 10,000 men was 
dispatche’d in 282 (Hegira) against him and his fol- 
lowers, hut the Karmathians were victorious, and Abu 
Said now became undisputed possessor of the whole 
country, destroyed the old capital II ajar, and made 
Lahsa (bis own residence) the capital of the country. 
In other parts of the Saracenic possessions the Karma- 
thians also warred for a time successfully against the 
caliphate of Bagdad, and threatened its very existence, 
until, in a batrie fought in the 294th year of the Hegi- 
ra, the caliph’s general, Wasif, won a decisive victory, 
and greatly crippled the military strength of the Kar- 
mathians. Both Karmatha (of whose personal history 
after this time we lack all information) and Abu Said 
became — by what means is matter of great obscurity — 
faithless to their own creed ; but they continued to have 
followers, and when Abu Said was killed, together with 
some of liis principal officers, in the bath in his own 
castle at Lahsa. in 301 of the Hegira, by one of his 
eunuchs, his son, Abu Tahir, became his successor, and 
the struggle was continued. In 31 1 he seized the town 
of Basra. In the next year he pillaged the caravan 
which went to Mecca, and ransacked Kufa. In 3 In he 
once more appeared in Ivnfa and in Irak, and gained so 
decided a victory over the caliph’s troops that Bagdad 
began to tremble before him. In 317 (A. I). 930) the 
great, and decisive blow against the caliphate, or, rather, 
against Mohammedanism itself, was struck. “When 
t lie great caravan of pilgrims for the annual pilgrimage 
had arrived at Mecca, the news suddenly spread that 
Abu Tahir, the terror of Islam, had appeared at the head 
of an army in the holy city itself. All attempts to buy 
him off failed, and a massacre of the most tearful de- 
scription ensued. With barbarous irony, he asked the 
victims what had become of flic sacred protection of the 
place. Every one. they had always been told, was safe 
and inviolable at Mecca. Why was he allowed thus ea- 
sily to kill them — the race of donkeys? According to 
some, for six days; to others, for eleven or seventeen, the 
massacre lasted. The numbers killed within the pre- 
cincts of the temple itself are variously given. The 


holy places were desecrated, almost irredeemably. But, 
not satisfied with this, Abu Tahir laid hands on the su- 
preme palladium, the black stone itself. Yet he was 
apparently mistaken in his calculations. So far from 
turning the hearts of the faithful from a worship which 
God did not seem to have defended, the remaining 3Ios- 
lems clung all the more fervently to it. God’s decree 
had certainly permitted all these indignities to be put 
upon his house, but it was not for them to murmur. 
The stone gone, they covered the place where it had 
lain with their kisses.” Whenever Aim Tahir did not 
prevent them by force, the caravans went on their usual 
annual pilgrimage, and Abu Tahir was finally persuaded 
to conclude a treaty permitting the pilgrimage on pay- 
ment of five denars for every camel, and seven for every 
horse. But the black stone, notwithstanding all the 
efforts on the part of the court of Bagdad, he never re- 
turned. (See below.) Abu Tahir himself was a man 
of great daring, and so infatuated were his men with 
the personal bravery and divine calling of their leader 
that they blindly obeyed any demands he made upon 
them. 

Abu Tahir died in 332 qf the Hegira, master of 
Arabia, Syria, and Irak. It was not until seven years 
later (A.L). 950), under the reign of two of liis brothers 
who had succeeded him, that the “ black stone” was re- 
turned to Mecca for an enormous ransom, and fixed 
there, in the seventh pillar of the mosque called Ilahmut 
(God’s mercy). But with the death of Abu Tahir the 
star of the Karmathians began to wane. Little is heard 
of them of any import till 375, when they were defeated 
before Kufa — an event which seems to have put an end 
to their dominion in Irak and Syria. In 378 they were 
further defeated in battle by Asfar, and their chief kill- 
ed. They retreated to Lahsa, where they fortified them- 
selves; whereupon Asfar marched to Elkatif, took it, 
and carried away all the baggage, slaves, and animals 
of the Karmathians of that town, and retired to Basra. 
This seems to have finally ruined the already weak 
band of that once formidable power, and nothing fur- 
ther is heard of them in history, although they retained 
Lahsa down to 430, and even later. To our own day 
there still exists, according to Palgrave, some disaffect- 
ed remnants of them at Hasa (the modern name of their 
ancient centre and stronghold), and other tracts of the 
peninsula; and their antagonism against Mohammed- 
anism, which they have utterly abrogated among them- 
selves, so far from being abated, bids fair to break out 
anew into open rebellion at the first opportunity. In- 
deed, some of the most trustworthy writers on Eastern 
history assert that the modern Druses owe the origin of 
their religious belief to the Karmathians (comp. Mad- 
den. Turkish Empire , ii, 210). 

The religious belief of the Karmathians, so far as it 
has been preserved to us, seems in the beginning — be- 
fore Ismailism became a mixture of “naturalism” and 
“ materialism” of whilom Sabaism, and of Indian incar- 
nations and transmigrations of later days — to have only 
been a kind of “ reformed” Islam. Their master Kar- 
matha, this sect maintained, had evinced himself to be 
a true prophet, and had brought a new law into the 
world. By this many of the Mohammedan tenets were 
altered, many ancient ceremonies and forms of prayer 
were changed, and an entirely new kind of fast intro- 
duced. Wine was permitted, as well as a few other 
things which the Koran prohibited, while many of the 
precepts found in that hook were made mere allegories. 
Prayer was but the symbol of obedience to their imam, 
ami fasting the symbol of silence, or, rather, of conceal- 
ment of the religious doctrine from the stranger. They 
also believed fornication to be the sin of infidelity, and 
the guilt thereof to be incurred by those who revealed 
the mysteries of their religion, or failed to pay a blind 
obedience to their chief, or to contribute the fifth part 
of their property as an offering to the imam (compare 
.Sale, Preliminary/ Discourse to the Koran). 

For further details, see Weil, Gcschichte d. ChaUfen ; 


KARN 


23 


KARO 


idem, Gcschichte der islumitischcn Vulker (Stuttg. 1866, 
8vo), p. 197 scp ; De Goeje, Memoire sur les Carmathes, 
etc. ; Silvestre de Sacy, Religion ties Druses ; Sale, Ko- 
ran ; Taylor, /list. Mohammedanism, p. 223 sip; Madden, 
Turkish Empire , ii, 101 sip ; Chambers, Cyclopaedia, x, 
58G sip See Siiiites. 

Karn, Aaron Jakob, a Lutheran minister, was horn 
in Loudon Co., Virginia, August, 1820. In his youth he 
dedicated himself to the service of the Lord, and, with 
a view to enter the Christian ministry, became a stu- 
dent in the institution at Gettysburg in the autumn 
of 1837, and was graduated from Pennsylvania College 
in 1812, and from the theological seminary in 1844. 
After his license to preach he accepted a call to the Lu- 
theran Church at Pine Grove, Pa. ; thence he removed 
to Canton, Ohio. In 1818 he took charge of the En- 
glish Lutheran Church in Savannah, Georgia. Here he 
labored, enjoying the confidence of his people and the re- 
spect of the whole community, till his physical strength 
gave way, and advancing disease compelled him to sus- 
pend the exercise of his office. His congregation sug- 
gested a trip to foreign lands. They provided the ex- 
penses for the journey, and supplies for the pulpit during 
his absence. lie travelled through France, 1 taly T , Ger- 
many, and Switzerland, but his impaired health derived 
no advantage from the tour, and he returned to his na- 
tive country only to close his life surrounded by the 
tender sympathies of loved ones at home. He died at 
Chicago, 111., Dec. 19, 18G0. Karn was an able preacher 
and an excellent man. I lis ministry was fruitful in good 
results. During the prevalence of flic yellow fever in 
Savannah in 1854 and 1858, he continued at his post, 
exhausting his time and his strength in ministering to 
the suffering and the dying, not only of his own con- 
gregation, but to others who were not in connection 
with any Church, amid scenes the most distressing and 
heart-rending, in his offices of kindness to the sick and 
in the burial of the dead. It is supposed his physical 
constitution sustained an injury from the influences of 
the epidemic from which he never recovered. (M. L. S.) 

Karnaim. See Ashtarotii-karnaim. 

Karnkowski, Stanislaus, a celebrated Roman 
Catholic prelate, was born .in Eland in 1526. Of his 
early life nothing is known to us. In 15G3 he was made 
bishop of Wladislaw, and became coadjutor to the arch- 
bishop of Gnesen in 1577, and in 1581 sole occupant of 
the archbishopric and primate of Poland. In the civil 
history of Poland Karnkowski played po unimportant 
part. King Stephen (Betori) was crowned by him (May 
1, 157G), and on the death of the king Karnkowski him- 
self assumed the reins of government until a royal suc- 
cessor was found in the person of the Swedish crown- 
prince Sigismund, whom he also crowned. It is gener- 
ally supposed that Karnkowski belonged to. the Jesuit- 
ical order. In Kalisch he built a college for the Jesuits : 
he also founded two schools for the theological training 
of Roman Catholics. Under liis protection the cele- 
brated Jesuit Jacob Wujek translated the Bible into Po- 
lish, a work which to this day remains the only authen- 
tic edition in the Polish (Roman Catholic) Church. 
Karnkowski died May 2G, 1G03. lie published Consii - 
tutiones synodales dioceses cum caiechesi : — Sermones ad 
parochos; — De ecclesia utraque ; etc. See Wetzer und 
"'•Velte, Kirchen-Lexikon , xii, G32. 

Karo, Joseph ben-Epiikaim, a Jewish Rabbi, one 
of the most celebrated characters in Rabbinic literature, 
was born in Spain in 1488, of a family of note. Amid 
the great persecutions which the Spanish Jews suffered 
in the early part of the IGth century, the Karo family 
were exiled, and settled finally at Xicopolis, in Euro- 
pean Turkey. Ilis early Talmudieal education .Joseph 
received under the instruction of his own father, and 
the youth quickly evinced, in the ready acquisition of 
Talmudic lore, a particular liking for tradition. The 
Mishna text, it is said, he had learned by heart, and be- 
fore he had reached the age of twenty-five he was ac- 


cepted as a Talmudieal authority. From Nicopolis Jo- 
seph removed successively to Adrianople anil Salonica. 
While a resident of these places (about 1522-35) he be- 
came acquainted with the great cabalistic fanatic Sa- 
lomo Molebo of Portugal, and he was finally induced to 
remove to Safet (q. v.), in Palestine, the great cabalis- 
tic centre in the East in the IGth century. In Safet he 
studied much with the Rabbinical authorities of Pales- 
tine, and during the controversy on the Jewish gaonate 
[see Jacob Berab] Joseph Karo was one of the four 
disciples whom Jacob Berab ordained when forced by 
Levi ben-Chabib to quit the country. See Ordination, 
Jewish. Previously infatuated with the Cabalists’ Mes- 
sianic notions, and now (Jacob Berab died January, 
1541, shortly after quitting Palestine) one of the four 
Rabbis ordained by the only authority competent to 
perform the sacred rite, he became satisfied that he was 
divinely chosen for some important mission, perhaps 
even the Messiahsliip itself. (He believed, says Griitz 
[see below], that he would die and be again raised up 
to become the leader of his nation.) Ever since 1522 
he had been engaged in writing an extensive religious 
and ritual codex, entitled CjDi’' {Beth Yosejdi, first 
published at Sablonets, 1553, 4 vols. folio), a revision, 
correction, and enlargement of a like work by Jacob ben- 
Aslier ; he now hastened the completion of this gigantic 
undertaking in the hope that its publication would lead 
his people to assign him at once the place to which he 
believed himself divinely called. lie completed the 
work in 1542, bub it gamed for him only the recognition 
of being one of the ablest rabbis of Safet. Unremit- 
tingly he continued his labors, determined to bring 
about the result which he believed to be his mission — 
the union of Israel — and with it hasten the days of the 
Messiah. In the IGth century the Talmud was exten- 
sively studied among the Jews. Every important con- 
gregation sustained not only a rabbi, but a college. Thus 
many lucrative positions were open to men inclined 
to study, and there resulted a general interest in the 
study of the Talmud. But many students imply many 
interpreters, and thus it came that* after a time, each 
congregation, and sometimes even each member of a 
college, had their own interpretation of the Talmudieal 
precepts, and Jewish orthodoxy was at a loss how to 
judge rightly. Joseph, comprehending the danger of a 
general division and a loose interpretation, determined 
to meet the case by a compilation of rabbinical law and 
usage, i. e. by the publication of the interpretations 
which the Talmud had received at the hands of the 
most distinguished teachers in Israel. At first he sim- 
ply subjected liis former work to a general supervision, 
which he completed after twelve years of hard labor. 
Finding, however, that this did not quite accomplish the 
desired result, he set about writing a new work, and af- 
ter nine years of intense application presented his peo- 
ple with a compendium of rabbinical law and usage, en- 
titled Ti-W {Shulchan A ruk, first published at 

Venice, 15G5), which to this day remains a rabbinical 
authority. Ilis name now became celebrated in all 
lands where Jews made their abode, and at Safet itself 
(which really meant all Palestine) he was cheerfully ac- 
corded the place of first authority, as a worthy successor 
of Jacob Berab. See, however, the article Moses de 
Trani. He died in 1575. One result Karo’s labors 
had at least effected — the harmony of all Israelites in 
expounding the law through the Talmud — the estab- 
lishment of Rabbinic Judaism — after all, a very different 
religion from that revealed through Moses at. Mount 
Sinai, foretold by the prophets, and taught by Moses 
Maimonides. For a long time the Shulchan Aruk was 
the text-book in all the Jewish schools, the accepted 
interpretation among all that people, and many are the 
editions that have been published of it, legions the schol- 
ars who have commented upon it. Karo’s other work 
of note which deserves mention here is Cheseph Mishne, 
a commentary on Maimonides’s dad Hachazaka, which 


KARPAS 


24 


Iv AT Y AY AN A 


has frequently been published with the latter work. 
See Griitz, Geschichte tier Jutlen , ix, 319 sq. ; Zunz, Zur 
Geschichte u. Lite rcitur, p. 230 sq. ; .lost, Gesch. <1. J iiden- 
thums, iu, 129; F\\rst,Hiblioth.Jad.\i, 172sq. (J. II. AY.) 

Karpas. See Green; Cotton. 

Kar'tah (Ileb. Kartah', nrnj?, city; Sept. Kap- 
$av v. r. a town in the tribe of Zebulon, as- 

signed, with its suburbs, as one of the places of residence 
for the Levites of the family of Merari (Josh, xxi, 34). 
It is there mentioned between Jokneam and Dimnah, 
the fourth city named being Nahalal; but the parallel 
passage (1 Chron. vi,77) gives but two cities, and these 
different, namely, Rimmon and Tabor, the first of these 
being probably a preferable reading for Dimnah, and 
the latter a collective for two others, Jokneam being in 
the same connection (ver. 08) separately attributed to 
the Koliathites along with other places on ]\It. Ephra- 
im, near which it lav. Kartah is doubtless identical 
with the Kattatii elsew r here spoken of in the same as- 
sociation (Josh, xix, 15). Van de Velde suggests (Me- 
moir , p. 327) that it is “possibly the same with el- 
II arte , a village with traces of antiquity on the banks 
of the Kishon,” not very far from its junction with wady 
jNIclek ; the rums being on the tell Ilarteyeh , on the op- 
posite side of the river ( Narrative , i, 289). 

Xar'tan (Ileb. Kartan', "jPl 1 *)£, double city , an old 
dual from Sept. KapSav v. r. Qepgdjv and N otp- 

fiiod), a town of Naphtali, assigned to the Gershonite 
Levites, and appointed to be one of the cities of refuge 
(Josh, xxi, 32). In the parallel passage (1 Chron. vi, 
70) it is called by the equivalent name of Kirjatiiaim. 
The associated names suggest the probability of some 
locality near the north-w’estem shore of the Sea of Ti- 
berias, perhaps the ruined village marked as el-Katanah 
on Van de Velde’s map, on wady Furam, about midway 
between Lake Tiberias and the IIulcli. 

Kartikeya is the name of the Hindu Mars, or 
god of war, who is represented by the Puranic legends 
as having sprung from Siva after a most miraculous 
fashion. The germ of Kartikeya having fallen into 
the Ganges, it was on the banks of this river, in a 
meadow of Sara grass, that the offspring of Siva arose; 
and as it happened that he was seen by six nymphs, the 
Krittikas (or Pleiades), the child assumed six faces, to 
receive nurture from each. Grown up, he fulfilled his 
mission in killing Taraka, the daemon-king, whose pow- 
er, acquired by penances and austerities, threatened the 
very existence of the gods. He accomplished, besides, 
other heroic deeds in his battles with the giants, and 
became the commander-in-chief of the divine armies. 
Having been brought up by the Krittikas, he is called 
Kartikeya , or Shdnmdtura, the son of six mothers; 
and, from the circumstances adverted to, he bears also 
the names of Gdngeya , the son of the Ganges; Sarabhu , 
reared in Sara grass; Shannnikha , the god with the six 
faces, etc. One of his common appellations is Kumdra, 
youthful, since he is generally represented as a fine 
youth; and, as he is riding on a peacock, he receives 
sometimes the epithet of Sikhivdhana, or “the god 
whose vehicle is the peacock.” — Chambers, Cyclop . s. v. 

Xasimir, St., prince of Poland, noted in the annals 
of the 1 toman Catholic Church for his great piety and 
ascotici&m, born in October, 1458, took no unimportant 
part in the efforts of the royal house of Poland to secure 
the throne of Hungary. Quite inconsistently with his 
saintly profession, he marched at the head of a large 
army towards the borders of Hungary in 1471. On his 
return, after the declaration of pope Sixtus IV in favor 
of the deposed king of Hungary, Kasimir practised even 
greater austerity than before, and died March 4, 1483, 
at AYilna, in Lithuania. Kasimir was canonized in 1522 
by pope Leo X, and he is looked upon as the patron 
saint of Poland. See Poland. 

Kaspi. See Ibn-Caspi. 


Eat an. See IIakkatan. 

Katerkamp, Joiiaxn Tiieodor Hermann, an 
eminent Roman Catholic theologian, was born at Och- 
trup, near Munster, Germany, Jan. 17, 1704; studied 
theology at Munster, and subsequently (1809) became 
professor of Church History in his alma mater. He had 
been ordained priest in 1787, and in 1823 he w'as ap- 
pointed canon, and in 1831 dean of the cathedral at 
Minister. He died July 8, 1834. Katcrkamp’s princi- 
pal work is his Kirchenyesch. (of which the introduction 
was published in 1819; and five volumes, bringing the 
work down to the second Crusade, from 1823-34, 8vo). 
He also wrote Ueber d. christl. Leben n. d. Geist d. gottes- 
dienstl, Verswnmlungen (Munster, 1830. 8vo) : — Denk- 
tcurdigkeiten aus d. Leben d.Fiirstin Galiczin (ibid. 1828; 
2d ed. 1838). See Herzog, Real-Kncyklojmdie , vii, 459 ; 
AVetzer und AA T elte, Kirchen-Lex. xii, G37. 

Xatharinus, Ambrosius. See Catharines. 

Xathenotheism (*:«£’ ivog Srtk, each one a yod) 
is a term devised by rrof. Max Muller (Rig Veda , i, 1G4, 
4G0) to designate the doctrine of divine unity in diver- 
sity as unfolded in the sacred writings of the Hindus. 
He rejects the term polytheism on the ground that the 
Hindus, in their worship, ever ascribe to one god the at- 
tributes of all the others. Thus in one hynm, ascribed 
to Mann, the poet says, “Among you, O gods, there is 
none that is small, none that is young; you are all great 
in deed.” . . . “And what more could human language 
achieve,” asks the professor, “in trying to express the 
idea of a divine and supreme power? . . . This is surely 
not what is commonly understood by polytheism. Yet 
it would be equally w rong to call it monotheism. If we 
must have a name for it, I should call it Kathenotheism ” 
(Chips, i, 28). See also Tyler, Primitive Culture (Loud. 
1871, 2 vols. 8vo), ii, 321. (J. ILAV) 

Xathismata (Ka^iaparci, sittings) is a name which, 
in the early Church, according to Suieer, was applied to 
certain parts of holy Scripture, because, during the read- 
ing of them, the people sat. Other portions of Scripture 
were entitled ardmtg (standings), because, during the 
reading of them, the people stood . It was usual in the 
j early Church for all worshippers to stand during the 
reading of the gospels and the singing of the psalms. 

Xatona, Emeric, of Abanjvar, a Hungarian Prot- 
estant controversialist, w'as born at Uifalon in 1572. He 
became rector of the college of Szepsi in 1593, but re- 
signed in 1595 to study theology at AVittenberg and 
Heidelberg for two years and a half, and then returned 
to his country, lie became successively rector of Pa- 
tak (in 1599), preacher at the court of George Ra- 
goezi, prince of Transylvania, pastor of Szepsi, Gocnc- 
- zin, and Karextur, and died Oct. 22, 1G10. He wrote 
I De Libero Arbitrio, contra theses A ndrece Saroji; Anti - 
papismus ; Tractatus de Putrum , conciliorum <t tradi - 
tionum Auctoritate circa Jidei dogmata, cultus idem mo- 
resqne idvendi (Francfort, 1G11, 8vo, with a Life of the 
author by Pareus). See Czvittingcr, Specimen llunga - 
rite Literatce, p. 199; Horanyi, Nova Manor ia llunga - 
rorum , ii, 304. 

Eaton Moed. See Talmud. 

Xat'tath (Ileb. Kattatld, r^J?, small, for rijaj?*. 
Sept. Karros' v. r. KarordS-), one of the cities of Zeb- 
ulon, mentioned first in a list of towns apparently along 
the southern border from Mount Tabor westerly (Josh, 
xix. 15) ; and (notwithstanding the slight difference in 
radicals) probably the same with the Kartah (q. v.) 
of Josh. xxi. 34; perhaps also with Kitron (Judg. i, 
30). Schwarz ( Palest . p. 172), by a tortuous derivation 
through the Talmud, seeks to identify it with Cana of 
Galilee. 

Eatyayana is a name of great distinction in the 
history of the literature of India, especially the ritual 
and grammatical literature of the Ihrahmanieal Hindus, 
which has been greatly enriched by a writer or writers 


KAUTZ 


KEBLAH 


25 


of that name. Ivatyayana is also the name of several 
of the chief clisciples of the Buddha Sakyamnni. 

Kautz, Jacob, an eminent German theologian? 
prominent in the Anabaptist movement of the 10th 
century, was born at Bockenheim, Ilesse Cassel, about 
1500. He was a preacher at Worms when, in 1527, he 
identified himself with the Dcnk-lletzer movement in 
forming a strong opposition against infant baptism. 
Previously to this time, Kautz had estranged him- 
self from the Lutheran reformers by his anti-Trini- 
tarian heresies ; now he openly broke with them, and 
warmly welcomed the Strasburg preachers. See Ana- 
baptists. He published seven theses in defence of his 
peculiar views (comp. Arnold, Ketzerhistorie , i, 63), and 
for the day of Pentecost invited the Lutheran ministers 
to public disputation. Although yet a young man, he 
had already obtained great celebrity as a public speaker, 
and no doubt took this course in order to increase the 
number of his followers. But the theses of Kautz were 
so decidedly opposed to Lutheran christology and dog- 
mas that the authorities interfered, incarcerated him, 
and finally obliged him to quit Worms. Wandering 
about from place to place, we find him in July at Augs- 
burg, later at Rothenburg, and in 1528 finally at Stras- 
burg. Here he succeeded for a time in preaching his 
heretical doctrines, but in 1529, so great had his fanati- 
cal excesses become, that the city authorities felt obliged 
to interfere, and he was arrested and compelled to leave 
the city. After losing sight of him for a time, we find 
him in 1532 again knocking at the gates of the city of 
Strasburg, and vainly seeking admission. From this 
time all traces of him are lost, and neither the time nor 
the place of his death is known. Kautz was quite inti- 
mate with Capito, the eminent coadjutor of the Reform- 
ers (Ecolampadius and Ilucer, and at one time it was 
even asserted by the Anabaptists that he had succeeded 
in tvinning him to their side. Capito, however, does 
not deserve this reproach. On the contrary, he did all 
in his power to restrain Kautz in liis fanaticism. See 
Trechsel, A ntitrinitarier, i, 13 sq. ; Keim, in the Jahrb. 
f deutsche Theol. i, 2, 271 sq.; Stud, und Krit. 1841, p. 
1080 sq. See also Dexk ; IIetzer. (J. II. W.) 

Kay, James, a Unitarian minister, was born at Heap 
Fold, in Lancashire, England, June 21, 1777, and was 
reared in the Church of England. At the age of seven- 
teen, however, he became a dissenter, and at once pre- 
pared for the ministry. In 1799 he was settled over a 
Calvinistic congregation in Kendal, Westmoreland, but 
he resigned this charge in 1810, and, with about one 
third of his congregation, joined the Unitarians, and 
two years later became pastor of a Unitarian church at 
Hindley, Lancashire. In 1821 he emigrated to this 
country, but never again took active work. He died 
Sept. 22, 1847, at Trout Run, Pa. “ He fell asleep with 
the accents of a devout faith on his lips, and, we doubt 
not, with the trustful spirit of a disciple in his heart.” — 
Christian Examiner , 1848, p. 157. 

Kaye, John (1), D.D., an English divine, was bom 
at Hammersmith, London, in 1783, and was educated at 
Christ’s College, Cambridge (graduated in 1804 with 
high honor and distinction). In 1814 he was elected 
master of his college, and afterwards filled the office 
of vice-chancellor. In 1816 he was chosen regins pro- 
fessor of divinity, and in 1820 became bishop of Bristol; 
was translated to Lincoln in 1827, and died in 1853. Be- 
sides his professional labors, Kaye did a great deal of 
literary work. Many of his writi ngs are of special value. 
Characterized as they are by clearness and precision, 
by accuracy and fairness, combined with the necessary 
flexibility, no thinking mind can fail to be enriched by 
them. Ilis principal writings are: The Ecclesiastical 
History oj the 2 d and 3 d Centuries , illustrated from the 
Writings of Tertullian (Camb. 2d ed. 1826, 8vo; 3d ed. 
1845): — Some Account of the 1 1 r citings and Opinions of 
Justin Martyr (Loud. 2d ed. 1836, 8vo; 3d ed. 1853):— 
A Charge delivered at the primary Visitation hi 1828 


(Camb. 1828, 8vo ) : — A Charye to the Clergy , delivered at 
the triennial Visitation in 1843 (London, 1843, 8vo). lie 
also published some anonymous Remarks on Ur. 1 1 "he- 
man's Lectures , and a Reply to the Travels of an Irish 
Gentleman (a Roman Catholic polemical work). See 
AUibone, Diet, of A uthors , s. v. ; London Gentleman's 
Magazine, 1853 (April, May, and August). (J. L. S.) 

Kaye, John (2). See Cajus. 

Kayits. See Fruit. 

Kazin. See Ittaii-kazin. 

Keack, Benjamin, an eminent English Baptist di- 
vine, was born at Stokehaman, Buckinghamshire, Feb. 
29, 1640. He docs not appear to have followed any reg- 
ular course of study; bis parents were poor, and could 
not aid him in a collegiate education, lie paid par- 
ticular attention to the Scriptures. In 1658 he be- 
came a preacher, and in 1GG8 was chosen pastor of a 
congregation in Southwark, of which he had for three 
years previously been a member. After the Restoration 
he suffered in common with all nonconformists, and fled 
from the country, where the persecutions were unbear- 
able. to the metropolis. Here lie became pastor of a 
small society, which met in a private house in Toolcy 
Street. Successful as a minister, he soon moved his 
fast-increasing flock (which numbered at one time over 
1000) to a large new church in Horsley Down, South- 
wark. He died in 1704. lveach belonged to the Par- 
ticular or Calvinistic Baptists, and was considered a man 
of great piety and learning. His principal works are, 
Tropologia, or Key % to open Scripture Metaphors (Lond. 
1682; best edition 1779, fob — very scarce; and reprinted 
in 1856, 8vo) : — The Marrow of true Justification, or 
Justification without IForA's (Lond. 1692, 4to ) : — The Axe 
laid to the Root, or one more Blow at the Foundation of 
Infant Baptism and Ch urch-membersh ip (London, 1693, 
4to ): — Light broke forth in Wales (Lond. 1G96, 8vo; an 
answer to Air. James Owen’s book, entitled Children's 
Baptism from Heaven ) : — The Display of glorious Grace , 
in 14 Sermons [on Isa. liv, 10] (Lond. 1698. 8vo): — Gos- 
pel Mysteries Unveiled , or an Exposition of edl the Par- 
ables , etc. (Lond. 1701, fol. ; 1856, royal 8vo. “ Mingled 
with unquestioned reverence for tlie divine Word, and 
much good material of which the judicious student may 
avail himself with advantage, there is a large amount 
of fanciful exposition and of unwise spiritualizing” [Kit- 
to ]) : — A Golden Mine opened, or the ylory of God's rich 
Grace displayed in the Mediator , etc. (Lond. 1694, 4to): 
— The French Impostor detected , or Zach. Housel tryed 
by the Word of God, etc. (Lond. 1703, 12 mo) : — Believer's 
Baptism, wherein the chief arguments for infant bap- 
tism are collected and combated (London, 1705, 8vo): — 
Travels of True Godliness, and Travels of Ungodliness, 
after the manner of Bunyan’s (often reprinted); also with 
Notes and Memoirs of the author, by the Rev. Howard 
Malcolm (N. Y. 1831, 18mo) : — Exposition of the Para- 
bles (Lond. 1704, fol.). Reach also figured in his day as 
a hymnologist, but his sacred songs were rather medi- 
ocre. See Stoughton, Eccles. History of Engl, ii, 4G5 sq. ; 
Crosby, Hist, of the Baptists; Wilson, Hist, of Dissecting 
Churches; Allibone, Did. Engl, and American Authors, 
s. v. ; Kit to, Cyclop. Bibl. Lit. s. v. (J. H. \Y.) 

Keating, Geoffrey, an Irish divine and historian, 
flourished in the early part of the 17tli century (died 
about 1625, or somewhat later). He is noted as the au- 
thor of a general history of Ireland, in which the eccle- 
siastical history of that country is treated in detail. It 
was translated into English by Dermot O’Connor (Lon- 
don, 1728, fol. ; Westm. 172G, fol. ; 1738, fol. ; Dubl. 1*09, 
2 vols. 8vo ; 1811, 8vo). — Allibone, Dictionary of Au- 
thors , s. v. 

Keblah is a term by which the Mohammedans des- 
ignate the direction towards which they are command- 
ed to turn their faces in their devotions. ‘‘At first,” 
says Sale ( Koran , p. 17), “ Mohammed and his follow- 
ers observed no particular rite in turning their faces to- 
wards any certain place or quarter of the world when 


IvEBLE 


26 


KECKERMANN 


they prayed, it being declared to be perfectly indiffer- 
ent. Afterwards, when ihe prophet tied to Medina, he 
directed them to turn towards the temple of Jerusalem 
[probably to ingratiate himself with the Jews], which 
continued to be their Keblah for six or seven months; 
but, either finding the Jews too intractable, or despair- 
ing of otherwise gaining the pagan Arabs, who could not 
forget their respect to the temple of Mecca, he ordered 
that prayers for the future should be towards the last. 
This change was made in the second year of the Hegira, 
and occasioned many to fall from him, taking offence at 
his inconstancy.” See Kaaba. 

Keble, John, “ the sweetest and most Christian poet 
of modern days,” was born in Fairford, in Gloucester- 
shire, April 25, 1702. His father was fellow of Corpus 
Christi College, and for fifty years vicar of Coin, St. Al- 
wins, and lived until his ninetieth year. Ilis mother 
was the daughter of a clergyman. Thus on both sides 
he came of a pastoral stock ; and it is worthy of note' 
that his only surviving brother, Thomas, like himself 
became a clergyman (rector of Bislev), that that broth- 
er’s son also took orders, and that Mr. Keble himself, 
like his father, married a clergyman’s daughter. Young 
Keble was prepared for college by his father, and en- 
tered the University of Oxford, and there greatly distin- 
guished himself by a remarkable display of talent and 
application. When only eighteen, full four years be- 
low the customary age for graduating, John Keble won 
the highest intellectual rank the university can bestow, 
that of a “double-first classman,” his name appearing 
in the first class of classics as well as in the first class of 
mathematics. This distinction had never been achieved 
up to that time except in t he ease of Kobert Feel. April 
20, IK 1 1, wanting a few days of the completion of his 
nineteenth year, he was elected probationer fellow of 
Oriel, and took Ins place at the high table, and in the 
senior common room of that celebrated college. Whate- 
Iv entered it with him, and these two were the duum- 
viri to whom all paid an almost obsequious deference. 
In 1812 lie won the prizes for both the bachelors’ essays 
— the English on Translation from Dead Languages, the 
Latin a comparison of Xenophon and Julius Caesar as 
Military Chroniclers. In the annals of Corpus twice 
only has such a triumph been won, one instance that of 
young Keble, and the other no less a man than Henry 
Hart Milman, the late celebrated dean of St. Paul’s Ca- 
thedral. At the unprecedented age of twenty-two — in- 
deed, some months short of it — he was appointed by the 
University of Oxford one of its public examiners. Thus 
did Keble attain a success which we believe has never 
been equalled for its precocious ability. In 1815 he was 
ordained deacon, the following year priest, and soon af- 
ter left the university, and never again permanently re- 
sided there. He became his father’s citrate, and lived 
with him in that capacity nearly twenty years. He 
turned aside from the numerous paths of ambition which 
were open to him, and gave himself to parochial work as 
the employment of lib life. In 1835 Iveble’s father died. 
He was now offered and accepted the vicarage of Ilurs- 
lev, and married. His parish was obscure, thirty miles 
from Oxford. There was not, it is said, a single culti- 
vated family in his charge, so that his labors were alto- 
gether among the humbler and poorer classes, but under 
his indefatigable ministrations it became one of the 
model parishes of England. It is, however, as the poet 
of the “Christian Year” and the “Lyra Innocentium” 
that Keble will he most widely and permanently known. 
The former was published in 1827. It is probable that 
most of the poem was written at Fairford. Its success 
was certainly most remarkable. More than one hun- 
dred editions have been sold. Of course Keble might 
have realized a fortune from the sale of this extraordi- 
nary book ; but in this, as in everything else, he showed 
his disinterestedness. When, in 1835, Keble came to 
Hurslev, he found a church not nt all to his mind. It is 
described as a plain and anything hut beautiful build- 
ing of Hint and rubble. He at once determined to have 


a new one built, and, in order to carry out his project, 
he employed the profits of the many editions of The 
Christum Year; and when the building was finished, 
his friends, in token of their regard for him, filled all the* 
windows with stained glass. On Friday, the Gth of 
April, 18GG, he was buried in the church-yard of Hurs- 
lev, where lie had officiated as minister for nearly thirty 
years. It was on the day before Good Friday, viz. on 
the 29th of March, that he died. On the eve of a great 
Christian observance, he, the singer of Christian observ- 
ances, passed away to his rest. The character of Ke- 
ble’s poetry may be surmised from his life and opinions; 
it is gentle, sweet, devotional, and highly cultivated; it 
translates religious sentiment out of the ancient and ex- 
clusively Hebrew dialect into the language of modem 
feeling. A deep tone of home affection runs through 
all his poems. The highest culture of which man is 
capable, and the most refined thought in him, had not 
weakened, but only made natural affection more pure 
and intense. Never, perhaps, except in the case of 
George Herbert, has a character of such rare and saintly 
beauty concurred with a poetic gift and power of poetic 
expression of the highest order. John Keble is noted 
also as the leader of the original band of Oxford schol- 
ars and divines who began the so-called “ Puscyite” 
movement in the English Church, lie contributed to 
the famous Tracts for the Times (1834-183G), and it is 
to Keble’s influence over Newman that the latter as- 
scribes his conversion to Komanism, dating it from July 
14, 1833. when Keble preached his sermon on National 
Apostasy. He was aLso one of the editors of the Bibli- 
otheca Patmm Ecclesice Catholicie (begun in 1838). Ilis 
works are, On Translation from the Bead Languages (an 
Oxford Prize Essay, 1812; Oxf. 1812) : — The Christian 
Year: thoughts in verse for the Sundays and holy-days 
throughout the year (1827, 2 vols. ; 3Gth ed. 1852, 8vo) : 
— The Child's Christian Year (4th edit. 1841, 18mo): — 
Primitive Tradition recognised in IJoly Scripture ; a Ser- 
mon (on 2 Tim. i, 14; 4th ed.,with a Postscript and Ca- 
tena Patrurn [No. o of the Tracts of the Times], 1839, 
18mo; originally published [in 1837] as No. 78 of the 
[Oxford ] Tracts for the Times') : — The Psalter, or Psalms 
of David, in English I "erse (1839, sin. 8vo ; 3d edit. 1840, 
18mo) : — Selections from Richard Ilooler (1839, 18mo ; 
2d edit. 1848, 18mo) : — an edition of Hooker's Works: — 
Prcelectioncs Academics Oxonii Habifce (1832-41,2 vols. 
8vo; 1S44-184G, 2 vols. 8vo) : — Lyra Innocentium : 
Thoughts on Verse, on Children, their Ways and their 
Privileges (184G, sm. 8vo, Anon.): — Sermons Academi- 
cal and Occasional (1847, 8vo; 2d edit. 1848, 8vo) : — A 
very few plain Thoughts on the proposed A ddition of 
Dissenters to the University of Oxford (written from his 
position as Iligh-Chnrch polemic, 1854). See Coleridge, 
Memoirs of the Per. J. Keble (18G9, 2 vols. 8vo) ; Shairp, 
Memoir (in Studies in Poetry and Philosophy ); Allibone, 
Diet . of Authors, s. v. ; Church Review, Oct. 18GG, art. i ; 
A mer. Ch . Review, April, 1870, art. i. (E. de I*.) 

Keckermann, Bautiiolom.eus, a reformed Ger- 
man theologian, was born at Dantzic in 1571, and edu- 
cated at Wittenberg, Lcipsie, and Heidelberg. In the 
last place he became professor of the Hebrew language 
about 1592. In 1G02 he accepted the rectorate of the 
gymnasium at Dantzic, where he died August 25,1009. 
Keckermann wrote many theological and philosophical 
works, the most important of which arc Sy sterna The- 
ologian (Berlin, 1(515, 4to), and Rhctorica Ecch stasticce 
(Ilanau, 1G00, 1GI3, 8vo). These arc circulated very ex- 
tensively, and prove him to have been a writer of great 
originality and ability. He argued in behalf of a sep- 
aration of philosophy and theology, to prevent any fur- 
ther mischief to Christianity such as scholasticism had 
caused, and in his Sgsfema Et hives (ibid. 1G10, 8vo) he 
pleads for the separation of ethics, as a philosophical 
science, from theology; the latter, he argues, must con- 
fine itself to the inner religious life, the former to the 
li bonum civile" (Opp. ii, 233 sq.). In view of these, his 
own teachings, it is unjust to classify this writer, as some 


KEDAR 


27 


KEDESH 


have done, among the originators of Protestant scholas- f 
ticism. Of value, also, are Kcckermann’s speculations 
on the Trinity (comp. Baur, Dreieinigkeitsleh re, iii, 308 
sq.). His works have been published entire ( Opera Om- 
nia) at Geneva in 1014. See Herzog, Real-EncyMopii- 
( lie, vii, 463. 

Ke'dar (Ileb. Kedar', r/arA’-skinned ; Sept. 

Kijcda), the second son of Islimael, and founder of the 
tribe that bore his name (Gen. xxv, 13). B.C. post 
2001. The name is used in Scripture as that of the 
Bedouins generally, whose characteristic traits are as- 
cribed to them (Cant, i, 5; Isa. xxi, 10 ; xlii, 11 ; lx, 7 ; 
Jer. ii, 10; xlix, 28; Ezek. xxvii, 21) ; more fully, “sons 
of Kedar” ("n|3 ^3, Isa. xxi, 17); iu Psa. exx, 5, Ke- 
dar and Mcseeli are put for barbarous tribes. Rabbin- 
ical writers expressly identify them with the Arabians 
(Pseudojon. on Gen. xxv, and the Targum on Psa. exx ; 
comp, the Jewish expression “tongue of Kedar” for the 
Arabic language), and the Arabs acknowledge the pa- 
ternity (Pococke, Spec. 40). The Kedarenes (as they 
were called in later times) do not appear to have lived 
in the immediate neighborhood of Judaea (Jer. ii, 10; 
comp. Psa. exx, 5). Jerome ( O nomast . s. v. Ma&ai') 
places them in the Saracenic desert, on the east of the 
Bed Sea, which identities them with the Cedrei of Pliny 
(v, 12) as neighbors of the Nabathteans (comp. Isa. xl, 
7). Stephen of Byzantium reckons them (KtdpaviTai) 
as inhabitants of Arabia Felix ; but Thcodoret (on Tsa. 
cix) assigns them a locality near Babylon (see Beland ; 
Paliest. p. 80 sq.). Ptolemy calls them Barron (Geog. 
vi, 7), evidently a corruption of the ancient Hebrew; 
and Forster supposes that it is the same people Arrian 
refers to as the Kanraitce , which he thinks should be 
read Kadraitce {Geogr. of Arabia, i, 247). A very an- 
cient Arab tradition states that Kedar settled in the 
Ilejaz, the country round Mecca and Medina, and that 
his descendants have ever since ruled there (Abulfeckc 
Hist. Anteislamica , ed. Fleischer, p. 192). From Kedar 
sprung the distinguished tribe of Koreish,to which Mo- 
hammed belonged (Caussin, Essai, i, 175 sq.). Of the 
histoiy of the head of the tribe little is known, but his 
posterity are described as being rich in flocks of sheep 
and goats, in which they traded with the Syrians (Ezek. 
xxvii, 21 ; Jer. xlix, 49), as dwelling in tents of black 
hair (Cant, i, 5), though some of them occupied cities 
and villages (D* , “l2 and D^ISn; Isa. xliii, 11) in the 
midst of the wilderness of Arabia, apparently in a moun- 
tainous and rocky district, and as being skilful in the 
use of the bow (Isa. xxi, 17); particulars which emi- 
nently agree with all descriptions of the maimers and 
mode of life of the nomade Arabs bordering Palestine on 
the east, from the Bed Sea to Asia Minor (Wellsted, 
Travels in Arabia , ii, 231 sq. ; Wallin, in the Journ . of 
R. Geog. Soc. vols. xx and xxiv). See Arabia. 

Ked'emah (Ileb. Ked'mah, rrCTjp, easticai'd; Sept. 
Kevga, but in Citron, v. r. Ktodji), the last named of 
the sons of Ishmael, and probably head of an Arab tribe 
called by the same title (Gen. xxv, 15; 1 Chron. i, 31). 
B.C. post 2001. 

Ked'emoth (Ileb. Kedemoth * 2 ’ip, beginnings ; 

Sept. K Ktdi]jub2r f but in Chron. K atjtwSr v. r. 
Iv ajujdib^), a city in the tribe of Reuben, assigned, with 
its suburbs (“villages”), to the Levitcs of the family of 
Merari (Josh, xiii, 18 ; xxi, 37 ; 1 Chron. vi, 79; in all 
which passages it is mentioned between Jahazah and 
Mepliaatli), with a desert ("DpO, open pasture-grounds) 
of the same name adjacent, whence Moses despatched 
the messengers requesting of Silion a peaceable pas- 
sage through his dominions, which the Israelites were 
now entering, having crossed the river Arnon (Dcut. ii, 
26). These indications lix it.s locality not far north- 
east of Dibon-gad, possibly at the ruined village ed- 
Duleitat (Bobinson, Researches, iii, Append, p. 170), east 
of Medeba (Van de Velde, Map), 


Ke'desh (Ileb. id., u3pp, sanctuary ; Sept. Keceq, 
but KaJcc in Josh, xxi, 32 ; K aS))Q in Judg. iv, 0, v. r. 9.- 
Iv eSes v. r. in 1 Chron. vi, 72), the name of three towns 
in Palestine. 

1. A city in the extreme southern part of the terri- 
tory originally assigned to Judah (Josh, xv, 23, where 
it is mentioned between Adadah and Ilazor),aml doubt- 
less included in the portion afterwards set off to Simeon 
(Josh, xix, 1-9). As the associated places seem to in- 
dicate a position towards the Dead Sea, we may con- 
jecture that it was the same as Kadesh-barnea (the 
names being the same in Ileb.), which lay there, and is 
not mentioned in cither of the foregoing lists, although 
it certainly was included within the district indicated. 

2. A Levitical city of the tribe of Issachar (1 Chron. 
vi, 72), otherwise called Kisiiion (Josh, xix, 20; “Ki- 
shon,” xxi, 28). 

3. A “fenced city” of Naphtali (Josh, xix, 37, where 
it is mentioned between llazor and Edrei), hence also 
called Kedesh -naphtali (i. e. Kadesli of Naphtali, 
Judg. iv, 0); appointed as one of the cities of refuge 
(Josli. xix, 7, where it is located on Mt. Naphtali), be- 
ing a Levitical city assigned to the Gershonites (dosli. 
xxi, 82; 1 Chron. vi, 70). It was one of the original 
Canaanitisli royal cities, whose chieftains were slain by 
Joshua (Josh, xii, 22). and was reckoned as a Galilean 
town (Josli. xix, 7; xxi, 32; 1 Chron. vi, 70). It was 
the residence of Barak (Judg. iv, G), and there he and 
Deborah assembled the tribes of Zebulon and Naphtali 
before the conflict (ver. 9, 10). Near it was the tree of 
Zaananim, where was pitched the tent of the Kenites 
Iieber and Jael, in which Sisera met his death (ver. 11). 
It was probably, as its name implies, a “holy place” of 
great antiquity, which would explain its selection as 
one of the cities of refuge, and its being chosen by the 
prophetess as the spot at which to meet the warriors of 
the tribes before the commencement of the struggle “ for 
Jehovah among the mighty.” It was one of the places 
depopulated by Tiglath-pileser (2 Kings xv, 29). Jose- 
phus calls it Kedesa (// Kictva, Ant. v, 1, IS, and 24) or 
Cydisa {Ant. ix, 11, D, and places it under the name of 
Cedasa (Keoarra), on the border between Galilee and 
Tyre (.l«t. xiii, 5, C), to the latter of which it adhered 
in the final struggle ( )P«r, ii, 18, 1). It was here that 
Jonathan the Maccabee gained the victory over the 
princes of Demetrius (K dvijQ, 1 Macc. xi, Go, 73). It is 
probably the same with the Cydis (K veig ?) Nf 0,9*1 A/) 
mentioned as the birthplace of Tobit (i, 1). Eusebius 
(i Onomast . s. v. K eveq) mentions it by the name of Cydossos 
(KvSocrabc; Jerome Cidissus), as lying in the neighbor- 
hood of Paneas, about 20 Roman miles from Tyre. It is 
also probably the same with the strongly-fortified place 
in this district called Cgdgssi by Josephus (Kvc carrot, 
War, iv, 2, 3). Kedesh was situated near the “ plain” of 
Zaanaim, on the route taken by Barak (who was a na- 
tive of the place) in the pursuit of Sisera, and lienee 
must have be.en beyond Mt. Tabor, in the direction from 
the Kishon (Judg. iv, 0, 9, 10, 1 1). The indications cor- 
respond very well to the position of the modern village 
of Kedes, discovered by Dr. Bobinson on the hills west 
of the lake el-Huleli (Researches, iii, 355; Bibliotheca 
Sacra. 1843, p. II). and fully described by Bev. E. Smith 
( Bibl.Sac . 1849, p. 374, 375) as being a small place ro- 
mantically situated on a hill in a rich and beautiful 
plain, abundantly supplied with water, and containing 
extensive ruins apparently of Roman origin (see also 
Robinson’s Researches, new edit., iii, 36G-3G9; Van dc 
Velde, Karratire, ii,417). From the 12th century (Benj. 
of Tudela, in Bohn’s Early Travels, p. 89) it lias been 
reputed to possess the graves of Deborah. Barak, Ahino- 
am, Jael, and Iieber (Schwarz, Palest, p. 183; comp. p. 
91). Porter, in 1858, saw close by the site the black tents 
of nomads pitched under the terebinths {Handbook for 
Palest, p. 443), like those of Iieber the Kenite (Judg. iv, 
H). 

“In the Greek (Kveiwc) and Syriac {Kedesh de Xaph- 
tali ) texts of Tob. i, 2— though not in the Vulgate or A. 


IvEDRON* 


28 


IvEILAII 


V. — Kedesh is introduced as the birthplace of Tobias. 
The text is exceedingly corrupt, but some little support 
is lent to this reading by the Vulgate, which, although 
omitting Kedesh, mentions Sated — post vienn quee ducit 
ad Occidentem , in sinistro habeas cicitatem Saphet. 

“The name Kedesh exists much farther north than 
the possessions of Naphtali would appear to have ex- 
tended, attached to a lake of considerable size on the 
Orontes, a few miles south of Hums, the ancient Emessa 
(Thomson, in 1 titter, Damascus , p. 1002 sq.). The lake 
was well known under that name to the Arabic geogra- 
phers (see, besides the authorities quoted by Robinson 
ini, 504, new ed.], Abulfeda in Schultens’s Index Geogr., 

L Fluvius Orontes,’ and ‘Kudsum’), and they connect it 
in part with Alexander the Great. But this and the 
origin of the name are alike uncertain. At the lower 
end of the lake is an island which, as already remarked, 
is possibly the site of Ketesh, the capture of which by 
Sethos 1 is preserved in the records of that Egyptian 
king” (Smith). 

Kedron. See Kidbon. 

Keel (jqottic, as being that which turns the vessel), 
the longitudinal projection on the bottom of a ship 
(Wisd. v, 10). 

Keeler, Sylvan us, was the earliest native Meth- 
odist itinerant in Canada. lie first appears in the 
Minutes of 1795 on the Bay ofQninte Circuit. “He 
proved,” says the Canadian chronicler of the Church, 
“ a good and faithful minister of Christ.” He labored 
about twelve years in the itinerant work, and then re- 
tired into the local ranks, compelled by the growing 
necessities of his family to resort to other means of sup- 
port. 1 Ie did not, however, abandon his Sabbath labors, 
but continued to preach all his days. After his family 
grew up and were able to provide for themselves, lie 
extended his efforts to greater distances from home, 
carrying the Gospel into the distant settlements of im- 
migrants beyond the Kideau. lie died in the faith. 
Keeler had no advantages of early education; he had, 
however, endowments, natural and of divine bestow- 
ment. 11 is person was commanding, and bis voice 
clear, melodious, and strong. His spirit and manners 
were the most bland and engaging, and liis zeal and 
fervor knew no bounds and suffered no abatement. — 
Stevens, Hist. M. E. Church , iii, 192; iv, 274. (J. L. S.) 

Keeling, Isaac, an English Wesleyan minister of 
note, was born in the latter half of the last century, and 
entered the ministry in 1S11, but it was not until after 
many years of hard labor that he rose to any promi- 
nence. in 1845 he was elected president of the Confer- 
ence; shortly after his health began to fail, and he was 
obliged to take a supernumerary relation. He died in 
18G9. “ Mr. Keeling was sagacious, discriminating, cau- 
tious, profound, and intensely original. His sermons 
were models of pure diction, exact thought, luminous 
arrangement, careful definition, and varied instruct ive- 
ness. lie was a man of retiring habits and cold exte- 
rior, but he bad a warm heart, and a keen relish of the 
pleasures of friendship.” 

Keene, Edmund, D.D., an English prelate, and a 
native of Lynn, Norfolk, was horn in 1713. He became 
master of Peter House in 1748, bishop of Chester in 1752, 
and was thence transferred to Ely in 1770. He died in 
1781. lie published live Occasional A$ermon$ (1748, 1753, 
3755, 1757, 1707). 

Keeper, in its widest sense, corresponds to the Heb. 
’T2T1*, sliomer', Gr. r?/ s owv ; in a special sense to “1513 
or “3U3, a watchman, as often rendered; i“I3?YH, is a 
shepherd; while “vr, <bv\aZ, is a guard over prisoners. 
These words are of frequent, occurrence, besides others 
in certain peculiar senses or combinations, the meaning 
being clear from the connection. ^ 

Kehel'atliah, or, rather, Keiie'laii (lleb. Kehe- 
lah ', n^njT, assembly, only with paragogic, nr^np. 


Kehela'thah ; Septuag. MajofAXoS’, Vulg. Ceelathd), the 
twenty-third station of the Israelites in the desert, be- 
tween Rissah and 31 1. Shapher (Numb, xxxiii, 22, 23); 
perhaps at the mouth of wady el-Hasana, west of Jebel 
Aehmer. See Exode. 

Keil, Haul August Gottlieb, an eminent German 
theologian, was horn at Grossenhain, near Dresden, Sax- 
ony, April 23, 1754, and was educated at Leipzig Uni- 
versity. Three years after graduation he obtained a 
privilege as tutor at his alma mater , and at once opened 
a course of leetures on exegesis and hermeneutics. In 
1785 he was appointed professor extraordinary of philos- 
ophy, in 1788 professor extraordinary of theology, and in 
1793 was finally promoted to the full or ordinary profess- 
orship. He died at Leipzig April 22, 1818. His works 
are Systematisehes Verzeichniss derjenigen theologischen 
Schriften eh Kenntniss allgemein noting uml mitzlich ist 
(Stendel, 1783, 1792, 8vo): — De exemplo Christi rede 
imitando Disser't. (Lpz. 1792, 4to) : — De Doctoribns rete- 
lls Ecclesne culpa corruptee per Platonicas sententias the- 
ologies liberandis (Lpzg. 1793, 181G, 4to), consisting of 
twenty-two dissertations, which were to be followed by 
others. They were afterwards printed in his Opuscula 
A cad., of which they form the second part. It is a very 
valuable work: — Ueber d. historische ErJdanvngsart d. 
lieiligen Schrift u. eleven Notlnvendigkeit (Lpz. 1798, 8vo ; 
Latin by Hempel) : — Lehrbucli der Ilermencutik d. X. T. 
nacli Grundsdtzen d. grammatisch-histoi'ischen Interpre- 
tation (Leipzig, 1810, 8vo; Latin translation by C. A. G. 
.Emmerling,Lpz. 1811,8vo), a very useful and important 
contribution to the department of hermeneutics, which 
he made his specialty, and in which he has justly be- 
come very celebrated. After his death his occasional 
writings were collected by J. D. Goldhom, and published 
under the title of Opuscula academica ad N. T. interpre- 
tationem grammatico-historicam et theologies Christiame 
origines pertinentia (Lpzg. 1821, 2 vols. 8vo). Besides 
treatises on topics of hermeneutical interest, this volume 
contains several exegetieal essays, and an elaborate dis- 
sertation, De Plutonicce philosophic ad theolog. Christ, 
apud vet. ecclcs. script ores rations. “ Keil,” says Prof. 
W. L. Alexander (in Kitto, Bibh Cyclop, vol. ii, s. v.), 
“is a perspicuous writer, and his works, though cold 
and formal, are full of good sense and solid learning.” 
In connection with II. G.Tzsehirner, Keil also published 
a theological journal under the title Analecten f. d. Stu- 
dium d. exegetischen n. sgstematischen Theologie (Leipzig, 
1812-18, 4 vols. 8vo). See Hoefer, Xour. Biog. Gener. 
xx, 503; Herzog, Beal-Encyklop. vii, 504. 

Kei'lah (lleb. Ke'ilah ', £ [in 1 Sam. xxiii, 5, 

prob. citadel ; Septuag. KriAd or KtiXce, v. r. in 
Chron. and Neh. KtfiXd), a city in the plain of Judah 
(Josh, xv, 44), bordering on ‘the southern portion of the 
highlands (see Keil’s Comment, ad loc.). It appears to 
have been founded by Naham the Gannite, brother of 
Hodiah. one of the wives of 3Iered (1 Chron. iv, 19). 
“ The Philistines had fallen upon the town at the begin- 
ning of the harvest (Josephus, Ant. vi, 13, 1), plundered 
the corn from its threshing-floor, and driven off the cat- 
tle (1 Sam. xxiii, 1). The prey was recovered by Da- 
vid (ver. 2-5), who remained in the city till the com- 
pletion of the ingathering. It was then a fortified 
place, with walls, gates, and bars (1 Sam. xxiii. 7, and 
Josephus). During this time the massacre of Nob was 
perpetrated, and Keilah became the repository of the 
sacred ephod, which Abiathar the priest, the sole sur- 
vivor, had carried off with him (ver. 6). But it was 
nqt destined long to enjoy the presence of these brave 
and hallowed inmates, nor indeed was it worthy of such 
good fortune, for the inhabitants soon plotted David's 
betrayal to Saul, then on his road to besiege the place. 
Of this intention David was warned by divine intima- 
tion. He therefore left (1 Sam. xxiii, 7-13). It will be 
observed that the word Baali is used by David to de- 
note the inhabitants of Keilah in this passage (ver. 11, 
12; A. V. ‘ men’), possibly pointing to the existence of 


KEIR 


29 


KEITH 


Canaanites in the place’ 1 (Smith). See Baal. Keilah 
was so considerable a city in the time of Neliemialv as 
to have two prefects, who are mentioned as assisting in 
the reconstruction of the walls of Jerusalem (Neh.iii, 17, 
18), and existed in the days of Eusebius and Jerome, 
who place it eight (the former, s. v. KijXa, less correctly, 
seventeen) Roman miles from Eleutheropolis, on the 
road to Hebron (see Keland, Pahest. p. 488, G98). Jose- 
phus calls it Cilia (K i\\a, A nt. vi, 13, 1). The prophet 
Hsibakkuk is said to have been buried here (Sozomen, 
//iV.vii,29; Kicephorus, 7/isY. xii,48); but see IIukkok. 
The above notices all point to a locality at a fork of 
wady el-Faranj, a little N. of Idhna (Jcdna), “where on 
a projection of the right-hand mountain stands a ruined 
tower” (Robinson. Researches, ii, 427), which Van de Velde 
learned at Hebron was still called Kiluh {Memoir, p. 
328). This is confirmed by Tobler ( Dritte Wander ung, 
p. 150 sq.), although he remarks (p. 4G7) that Van de 
Velde, on the first edition of his Map, had placed it too 
far south (S.E. of Idhna). A writer in Fairbairn’s Dic- 
tionary (s. v.) argues in favor of the locality of Khuwei- 
lifeh [sec Rnmox], but this is utterly out of the re- 
quired region, being in the Simeonitish portion of the 
tribe. SeeJtTDAir. 

Keir, Jonx, D.D., a Presbyterian minister, was born 
at Bucklv vie, Stirlingshire, Scotland, Feb. 2, 1770, edu- 
cated at the University of Glasgow, studied theology un- 
der Rev. A. Bruce, professor of theology in the General 
Associate Synod, and was licensed at Glasgow in 1807. 
In 1808 he was appointed missionary to Nova Scotia, 
B. P., whither he immediately proceeded. In the spring 
of 1809 he preached at Halifax and Merigomiah, and 
later took charge of the societies at Princetown and St. 
Peter’s, Prince Edward Island, and in June, 1810, was 
ordained and installed as pastor, which position he held 
for nearly fifty years. In addition to,his pastoral duties 
he filled the position of professor of theology in the Pres- 
byterian Church of Nova Scotia, to which he was ap- 
pointed in 1S43. He died Sept. 22, 1858. “Mr. Keir, 
as a lecturer, left upon the minds of the students a deep 
impression of the duties and responsibilities of the sa- 
cred office.” — Wilson’s Presb. Hist. A Imanac , 1859-GO, p. 
234. 

Keith, George, the noted leader of a faction of 
the Quakers, was born in Aberdeen, Scotland, about the 
middle of the seventeenth century. lie was a man of 
superior intellect, who had enjoyed the advantages of 
a splendid training, not only in the schools of the na- 
tional Church of Scotland, but also at the University of 
Aberdeen. In the year 1GG4 he came as a minister from 
the south of Scotland to his friends in Aberdeen, and, 
adopting the views of the Quakers, was involved in con- 
fiscations and imprisonment, together with others of 
that persecuted people. He wrote and published sev- 
eral treatises in vindication and explanation of the prin- 
ciples of that respectable body of Christians, and in 1G75 
was engaged with the celebrated Robert Barclay in a 
dispute with the students of the University of Aberdeen 
in defence of the Quaker doctrines. He also, about this 
time, with William Penn, George Whiting, and Stephen 
Crisp, engaged in a discussion with the Baptists in Lon- 
don. About the year 1G82 he removed to England, and 
took charge of a school at Edmonton, established by the 
Society of Friends. He was soon persecuted, however, 
for preaching and teaching without a license, and, re- 
fusing to take the oath, was committed to jail. In 1G84 
he removed to London, but was imprisoned five months 
in Newgate for nonconformity. After his liberation he 
emigrated to New Jersey, and was there appointed sur- 
veyor general, and employed in determining the boun- 
dary-line between East and West Jersey. In 1G89 he 
removed to Philadelphia, where he took charge of a 
Friends’ school, with a liberal salary, but resigned his 
position at the end of the school year, and travelled in 
New England, visiting meetings and holding disputa- 
tions with the religious professors, lie is noted for his 
defence at this time of the Quaker tenets against In- 


crease and Cotton Mather. On his return to Philadel- 
phia he became involved in a controversy with his own 
denomination, on various points of discipline and doctrine, 
lie charged them with doing away, by allegory, with 
the narrative of the real sufferings of Christ, and conse- 
quently the doctrine of a real atonemeut. He also sus- 
pected them of being infected with the spirit of Deism. 
Penn, being at this time in London, addressed a letter to 
Turner, a justice in Philadelphia, in which he defends 
“honest Geo. Keith and his Platonic studies,” but after- 
wards, becoming acquainted with the merits of the dis- 
pute, decided against Keith. Keith returned to Lon- 
don, where he soon came in collision with Penn himself. 
Penn having spoken from the text, “The blood of Jesus 
Christ his Son cleanseth us from all sin,” his exposition 
being strictly orthodox on their principles, namely, that 
“the blood is the life, and the life is the light within 
them,” Keith took up the subject, and showed that “ sin 
was cleansed by the blood of the true Christ actually 
shed on Calvary.” Penn is reported to have started 
from his seat, and, as he himself afterwards stated in 
the annual meeting, being “so transported by the pow- 
er of God that he was carried out of himself, and did 
not know whether he was sitting, or standing, or on his 
knees,” he thundered forth this anathema: “I pronounce 
thee an apostate, over the head of thee.” The great 
body followed Penn, and Keith was condemned by an 
edict of the annual meeting. lie was not slow, how- 
ever, in his own defence, but denounced the society as 
Deists, and entered into an able and labored argument 
to prove it (see Keith’s Deism of William Penn, and 
Mosheim, vol. v, cent, xvii, ch. iv, sect, ii, part ii), and 
formed a society of his own, known as Christian Quak- 
ers, Baptist Quakers, or Keithians (q. v.). Still dissat- 
isfied, he finally entered the Church of England, and 
became a regular priest. In the years 1702, 1703,1704, 
lie performed an important and successful mission on 
the American continent, under the care of the 1 Episco- 
pal Society for propay at iny the Gospel in Foreign Parts. 
He was especially successful in Pennsylvania and New 
Jersey. Seven hundred Quakers were through his in- 
strumentality converted from Quakerism and baptized 
(see Humphry’s History of the Quakers, Lond. A.D. 1730 ; 
Christian Observer, April, 181G). Returning to England, 
in 170G he was appointed rector of Edburton, in Sussex, 
and there died about 1715. Bishop Burnet, who was 
educated with Keith at the University of Aberdeen, in 
his History of his Own Times (1700, ii, 144), says that 
Keith “was esteemed the most learned man that ever 
was in that sect; he was well versed both in the Ori- 
ental tongues, in philosophy and mathematics.” Keith 
wrote a great many theological tracts, principally di- 
rected against the Quakers, for a list of which see Watts, 
Bibl.Brit. The most important of all is The Standard 
of the Quakers examined (Lond. 1702, 8vo), which is a 
refutation of Barclay’s Apology. See Janney, History 
of the Friends (Philad. 18G7, 4 vols. 1 2mo), iii, 7 1 sq. (E. 
de P.) 

Keith, Isaac Stockton, D.D., a Congregational 
minister, was born at Newton, Pa., Jan. 20, 1755, grad- 
uated at Princeton College in 1775, entered the minis- 
try in 1778, and was ordained pastor of the Presbyterian 
church in Alexandria in 1780. In 1788 he went to 
Charleston, S. C., as colleague pastor of the Congrega- 
tional church, in which position he labored until his 
death, Dec. 14, 1813. A memoir of his life and a few 
sermons were published in a volume in 1S1G. — Sprague, 
Annals, ii, 1GG. 

Keith, Reuel, D.D., a Protestant Episcopal min- 
ister in America, was born at Pittsford, Vt., in 1792, 
and passed A.B. in Middlcbury College in 1814. After 
teaching for some time, he became an assistant at St. 
John’s, Georgetown, D. C., and, in 1820, professor of hu- 
manity and history in Williamsburgh, Va. A theolog- 
ical semi nan r having been established soon after in 
Alexandria, he became professor of pulpit eloquence and 
pastoral theology there, and in 1827 was made D.D. by 


KEITII 


30 


KELLER 


his alma mater. For upwards of twenty years he con- 
tinued to discharge his duties, when his mind became 
unstrung in regard to his salvation, and the cloud was 
removed death Sept. 3, 1842. He published a 7'rans- 
lation (from the German) of I/enystenberfs Christoloyy 
of the Old Testament (Alexandria, D. C., 1830, 3 vols. 
8vo). See Sprague, A nnals , v, 625. 

Keith, Robert, primus bishop in the Scotch Epis- 
copal Church, was born at Urns, Kincardiueshire, in 
1081. lie studied at the University of Aberdeen, and 
in 1713 became pastor of a congregation in Edinburgh. 
In 1727 he was ordained bishop of Caithness, Orkney, 
and the Isles, and in 1733 became bishop of Fife. He 
died in 1757. His principal works are, History of the 
Affairs of Church and State in Scotland from the beyin- 
niny of the Reformation to the Retreat of Queen Mary 
into England . , anno 1508 (Edinb. 1734, fob): — Historical 
Cataloyue of the Scottish Bishops down to the Year 1088, 
etc. (Edinb. 1755, 4to; new ed. 1824, 8vo). — Chambers 
and Thomson’s Bioy, Diet, of Eminent Scotsmen, iii, 305 ; 
Hook, Eccles. Bioy. vi, 337. 

Keith, William, a Methodist Episcopal minister, 
was born in Easton, Mass., Sept. 15, 1770, entered the 
itinerancy in 1798, withdrew from the connection in 
1801, but returned in 1803, and in 1800 re-entered the 
itinerancy. In 1809 he was stationed in New York, 
where he died, Sept. 10, 1810. He was a man of fine 
abilities, of comprehensive mind, and logical power. 
II is piety was deep and sincere, and his preaching tal- 
ents often eloquent and always useful. — Minutes of Con- 
ferences, i, 193. 

Keitllians, a party which separated from the Qua- 
kers in Pennsylvania in the year 1091. They were 
headed by the famous George Keith (q. v.), from whom 
they derived their name. Those who persisted in their 
separation, after their leader deserted them, practiced 
baptism, and received the Lord’s Supper. This party 
were also called Quaker Baptists , because they retained 
the language, dress, and manner of the Quakers. — Buck. 

Kelah. See Karens ( [Spirit Worship). 

Kelai'all (Ileb. Kelayah’, S"P5£, peril, despised by 
Jehovah; Sept. KcoXia v. r. KwXnh), one of the Levitcs 
who divorced his Gentile wife after the captivity, oth- 
erwise called Keltta (Ezra x, 23). 

Keleb. See Dog. 

Keleusma (jdXevcpa, calf). See Call. 

Keli. See Talmud. 

Kel'ita [some Keli'ta] (Hebrew Kelita', 
dwarf; Sept. KoiX/rnf, KatXXiVatg, KnXtrau), one of the 
Levitcs who assisted Ezra in expounding the law to the 
people (Neh. viii, 7), and joined the saered covenant 
(Neh.x, 10) ; he was also one of those who had divorced 
their heathen wives (Ezra x, 23, where it is stated that 
his name was likewise Kelaiaii). B.C. 459-410. 

Kell, John, a Be formed Presbyterian minister, a na- 
tive of South Carolina, was educated in the University 
of Glasgow, Scotland, and, with a view to enter the min- 
istry, he pursued a theological course of study under 
the direction of the late Rev. John McMiller, then pro- 
fessor of theology in the Reformed Church of Scotland. 
On his return to this country he was ordained and in- 
stalled pastor at Beech Woods, Ohio, which he left a few 
years later, to become pastor at Princeton, Indiana, a 
charge held by him for more than 20 years, lie died 
Nov. 0, 1812. “Mr. Kell was ardent in temperament, 
and by constitution and habit generous. He was never 
neutral in the cause which lie believed to be right, and, 
while zealous, he was liberal. Strict in regard to him- 
self, towards others he was indulgent.” — Wilson, Prcsb. 
Jlist. .1 Imanac, 18G3, p. 387. 

Keller, Benjamin, a promjnent minister of the 
Lutheran Church, was born in Lancaster, Pa., March 4, 
1794. Under the faithful ministry of Rev. Dr. II. E. 
Muhlenberg, he made a public profession of religion, 


and from that time felt an earnest desire to devote him- 
self to the work of preaching the Gospel. His classical 
course he pursued under the direction of Rev. Dr. D. F. 
Schaeffer, of Frederick, Md. ; his theological studies with 
his pastor, Dr. Muhlenberg. In 1814, before he had 
reached his 21st year, he was commissioned by the Syn- 
od of Pennsylvania to preach. His first charge was Car- 
lisle, Pa. lie subsequently labored in Germantown, Pa., 
Gettysburg, and Philadelphia, and in each charge he 
was pre-eminent as a pastor. For a season he was most 
successfully engaged as general agent of the Parent Ed- 
ucation Society, and at a later period his services were 
secured by the Synod of Pennsylvania in its efforts to 
endow a German professorship in the institution at Get- 
tysburg. By his untiring devotion to the work, his per- 
severance and tact, the object was readily attained. For 
some years he was also engaged in the work of the Lu- 
theran Publication Society, in a general agency and su- 
perintendence of its interests. He died July 2, 18G4, af- 
ter a service of fifty years in the Gospel ministry. (31. 
L. S.) 

Keller, Emanuel, a Lutheran minister, was bom 
at Harrisburg, Pa., Sept. 30, 1801. Blessed with pious 
and faithful parents, his thoughts and desires were early 
turned to the Christian ministry. His classical studies 
were pursued at Dickinson College, Carlisle, and the 
study of divinity under the instruction of his pastor, 
Rev. Dr. Geo. Lochman. In 1820 he was inducted into 
the saered office. He labored in the ministry succes- 
sively at Manchester, Md., and Mechanicsburg, Pa.; at 
the latter place he died, April 11, 1837. In his death 
the Church mourned for one of her most useful and de- 
voted ministers. Through his direct and personal in- 
strumentality a large number of individuals were intro- 
duced into the ministry. (31. L. S.) 

Keller, Ezra, D.D., an eminent minister of the 
Lutheran Church, was born in Middletown Valiev, 31 d., 
June 12, 1812. Influenced by an unquenchable desire to 
preach the Gospel, the most formidable obstacles could 
not deter him from his purpose. While at Pennsylva- 
nia College (he graduated in 1835) he began the study 
of theology, and then entered the seminary at Gettys- 
burg. After his licensure to preach be devoted himself 
for a season to the arduous work of an itinerant mission- 
ary for the Western States. In this work he was very 
successful, especially as he preached in German as well 
as English. Subsequently he was engaged in the pas- 
toral work, first at Taneytown, 3Id., and then at 1 lagers- 
town. llis ministry at both places was very efficient. 
In 1814 he accepted the presidency of Wittenberg Col- 
lege, Springfield, Ohio, a litenmy and theological school 
called into existence to meet the wants of the Lutheran 
Church in the West, a position for which he was re- 
garded as admirably fitted. At the time of his death 
few men in the Church gave greater promise of exten- 
sive and permanent influence. Ezra Keller died Dec. 
29, 1848. He received the degree of D.D. from Jeffer- 
son College in 1845. (31. L. S.) 

Keller, Frederick Augustus Muhlenberg, 
the son of Benjamin Keller, was born in Carlisle, Pa., 
April 19, 1819; he graduated at Pennsylvania College in 
1838, and studied theology at the seminary in Gettys- 
burg. For a brief season lie engaged in the w ^rk of 
teaching at Waynesborough, l’a., but was licensed to 
preach in 1842: and having received a unanimous call 
to Trinity Church, Reading, Pa., he immediately entered 
upon the duties assigned him as an assistant to Rev. l)r. 
31iller. On the death of Dr. 31iller in 1850, St. James’s 
Church was organized, of which he became pastor. This 
congregation, with others in the vicinity, he continued 
to serve with a lidelitv and a diligence that never fal- 
tered, till his death, March 18, 18G4. (31. L. S.) 

Keller (Cellakius), Jacob, a German Jesuit, was 
bom at Siickingen, in Swabia, in 1568, and entered the 
Jesuitical order when only twenty years old. He gain- 
ed an unenviable notoriety by his controversies with 


KELLERMAN 


31 


KELLY 


Protestants; most prominent among them is his public 
dispute with Jacob Heilbruuner. The Jesuits claim that 
Keller silenced the Protestant, but evangelical writers 
all deny the truth of this assertion. Be this as it may, 
Keller himself became a great favorite in his order, and 
was honored with a professorship of theology at Regens- 
burg, and later with the rectorate at Munich. He was 
in great favor also with the duke of Bavaria. Klose (in 
1 Ierzog, Real- En ct/ldop. vii, 508) accuses Keller of having 
contributed, both by pen and byword of mouth, towards 
the feeling of hatred which divided Protestants and Ro- 
manists just before the Thirty Years’ War. Keller died 
Feb. 23, 1 Go I. 

Kellerman, Georg, a celebrated Roman Catholic, 
was born Oct. II, 177G, near Munster (Germany), and 
was educated at the University of Munster and in the 
Roman Catholic seminary of that place. He was or- 
dained priest Aug. 2, 1801, but did not hold any priestly 
office until 1811, filling up to this time the position of 
private tutor in the family of the celebrated count of 
Stolberg, and to Kellerman, no doubt, is due the strong 
Roman Catholic tendencies of the Stolberg family. In 
1826 Kellerman assumed, besides his priestly duties, 
those of the professorship of New-Testament exegesis in ; 
the Roman Catholic theological school at Minister, which 
in 183G he exchanged for those of pastoral theology. 
December 13, 184G lie was elected bishop of Minister, 
but he died shortly after, March 29, 1847. 1 Ie published 
Prediyten (Munster, 1830,3 vols. 8vo; 1831, and 1833): 
— Gesch. d. A . und X. Test, (an abridgment of the large 
work of Overberg, and extensively used as a text-book 
in Roman Catholic schools) ; and edited several works 
of others. — Wetzer und Welte, Kirchen-Lex. xii, G41. 

Kelley, Chas. II., a Methodist Episcopal minister, 
was born in Logan Co., Kv., 1821 ; emigrated to Indiana 
in 1829; was converted in 183G; entered the Indiana As- 
bury University in 1845, but his health soon failed, and 
he left ; entered the Indiana Conference in 184G ; was 
transferred to the Missouri Conference in 1849, and ap- 
pointed to St. Joseph station ; in 1850 was stationed at St. 
Louis ; in 1851 at Independence ; and in 1852 atLagrange 
Mission. While on this work he was arrested, on Feb. 
13, 1853, by a band of ruffians, on a pretended suspicion 
of his identity with Chas. F. Kelley, who had recently 
escaped from the state-prison at Fort Madison. Thith- 
er he was forced on a stormy winter night, and though 
the state officers instantly set him at liberty, the out- 
rages and exposure of the eighteen hours he was in the 
h amis of the mob threw his feeble system into sickness, 
and lie died shortly after, Sept. 17, 1853. He was a good 
man, an able and faithful preacher, and much lamented 
by his brethren . — Minutes of Con f v,481, (G. L. T.) 

Kells (originally Kenlis') is the name of an ancient 
Irish town in which a very important synod was held 
A.D. 1152. It was convoked by Papyrio (Paparo?), car- 
dinal priest, and the pope’s (Eugeni us III) legate, for the 
formal reception of the Irish Church into the sec of 
Rome. The Church of Ireland, which had been found- 
ed A.D. 432, remained until the close of the 9th century, 
and even later, almost entirely isolated from the rest of 
Christendom. Through these long years, bishop Usher 
says (iv, 325), “All the affairs of the bishops and Church 
of Ireland were done at home ... the people and the 
kings made their bishops.” All this while the Irish 
Church, in her isolation and poverty, grew from infancy 
to maturity, following the plain scriptural teachings of 
her unlettered founder, without perhaps knowing any- 
thing of the refinements and innovations which were 
arising on the Continent. The irruption of the Danes 
in A.D. 787 had brought the Irish, and with them the 
Church, into more general communication with conti- 
nental Europe; and when, towards the close of the 9th 
century, many of the colonists in Ireland embraced 
Christianity, their clergy applied to the English, whom 
they claimed as their kindrbd, for ordination, and in 
A.D. 1085, Lanfranc, archbishop of Canterbury, ordained 


for them Donatits as the bishop of Dublin. On his con- 
secration Donatus made the following declaration: “ I, 
Donatus, bishop of the see of Dublin, in Ireland, do 
promise canonical obedience to you, O Lanfranc, arch- 
bishop of the holy Church of Canterbury, and to your 
successors” {I dust. Men oj Ireland , i, 235). This was 
the first promise of fealty on the part of any church in 
Ireland, and it was made by a foreigner (no native had 
ever made such a pledge), and gave rise to two Church 
organizations, the old one founded by St. Patrick, and 
the new Dano-Irish Church started bv this action of the 
archbishop of Canterbury. The Synod of Kells was called 
to bring about a union of the two branches, or, at least, 
to establish on a permanent basis the claims of Roman- 
ism. We cannot tell who composed this celebrated syn- 
od at Kells, for from this time forward all the records 
were in the keeping of the new organization; those of 
the old were either accidentally or intentionally lost. 
It is not, however, very probable that the old Irish gov- 
ernment of nearly seven hundred years’ standing would 
at once dissolve itself and merge into the new one, 
whose purposes they had so long resisted. Besides, 
nearly twenty years afterwards, in A.D. 1170, we find 
the old Synod of Armagh still in existence, deploring 
and protesting against the slaughterings and devasta- 
tions of the English under Henry II, whom the popes 
had then sent over to Ireland to bring their Church “ to 
canonical conformity.” Papyrio clearly recognised it 
as his task to establish a hierarchy where none had 
ever existed before, and for this purpose he attempted 
to suppress most of the former Irish bishops, and to cre- 
ate four great archiepiscopal sees — those of Armagh, 
Cashel, Dublin, and Tuam — by instituting a system of 
tithes, claiming Peter’s pence, and requiring conformity 
in all Church matters “to the one catholic and Roman 
office.” He brought also with him the palliums or in- 
vestitures from the pope for the four newly-created ar- 
chiepiscopal sees; the reception of these was regarded 
as so many pledges of fealty and obedience to the popes 
of Rome. The public presentation and reception of 
these badges had long been an object of great solicitude 
on the part both of Rome and of several of the promi- 
nent bishops in England and Ireland ; for, in their es- 
timation, until this was done, there seemed to have 
been something wanting in regard to a full and com- 
plete union. All of these measures, as we have seen, 
were, however, inaugurated and carried forward by the 
Dano-Irish and a small Romanizing party in Ireland. 
The native clergy, with few exceptions, would have ac- 
tively opposed them had they not looked upon the 
Danes as mere colonists. To their sorrow, the Irish 
learned, when too late, that the Roman hierarchy had 
been successfully established in Ireland by the action of 
the Synod of Kells. See Mant, History of the Irish 
Church , p. G. See Ireland. (I). D.) 

Kelly, John, a minister of the Reformed Presbyte- 
rian Church, was born at Rocky Creek, Chester District, 
S. C., in 1772, and was educated abroad (at Glasgow Col- 
lege, Scotland), as was the custom and necessity in his 
day. His theological studies he pursued under the di- 
rection of the Rev. Dr. McMillan, of Stirling, Scotland, 
lie returned to South Carolina in 1808, and in June, 
1809, was licensed to preach. Two years later he was 
ordained and appointed missionary in the Western States 
and Territories, and settled finally at Beech Woods, But- 
ler Co., Ohio. He was released from active service in 
1837, but continued preaching iip to the time of his 
death, Nov. G, 1842. “ His life was one of most untiring 
activity, and under his faithful ministry many a spot in 
the wilderness was seen to bud and blossom as the rose.” 
— Sprague, A muds , ix (Ref. Presb.), p. G3. 

Kelly, Thomas, was born in Queens County, Ire-t 
land, about 17G9, and was the son of Judge Kelly, of 
Kelly ville. lie graduated at the Dublin University 
with the highest honors, with a view of studying Law. 
He entered at the Temple, London, and while there en- 


KELPIES 


32 


KEMPER 


joyed the friendship of his celebrated countryman, Ed- 
mund Burke, but before the completion of his legal stud- 
ies. his mind having been strongly exercised on the sub- 
ject of religion, he entered upon a course of theological 
reading, and in 1793 was ordained a clergyman of the 
Established Church. Kelly became one of the most 
popular preachers in Dublin, and crowds flocked to his 
church Sunday after Sunday to listen to his fervent ap- 
peals; incurring, however, the displeasure of his superi- 
ors in the Church, he was induced at length to leave the 
Establishment, though he never dissented from its doc- 
trines. Uc continued to labor in Dublin for more than 
sixty years, and it was a common remark concerning 
hint that he never seemed to waste an hour, lie was 
possessed of abundant means, a rare thing among cler- 
gymen, and devoted a large portion of it to.the building 
of churches. lie was a man of varied learning, versed 
in the Oriental languages, and an excellent Biblical crit- 
ic. He was also skilled in music, and composed a vol- 
ume of airs for his hymns which were remarkable for 
their simplicity and sweetness. In October, 1854, while 
preaching to his own congregation, he was seized with 
a slight stroke of paralysis, which gradually lessened his 
strength, till he died May 14, 1855. Mr. Kelly was the 
author of Andrew Dunn , a controversial work against 
ltomanism, and of a pamphlet entitled Thoughts on Im- 
puted Righteousness, but as a writer he is best known as 
the author of lignins on various Passages o f Scripture 
(the last edition, published in Dublin, 1853, contains sev- 
en hundred and sixtv-live hymns). (E. de P.) 

Kelpies, in Scotch mythology a name for departed 
spirits, who are said to return to this world in the shape 
of river-horses. They correspond to the Nok of Nor- 
wegian mythology. See Thorpe, Northern Mythology, 
ii, 22. 

Kelsey t James, a Methodist Episcopal minister, 
born at Tyringham, Mass., Oct. 18, 1782, was converted 
in 179G, entered the Philadelphia Conference in 180G, 
and labored with great success. .He died in 1840 (?). 
James Kelsey v T as a good man, and through a long ser- 
vice was intent on the work of saving the souls of men. 
— Minutes of Conferences, iii, 140. 

Kelso, George W., a Methodist Episcopal minis- 
ter, was born in Louisa County, Ya., in 1815, and emi- 
grated while young to Tennessee, lie was educated at 
the Nashville University, joined the Tennessee Confer- 
ence in 1835. was transferred to the Virginia Conference 
in 1842, and died Aug. 10, 1843. Kelso was a faithful 
and very successful minister, not brilliant, but sound and 
equable, and very trustworthy in all things. — Minutes 
of Conferences, iii, 4G0. 

Kemp, James, D.D., a bishop of the Protestant 
Episcopal Church, was born in Aberdeenshire, Scotland, 
in 17G4, of Presbyterian parentage; graduated at Aber- 
deen University (Marischal College) in 178G, and the 
year following came to this country. At first he en- 
gaged in teaching, but, finally deciding to join the Epis- 
copal Church, lie prepared for the ministry; was or- 
dained by bishop White Dec. 26, 1789, and the year fol- 
lowing became rector of Great Choptank parish, Mary- 
land, w here he remained for more than twenty years. In 
1802 he received from Columbia College the degree of 
D.l). Two years later he was elected suffragan bishop 
with bishop Claggett, of Maryland, with the understand- 
ing that he was to succeed the latter in case he was the 
survivor, lie was consecrated for this position at New' 
Brunswick, New Jersey, Sept. 1, 1814. The jurisdiction 
of bishop Kemp v r as exercised especially over the par- 
ishes on the Eastern Shore; in 1816, however, on bishop 
Claggctt’s decease, the whole diocese came under his 
charge, and bv his prudence and moderation he com- 
mended himself to both clergy and laity. In 1816 he 
accepted the provostship of the University of Maryland, 
and held it until the time of liis death, Oct. 28, 1827. 
(J. II. W.) 


Kemp, Thomas William, a minister of much 
promise in the Lutheran Church, w’as born in Frederick 
Co.. Md., Dec. 2, 1833. Under the influence of faithful 
Christian nurture his religious principles w ere success- 
fully developed, and the foundation of his character laid. 
Ilis childhood and youth w T ere characterized by an ex- 
emption from everything vicious, by unusual sprightli- 
ness, and an eager desire for study. For four years he 
was a pupil of St. Mary’s (Catholic) College, Baltimore. 
1 1 e subsequently entered Pennsylvania College, and grad- 
uated in 1853. lie commenced his theological studies 
under the direction of Drs. Morris, Seiss, and Webster, 
at the time pastors in Baltimore, and completed them 
at the seminary in Gettysburg. lie was licensed to 
preach in 1855. For a brief period he was associated 
with Dr. Stork in the pastoral w r ork in Philadelphia. I Ic 
subsequently took charge of a Mission Church in Chi- 
cago, Illinois, but the climate proving unfavorable to his 
health, he w T as obliged to retire from the field. lie vis- 
ited foreign lands, but returned from his pilgrimage to 
die amid the scenes of his childhood and the embrace 
of loved ones at home. lie passed peacefully aw'ay 
Sept. 15, 1861. (M. L. S.) 

Kemp, van der, John Theodore, a Dutch mis- 
sionary, w T as born at Botterdam in 1748, and studied 
Oriental languages and theology at the University of 
Leyden, but after graduation he. entered the army in 
a regiment of dragoons, in which he soon attained the 
grade of lieutenant. He left the army, however, and 
turned to the study of medicine at Edinburgh, and in 
1791 commenced practicing at Dort; but, in the end, 
he turned again to theology. The loss of his wife and 
daughter, who w r ere drowned together, so affected him 
that he devoted himself exclusively to the service of 
his divine Master. About this time he wrote. a work 
on St. Paid’s theodicy (published in 1798), and later he 
w r ent as a missionary to the Hottentots. Arriving at 
the Cape of Good Hope, he obtained leave from a Kaf- 
fre king to settle in his states, but was subsequently 
driven away by the jealousy of the Dutch settlers. Re- 
tained at the Cape by governor Janssens until 1806, he 
was then permitted by the English governor Baird to 
settle at Bethelsdorp. The official report of his mission, 
which he drew up in 1809, does not show him to have 
been particularly successful in his attempts to civilize 
the natives. He died at the Cape Dec. 7, 1811. See 
Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate, xxvii, 539. (J. N. P.) 

Kempe, STErnAN, one of the leaders in the Ger- 
man Deformation of the 16th century, the founder of 
Protestantism in the city of Hamburg, his native place, 
was born towards the close of the 15th century. He 
was educated at Bostock, and became a Franciscan monk 
in 1523; but,w'hile on business for his order at Ham- 
burg, he became acquainted with the reformer Joachim 
Sluter, and soon was himself one of the most enthusias- 
tic preachers of the new religion. To Kempe belongs 
the glory, indeed, of the evangelization of Hamburg. 
One of his ablest assistants in the glorious work was 
Ziegenhagen (q. v.). In 1528 they had so far gained 
the upper hand that the Roman Catholics were obliged 
to leave the city altogether in their hands. In LUne- 
burg, also, Kempe aided the good cause of the Luther- 
ans; in fact, wherever, in the immediate neighborhood 
of the llanse cities, his assistance was needed to further 
the reformatory movement, it had not to be asked for 
twice. He died at Hamburg October 23, 1540. He 
wrote a narrative of the Beformation in Hamburg which 
was published by Mayer in Das Evangelische Hamburg 
(Hamburg, 1693, 12mo). 

Kemper, Jackson, D.D., LL.D., first missionary 
bishop of the Protestant Episcopal Church in the United 
States, vras born at Pleasant Yallev, in Dutchess County, 
New York, Dec. 24, 1789. When about twelve years of 
age he was sent to the Episcopal Academy at Cheshire, 
Conn., and remained there two years ; after that he was 
put under the charge of Rev. Dr. Barry, a graduate of 


KEMPIS 


33 


KEMPIS 


Trinity College, Dublin, at that time one of the most i 
distinguished classical teachers in the country' ; entered 
Columbia College in 1805, and graduated in 1809. lie 
began the study of theology under the care of bishop 
Moore and the clergy of Trinity parish, there being no 
theological seminaries in those days. As soon as he had 
reached the canonical age of twenty-one years, he was 
ordained deacon at the hands of bishop White, in St. Pe- 
ter’s Church, Philadelphia, on the second Sunday in 
Lent, 1811. lie was immediately called to the assist - 
antship under bishop White, and held this position till 
June of 1831, when he accepted the rectorship of St. 
Paul’s Church, Norwalk, Conn. In 1835 he was elected 
the first missionary bishop of the American Church. 
His jurisdiction comprised “ the North-west.” Out of it 
have been formed the dioceses of Missouri, Indiana, Wis- 
consin, Minnesota, Iowa, Kansas, and Nebraska. Early 
in t lie winter of this year bishop Kemper reached St. 
Louis, where he took up his residence until he removed 
to Wisconsin in 1814. Meanwhile (about 1838) he had 
been elected to the bishopric of Maryland, but this hon- 
or lie declined, preferring the more burdensome but not 
less honorable position of missionary bishop. In 1847, 
Wisconsin having been organized into a diocese, the 
Primary Convention elected bishop Kemper diocesan. 
This was also declined; but in 1854, being again unani- 
mously elected, lie accepted, only upon condition that 
his acceptance should allow him to remain missionary 
bishop still. At the General Convention of 1859 he re- 
signed His office as missionary bishop, and from that 
time until his death, May 24, 1870, his labors were con- 
fined to the diocese of Wisconsin. He was active in 
the establishment of a theological seminary within the 
bounds of his diocese, and when, in 1843, it was founded 
at Nashotah, Wisconsin, the bishop took up his residence 
on a farm adjoining. 

Kempis, John a, a German monk, brother of 
Thomas a Kempis (q. v.), was born at Kempcn, near 
Cologne, in 13G5. About 1380 he came to Deventer, 
and was admitted by Gerard Groot among the Brethren 
of the Common Life. lie became successively one of 
the first members of the Canons Regular of Windesheim 
in 138G; prior of the Convent of Mariabrunn, near Arn- 
licim, in 1392 ; and of the new Convent of Mount St. Ag- 
nes, near Zwoll, in 1399. Here he remained nine years, 
during which he caused the buildings, etc., of the con- 
vent to be finished. He subsequently directed four oth- 
er establishments of his order, and died at Bethany, near 
Arnlieim, Nov. 4, 1432. It was John ii Kempis who 
drew up the rules of the chapter of Windesheim, the cen- 
tral establishment of his order. Gerson pronounced his 
eulogy in the Council of Constance. See Buschius, 
CJironicon Windcsemense ; Rosweide, Vita Joh.it Kempis 
(Appendix ad Thomas it Kempis Chronicon Montis S. 
Agnetis'); Moorcn, Nachrichten iiber Thom, it Kempis , p. 
134. — I loefer, Nou t\ Biog. G etier. xx vii, 542. ( J. N. P.) 

Kempis, Thomas a (so called from his native 
place, Kempen , a village in the diocese of Cologne ; his 
family name was Ilamerken [Latinized Malleolus, Lit- 
tle Hammer]), one of the most celebrated mystics and 
forerunners of the Reformation of the IGth century, was 
born about 1380. Thomas’s parents were poor, and 
could ill afford the aspiring youth any superior advan- 
tages of education, but, trained by a pious mother, he 
had early inclined to the priesthood, and, aware of the 
advantages afforded young persons by the monastic 
brotherhood known as the Brethren of the Common Life 
(q. v.), he quitted his parental roof at the age of thir- 
teen to seek further educational advantages than he 
had enjoyed at his home, under the instruction of the 
celebrated John Boehmc, then at the head of a school 
at Deventer, superintended by the “ Brethren of the 
Common Life.” While here at school he was brought 
to the notice of Florentine, one of the principal disciples 
of Gerhard Groot, and the superintendent of the broth- 
erhood, whose protection Thomas was enjoying. Floren- 
V.— C 


tins, not slow to discover in Thomas abilities of a bigh 
order, embraced every opportunity to draw the pious 
youth closer to his side, and in 1396 finally offered him 
a home at his own house, the head-quarters of the breth- 
ren, to study and watch more closely the character and 
inclinations of the youthful stranger. Surrounded by pi- 
ous comrades, among whom we meet Arnold of Schoon- 
hoven (q. v.), with whom he shared a little chamber 
and bed, Thomas was soon inclined to a life of asceti- 
cism. “Examples,” says Thomas a Kempis himself, 
“are more instructive than words” (Vail, lilior. xxiv, 1, 
p. 95). Possessed of a boding mind, and animated by 
a piety so fervent as to presume always the best of oth- 
ers, such was the effect produced upon him by the 
brethren’s whole maimer of life, that the seven years he 
spent in the zealous exercise of piety and the prosecu- 
tion of his studies at the school and brother-house of 
Deventer were to him seven years spent in an actual 
paradise. About 1400 he petitioned father Florcntius 
for a recommendation to admit him into the convent of 
Mount St. Agnes, near Zwoll, of which his brother John 
a Kempis (q. v.) was then prior, and with a hearty wel- 
come he entered this monastery as a novice among the 
regular canons. “Strangely as the mind of Thomas 
was bent upon his vocation, and although both nature 
and previous education had perfectly adapted him for 
it, he did not pluftge into it without consideration. De- 
liberate even in his youthful zeal, he spent five years 
of novitiate, assumed the monastic dress in the sixth, 
and did not until the year following take the vow, 
which he then, however, kept with inviolable fidelity” 
(Ullmann, ut infra , ii, 124). It was not until about 1413 
that he was ordained to the priesthood. Before this or- 
dination he had buried himself, like all worthy disciples 
of the brotherhood, in the copying of MSS. and in the 
performance of religious exercises. Now that he was a 
priest, his chief occupation became the delivery of relig- 
ious discourses anil t he duties of the confessional. He 
continued, however, copying religious MSS. Thomas a 
Kempis, indeed, applied himself with vigor to this la- 
bor, to which he brought a quick eye and a .skilful hand. 
He copied out the whole Bible, a missal, and a multi- 
tude of other works, which the monastery of St. Agnes 
preserved; hut, in performing this office, he also prac- 
ticed the advice of one of the ancients, who, in writing 
out books, did not only seek by the labor of his hands 
to gain food for his body, but also to refresh his soul 
with heavenly nourishment. He was humble, meek, 
ready to give consolation ; fervent in his exhortations 
and prayers, spiritual, contemplative, and his efforts in 
this direction finally resulted in the composition of an 
original treatise, which to this hour remains one of the 
most perfect compositions in religious literature, bv 
many considered the most beautiful uninspired produc- 
tion — the Imitation of Christ (see below). In 1425 
Thomas was appointed subprior, an office which in- 
trusted to his care the spiritual progress of the brethren 
and the instruction of novices. A difficulty having oc- 
curred between the pope oil the one side, and the chap- 
ter and nobility of Utrecht on the other, about the elec- 
tion of Rudolph of Diepliold as archbishop, the dioccsc 
was put under interdict, and the canons left Mount St. 
Agnes in 1429 to retire to Lunekerke, in Friesland, but 
returned in 1432, when Thomas became procurator of 
the convent. But, as the duties of this office appeared 
to abstract him too much from meditation and his more 
profitable labors as au author, he was, about 1-119, re- 
poned in the subpriorate, and continued in this office 
until his death, July 2G, 1471. “From the nature of 
the case, we have little to say of Thomas’s cloistcral life. 
Without an 3" considerable disturbance, it flowed on like 
a limpid brook, reflecting on its calm surface the un- 
clouded heavens. Quiet industry, lonely contemplation, 
and secret prayer filled lip the day, and every day was 
like another.” Among his contemporaries Thomas was 
eminently distinguished for sanctity and ascetic learn- 
ing. 


KEMPIS 


34 


KEMPIS 


Works . — The reputation of a Kempis, however, rests 
not upon liis ascetic* character, but rather on the produc- 
tions of liis pen — his sermons, ascetical treatises, pious 
biographies, letters, and hymns— and from these only 
one need be selected to claim for him the mastery as a 
religions writer — his De Imitatione Christi — “ standing, 
as no one doubts, and as even its effects have demon- 
strated it to do, in point of excellence far above all the 
rest, the purest and most finished production of Thom- 
as;” a work which, next to the sacred Scriptures only, 
lias had the largest number of readers of which sacred 
literature, ancient or modern, can furnish an example. 
In its pages, says Milman ( Latin Christianity, x i, 482), 
*• are gathered and concentred all that is elevating, pas- 
sionate, profoundly pious in all tha older mystics. No 
book, after the holy Scripture, has been so often reprint- 
ed; none translated into so many languages, ancient 
and modern,” extending even to Greek and Hebrew, or 
so often retranslated. Sixty distinct versions are enu- 
merated in French alone, and a single collection, formed 
at Cologne within the present century, comprised, al- 
though confessedly incomplete, no fewer than 500 dis- 
tinct. editions. Indeed, it may be somewhat of a sur- 
prise to some to learn that this book has had an impor- 
tant influence on the mind of John Wesley and on the 
origin of Methodism. Wesley published a translation 
of it, entitled The Christian's Pattern, It was one of 
the earliest volumes issued by the 'Methodist Hook Con- 
cern, and is still on their catalogue. ‘‘It should be,” 
says one of the most distinguished American Method- 
ists, “ in the hands of every Methodist.” 

►Strange, indeed, it seems that the authorship of a 
work so popular and so widely noted, and of compara- 
tively recent origin, should ever have been a subject of 
doubt and long controversy. Shortly after the decease 
of Thomas a Kempis a violent dispute arose between the 
Canons Regular of St. Augustine and the Benedictines, 
the former claiming De Imitatione Christi as the work 
of Thomas a Kempis, the latter asserting it to have 
been the production of the celebrated John Gerson (q. 
v.), chancellor of the University of Paris, who died in 
1429. These two persons were generally cited as its 
authors until the beginning of the 17th century, when 
the Spanish Jesuit Manriquez discovered a INIS, which 
credited it to John Gerscn, or Gesen, abbe of Verceil in 
the early part of the 13th century. Since that time 
(1G04) three competitors have divided the voices of the 
learned — not alone individuals, but public bodies, uni- 
versities, religious orders, the Congregation of the In- 
dex, the Parliament of Paris, and even the French 
Academy; and the assertors of these respective claims 
have carried into the controversy no tritling amount of 
polemical acrimony. So much has been written on the 
theme, especially by French and Netherland antiqua- 
ries, that its pamphlets and books would make up quite 
a little library. Among the French writers the ten- 
dency of opinion has been to give the merit of this cele- 
brated production to John Gerson. “ Kempis,” argued 
Messieurs Barbier and Lerov, “ was an excellent copy- 
ist; his copy of the Bible— the labor of fifteen years— 
was thought a masterpiece of calligraphic art ; and so 
he was merely employed in transcribing the work of 
Gerson,” basing their inference mainly on the name and 
date of an ancient MS. of the De Imitatione preserved 
in the library at Valenciennes. German writers, on the 
other hand, have always been decidedly in favor of as- 
signing the work to Thomas a Kempis, and since the 
discovery by bishop Malon of a MS. in the library at 
Brussels, bearing the name of Thomas ii Kempis as au- 
thor, the Belgians have joined the Germans. The 
proofs in favor of Thomas it Kempis are thus stated bv 
31. E rnest Gregoire (in Hoofer, Nouv. Bioy . (Jen, xxvii, 
545 sq. ). 

A. The direct Testimony of his Contemporaries. — 1. 
John Bnscliius, canon regular of the monastery of Win- 
desheim (1420-79), positively declares in his Chronicle of 
that convent that Thomas wrote the Imitation. As he 


knew him intimately, and had often occasion to see him, 
his testimony is important. They w r ere of the same 
congregation, and Bnscliius was in the principal con- 
vent, where w\as held the general chapter, in which 
Thomas, as subprior, took part. Moreover, he resided 
there for fifty-one years, only one league and a half 
from Mount St. Agnes, where Thomas lived at the 
same time. It was said by some that the passage re- 
ferring to Thomas was afterwards added in the chroni- 
cle; but a well-authenticated deed, drawn up in 1700, 
testifies tTiat the MS. of the chronicle written by Buseh- 
ius’s owni hand contains the passage written in the same 
hand, with the same ink, and in full, without erasure, 
insertion, or parenthesis. The same has been proved 
concerning a MS. copy of the Chronicle of Windesheim, 
written in 1477, and another written in 1478, -which was 
sold at Cologne in 1823. 2. Hermann of liyd, who wrote 
in 1454 a description of the convents belonging to the 
Canons Kegular of Windesheim, states as positively as 
Buschius that Thomas, with whom lie was personally 
acquainted, wrote the Imitation. 3. Gaspard Pforzheim, 
at the end of his German translation of the first three 
books of the Imitation , written in 1448, declares that it 
was the work of Kempis. 4. The author of an anony- 
mous biography of Kempis, written before the year 14N8, 
counts the Imitation among the w orks of Thomas. Ills 
testimony is the more valuable, as he had expressly gone 
to Mount St. Agnes to learn all the particulars concern- 
ing Kempis from those who had lived with him. 5. 
Albert of Hardenberg, a disciple of the celebrated Wes- 
sel, who was himself a disciple of Thomas, w r rote the 
following decisive passages: ‘-The reputation of the 
excellent brother Thomas a. Kempis attracted many 
people to him. About that time he was writing the 
book of the Imitation of Christ, commencing Qui sequi- 
tur me. Vessel used to say that this book first rendered 
him zealously pious, and decided him to become better 
acquainted, and even familiar, with master Thomas, so 
that he actually, embraced monastic life in the same 
convent of St. Agnes;” again: “The monks of Mount 
St. Agnes have shown me several writings of the very 
pious Thomas a Kempis, of w T hom they have preserved, 
among others, the truly estimable work of the Imita- 
tion of Jesus Christ, to which Vessel owed his taste for 
theology. The reading of this work had decided him, 
while yet quite young, to go to Zwoll to study belles- 
lettres, and to enjoy the friendship of the pious Thomas 
a Kempis, who was then canon of St. Agnes. Vessel 
had the highest regard for him, and preferred dwelling 
there rather than anywhere else.” G. John Mauburne, 
a canon regular, who was a novice of Mount St. Agnes 
under Kenier, which latter had lived there six years 
with Thomas a Kempis, quotes, in his Ilosetum spiritu- 
alium exercitiorum, printed in 1491, three passages of 
the Imitation , naming Kempis as its author. In his 
Catalogue des hommes illustres de la congregation de ) I r in- 
desem (Wimlesheim) lie names three books of the Imi- 
tation, separately, as the w T ork of Thomas. 

These various testimonies are all derived from learned 
and trustworthy men, all of whom, with the exception of 
one, were personally acquainted with Thomas a Kempis, 
or with persons who lived with him. They are, more- 
over, given with a simplicity which shows that they 
did not consider the question as one at all likely to give 
rise to controversy. They appear so conclusive that it 
is hardly necessary to mention other writers of the 15th 
century who testified to the same effect. Trithemius 
(De Script. Decks, c. 707) informs ns that in his day 
Kempis was universally considered as the author of the 
Imitation ; and though after 1441 some MSS. and subse- 
quently some editions bore the name of John Gerson, 
every time the question as to the authorship arose in the 
15th century it was decided in favor of Kempis. Thus 
Peter Schott, canon regular of Strasburg, in the pref- 
ace to his edition of the works of John Gerson in 1488, 
says: “Some treatises are attributed to John Gerson, 
though well known to have been written by other par- 


KEMPIS 


35 


KEMPIS 


ties ; such, for instance, is the work De Contemptu J fun- 
di, which is proved to have been written by a canon 
regular called Thomas a Kempis.” The publisher of the 
French translation of the Imitation (Paris, 1493) ex- 
pressly states that Thomas a Kempis was the author. 
The publisher of the Nuremberg edition, 1494, does the 
same. Finally, Francis of Tholen, successor of Thomas 
as subprior of Mount St. Agnes, gives the MS. copies of 
the Imitation in Thomas’s own handwriting as a proof 
against Gerson. 

B. Indirect Proofs from the I'arious MSS. and Edi- 
tions. — The oldest MS. of the Imitation we now possess 
is that known as Kirchheim’s (in the Bourgogne Li- 
brary, Brussels, as No. 15,137); it contains only the first 
three books. At the bottom of the first page is a note 
saying, “ Be it remarked that this treatise is the work 
of a pious and learned man, master Thomas of Mount 
St. Agnes, and canon regular of Utrecht, called Thomas 
a Kempis. It was copied from the author’s autograph 
in the diocese of Utrecht in the year 1425, in the cen- 
tral house of the province.” Another MS. of the same 
period was discovered in 1852 [by bishop Milller, of 
MUnster], in the gymnasium of Gadesd'onk, near Goch : 
it contains the first four books of the Imitation: the 
tirst he copied in 1425, and the last in 1427. It does not 
give the name of the author, but a very significant fact 
is that it belonged originally to the Canons Regular of 
Bethlehem, near Dottingheim, in the neighborhood of 
Mount St. Agnes. Among the other MSP. we notice, in 
the first place, that belonging to the Jesuits of Anvers, 
which played an important part in the controversy re- 
specting the authorship. It is now in the Bourgogne 
Library, Brussels, as No. 5855-5861. It is all in Thom- 
as’s own handwriting, and, besides the first four books 
of the Imitation , it contains some other treatises of Kem- 
pis. It closes with these words: “Finitus et eompletus 
Anno Domini 1441 per manns fratris Thomas Kempen- 
sis in Monte S. Agnetis prope Zwollas.” Some have 
considered this as a proof that he only copied it, for 
he used the same formula concerning the copies of the 
missal and Bible which he wrote in 1417 and 1438; but 
it has been ascertained that he used it also in all copies 
of his own original works. The Bourgogne Library, 
Brussels, preserves as No. 4585^587 a MS. of Thomas 
a Kempis containing a collection of his essays, and 
which ends as follows: “Anno 1446 finitus et scriptus 
per manus fratris Thomas Cam pensis,” without otherwise 
naming Thomas as the author. This formula, there- 
fore, proves nothing either for or against the claims of 
Kempis. But it is worthy of notice that the authorship 
of the aseetic treatises contained in the Anvers MS. af- 
ter the four books of the Imitation has always been 
unanimously ascribed to Kempis, and he would certain- 
ly not have put at the head of them the work of anoth- 
er which he had merely copied, or he would be open to 
the charge of deception. There are other MSS., dated 
1441, 1442, 1445, 1447, and 1451, as also seven between 
1463 and 1488, which name Kempis as the author of the 
Imitation . Among the many MSS. of the 15th cen- 
tury which bear no precise date, but testify to this au- 
thorship, we shall mention only that of Dalhem, copied 
by a priest who saiil a mass for Kempis two months af- 
ter the latter’s death, and that of the canons of St. Mar- 
tin of Louvain, which they received in 1570 from the 
last remaining members of the congregation of Mount 
St. Agnes. It is in Kempis’s own handwriting, and con- 
tains the first draft of the fourth book of the Imitation — 
the first he prepared in composing the work. Among 
the many editions of the Imitation published in the 
15th century, twenty-three at least consider Kempis as 
the author; and among these we find the oldest of all, 
published by Zainer (Augsb. 1468-1472). 

C. Proofs drawn from the Doctrines held and the 
Expressions used in the Imitation. — The principles ad- 
vanced in the Imitation are in perfect accordance with 
those held by the founders of the congregation of the 
Brethren of the Common Life , Gerhard Groot,' Floren- 


tius Radewins, and John van Heusden. It may even 
be considered only as a commentary or exposition of 
their doctrines. In judging it thus, criticism, how- 
ever, does not detract from the value of this mas- 
terpiece of the second half of the fourteenth century. 
Bnschius said of its author, “Yerus his novissimis tem- 
poribus liu jus nostras terra apostolus, primus lmjus nos- 
tras reformat ion is et totius modernaj devotionis origo."’ 
The word ikvotio came to be used to designate the kind 
of piety Groot sought to develop among his disciples, 
and the latter took the name of deroti. Now, in the 
Imitation we find some ten passages ■where the expres- 
sion derotns is used to designate a particular class of per- 
sons who applied themselves zealously and ceaselessly 
to the practice of religious exercises, and to which the 
author himself belonged. Some eleven other passages, 
and a whole chapter even, show, moreover, that the book 
was written for a religious community of which the au- 
thor was also a member, a fact quite incompatible with 
the opinion which considers Gerson as the author. We 
can quote here only three of the most conclusive pas- 
sages: “S:epe sentimus, ut ineliores et puriores in initio 
conversionis nos fuisse inveniamus, quant post multos 
annos professionis” (lib. i, ch. 11). “O quantus fervor 
omnium religiosorum in principiis sine sanctaj institu- 
tionis! . . . O temporis ct negligentias status nostri, 
quod tarn cito declinamus a pristino fervore” (lib. i, 
ch. 18). “Suscepi, suseepi de manu tua erucem; por- 
tabo et portabo earn usque ad mortem, sicut impo- 
suisti mihi. Yere vita boni monachi crux cst; sed 
dux paradisi. Eia fratres, pergamus simul ; Jesus erit 
nobiscum. Propter Jesum snscepimus banc crucem ; 
propter Jesum persevoremus in eruce” (lib. iii, ch. 56). 
Another and strong proof in favor of Kempis is the 
fact that the principles advanced in those of his trea- 
tises the authorship of which has not been contested 
are precisely the same as are advocated in the Imi- 
tation. More than twenty chapters in these various 
treatises have almost the identical headings of some of 
the Imitation. Some have accounted for this on the 
ground of his familiarity with De Imita'ione by copy- 
ing; but this theory falls to the ground when we con- 
sider that in all his other treatises, more than forty in 
number, he nowhere refers to or quotes the Imitation, 
which he would not have failed to do if it were the pro- 
duction of some other writer. Next to the general re- 
semblance of these productions with regard to their ten- 
or and tone, we must notice their similarity of style. 
The Imitation consists wholly of a series of separate 
maxims, pious reflections, advice, axioms, without any 
special connection of the several parts. A number of 
MS. copies bore the title Liber sententiannn de Imita - 
done Christi , or Admonitiones ad spirit unlia trahentes. 
But this is exactly Thomas a KempL’s style. The writ- 
er’s own description of his manner of writing is evident- 
ly that of the author of the Imitation: “ Yario etiam 
sermonum genere, nunc loquens, nunc disputans, nunc 
orans, nunc colloquens, nunc in propria persona, nunc in 
peregrina, plaeido stylo textum prasentem eircum fiexi” 
(Prolog. Soliloqui Animal). Some object to Kempis on 
the ground that he was a mere copyist, who spent his 
life peaceably in a -convent, and could not have known 
so intimately and accurately the yearnings, the sublime 
outbursts of the human heart which fill every page of 
the Imitation. We must remark, however, that the 
Canons Regular were not mere copyists, as the word is 
understood in our time, but rather intelligent publish- 
ers of the works they copied, and often men of great 
learning. They compared and corrected the works 
which came out of their hands by the aid of the best 
authorities, and, according to Thomas, their principal oc- 
cupations were orare , m edit are. studere, scribe re. Thom- 
as, as we have seen, was especially intrusted with the in- 
struction of the novices, and, it seems, preached on all 
special occasions, drawing large crowds by his eloquence. 
He who seriously studies his own heart, moreover, docs 
not need to go abroad in the world to become thorough- 


KEMPIS 


3 G 


KEMPIS 


ly acquainted with human nature, with its varied strug- 
gles, emotions, and yearnings. “ I have,” says Kempis 
himseli', “everywhere sought rest, and found it only iu 
solitude and among books” (De Imitat. Christi, i, 22, G; 
23, 1 sq.; iii, 54, 1-8). “The Imitation ,” says a writer 
in the Revue Chretiennc (Feb. 1861), “is a great and good 
book. One breathes in it the most perfect love of God. 
The author, whoever he may be, has sounded the depths 
of this abyss of love, and the abyss attracts instead of 
frightening him. In this faith resting on God one feels 
a passionate casting aside of the things of this world, 
and a fervent yearning for the realities of a future life.” 

Another great reason for assigning the work directly 
to German ground, and therefore also to Kcmpis, arc 
the many Germanisms occurring in the Imitation. We 
shall mention only five, but these are sufficient to show 
that the writer was thoroughly conversant with German 
idioms : Cadere super , in the sense of earing for a thing ; 
j ace re in, for to depend on ; f/ra vitas , for difficulty ; levi- 
ter , for easily; and, dually, scire exterius , for to know by 
heart. This last is a literal translation of the German 
idiom (unintelligible in any other), and should have been 
memoriter scire. Some have, on the other hand, point- 
ed to several Gallicisms in the Imitation, but the Uni- 
versity of Paris was at that time the centre of theolog- 
ical knowledge, and it is no wonder if some French idi- 
oms became current expressions in the schools, while 
this could not be the case with German. See Gerson. 

The other works of Thomas a Kempis, which arc all 
of an ascetic character with the exception of two, have 
been collected in several editions, none of which, how- 
ever, is quite complete. Among the most, important 
editions arc those of Ketelacr, published at Utrecht a 
lew years after Kempis’s death; of Paris (1493. 1520, 
1521, 1523, 1549), Nuremberg (1494), Venice (1535, 15G3, 
157G), Antwerp (1574). That published at the same 
place in 1G00 by the Jesuit Somraalius is considered the 
best, though it is not complete; it was reprinted at Ant- 
werp (in 1G07 and 1G15), at Douay (1635), Cologne (1GG0, 
1728, 1754), etc. A German translation of Kempis’s 
complete works was published by Silbert (Vienna, 1834, 
4 vols. 8vo). One of the latest editions was prepared by 
Krans, Opera Omnia (Treves, 1868, IGmo),but the most 
remarkable modern edition is a Heptaglot, printed at 
.Sulzbach (1837), containing, besides the original, later 
versions in Italian, Spanish, French, German, English, 
and Greek. As for the De Imitatione, it has continued 
in print to the present time in nearly all the languages 
of the civilized world. 

Doctrines. — Supposing, then, that Thomas a Kempis, 
of whose life and principal work we have just treated, 
actually flourished in the 14th century, it remains to be 
seen in how far his doctrinal views entitle him to prom- 
inence in the Christian Church, and to a place among 
the forerunners of the great Reformation. “It is true 
that with him (Kempis), in common with all eminent 
men, a few governing thoughts constitute the kernel of 
his intellectual being . . . but then . . . what we find 
in him is practical wisdom . . . sustained by a deter- 
minate general tendency of life and spirit.” It must be 
confessed, also, that Thomas’s whole theory of Christian 
life and laith, in so far as we see it developed in his 
writings, cannot be properly called original, for “ he 
draws continually from the great traditionary stream.” 
“But,” says Ullmann (ii, 132), “even though the mate- 
rial be not to anv great extent original, it yet acquires 
through the individuality of Thomas, compacting it 
into a beautiful unity, a new soul, something peculiarly 
lovely, amiable, and fresh, a tone of truth, a cheerful- 
ness, and gentle warmth of heart, by virtue of which it 
produces quite a peculiar effect.” 

For a decided inclination to asceticism we always 
look in characters of the age to which Thomas ti Kcm- 
pis belonged; we do not, therefore, make room here* for 
a delineation of this part of his character, but will treat 
hastily only his peculiar views on fellowship with God. 
“ Where,” asks he, ‘‘can man find that which is truly 


good, and which enduringly satisfies? Not in the mul- 
titude of things which distract, but in the One which 
collects and unites. For the one does not proceed out 
of the many, but the many out of the one. That one is 
the one thing needful, the chief good, and nothing better 
and higher either exists or can even be conceived. . . . 
Compared with him the creature is nothing, and only be- 
comes anything when in fellowship with him. Whatev- 
er is not God is nothing, and should be counted as noth- 
ing” (De Imit . Christi, iii, 32, 1). Ilcre we find Thomas 
agreeing in words with Eckart of the Brethren of the 
Free Spirit. Both say God is all and man nothing. But 
with what difference of meaning! Eckart understands 
the proposition metaphysically; Thomas understands it 
morally. “According to Eckart, man only requires to 
bear in mind his true and eternal nature in order to be 
himself God ; according to Thomas, God, as himself the 
most perfect person, in the exercise of free grace, and 
from fulness of the blessings that reside in him, is pleased 
to impart personality to men in order that, although, 
morally considered, they are themselves nothing, they 
may through him, and in voluntary fellowship with 
him, attain to true existence and eternal life. To enter 
into fellowship with God, the chief good and fountain 
of blessedness, and to become one with him , is the basis 
of all true contentment. But how can two such par- 
ties, God and man, the Creator and the creature, be 
brought together ? God is in heaven and man on earth ; 
God is perfect, and man sensual, vain, and sinful. There 
must, therefore, be mediation— some way in which God 
conies to man, and man to God, and both unite. This 
union of man with God depends upon a twofold condi- 
tion, one negative and the other positive. The nega- 
tive is that man shall wholly renounce what can give 
him no true peace. lie must forsake the world, which 
offers to him such hardship and distress, and whose very 
pleasures turn into pains; he must detach himself from 
the creatures, for nothing defiles and entangles the heart 
so much as impure love of them ; and only when a man 
has advanced so far as no longer to seek consolation 
from any creature does he enjoy God, and find consola- 
tion in him ; lie must, in fine, deny himself, and wholly 
renounce — be dead to — selfishness and self-love, for whom- 
ever loves himself will find, wherever he seeks, only his 
own little, mean, sinful self, without being able to find 
God. This last is the hardest of all tasks, and can only 
be attained by deep and earnest self-acquaintance. But 
whosoever strictly exercises self-examination will infal- 
libly come to recognise himself in his meanness, little- 
ness, and nonentity, and will be led to the most peiffeet 
humility, entire contrition, and ardent longing after 
God. For only when man has become little and noth- 
ing in his own eyes can God become great to him ; only 
when he has emptied himself of all created things can 
God replenish him with his grace. . . . Having con- 
densed his whole doctrine into the short rule, ‘ Part with 
edl, and then find all,' he immediately subjoins, ‘ Lord, 
this is not the work of a day, nor a game for children. 
These few words include all perfection.’ Here, aeeord- 
ingh\ an efficacy must intervene which is superior to 
human strength. This efficacy is divine love imparting 
itself to man, and becoming the mediatrix between God 
and him, between heaven and earth. Love brings to- 
gether the holy God who dwells in heaven and the sin- 
ful creature upon earth, uniting that which is most 
humble with that which is most exalted. It is the 
truth that makes man free, but the highest truth is love. 
Divine love, imparting and manifesting itself to man, is 
grace. God sheds forth his love into the heart of man, 
who thereby acquires liberty, peace, and ability for all 
good things; and, made partaker of this love, man reck- 
ons as worthless all that is less .than God, loving God 
only, and loving himself no more, or, if at all, only for 
God’s sake. . . . ‘lie who has true and perfect love 
does not seek himself in anything, but only desires that 
God may be glorified. lie cares not to have joy in 
himself, but refers all to God, from whom, as their source, 


KEMPIS 


37 


KEN 


all blessings flow, and in whom, as their filial end, all 
saints find a blissful repose’” (Ullmann, ii, 140 sip). 

Naturally enough, Thomas ii lvempis shares the no- 
tion of his day — of almost the whole mediaeval period 
— in reckoning monacliism the highest stage of the 
Christian life, and the monk the perfect Christian. But 
this is due, first of all, to the high ideal which Thomas 
had of monachism, and of which he was himself no 
mean example. Asceticism, therefore, characterizes all 
he writes. Indeed, even a taint of the Pelagianism of 
the mediaeval theology fastens also upon him, and is es- 
pecially manifest in those of his writings which are de- 
voted to the delineation and recommendation of the 
monastic life, where the notion of merit plays a not un- 
important part, and the centre of Thomas’s whole re- 
ligious system constitutes, not justification by faith, but 
reconciliation by love. It is even true that “Thomas 
was a strict Catholic, and directly impugned nothing 
which had received the sanction of the Church,” and 
that “lie practiced with great zeal the whole divine 
worship as it then obtained, and which, as such, appear- 
ed to him just w T hat it ought to be. lie insists with par- 
ticular urgency upon what is so characteristically Iio- 
mish, prayers for the dead ottered through the medium 
of the mass, especially the adoration of the saints, among 
whom he chietiy worships the patron saints of his own 
monastery, and, most of all, the service of Mary, to 
whom he ascribes so important a share in the divine 
government of the world as to say of her, 4 How could a 
world which is so full of sin endure unless Mary, with the 
saints in heaven, were daily praying for it?’ (De Discip. 
Claustr. cap. xiv; comp. /Sermon . ad Novit. iii, 4, p. 84 ; 
and see also Tritliemius, Be /Script, eccl. c. 707, p. 1G4; 
Specnl. Exemplar. Eist. x, § 7). lie no less acknowl- 
edges the existing hierarchy and ecclesiastical constitu- 
tion in their whole extent, together with the priesthood 
in its function of mediating between God and man;” 
but, if he does not attack, neither does he defend or es- 
tablish any, while, in many respects, he may be said, by 
his negative position, to have not only actually destroy- 
ed the influence of the Church, but really to have paved 
the way for reform. However true it be that 44 Thomas 
is not intentionally a reformer . . . lie nevertheless is a 
reformer, for he desired the selfsame objects as Luther;” 
for the former, like the latter, everywhere insists upon 
the Christian principles of spirituality and freedom 
which formed the very basis of the Lutheran Beforma- 
tion. In the 12th century mysticism was the defender 
of the Church, but not so the practical mysticism of the 
15th century, as exhibited by the Brethren of the Com- 
mon Life, and especially by Thomas. By this time the 
tables had turned completely. The position once occu- 
pied by scholasticism was now assumed, in a measure, 
by mysticism, and it became, though perhaps only cov- 
ertly and unintentionally, the opponent of the Church ; 
it founded or gave life to the institutions which sent 
forth the most influential precursors — the very leaders 
of the great German reform — and in many other respects 
“ directly or indirectly exercised a positive influence 
upon the Reformation.” For did not the Brethren of 
the Common Life labor in many new ways to prepare 
the way for the great reforms of the 16th century? 
Who but they afforded religious instruction to the peo- 
ple in their mother tongue, and sought their improve- 
ment by every means — educated the young, and circu- 
lated the Bible? 44 And, inasmuch as a Kernpis .also 
belongs to that side, inasmuch as he is manifestly anti- 
scholastical, gives prominence to the religious and moral 
import of the dogma, and applies it almost exclusively 
to the use of the mystical and ascetical life, we must, 
from a regard for his edifying character, ascribe to him 
a real, although an indirect influence on the dissolution 
of the creed” (Ullmann, ii, 158). 

See Brewer, Thomce a Kernpis Biographia ; Ullmann, 
Reformers before the Reformation, ii, 114 sq. ; Bahring, 
Thomas a Kernpis nach seinem ausseren u. inneren Le- 
ben dargestellt (Berlin, 1854, 8vo) ; Moore n, Nachrichten I 


it. Thomas a Kernpis (Crefeld, 1855, 12mo) ; Iiosweyde, 

I ' indiem Kempenses ; J. Fronteau, Kernpis Vindicatns ; 

1 1 escr, Dioptra Kempensis ; Th. Carre, Thomce a Kernpis 
a seipso restitutus ; Kus. Amort, Plena Inforviatio de statu 
controversice quee de auctore libelli de Imitatione Christ i 
agitator, etc.; Delprat, 1 \rhandeliny over het Brood/ r- 
schap van G. Groot (Leyden, 1856) ; Scliolz, Dissertatlo 
qua Thomce a Kernpis sententia de re Christiana exponi- 
tur , etc. (Groning. i860) ; Malou, Recherches historiques 
et critiques stir le veritable auteur du livre de limitation 
de Jesus Christ (Louvain, 1849)— the most recent and 
best account of the details of the discussion on the au- 
thorship of the Imitation ; Ilerzog, Real-Encyklopddie ; 
Schrockh, Kirchengesck. xxxiv, 302; Erhard, Gesck. dis 
Wiede raufbliihens , i. 263; Gieseler, Kirchevyesch. ii, 4, 
p. 347; Hodgson (William), Reformers before the Ref 
ormation (Philada. 1867, 12mo), chap, x; Kiilm, in the 
Rev. Chret. Aug. 1857 ; Contemp. Rev. Sept. I860; Meth. 
Quart. Rev. Oct. 1856, p. 042; Am. Presb. Review , Jan. 
1863, p. 164 ; Jahrb. deutsch. Theol. x, 1. (J. II. \V.) 

Kemu'el [some Kem'uel'] (Heb. KemueT, 
perhaps helper of God , otherwise assembly of God; Sept. 
KapovijX), the name of three men. 

1. The third son of Abraham’s brother Nalior, and 
father of six sons (Gen. xxii, 21), all unknown except 
the last, Betlmel, who was the father of Laban and Ke- 
bekah (Gen.xxiv, 15). B.C. cir. 2090. As the name of 
Aram, the first-born, is also the Hebrew name of Syria, 
some commentators have most strangely conceived that 
the Syrians were descended from him ; but Syria was 
already peopled ere he was born, Laban (Gen. xxviii, 5) 
and Jacob (Dent, xxvi, 5) being both called 44 Syrians.” 
although neither of them was descended from KemueVs 
son Aram. The misconception originated with the Sep- 
tuagint, which in this case renders D’HNt “father 
of Aram,” by 7 raripa Scpwr, “father of the Syrians.” — 
Kit to. See Aram. . 

2 . Son of Sliiplitan and pliylarch of Ephraim, ap- 
pointed commissioner on behalf of that tribe to partition 
the land of Canaan (Numb, xxxiv, 24). B.C. 1618. 

3 . A Levite, father of Ilashabiali, which latter was 
one of the royal officers under David and Solomon (1 
Chron. xxvii, 17). B.C. 1014. 

Ken, Tiiomas, D.D., bishop of Bath and Wells, a 
distinguished nonjuror divine, was born at Bcrkham- 
stead, Hertfordshire, in July, 1637. He was educated 
at Winchester School and New College, Oxford. About 
166G he entered the Church, and became chaplain to 
bishop Morley, who in 1669 secured for him a prebend 
in Westminster. In 1674 he visited Rome, and on his 
return in 1679 was made D.D. About the same time 
he was appointed to the household of the princess of 
Orange ; but the strictness of his moral and religious 
principles having displeased prince William, he soon left 
Holland, and accompanied lord Dartmouth in his expe- 
dition against the pirates of Tangier. On the recom- 
mendation of the latter, he was, on their return in 1684, 
appointed chaplain to Charles II, and knew how to main- 
tain the dignity of his office unspotted in the midst of 
that monarch’s licentious court. It is said that once, as 
the king was on a visit to Winchester, Ken refused to 
receive, the favorite, Eleonora Gwynn, into his house; 
the king, however, praised highly the dignity of the 
prelate’s character instead of resenting this refusal, 
and only remarked, 44 Mistress Gwynn will find other 
lodgings.” In the very same year (1684) Ken was pro- 
moted to the bishopric of Bath and Wells. During 
the reign of James II, when the Church of England 
seemed threatened with inroads from the. papacy, bish- 
op Ken stood forth one of the most zealous guardians 
of the national Church, stoutly opposing any attempts 
to introduce popery into Great Britain. He did not, in- 
deed, take an active part in the famous popish contro- 
versy which agitated the reign of king James II so 
briskly, but be was far from being unmindful of the 


KEXAX 


8 


KEXAZ 


danger, and while others worked by their pen, he as 
actively labored in the pulpit, and boldly took every 
occasion to refute the errors of Romanism ; nor did he 
hesitate, when the danger of the hour seemed to require 
it. to set before the royal court its injurious and un- 
manly politics in ecclesiastical affairs. Some have as- 
serted that bishop Ken was at one time won over to the 
papal side, either at this time or later in life, but against 
this assertion speaks his decided stand in 1G88, when he 
protested energetically against the Edict of Tolerance, 
and his refusal, when the Declaration of Indulgence was 
strictly commanded to be read, by virtue of a dispensing 
power claimed by the king, to comply with the demand 
of his king. Bishop Ken was one of the seven bishops 
who signed a petition to the king protesting against 
the act, and who were imprisoned in the Tower for 
their insubordination. After t lie Revolution, however, 
he proved his steadfastness to his royal master by his 
refusal to take the oath of obedience to William of 
< trange, and thereby lost his bishopric. Even his polit- 
ical adversaries, however, could not but respect such 
conduct, and queen Mary, whose chaplain he had been, 
provided for him by pension. lie retired to Longleate, 
in Wiltshire, and there died, March 19, 1711. Ken was 
an eminently pious man, and possessed great learning 
and talents. While in the bishopric he published an 
Exposition of the Church Catechism (Lond. 1 GSG, 8vo), 
and Propers for the Use of Bath and Wells (Lond. 1GSG, 
12 mo, and often). Later he composed a Manual of 
Prayers (Lond. 1712, 12mo) : — Exposition of the Creed 
(Lond. 1852, 12mo), etc. lie also wrote much poetry, 
which remains popular to this day. His works were 
first published at London in 1721, in 4 vols. 8vo; also 
Prose JPorE? (London, 1838, 8vo). See W. L. Bowles, 
Life of Thomas Ken (Lond. 1830-31, 2 vols. 8vo) ; Life 
of Thomas Ken , by a Layman (Lond. 1851, 8vo); Haw- 
kins, Life of Ken (1713); Duyekinck, Life of Bishop 
Thomas Ken (X. Y. 1859); Burnet, Oicn Times ; Gentle- 
man's Magazine, vol. Ixxxiv; Stoughton, Ecchs. llist. 
of the Engl. Church of the Restoration (Lond. 1*70, 2 vols. 
8vo), ii, 87, 97, 141 sq., 278, 4G9; Darling, Cyclopaedia 
Biblioyraphica , ii, 1713; Allibono, Diet, of English and 
American Authors, ii, s. v. ; Strickland (Agnes), Lices 
of the Seven Bishojjs (Lond. 18GG, 12mo), p. 234 sq. (J. 
II. W.) 

KeTian (1 Chron. i, 2). See Caixan. 

Ke'nath (Ileb. Kenath ', Tip , possession ; Sept. Ka- 
j'u^), a city of Gilead, captured, with its environs, from 
the Canaanites l>y Nobah (apparently an associate or 
relative of Jair), and afterwards called by his name 
(Numb. xxxiii,42 ; compare Judg.viii, 11); although in 
the parallel passage (1 Chron. ii, 23) the capture seems 
not. to be distinguished from the exploits of Jair him- 
self, a circumstance that may aid to explain the appar- 
ent discrepancy in the number of villages ascribed to 
the latter. SeeJAin. Eusebius and Jerome (Onomast. 
s. v.) call it Kanatha (KaraSu), and reckon it as a part 
of Arabia (Trachonitis). It is probably the ('anaiha 
(KcivaSa) mentioned by Ptolemy (v, 15, and 23) as a 
city of the Decapolis (v, lG),and also by Josephus (JF</r, 
i, 19,2) as being situated in Cmle-Syria. In the time 
of the latter it was inhabited bv Arabians, who defeated 
the troops led against them by Ilerod the Great. In 
the Peutinger Tables it is placed on the road leading 
from Damascus to Bostra, twenty miles from the latter 
(Reland, ]\il. p. 421). It became the seat of a bishopric 
in the 5th century (id. p. G82). All these notices indicate 
some locality in the Ilauran (Anranitis) (Reland, 1 \ilast. 
p. 081 ), whore Burekhardt found, two miles northeast 
of Suweidah, the. ruins of a place called Kumiirat (Trac. 
in Syria, p. 8J-G), doubtless the same mentioned by Rev. 
E. Smith (Robinson’s Researches, iii. Append, p. 157) in 
the Jebel Ilauran (see .also Schwarz. Palest, p. *223). 
This situation, it is true, is rathcF-distant north-easterly 
for Kenatli, which lay not far beyond Jogbehah (Judg. 
viii, 11), and within the territory of Manasseh (Numb. 


I xxxiii, 39-42), but the boundaries of the tribe in this 
direction seem to have been quite indefinite. See Ma- 
naskeii, East. The suggestion that Kenuivdt was Ke- 
nath seems, however, to have been first made by Gesc- 
nius in his notes to Burekhardt (A.D. 1823, p. 505). An- 
other Kenawat is marked on Van de Velde’s map about 
ten miles farther to the west. The former place was 
visited by Porter (Damascus, ii, 87-115), who describes 
it as “beautifully situated in the midst of oak forests, 
on the western declivities of the mountains of Bashan, 
twenty miles north of Bozrah. The ruins, which cover 
a space a mile long and half a mile wide, are among the 
linest and most interesting east of the Jordan. They 
consist of temples, palaces, theatres, towers, and a hip- 
podrome of the Roman age ; one ox two churches of ear- 
ly Christian times, and a great number of massive pri- 
vate houses, with stone roofs and stone doors, which 
were probably built by the ancient Rephaim. The city 
walls are in some places nearly perfect. In front of one 
of the most beautiful of the temples is a colossal head 
of Ashteroth, a deity which seems to have been wor- 
shipped here before the time of Abraham, as one of the 
chief cities of Bashan was then called Ashteroth-Kar- 
nnim (Gen. xiv, 5). Kunawat is now occupied by a few 
families of Druses, who find a home in the old houses” 
(Handbook for Palest, p. 512 sq. ; comp. Ritter, Pal. and 
Sy?\ ii, 931-939; Buckingham, Travels among the Arab 
Tribes, p. 240). 

Ke'liaz (Ileb. Kenaz’, T!J7, hunter; Sept. Kfi4s, but 
in 1 Chron. i, 3G v. r. Kf£t£), the name of three or four 
men. 

1. The last named of the sons of Eliphaz, Esau’s first- 
born ; lie became the chieftain of one of the petty Edom- 
itish tribes of Arabia Tetnea (Gen. xxxvi, 1J, 15; 1 
Chron. i, 3G). B.C. post 1905. “The descendants of 
Esau did not settle within the limits of Edom. The Itu- 
neans migrated northward to the borders of Damascus; 
Amalek settled in the desert between Egypt and Pales- 
tine; Teman went westward into Arabia. We are jus- 
tified, therefore, in inferring that Kenaz also may have 
led his family and followers to a distance from Mount 
Seir. Forster maintains (Geography of Arabia , i i, 43) 
that the tribe of Kenaz, or Al-Kenaz with the Arabic 
article prefixed, are identical with the Lakeni or Leceni 
of Ptolemy, a tribe dwelling near the shores of the Per- 
sian Gulf (Geog.x i, 7), and these he would further iden- 
tify with theyEnezes (properly A nezelt). the largest and 
most powerful tribe of Bedawin in Arabia. It is possible 
that the Hebrew Koph may have been changed into the 
Arabic Ain; in other respects the names are identical. 
The yEnezes cover the desert from the Euphrates to 
Syria, and from Aleppo on the north to the mountains 
of Nejd on the south. It is said that they can bring 
into the field 10,000 horsemen and 90.000 camel-riders, 
and they are lords of a district some 40,000 square miles 
in area (Burekhardt, Xotes on the Bedouins and Waha- 
bys, 1 sq. ; Porter, Handbook for Syria and Palest, p. 53G 
sq.)” (Kitto). See Kexizzite. 

2. Successor of Pinon, and predecessor of Toman 
among the later Edomitish emirs (“dukes”), who ap- 
pear to have been contemporary with the llorite kings 
(Gen. xxxvi. 42; 1 Chron. i, 53). B.C. considerably 
ante 1G58. See Esau. 

3. The younger brother of Caleb and father of Oth- 
nicl (afterwards judge), who married Caleb’s daughter 
(Josh. xv. 17 ; Judg. i, 13) ; he had also another son, Se- 
raiah (1 Chron. iv. 13). B.C. post 1G98. On account 
of this double relationship Caleb is sometimes called a 
Ivexezite (Numb, xxxiii, 12; Josh, xiv, G, 14), whence 
some have maintained that he was the son rather than 
brother of Kenaz. 

4. Son of Elah, and grandson of Caleb, the son of 

Jeplrmmeh (1 Chron. iv, 15, where the margin under- 
stands “even Kenaz,” as a proper name. Uknaz). 

B.C. post 1G18. 


KENDAL 


39 


KENITE 


Kendal, Samuel, a Congregational minister, was 
born at Sherburne, Mass., July 11, 1753, of humble par- 
entage. Young Kendal labored hard to secure for him- 
self t lie advantages of a thorough education, with a view 
to entering the ministry. When about ready to go to 
college the Revolution broke out, and lie entered the 
army. He finally went to Cambridge University when 
25 years old, and graduated in 1782; studied theology 
under the shadow of the same institution, and settled 
over the Congregational Church at Weston, Mass., as 
an ordained pastor, Nov. 5, 1783. In 1800 Yale College 
conferred the degree of D.I). on Mr. Kendal, lie died 
Feb. 15, 1814. lie published many of his Sermons (from 
1703-1813). Dr. Kendal “stood high among the clergy 
of his day, and was . . . an acceptable preacher.” Of 
his religious opinions, Dr. James Kendal says (in Sprague, 
Annals, viii, 180), “he was classed with those who are 
denominated ‘liberal,’ and was probably an Arian, though 
I think he was little disposed either to converse or to 
preach on controversial subjects.” 

Kendall, George (1), D.D., an English Calvinis- 
tic divine, who flourished about the middle of the 17th 
century, was prebend of Exeter and rector of Blisland, 
Cornwall, at the Restoration, when, on account of non- 
conformity, he was ejected, lie died in 1063. lie is 
noted as the author of an able treatise on the Calvinistic 
faith, entitled Vindication of the Doctrine of Predestina- 
tion (Loud. 1053, fob). Another noted work is his reply 
to John Goodwin, Defence of the Doctrine of the Perse- 
verance of the Saints (1054, fob). Sec Allibone, Diet, 
of A mer. and Enyl . Authors , ii, s. v. 

Kendall, George (2), a Methodist minister, was 
born about the year 1815, was converted at the age of 10, 
and joined the Methodist Episcopal Church. In 1845 he 
joined the Southern Church, lie was licensed to preach 
about 1858, and upon the reorganization of the Method- 
ist Episcopal Church in Georgia after the war, he was 
among the first to return to the Northern Church. lie 
was ordained deacon by bishop Clark at Murfreesbor- 
ongh, Tenn., and continued to labor as a missionary 
among his people until the organization of this Confer- 
ence, when he was received on trial and appointed to 
Clayton Circuit. In 1808 he was appointed to Clark 
Chapel, Atlanta, and in 1800 and 1870 to White Water 
Circuit. He died there April 12, 1871. His dying words, 
“ The gates are open and I must go,” give assurance that 
he passed away as one of the fathers, after a useful and 
happy life, to the rest that remainetli to the people of 
God. — Minutes of Conferences, 1871, p. 278. 

Kendall, John, a prominent Quaker, was born in 
Colchester, England, in 172G; entered the ministry when 
21 years old, and in 1750 accompanied Daniel Stanton 
on a religious visit through the northern parts of Eng- 
land. lie was active in the work for over sixty years, 
and encouraged many ;, to the exercise both of civil and 
religious duties.” lie died Jan. 27, 1815. — Janney ,IIist. 
of the Friends, iv, 44 sq. 

Kendrick, Bennett, an early Methodist Episco- 
pal minister, was a native of Mecklenburg Co.,Va. ; en- 
tered the itinerancy in 1789; was stationed at Wilming- 
ton in 1802; at Charleston in 1803-4; at Columbia in 
1805; presiding elder on Camden District in 1807, and 
died April 5 of that year. The date of his birth is not 
given, but he died young. He was a man of much 
gravity, piety, and intelligence, and was a studious and 
skilful preacher of the Word. His ministry was very 
useful, and his early death was a loss to his Conference 
and the Church. — Min. of Conferences, i, 150. (G. L. T.) 

Kendrick, Clark, a Baptist minister, was born in 
Hanover, N. II., Oct. 0, 1775. After teaching school for 
a time, he finally turned his attention to preaching, and 
became pastor of the Baptist Church at Ponltney, Vt., 
where he was ordained, May 20, 1802. lie had in 1810 
been appointed a delegate to the Vermont Association, 
of which he remained a member all his life. He also 
made several missionary tours, aside from his regular 


pastoral duties. Mr. Kendrick had early interested him- 
self in the subject of foreign missions, and when, in 1813, 
the Baptist General Convention for the Promotion of 
Missions was established, he immediately advocated an 
auxiliary in his own state, and it was formed. He 
was elected first vice-president, and in 1817 became its 
corresponding secretary, which office he held until his 
death. In 1819 he received the honorary degree of 
M.A. from the Middlcburv College. He was chiefly in- 
strumental in forming the Baptist Education Society of 
the State of Vermont, of which he was chosen presi- 
dent, and afterwards appointed agent. In this connec- 
tion he co-operated with the Baptists of Central and 
Western New York for the benefit of Madison Univers- 
ity, Hamilton. He died Feb. 29, 1824. Mr. Kendrick 
published a pamphlet entitled Plain Dealing udth the Pc - 
do-Baptists , etc., and some occasional Sermons. — Sprague, 
Annals, vi, 379. 

Kendrick, Nathaniel, D.D., a Baptist minister 
of note, was born in Hanover, N. II., April 22, 1777. 
His early education was limited, and he was at first en- 
gaged in agricultural pursuits. Having joined the Bap- 
tist Church in 1798, he felt called to preach, and, after 
studying with that view, was licensed in the spring of 
1803. He supplied for about a year the Baptist society 
in Bellingham, Mass.; was ordained pastor of the church 
at Lansingburgh, N.Y., in Aug., 1805; and from thence 
removed in 1810 to Middlebury, Vt. In 1817 he became 
pastor of the churches of Eaton, N. Y., and in 1822 he 
was elected professor of theology and moral philosophy 
in Madison University, N.Y., with which institution he 
remained connected until his death, Sept. 11. 1848. In 
1823 he was made D.I). by Brown University, and in 
1825 one of the overseers of Hamilton College. Dr. 
Kendrick published two or three occasional Sermons. 
See Sprague, .1 nnals, vi, 482 ; Appleton, American Cy- 
clopaedia, x, 1 85. 

Ken'e zite (Numb. xxxii,12; Josh, xiv, 0,14). See 
Kexizzite. 

Ken'lte [some Ke'nite] Keyin', prob. from 

pp, to work in iron, Gen. xv, 19; Numb. xxi»v, 21 ; 
Judg. i, 10; iv, 11, 17 ; v, 24; 1 Sam. xv, 0; xxx, 29; 
written also Keni', 1 Sam. xxvii, 10; and plural, 
Kinim', 1 Chron. ii, 55 ; Sept. Kn'ntoi, Gen. xv, 
19; Kfj'a7o£\Numb. xxiv, 21 ; Judg. iv, 11, 17; Kn-flior, 
1 Chron. ii, 55 ; KiroTog, Judg. i, 10 ; v. 24 ; 1 Sam. xv, G ; 
Kfrt v. r. Ktj'fsi, 1 Sam. xxvii. 10; xxx, 29; Vulg. Ci- 
neei, Gen. xv, 19 ; 1 Chron. ii, 55; Cinans, Numb, xxiv, 
21 ; Judg, i, 10; iv, 11, 17 ; v, 24 ; 1 Sam. xv, 6; Ceni, 1 
Sam. xxvii, 10; xxx, 29; Auth. Vers. “ Kenites,” Gen. 
xv, 19; Numb, xxiv, 21; Judg. iv, II ; 1 Sam. xv, 6 ; 
xxvii, 10; xxx, 29; 1 Chron. ii, 55: “ Kcnite.” Judg. i, 
1G; iv, 17; v,24; sometimes written '^.Ka'yin, Numb, 
xxiv, 22, Septuag. voocia Travovp^iac, Vulg. Cin, Autli. 
Vers. “Kenitc; Judg. iv, 11, last clause, Sept. Ktua, 
Vulg. Cinad, Auth.Vers. “ Kenites”), a collective name for 
a tribe of people who originally inhabited the rocky and 
desert region lying between Southern Palestine and the 
mountains of Sinai adjoining— and even partly inter- 
mingling with — the Amalekites (Numb, xxiv, 21 ; 1 
Sam. xv, G). In the time of Abraham they possessed a 
part of that country which the Lord promised to him 
(Gen. xv, 19), and which extended from Egypt to the 
Euphrates (verse 18). At the Exodus the Kenites pas- 
tured their flocks round Sinai anti lloreh. Jethro, Mo- 
ses’s father-in-law, was a Kenite (Judg. i, 10); and it 
was when Moses kept his flocks on the heights of IIo- 
reb that the Lord appeared to him in the burning hush 
(Exod. iii, 1, 2Y Now Jethro is said to have been 
“priest of Miduni” (ver. 1), and a “Midiauite” (Numb, 
x, 29); hence we conclude that the Midianites and Ke- 
nites were identical. It seems, however, that there 
were two distinct tribes of Midianites, one descended 
from Abraham’s son by Keturah (Gen. xxv, 2), and the 
other an older Arabi an tribe. See Muhanite. If this 


KEXITE 


40 


KEXIZZITE 


be so, then the Kenites were the older tribe. They I 
were nomads, and roamed over the country on the north- 
ern border of the Sinai peninsula, and along the eastern i 
shores of the Gulf of Akabah. This region agrees well 
with the prophetic description of Balaam: “And lie 
looked on the Kenites, and said, Strong is thy dwelling- 
place, and thou puttest thy liest (")£, ken, alluding to 
their name) in a rock” (Xumb. xxiv, 21). The wild 
and rocky mountains along the west side of the valley 
of Arabah, and on both shores of the Gulf of Akabah, 
were the home of the Kenites. The connection of Mo- 
ses with the Kenites, and the friendship shown by that 
tribe to the Israelites in their* journey through the wil- 
derness, had an important influence upon their after his- 
tory. Moses invited Jethro to accompany him to Pal- 
estine; he declined (Xumb. x, 29-32), but a portion of 
the tribe afterwards joined the Israelites, and had as- 
signed to them a region on the southern border of Ju- 
dah. such as fitted a nomad people (Judg. i, 1G). There 
they had the Israelites on the one side, and the Amalek- 
ites on the other, occupying a position similar to that 
of the Tartar tribes in Persia at the present day. One 
family of them, separating themselves from their breth- 
ren in the south, migrated away to Northern Palestine, 
and pitched their tents beneath the oak-trees on the 
upland grassy plains of Kedesh-Xaphtali (Judg. iv, 11, 
where we should translate: “And Ileberthe Kenite had 
severed himself from Kain of the children of Hobab, the 
father-in-law of Moses, and pitched,” ete.). It was here 
that Jack the wife of Ilebcr, their chief, slew Sisera, 
who had sought refuge in her tent (verse 17-21). It 
would appear from the narrative that while the Kenites 
preserved their old friendly intercourse with the Israel- 
ites, they were also at peace with the enemies of Israel 
— with the Canaanites in the north and the Amalekites 
in the south. When Saul marched against the Ama- 
lekites, he warned the Kenites to separate themselves 
from them, for, he said, “Ye showed kindness to all the 
children of Israel when they came up out of Egypt” (1 
Sam. xv, G). The Kenites still retained their posses- 
sions in the south of Judah during the time of David, 
who made a similar exemption in their case in his feign- 
ed attack (1 Sam. xxvii, 10; compare xxx, 20), but we 
hear no more of them in Scripture history. If it be 
necessary to look for a literal “fulfilment” of the sen- 
tence of Balaam (Xumb. xxiv, 22), we shall best find it 
in the accounts of the latter days of Jerusalem under 
Jehoiakim, when the Kenite Rechabites were so far 
“wasted” by the invading army of Assyria as to be 
driven to take refuge within the walls of the city', a 
step to which we may be sure nothing short of actual 
extremity could have forced these Children of the Des- 
ert. Whether “Asslinr carried them away captive” 
with the other inhabitants we arc not told, but it is at 
least probable. 

Josephus gives the name Ksvsricsg (Ant.v, 5,4); 
but in his notice of Saul’s expedition (vi, 7, 3) he has 
to row i ItKtfuTiov t'Si'oc — the form in which lie else- 
where gives that of the Sheehemites. In the Targums, 
instead of Kenites we find Shalmai ami the 

Talmudists generally represent them as an Arabian 
tribe (Lightfoot, Opera, ii, 429; Roland, Pahvst. p. 140). 
The same name is introduced in the Samarit.Yers.be- 
fore “the Kenite” in Gen. xv, 19 only. Procopius de- 
scribes the Kenites as holding the country about Petra 
and Cades (Kadesh), and bordering on the Amalekites 
(ad Gen. xv ; see Roland, p. 81). The name has long 
since disappeared, lmt probably the old Kenites are rep- 
resented by some of the nomad tribes that still pasture 
their docks on the southern frontier of Palestine. The 
name of lin-Kuin (abbreviated from Bene el-Kain) is 
mentioned by Ewald {Gesch ichte, i, 337, note) as borne in 
comparatively modern days by one of the tribes of .the 
■desert : but little or no inference can be drawn from such 
similarity in names. 

The most remarkable development of this people, ex- 


emplifying most completely their characteristics — their 
Bedouin hatred of the restraints of civilization, their 
fierce determination, their attachment to Israel, together 
with a peculiar semi-monastic austerity not observable 
in their earlier proceedings — is to be found in the sect 
of the Rechabites, instituted by Rechab, or Jonadab his 
son, who come prominently forward on more than one 
occasion in the later history. See Reciiabite. The 
founder of this sub-family appears to have been a cer- 
tain llammath (Auth. Vers. “ Ilemath”), and a singular 
testimony is furnished to the connection which existed 
between this tribe of Midianitish wanderers and the na- 
tion of Israel, by the fact that tlieir name and descent 
are actually included in the genealogies of the great 
house ol Judah (1 C’hron. ii, 55). It appears that, what- 
ever was the general condition of the Midianitcs, the 
tribe of the Kenites possessed a knowledge of the true 
God in the time of Jethro [see IIobab] ; and that those 
families which settled in Palestine did not afterwards 
lose that knowledge, but increased it, is clear from the 
passages which have been cited. — Kitto; Smith. See 
Hengstenberg, Biham, p. 192 sq. ; Schwarz, Palestine, p. 
218; Ewald, Gesch. der V. Israel, i, 337 ; ii, 31 ; Ritter, 
Erdkitmle, xv, 135-138 : also the monographs of A. Mur- 
rav. Comm, de Kineeis (Ilamb. 1718); A. ( 1. Kcrzig, Bill.- 
h ist. A bhandl. v. d. Kenitern (Chemnitz, 1798) . See Mid- 

IAXITE. 

Een'izzite (Ileb. ^2]?, KenizzV, patronymic from 
Kenaz), the appellation of two races or families. 

X. (Sept. Kei'c£a7o<, Vidg. Ccnezad, Auth. Vers. “ Ke- 
nizzites.”) Dr. Wells suggests that* they were the de- 
scendants of Kenaz ( Geoejr . i, 1G9). Mr. Forster adopts 
this view ( Geography of Arabia, ii, 43), but it is clearly 
at variance with the scope of the Mosaic narrative. The 
words of the covenant made with Abraham were : “ Unto 
thy seed have I given this land, from the river of Egypt 
unto the great river, the river Euphrates, the Kenites, 
and the Kenizzites etc., plainly implying that these 
tribes then occupied the land, whereas Kenaz, the grand- 
son of Esau, was not born for a century and a half after 
the Kenizzites were thus noticed. Forster’s idea that 
the promise to Abraham was proleptical cannot be en- 
tertained. Nothing further is known of their origin, 
winch was probably kindred with that of the other tribes 
enumerated in the same connection. As the name sig- 
nifies hunter , it may possibly be a general designation of 
some nomade tribe. The sacred writer gives no infor- 
mation as to what part of the country they inhabited, 
but, as they are not mentioned among the tribes of Ca- 
naan who were actually dispossessed by the Israelites 
(Exod. iii, 8; Josh, iii, 10; Judg. iii, 5), we may infer 
that the Kenizzites dwelt beyond the borders of those 
tribes. The whole country from Egypt to the Euphra- 
tes was promised to Abraham (Gen. xv, 18); the coun- 
try divided by lot among the twelve tribes extended 
only from Dan to Beersheba, and consequently by far 
the larger portion of the “land of promise” did not then 
become “the land of possession,” and, indeed, never was 
occupied by the Israelites, though the conquests of Da- 
vid probably extended over it. Bochart supposes that 
the Kenizzites had become extinct between the times 
of Abraham and Joshua. It is more probable that they 
inhabited some part of the Arabian desert on the con- 
fines of Syria to which the expeditions of Joshua did not 
reach (see Bochart, Opera , i, 307). This is the view of 
the Talmudists, as may be seen in the quotation from 
their writings given by Lightfoot {Opera, ii, 429). — * 
Kitto. 

2 . (Sept. K£]'*£mo£j but Itatcextoptaperog in Xumb.; 
Yulg. Cenczn us , Auth. Yers. “ Kcnezite.”) An epithet 
applied to Caleb, the son of Jephunnch (Xumb. xxxii, 
12; Josh. xiv. G, 14) ; probably designating his twofold 
relationship with Kenaz, 2 (see further in Ritter’s Krd- 
kunde , xv, 138). “ Ewald maintains that Caleb really be- 
longed to the tribe of the Kenizzites, and was an adopt- 
ed Israelite {Isr. Gesch. i, 298). Prof. Stanley {Lectures 


KEN NAD AY 


41 


KENNEDY 


on Jewish Church , i, 2G0) holds the same view, and re- 
gards Caleb as of Idumman origin, and descended from 
Kenaz, Esau’s grandson. But a careful study of sacred 
history proves that the Edomites and Israelites had 
many names in common ; and the patronymic Kenizzite 
is derived from an ancestor called Kenaz , whose name is 
mentioned in Judg. i, 13, and who was perhaps Caleb’s 
grandfather” (Kitto). See Caleb. 

Kennaday, John, D.D., a noted minister of the 
Methodist Episcopal Church, was bom in the city of 
New York Nov. 3, 1800. In carty life he was a printer, 
devoting even then, however, his leisure, as far as prac- 
ticable, to literary pursuits, lie was converted, under 
the ministry of the Ilev. Dr. Homan Bangs, in the John 
Street Methodist Episcopal Church ; was licensed to ex- 
hort the year following; joined the New York Confer- 
ence in 1823 ; was stationed on Kingston Circuit in 1823; 
1825, Bloomingburgh Circuit; 182(5, transferred to Phil- 
adelphia Conference, and appointed that and the follow- 
ing year at Patterson, N. J. ; 1828-29, Newark, N. J. ; 
1830-31, Wilmington, Del. ; 1832, Morristown, N. J. ; in 
1833, retransferred to New York Conference, and sta- 
tioned in Brooklyn ; 1835-30, preacher in charge of New 
York East Circuit, embracing all the churches east of 
Broadway; 1837-38, Newburgh, N. Y. ; 1839, retrans- 
ferred to Philadelphia Conference, and that and the fol- 
lowing year stationed at. Union Church, Philadelphia ; 
1841-42, Trinity Church, Philadelphia ; 1843-44, second 
time to Wilmington, Del.; at the close of his pastoral 
term the Church was tlivided peacefully, and a new 
Church organized, called St. Paul’s, and for the two fol- 
lowing years Dr. Kennaday was its pastor; 1847-48, 
again pastor of Union Church, Philadelphia ; 1849, Naz- 
areth Church, in that city; 1850, transferred to New 
York East Conference, and that and the following year 
was pastor of Pacitic Street Church, Brooklyn ; 1852-53, 
returned to Washington Street Church ; 1854-55, First 
Church, New Haven, Conn.; 1850-57, second time to Pa- 
citic Street Church, Brooklyn; 1858-59, third time to 
Washington Street Church, Brooklyn; 1800-01, reap- 
pointed to First Church. New Haven, Conn. ; 1802, Hart- 
ford, Conn.; and in 1803 he was appointed presiding 
elder of Long Island District, which office he was admin- 
istering at the time of his decease. The noticeable fact 
of this record is the number of times Dr. Kennaday was 
returned as pastor to churches that he had previously 
served. Of the forty years of his ministerial life, twenty- 
two years, or more than half, were spent in live church- 
es. No fact better attests his long-continued popularity 
and his power of winning the affections of the people. 
“As a Christian pastor,” says bishop Janes, “Dr. Ken- 
naday was eminent in his gifts, in his attainments, and 
in his devotion to his sacred calling, and in the seals. 
God gave to his. ministry. In the pulpit he was clear; 
in the statement of his subject, abundant and most felic- 
itous in his illustrations, and pathetic and impressive in 
his applications. His oratory was of a high order. . . . 
Out of the pulpit, the ease and elegance of his manners, 
the vivacity and sprightliness of his conversational pow- 
ers, the tenderness of his sympathy, and the kindness of 
his conduct towards the afflicted and needy . . . made 
him a greatly beloved pastor.” lie died Nov. 13, 18G3. 
— Conference Minutes, 1864, p. 89. (J. II. AY.) 

Kennedy, B. J., a Methodist Episcopal minister, 
was born in Bolton, A r t., Aug. 1G, 1808; was converted in 
1842; served the Church faithfully as a local preacher 
until 1800, when he joined the Erie Annual Conference, 
and tilled with great success the pulpits at Bainbridge, 
Maytiekl, Bedford, Twinsburgh, and Hudson successive- 
ly. 1 le died at Hudson, Ohio, Nov. 30, 1 8G9. Tke chief 
elements of Kennedy’s power with the people were puri- 
ty of life, cheerfulness, broad Christian sympathies for 
fallen humanity, and strong convictions of the saving 
efficaey of Jesus and his Gospel. He sustained a high 
position among the brethren of his Conference. — Chris- 
tian Advocate (N. Y.), 1870. 


Kennedy, James, a Scotch prelate, grandson, by 
his mother, of Robert III of Scotland, was born in 1405 (V). 
After studying at home, he was sent to the Continent 
to tinish his education, entered the Church, and as early 
as in 1437 became bishop of Dunkeld, and in 1440 ex- 
changed for the more important see of St. Andrew, lie 
next made a journey to Florence, to lay before pope Eu- 
geni us IA" the plan of the reforms he intended introduc- 
ing in the administration of his diocese. On his return 
(L444) he was made lord chancellor, and as such took 
an active part in the affairs of Scotland. Pained at wit- 
nessing the discords which marked the first years of the 
reign of James II, he again applied to the pope for ad- 
vice; but the latter’s intervention, which he thought 
would restore peace, did not have this result. During 
the minority of James III he sat in the council of the 
regency, and, according to Buchanan, used his intluence 
there for the public good. He died at St. Andrew, May 
10, 1406. Kennedy founded and endowed the college 
of San Salvador, which afterwards became the Univer- 
sity of St. Andrew. He is reputed to have written a 
work entitled Manila Politico, and also a history of his 
times, both of which are probably lost. See Mackenzie, 
Lives ; Crawford, Lives of Statesmen; Buchanan , History 
of Scotland; Chambers, Illustrious Scotsmen; Hoefer, 
Xouv. Biog . Generale, xxvii, 5G0. (J. N. P.) 

Kennedy, J ohn, an English divine, who flourished 
about the middle of the IStli century (he died about 
1770). rector of Bradley, Derbyshire, is noted for his 
works on Scripture chronology, of which the following 
are best known : Complete System of Astronomical Chro- 
nology unfolding the Scriptures (London, 1702, 4to): this 
work Kennedy dedicated to the lung, and the dedica- 
tion was composed by Dr. Samuel Johnson ; — Explana- 
tion and Proof of ditto (1774, 8vo), addressed to Janies 
Ferguson. — Allibonc, Dictionary of English and Ameri- 
can Authors, vol. ii, s. v. 

Kennedy, Samuel, M.D., a Presbyterian minis- 
ter, was born in Scotland in 1720, and educated in the 
University of Edinburgh. On coming to America he 
was received by the Presbytery of New Brunswick, and 
licensed by them in 1750. The following year he was 
ordained, and installed over the congregations of Bask- 
ing Bulge, New Jersey, where he was principal of a clas- 
sical school which acquired considerable celebrity. In 
1700 he rendered his name conspicuous in behalf of an 
Episcopal clergyman hv his connection with the ludi- 
crous proclamation, “ Eighteen Presb. Minis, for a groat.” 
He was not only a minister and a teacher, but a physi- 
cian, and practiced medicine with no small reputation 
in his own congregation. He died August 31, 1787. — 
Sprague, Annals, iii, 175. 

Kennedy, William Megee, an early Methodist 
minister, was born in 1783, in that part of North Caro- 
lina which was ceded to Tennessee in 1790. He lived 
some years in South Carolina, and afterwards settled in 
Bullock County, Ga. In 1803 he was brought into the 
Church under the ministry of Hope Hull; joined the 
South Carolina Conference in 1805, and filled its most 
important appointments for more than thirty years, half 
of the time as presiding elder. In 1839 lie was struck 
with apoplexy, and was consequently returned as super- 
annuate, but he still continued to labor until his death 
in 1840. He was lamented as one of the noblest men 
of* Southern Methodism. Kennedy had a peculiarly 
well-balanced mind. His counsel was prudent and sa- 
gacious; he formed his opinions deliberately, anil such 
was his discretion that, in the various responsible rela- 
tions he sustained to the Church, it is questionable 
whether a single instance of rashness could be justly 
charged upon him. 1 1 is piety unaffected, his intercourse 
with the people affectionate, his preaching faithful, ear- 
nest, and successful, he was a very popular preacher. 
He was successively at Charleston (in 1809, 1810,1820, 
1821, 1834, and 1835), Camden (181X), AVilmington, N. 
C. (1819), Augusta, Ga. (1826-27), Columbia, 8. C. (1828- 


KENNEDY 


42 


KENNEY 


20, 1830-37). See Summers, *S 'ketches, p. 131 ; Stevens, 

J list or// of the M. E. Church , iv, 205. (J. L. S.) 

Kennedy, William Sloane, a Presbyterian min- 
ister (N. S.),was born in Munev, Pa., June 3, 1822 ; grad- 
uated at Western Deserve College in 184G; was licensed 
bv the Cleveland Presbytery in 1848, and soon after in- 
stalled pastor of the Congregational Church in Bucks- 
ville, Ohio. Here he labored earnestly for four years. 
In 1852 he accepted a call to Sandusky, Ohio, where he 
ministered with great success until his removal to Cin- 
cinnati in 1850. llis work there seemed to promise well, 
his congregations increased, and his influence was strong; 
but in the spring of 1860 his health began to fail, and 
for fourteen months he struggled against disease, preach- 
ing even the Sabbath before his death, lie died July 
30, 18G1. lie was a thorough scholar, a profound theo- 
logian, and an instructive and impressive preacher. He 
wrote Messianic Prophecies : — a History o f the Plan o f 
Union i — Life of Christ; and Sacred Analogies. — Wil- 
son, Presh . llist. A Imanac , 18G2. 

Kennel ly, Philip, a Methodist Episcopal minister, 
was born in Augusta Co., Ya., Oct. 18, 1769; converted 
in 1786; entered the Baltimore Conference in 1804; and 
in 1806, on account of ulcerated throat, located and set- 
tled in Logan Co., Kv. In June, 1821, he re-entered 
the itinerancy in the Kentucky Conference, but died on 
the 5th of the ensuing October. “But his work was 
done, his temporalities well adjusted, his slaves emanci- 
pated, and his sun went down without a cloud.” During 
Iiis long location his labors were, “very extensive and 
useful.” “lie was a good preacher, lull of faith and of 
the spirit of Christ.” — Minutes of Conferences , i, 390. 

Kennet, Basil, an English divine of note, younger 
brother of the following, was born Oct. 21, 1G74, at Post- 
ling, in Kent ; entered Corpus Christi College, Oxford, 
in 1690; took the master’s degree in 169G, and the year 
following entered the ministry. In 1706 he was, by the 
interest of his brother, appointed chaplain to the English 
factory at Leghorn, where he no sooner arrived than he 
met with great opposition from the papists, and was in 
danger of the Inquisition. This establishment of a 
Church of England chaplain was a new thing; and the 
Italians were so jealous of the Northern heresy that, to 
give as little offence as possible, he performed the duties 
of his office with the utmost privacy and caution. But, 
notwithstanding this, great offence was taken at it, 
and complaints were immediately sent to Florence and 
Borne, when both the pope and the court of Inquisition 
declared their resolution to expel heresy and the public 
teacher of it from the confines of the holy see, and se- 
cret orders were given to apprehend and hurry him 
away to Pisa, and thence to some other religious prison, 
to bury him alive, or otherwise dispose of him in the 
severest manner. Upon notice of this design, Dr.New- 
ton, the English envoy at Florence, interposed his of- 
fices at that court, where he could obtain no other an- 
swer but that“ he might send for the English preacher, 
and keep him in his own family as his domestic chap- 
lain; otherwise, if he presumed to continue at Leghorn, 
he must take the consequences of it, for, in those matters 
of religion, the court of Inquisition was superior to all 
civil powers.” When the earl of Sunderland, then sec- 
retary of state, was informed of this state of affairs, he 
sent a menacing letter by her majesty’s command, and 
the chaplain was permitted to continue to officiate in 
safety ( Life of Bishop Kennel, p. 53 sq.\ In 1713 Ken- 
net’s failing health obliged him to quit Leghorn, and he 
returned to Oxford, to be elected only the year follow- 
ing president of his college, lie died, however, shortly 
after, either towards the close of 1714 or the opening of 
1715. lie wrote in the theological department an Expo- 
sition of the Apostles' Creed : — Paraphrase on the Psalms. 
in verse (1706, 8vo) ; and published shortly before his 
death a volume of Sermons on several Occasions (Loud. 
1715, 8vo). lie also furnished English translations of, 
1. Puffeiidorf’s Law of Nature and Nations : — 2, Pla- 


cet te’s Christian Casuist : — 3. Godeau's Pastoral Instruc- 
tions: — 4. Pascal’s Thoughts on Religion , to which he pre- 
fixed an account of the manner in which those thoughts 
were delivered by the author: — 5. Balzac’s Aristippus, 
with an account of his life and writings: — 6. The Mar- 
riage of Thames and Isis, from a Latin poem of Mr. Cam- 
den. Dr. Basil Kennet is said to have been a very amia- 
ble man, of exemplary integrity, generosity, and mod- 
esty. See Allibone, Diet. Engl, and A mer. A uthors , s. v. ; 
Gen. Dictionary ; 1 1 ook, Eccles. Biog. vi, 433. (J. 1 1 . W.) 

Kennet, white, D.D., an eminent English prelate 
and writer, was born at Dover Aug. 10, 1660. lie stud- 
ied at St. Edmund Hall, Oxford, and while there at- 
tracted attention by publishing in 1680 a pamphlet 
against the Whig party, entitled Letter from a Student 
at Oxford to a Friend in the Country, in Vindication of 
his Majesty, the Church of England, and the University . 
Through the intiuence of sir William Glynne lie was 
appointed vicar of Ambrosden, Oxfordshire, in 1684, and 
obtained a prebend in the clmreh of Peterborough, but 
returned to Oxford, where he became vice-principal of. 
Edmund Hall, the college to which Hearnc belonged, 
lie was decidedly opposed to the concessions in 1688, 
and was of the number in the Oxford diocese who re- 
fused to read the declaration for liberty of conscience. 
He subsequently (1700) resigned Ambrosden, and settled 
in London as minister of St. Botolph’s, Aldgate, where 
he became a very popular preacher. He was made suc- 
cessively archdeacon of Huntingdon in 1701, and in 1707 
dean of Peterborough, and finally, in 1718, bishop of 
Peterborough, He died Dee. 19, 1728. Bishop Kennet 
was a man, as his biographer says, “of incredible dili- 
gence and application, not only in his youth, but to the 
very last, the whole disposal of himself being to perpet- 
ual industry and service, his chiefest recreation being 
variety of employment.” His published works are, ac- 
cording to his biographer’s statement, fifty-seven in 
number, including several single sermons and small 
tracts; but perhaps not a less striking proof of the in- 
defatigable industry ascribed to him is to be seen in his 
manuscript collections, mostly in his own hand, now in 
the Lansdownc department of the British Museum Li- 
brary of Manuscripts, where from No. 935 to 1042 are 
all his, and most of them containing matter not incor- 
porated in any of his printed works. The principal 
among the latter are: Parochial Antiquities attempted in 
the History of Ambrosden, Burcester, etc. (Oxford. 1695, 
4to; 1818, 4to) : — Ecclesittst. Synods, etc., of the Church 
of England vindicated from the Misrepresentations, etc. 
(Lond. 1701, 8vo) : — An occasional Letter on the Subject 
of English Convocations (Lond. 1701, 8vo), and a num- 
ber of occasional letters and sermons : — Monitions and 
„ 1 d rices delivered to the Clergy of the Diocese of Peter- 
borough, etc. (London, 1720, 4 to) : — On Lay Impro- 
priations (see below) : — Complete History of England 
pLond. 1719, 3 vols. fob), etc. Bishop Kennet, in 1713, 
had made a large collection of books, maps, etc., with 
intent to write A full History of the Propagation of 
Christianity in the English A merican Colonies, but, for 
some reason unknown to us, the plan was never execu- 
ted. It is to be regretted that the bishop failed to carry 
, out the project.; to judge from voh iii of the History of 
England which he prepared, the contribution would 
have been valuable to American Church history. In 
1850, S. F. Wood and Ed.Baddeley published from bish- 
op Kennet's MSS. his Lay Impropriations ( Lond. 12mo). 
See William Newton. Life of the Right Rev. Dr. White 
Kennet (London, 1730, 8vo) ; Wood, A theme Oxonienscs , 
vol. ii : Chalmers, Gen. Biog. Dicta, nary ; 1 loefer, Nouv. 
Biog. Gene rale, xxvii, 563; English Cydopadia ; Alli- 
bone, Diet, of Engl, and A mer. .1 uthors, s. v. 

Kenney, Bakdox T„ a Methodist Episcopal min- 
ister, was born in New Bedford, Mass., Sept. 5, 1810. He 
embraced religion at the tender age of seven, but grad- 
ually became indifferent to its personal enjoyment until 
his nineteenth year, when he was restored to the di- 


KENNICOTT 


43 


KENNICOTT 


vine favor. He was licensed to preach in 1830; entered 
Wilbraham Academy, and in 1832 Middletown Univers- 
ity. In 1833 lie joined the New England Conference, 
was appointed to Thompson Circuit; 1834, Hebron; 
1835, East Windsor; 1830, Mystic; 1837, North Nor- 
wich; 1838-39, Chicopee Falls; 1840-41, Willimantic ; 
1842, located; 1844, readmitted and sent to Manchester; 
1845-40, Mystic Bridge; 1847, Westerly 31 ission; 1848, 
Falmouth ;*I849, East Harwich ; 1850-51, l’rovincetown 
Centre; 1852-55, Sandwich District ; 1856-57, North 
Manchester; 1858-59, Stafford Springs; 1860-61, Allen 
Street, New Bedford ; 1862-65, Sandwich District; 1866 
-68, New London District. In 1869 he removed to Ne- 
braska City, Neb., and started a school, with the pros- 
pect of its becoming a Conference Seminary, blit died 
shortly after, Nov. 11, 1869. As a preacher, he was em- 
inently practical, lucid, fervent, and spiritual, and his 
labors were attended with success. As a presiding el- 
der, his executive ability gave general satisfaction. — 
Minutes of Conferences, 1871, p. 72. 

Keunicott, Benjamin, D.D., one of the most emi- 
nent Biblical scholars, was born of humble parents at 
Totuess, iu Devonshire, England, Apr. 4, 1718. At quite 
a youthful age he succeeded his father as master of a 
charity school in his native place, and here continued 
until 1744, when, having previously given proof of pos- 
sessing superior talents, he was, through the kindness 
of several gentlemen in the neighborhood who inter- 
ested themselves in his behalf, and opened a subscrip- 
tion to defray his educational expenses, enabled to go to 
the University of Oxford. He entered at Wadham Col- 
lege, and applied himself to the study of divinity and 
•Hebrew with great diligence, and while yet an under- 
graduate published Tiro Dissertations: 1 .On the Tree 
of Life in Paradise , with some Observations on the Fall 
of Man ; 2. On the Oblations of Cain and Abel (Oxf. 8vo), 
which came to a second edition in 1747, and procured 
him, free of expense, the distinguished honor of a bach- 
elor’s degree, even before the statute time. Shortly af- 
terwards he was elected fellow of Exeter College, and 
in 1750 took his degree of M.A. By the publication of 
several sermons at this time he acquired additional 
fame, but his great name is due to his elaborate re- 
searches lor the improvement of the text of the Hebrew 
Bible, for which he laid the foundation in 1753. It 
was in this year that he inaugurated his great under- 
taking by giving to the public the first volume of his 
dissertations, entitled The State of the Printed Hebrew 
Text of the 0. T. considered (Oxford, 1753-1759, 2 vols. 
8vo). In this work he evinces the necessity of the un- 
dertaking upon which lie had set his heart by refuting 
the popular notion of the “absolute integrity” of the 
Hebrew text. In the first volume he institutes a com- 
parison of 1 Chron. xi with 2 Sam. v and xxiii, followed 
by observations on seventy Hebrew MSS., and maintains 
that numerous mistakes and interpolations disfigure the 
sacred Scriptures of the O. T. ; in the second volume he 
vindicates the Samaritan Pentateuch, proves the cor- 
ruption of the printed copies of the Chaldee paraphrase 
(the accordance of which with the text of the O. T. was 
boasted of as evincing the purity of the latter), gives an 
account of the Hebrew MSS. supposed at his day to 
have been extant, and closes with the proposition to in- 
stitute a collation of existing Hebrew MSS. for the pur- 
pose of securing a correct edition of the O.-T. Scriptures 
in the original; extending a very hearty invitation for 
assistance to the Jews also. This undertaking, as we 
might naturally expect, met with much opposition both 
in England and on the Continent. It was feared by 
many that such a collation might overturn the received 
reading of various important passages, and introduce 
uncertainty into the whole system of Biblical interpre- 
tation. The plan was, however, warmly patronized by 
the majority of the English clergy; and when, in 1760, 
he issued his proposals for collecting all the Hebrew 
MSS. prior to the invention of the art of printing that 
could be found in Great Britain or in foreign countries, 


the utility of the proposed collation was very generally 
admitted, and a subscription to defray the expense of it, 
amounting to nearly ten thousand pounds, was quickly 
made. Various persons were employed, both at home 
and abroad; among foreign literati the principal was 
professor Bruns, of the University of llelmstadt, who 
not only collated Hebrew MSS. in Germany, but went 
for iliat purpose into Switzerland and Italy. In conse- 
quence of these efforts, more than six hundred Hebrew 
MSS., and sixteen MSS. of the Samaritan Pentateuch, 
were discovered in different libraries in England and on 
the Continent, many of which were wholly collated, and 
others consulted in important passages. To this colla- 
tion of MSS. was also added a collation of the most noted 
printed editions of the Bible, including those edited by 
the Rabbins, whose annotations, as well as the Talmud 
itself, were frequently consulted by the learned Kenni- 
eott. The collation continued from 1760 to 1769, during 
which period an account of the progress making was 
annually published. At length, after sixteen years of 
unmitigated industry, appeared the first, and four years 
later the second volume of Kennieott’s edition of the He- 
brew Bible — Fetus Testamentum Hebraicum cum variis 
Lectionibus (Oxonii, 1776, 1780, 2 vols. fob). Though the 
number of various readings was found to be very great, 
yet they were neither so numerous nor by any means so 
important as those that are contained in Griesbach’s 
edition of the New Testament. But this is easily ac- 
counted for from the revision of the Hebrew text by the 
Masorites in the 7th and 8th centuries, and from the 
scrupulous fidelity with which the Jews have tran- 
scribed the same text from that time. “The text of 
Kennicott’s edition,” says Marsh (Divinity Lectures, pt. 
ii), “was printed from that of Vail der 1 1 ought, with 
which the Hebrew manuscripts, by Kennicotl’s direc- 
tion, were all collated. But as variations in the points 
were disregarded in the collation, the points were not 
added in the text. The various readings, as in the crit- 
ical editions of the Greek Testament, were printed at 
the bottom of the page, with references to the corre- 
sponding readings of the text. In the Pentateuch the 
variations of the Samaritan text were printed in a col- 
umn parallel to the Hebrew ; and the variations observ- 
able in the Samaritan manuscripts, which differ from 
each other as well as the Hebrew, are likewise noted, 
with references to the Samaritan printed text. To this 
collation of manuscripts was added a collation of the 
most distinguished editions of the Hebrew Bible, in the 
same manner as Wetstein has noticed the variations ob- 
servable in the principal editions of the Greek Testa- 
ment. Nor did Kennicott confine his collation to man- 
uscripts and editions. He further considered that as 
the quotations from the Greek Testament in the works 
of ecclesiastical writers afford another source of various 
readings, so the quotations from the Hebrew Bible in 
the works of Jewish writers are likewise subjects of crit- 
ical inquiry.” To the second volume Kennicott added 
a Dissert atio Generalise in which an account is given of 
the manuscripts and other authorities collated for the 
work, and also a history of the Hebrew text from the 
time of the Babylonian captivity. This dissertation, 
which the best Biblical scholars regard as able and valu- 
able, was reprinted at Brunswick, Germany, in 1783, un- 
der the superintendence of professor Bruns. The faults 
attaching to this great work of Dr. Kennicott are thus 
summarized by Dr. Davidson ( Biblical Crit. 2d edit., p. 
154 sq.): “ lie (i. e. Kennicott) neglected the Masorah 
(q. v.) as if it were wholly worthless. In specifying his 
sources, he is not always consistent or uniform in His 
method. Some MSS, are only partially examined. Nei- 
ther was he very accurate in extracting various read- 
ings from his copies. Where several letters are want- 
ing in MSS. there is no remark indicating whether the 
defect should be remedied, and how. The MSS. cor- 
rected by a different hand are rejected without reason. 
Old synagogue MSS. are neglected, though they would 
have contributed to the value of the various readings. 


KENXOX 


44 


KENOSIS 


Van dcr Hooght’s text is not accurately given, since the 
marginal keris, the vowel points, and the accents, have 
been left out. The Samaritan text should have been 
given in Samaritan letters, that readers might see the 
origin of many of the various readings. The edition 
wants extracts from ancient versions, which is a serious 
defect, llis principles or rules forjudging Hebrew MSS., 
and determining the age, quality, or value, are defec- 
tive. In applying his copious materials he often errs, 
lie proceeds too much on the assumption that the Mas- 
oretic text is corrupt where it differs from the Samari- 
tan Pentateuch and ancient versions, and therefore sets 
about reforming it where it is authentic and genuine. 
Yet,” Dr. Davidson continues, “ there can be no doubt 
that Kennieott was a most laborious editor. To him be- 
longs the great merit of bringing together a large mass 
of critical materials. The task of furnishing such an ap- 
paratus, drawn from so many sources, scattered through 
the libraries of many lands, was almost Herculean, and 
the learned author is entitled to all the praise for its ac- 
complishment.” An important Supplement to Kcnni- 
cott’s Hebrew Bible was published by De Rossi, under 
the title of Varite Lectiones Veteris Testamenti (Parma. 
1784-88,4 vols. 4to, with an Appendix in 1798). The 
works of Kennieott and De Ilossi are, however, too bulky 
and expensive for genfcral use. An edition of the He- 
brew Bible, containing the most important of the vari- 
ous readings in lvennicott’s and De Rossi’s volumes, was 
published by Dbderlein and Meissner, Leipz. 1793; but 
the text is incorrectly printed, and the paper is exceed- 
ingly bad. A far more correct and elegant edition of 
the Hebrew Bible, which also contains the most impor- 
tant of Kennicott’s and De Rossi’s various readings, is 
that of Jalin (Vienna, 180G, 4 vols. 8vo). Dr. Kennieott, 
during the progress of this work, resided at Oxford, 
where he was librarian of the Kadcliffe Library after 
1767, and canon of Christ Church. He died there Sept. 
18, 1783. Kennicott’s other works are, The Duty of 
Thanksgiving for Peace , etc. (Bond. 1749, 8vo) : — A Word 
to the Hutchinsonians , etc. (London, 1756, 8vo): — Chris- 
tian Fortitude: a Sermon on Pom. viii, 35, 37 (Oxford, 
1757, 8vo): — Answer to a Letter from the Per. T. Ruth- 
erford ', J J.D., F.P.S . (London, 1762, 8vo) : — A Sermon 
preached before the University of Oxford at St. Mary's 
Churchy May 19, 1765 (Oxf. 17*65, 8 vo) : — Observations 
on 1 Sam. ri, 19 (Oxford, 1768, 8vo): — Ten Annual Ac- 
counts of the Collation of Hebrew MSS. of the 0. Test., 
1760-1769 (Oxf. 1770, 8vo) : — Critici Sueri , or Short In- 
trod, to Hebrew Criticism (Loud. 1774, 8 vo) : — Vet us Tes- 
t amentum Ilebraicum , etc. (Oxonii, 1776-80, 2 vols. fol.) : 
— Dissertatio generalis in Vetus Testamentum Ilebraicum , 
etc. (Oxonii, 1780, fol.) : — Kpistola ad edeberrimum pro- 
fessorem Jounnem Davufem Michadis, de ccnsurd primi 
tomi Hibliorum Ilebraicomm miper editi , in Bibliotheca 
cjus Oriental), parte xi (Oxonii, 1777, 8vo) : — Editionis 
Veteris Testamenti Hebraici cum rariis leetionibus brevis 
defensin , contra Epherneridum Goettingensium crimina- 
tiones (Oxon. 1782, 8 vo) : — The Sabbath, a. Sermon (Oxf. 
1781, 8vo): — Remarks on select Passages in the O. T., to 
which are added eight Sermons (Oxford, 1787, 8vo), of 
which more than one hundred pages are occupied with 
a translation of thirty-two psalms and critical notes on 
the entire book. “ It is worthy of the author’s reputa- 
tion.” See Dr. raulus, Memorabilia, No. i, p. 191-198; 
Gent]. Magazine , 1768; North Amer. Review, x, 8 sq.; 
AVaJch, Neueste Religionsgesch. i. 319-410; v, 401-536; 
Eiehhorn, Finleituny in das A . T. vol. ii ; Darling, Cyclo- 
paedia Bibliograph. ii, 1721 ; English Cyclopaedia ; Kitto, 
Bib/. Cyclopaedia, vol. ii, s. v. 

Kennon, Roijeut Lewis, a Methodist Episcopal 
minister, born in Oranvillc County, N. C., in 1789, was 
converted in 1801, entered the South Carolina Confer- 
ence in 1809, and in 1813 was ordained elder, and loca- 
ted »>n account of ill health; then studied medicine and 
practiced for several years, preaching as his health per- 
mitted. In 1819 he removed from Georgia to Tusca- 
loosa, Ala., and continued his profession until 1824, when 


he re-entered the ministry in the Mississippi Confer- 
ence, and was four years presiding elder on the Black 
Warrior District. In 1829-30 he was stationed at Tus- 
caloosa, in 1831-2 on Tuscaloosa District, in 1834 on the 
Choctaw Mission, in 1835-6 in Mobile, and in 1837 in 
Tuscaloosa. He died during the session of the Confer- 
ence at Columbus, Miss., Jan. 9, 1838. Mr. Kennon was 
one of the most able and influential ministers of his 
time in the Southern States. His home culture in 
childhood was excellent, and he had a very good aca- 
demical education. While studying medicine he fur- 
ther pursued his literary studies at the South Carolina 
College. Kennon numbered among his friends the fore- 
most men of the county in all professions, and was the 
father and model of the Conference, lie died honored 
and beloved by a wide circle of brethren and citizens. — 
Minutes of Conferences, ii, 573 ; Sketches of eminent Itin- 
erant Ministers (Nashville, 1858), p. 113. (G. L. T.) 

Kencsis (id v unrig), a Greek term signifying the 
act of emptying or self-divestiture, employed by modern 
German divines to express the voluntary humiliation 
of Christ in his incarnate state. It is borrowed from 
the expression of Paul, “ But made himself of no reputa- 
tion ( iavrov itchnooE, emptied himself),*’ etc. (Phil, ii, 
7). The same self-abasement is indicated in other pas- 
sages of Scripture ; e. g. the Son laid aside the glory 
which he had with the Father before the world was 
(John xvii, 5), and became poor (2 Cor. viii, 9). This 
term touches the essential difficulty in the doctrine of 
the incarnation. That difficulty seems to consist in the 
supposition that the Logos in his absolute infinitude of 
being and attributes imited himself in one personality 
with an individual created man. On the other hand, it 
has been alleged as an objection to the kenosis theory 
that “to assume any self-limitation on the part of God 
is inconsistent with the unchangeablencss of the divine 
Being.” But God’s immutability is that perfection by 
virtue of which his will and nature remain in constant 
harmony. Every change must, as a matter of course, 
be rejected that would bring God’s will or nature in 
conflict with each other. But any act on the part of 
God, affecting his existence internally or externally, 
that is in harmony with the divine will and being, is 
consistent with the divine immutability. To deny such 
acts on the part of God is to deny the living God him- 
self A God without a motion internally or externally 
would be, according to the Scriptures, a nullity, a dead 
God, an idol. “The very idea,” says Ebrard, “of God 
as the living one implies the possibility of a self-lim- 
itation or change of self, of course of such a change by 
which God continues as God, and out of which he lias 
at all times the power of asserting his infinitude. In 
the divine Being this is possible through the Trinity. 
As the triune God. there is in his being the possibility 
for him to distinguish himself from himself also in time, 
i. e. to receive within himself the difference between 
existence within time and out of time.” That the Son 
of God can become a man without thereby destroy- 
ing his true divinity even the fathers of the Church 
taught. Tertullian says: “God can change himself 
into everything and vet-remain (in substance) what he 
is.” Hilary says: “The form of God and the form of 
a servant can indeed not unqualifiedly become a unity; 
they rather exclude one another as such. But liow 
does their union become a possibility? Answer : Only 
by giving up the one, the other can be assumed. But 
he that has emptied himself, and taken upon himself 
the form of a servant, is therefore not a different person. 
To give up a form does not. imply the destruction oj its 
substance. Exactly in order to prevent this destruction 
the act of self-emptying goes only far enough to consti- 
tute the form of a servant.” Ebrard makes the fitting 
comparison: “If a crown prince, in order to set others 
free, should go for the time being into voluntary servi- 
tude, he would be, to all intents and purposes, a servant, 
and, as he has not forfeited his claims to the crown, also 
a prince, so that he could with propriety be called both 


KENOSIS 


45 


KEXOSIS 


servant and a prince : in the same manner Jesus was 
the true and eternal God, and at the same time a true 
and real man ; and it can be said with propriety of him, 
the Son of God is man, and the mail Jesus Christ is 
God.” To this is added by the author of Die biblische 
Glaubenslchre (published by the “ Calwer Verein”) : 
“ The same is the case with man, who, notwithstanding 
the various changes of his circumstances here, and the 
great changes which he shall undergo in the resurrec- 
tion, is stiil the same person. We meet even in God 
with a change of conditions. He rested before and after 
he had created the world ; does not this imply a self- 
limitation on the part of God? And what self-limita- 
tions does not God impose upon himself with regard to 
human liberty ! The omnipresence of God is no infinite 
diffusion, but has its definite starting-point; and if God 
is not as near to the wicked as he is to the pious, this is 
likewise an act of self-limitation on God’s part over 
against the ungodly. Again, the personality of God, 
what else is it than a self-comprehension of the infinite V 
Yet in all these self-limitations God remains God. 
Should, then, the Son not be able to remain in sub- 
stance what he is, if, out of compassion for fallen hu- 
manity, he becomes a man, and, in order to become a 
man, lays aside liis divine glory?” 

This leads ns, then, to the main question, What have we 
to understand by the divine glory wh ich the Son laid aside 
during his sojourn on earth f To this question the Chris- 
tologians who adopt the kenosis return different answers. 
We are met here again by the old difficulty to unite the di- 
vine and the human in one self-consciousness. The ques- 
tion is tills, Whether the self-consciousness of the God- 
man is the divine self-consciousness of the eternal Son, 
or the self-consciousness of the assumed human nature? 
Gess ( Gesch . d. Dogmatik ) takes the latter view, and says 
that, in order to do justice to the true humanity of Jesus 
Christ, it is necessary to consistently carry out the self- 
emptying act of the Logos, so that the Son of God in 
the act of the incarnation laid aside the divine attributes 
of omnipotence and omniscience, together with his di- 
vine self-consciousness, and regained the latter gradual- 
ly in the way of a really human development, in such a 
manner as not to affect the true and real divinity of 
Christ. Whether a temporary laying aside- of the di- 
vine self-consciousness is consistent with the immuta- 
bility of the divine Being we need not discuss here. The 
argumentation of Gess is very acute, and may appear to 
the metaphysician the most consistent and satisfactory 
analysis of the personal union of the divine and the hu- 
man in the person of Christ; but exegetically it seems 
to us untenable, nor is it fit for the practical edifica- 
tion of the Christian people, and a theology that cannot 
be preached intelligibly from the pulpit is justly to be 
suspected. We conclude with Liebner and other Chris- 
tologians that by the glory which the Son of God laid 
aside during his sojourn on earth we must not under- 
stand his divine self-consciousness, not the fulness of the 
Deity, as far as it can manifest itself in a human nature. 
On the contrary, it is said of this very glory, “The 
Word became fiesli and dwelt among ns, and we saw 
liis glory, a glory as of the only begotten of the Father, 
full of grace and truth. . . . And of his fulness we all 
have received grace for grace.” This divine fulness the 
Son did not give up at liis incarnation, but it followed 
him as his peculiar property from heaven, from out of 
the Father’s bosom, to legitimate him as the Logos, as 
the only begotten of the Father, yet so that he turned 
it into a divine-human glory, acquired in a human man- 
ner. Only the form of God, the divine form of exist- 
ence, consequently the transcendent divine majesty and 
sovereign power over all things, united with uninter- 
rupted glory, he exchanged, at his incarnation and dur- 
ing the time of his sojourn on earth, for his human form 
of existence, for the form of the servant. Into this his 
antemundane glory, however, he re-entered (John xvii, 
5) on his going home to his Father (John vi, 02), also 
in the capacity of the exalted Son of man (Phil, ii, 9). 


But in every stage of his divine-human development 
the Son’s oneness of being and of will with the Father 
remained, and by this very fact he was in liis human 
teaching and conduct the express image of the invisible 
God, the personal revealer of him who had sent him, the 
Son of God in the form of human existence. According 
to this view, the immanent relation of the Father, Son, 
and Holy Ghost did not suffer any change by the laying 
aside of the divine form of existence on the part of the 
Son, nor during the time of his existence in human 
form. Only according to this view also have the words 
of the incarnate Son of God their full force: “Believe 
me that I am in the Father, and the Father in me; if 
not, believe me for the very works’ sake. The words 
that I speak unto you I speak not of myself, but the Fa- 
ther that dwelleth in me, he doetli the works” (John 
xiv, 10, 11). If it be objected that the really human 
development of Jesus is inconsistent with or excluded 
by the continuance of the eternal self-consciousness of 
the Logos in the incarnation, we answer that this infer- 
ence does not necessarily follow. There is nothing self- 
contradictory in the assumption that the incarnate Lo- 
gos had in liis one Ego a consciousness of his twofold 
nature. Even if we cannot explain liow the Logos was 
conscious of himself as the eternal Son of God, and vet 
had this self-consciousness only in a human form, yet 
the consciousness of his twofold nature was necessary for 
the mediatorial office of the incarnate Logos; he was to 
know himself according to his absolute divinity and liis 
human development; and if we suppose that of his di- 
vine self-consciousness only so much as was necessary for 
his mediatorial office passed over into his human self- 
consciousness, this double self-consciousness is in perfect 
agreement with his purely human life and with his 
mediatorial office. As to the divine attributes or powers 
that are connected with the divine self-consciousness, 
there is nothing self-contradictory in the supposition 
that the divine Ego of the Logos acted in concert with 
the powers of human nature, with human self-conscious- 
ness, and human volition, if we adojrt the above-mentioned 
relative self-limitation of the divine knowledge and will as 
necessary for the mediatorial office . But even if by this 
view of the personal oneness of the divine and the human 
in Christ the metaphysical difficulty should not be fully 
removed, we would prefer confessing the unfathomable 
depth of this mystery to any philosophical solution of 
the problem which we could not fully reconcile with the 
plain teachings of the Word of God. 

One of the latest and most striking presentations of 
this self-abnegation on the part of our Lord is that 
found in Henry Ward Beecher’s Life of Jesus (i, 50), 
which we here transcribe, omitting its monothelitism 
and anthropopathy : “The divine Spirit came into the 
world in the person of Jesus, not bearing the attributes 
of Deity in their full disclosure and power. He came 
into the world to subject his spirit to that whole disci- 
pline and experience through which every man must 
pass. He veiled his royalty ; he folded back, as it were, 
within himself those ineffable powers which belonged 
to him as a free spirit in heaven. He went into cap- 
tivity to himself, wrapping in weakness and forgetful- 
ness his divine energies while he was a babe. ‘ Being 
found in fashion as a man,’ he was subject to that grad- 
ual unfolding of his buried powers which belongs to in- 
fancy and childhood. ‘And the child grew and waxed 
strong in spirit.’ He was subject to the restrictions 
which hold and hinder common men. He was to come 
back to himself little by little. Who shall say that 
God cannot put himself into finite conditions? Though 
a free spirit God cannot grow, yet as fettered in the 
flesh he may. Breaking out at times with amazing 
power in single directions, yet at other times feeling the 
mist of humanity resting upon his brows, he declares, 
‘Of that day and that hour knoweth no man, no, not 
the angels which are in heaven, neither the Son , but the 
Father.’ This is just the experience which we should 
expect in a being whose problem of life was, not the dis- 


KENKICK 


4G 


KENT 


closure of the full power and glory of God’s natural at- j 
tributes, but the manifestation of the love of God, and ^ 
of the extremities of self-renunciation to which the di- 
vine heart would submit, in the rearing up of his family 
of children from animalism and passion. The incessant 
looking for the signs of divine power and of infinite at- j 
tributes in the earthly life of Jesus, whose mission it was 
to bring the divine Spirit within the conditions of feeble 
humanity, is as if one should search a dethroned king 
in exile for his crown and his sceptre. AYe are not to 
look for a gloriticd, an enthroned Jesus, but for God 
manifest in the flesh; and in this view the very limita- 
tions and seeming discrepancies in a divine life become 
congruous parts of the whole sublime problem.” 

Most theologians, however, will see in this progres- 
sive development of Jesus rather the growth of the hu- 
man faculties as shone upon by the inward sun of divine 
life; and in the alternate lights and shades of the Re- 
deemer’s career, not so much the vicissitudes imposed 
upon tlie enshrined Deity by the earthly abode, as the 
mutual play of the divine and the human natures, now 
one and now the other specially manifesting itself. In- 
deed, the theory of a somewhat double consciousness, if 
we may so express it, or at least an occasional (and in 
early life a prolonged) withdrawal of the divine cogni- 
tions from the human intellect, and thus of the full di- 
vine energies from the human will, seems to be required 
in order to meet the varying aspects under which the 
compound life of Jesus presents itself in the Gospels. 
Certainly the union of the divine Spirit with a mere 
human body is a heathen tlieophany, not a Christian 
incarnation. Indeed, the “flesh” which the Saviour as- 
sumed, in its Scripture sense, has reference to human 
nature as such, its mental and spiritual faculties not less 
than its physical. The problem, therefore, still is to 
adjust the God to the man. This, of course, can only 
be done by conceiving of the infinite as assuming finite 
relations, and this, in short, is the meaning of Kenosis. 
See Humiliation. 

This topic became a subject of controversy in the fiict 
part of the 17th century between the theologians of 
Giessen and those of Tubingen ; the former (Mcnzer and 
Fcuorborn) contending that Christ during his state of 
earthly humiliation actually divested himself (tch'uxric 
proper) of omnipotence, omniscience, etc.; while the 
latter (Luke Osiander, Theodore Thnmmius, and Mel- 
chior Nicolai) maintained that he still continued to pos- 
sess these divine attributes, but merely concealed thorn 
(koi'xI/uj) from men (see Thnmmius, I)e Ta7rttvio(nypa- 
(piy sum/, Tubing. 1623; Nicolai, De keuwoh Christi , ib. 
1(522 ). For details of the controversy, see Herzog, Peal- 
Encykl. vii, 51 1 sq.; xiv, 78(5. On the doctrine itself, see 
Dorncr, Doct. of the Person of Christ , I, ii, 29 ; Schrbckh, 
Kirch enyesch. iv, 070 sq. ; comp. Bib. Pepos. July, 1807, 
p. 413 ; Amer. Presb. Per. July, 18GJ, p. 551 ; Meth. Quar. 
Per. Jan. 1801, p. ITS ; April, 1870, p. 291. The treatise 
of Rode mover. Die Lehre von der Kenosis (Gotting. 1800), 
is of a very vague and general character. See Ciiris- 
TOi-OGv, vol. ii, p. 281, 282. 

Kenrick, Francis Patrick, D.D., an American 
Roman Catholic prelate of great note, was born in Dub- 
lin. Ireland, Dec. 3, 1797, received a classical education 
in his native city, and in IS15 was sent to Rome to study 
divinity and philosophy. There he spent two years at 
the House of the Lazarists, and four years in the College 
of the Propaganda, lie was ordained in 1821, and im- 
mediately thereafter carnc to the United States to as- 
sume the charge of an ecclesiastical seminary just start- 
ing at Rardstown, Kv. lie soon distinguished himself 
ns a polemic writer by his Letters of Omicrov to Omega, 
written in defence of the Roman Catholic doctrine of 
the Fucharist, in reply to attacks by Dr. Rlackburn, 
president of Danville College; Kv., under the signature 
of •• Omega.” On June 0th, 1830, at Rardstown, he was 
consecrated bishop of Arath in partibus infdclium, and 
made coadjutor to the right reverend bishop Connell, of 
Philadelphia, whom lie succeeded in 1842. During his 


episcopate there occurred the anti-Catholic riots, and by 
his firmness and promptness of effort his people were 
prevented from retaliatory acts. In 1851 bishop Ken- 
rick was transferred to the arehiopiscopal see of Balti- 
more. In 1852, as “ apostolic delegate,” he presided over 
the first plenary council of the United States held at 
Baltimore, and in 1859 the pope conferred upon him and 
his successors the “ primacy of honor,” which gives them 
precedence over all 1 Toman Catholic prelates in this coun- 
try. lie died at Baltimore July 8, 1803. ArchbLhop 
Kenrick was regarded as one of the most learned men 
and theologians of his creed in this country. He is 
equally distinguished as a controversialist and a Biblical 
critic. Ilis style is vigorous and decided. In 1837 he 
published a series of letters On the Primacy of the Holy 
See and the A uthority of General Councils , in reply to 
bishop Hopkins, of Vermont, subsequently enlarged and 
reprinted under the title of The Primacy of the Apostolic 
See Vindicated (4th ed., Balt. 1855); also, Vindication of 
the Catholic Church (12mo, Baltimore, 1855), in reply to 
Dr. Hopkins’s End of Controversy Controverted. The 
works, however, which constitute his chief claim to the- 
ological eminence arc his Latin treatises on dogmatic 
theology, Theoloyia Dor/mat ica (4 vols. 8vo, Phil. 1839, 
1840) and Theoloyia Moral is (3 vols. 8vo, Phil. 1841-3), 
which form a complete course of divinity, and are used 
as text-books in nearly all the Romish seminaries of 
the United States. An enlarged edition of these works 
has been published both in Belgium and in this country. 
This contains many valuable additions, among them a 
catalogue of the fathers and ecclesiastical writers, with 
an accurate description of their genuine works. At the 
time of his death he was engaged in revising the Eng- 
lish translation of the Scriptures, of which the whole of 
the N.T.and nearly all of the O. T. have been published. 
“ It is illustrated by copious notes, and will probably su- 
persede the Douay version in general use.” Ilis other 
works of a sectarian and controversial character are 
Catholic Doctrine on Justification Explained and Vindi- 
cated (12mo, Phil. 1841) : — Treatise on Baptism (12mo, 
New York *1843). Kenrick was distinguished both for 
his sagacity and moderation in counsel, “and for his in- 
defatigable efforts in extending the power and influence 
of liis Church.” While in Philadelphia “he founded 
the theological seminary of St. Charles Borromeo, and 
introduced into his diocese the Sisters of the Good Shep- 
herd, who devote themselves to the care of Magdalen 
asylums.” “ During the period of our civil war he was 
unswerving in his loyalty to the Union, and never failed 
to inculcate obedience to the laws” in the face of tlie op- 
position of many of his people. — Allihone’s Diet, of Au- 
thors, s. v.; Appleton’s New Amer. Cyclop), x, 130; An- 
nual for 18G3, p. 501. 

Kent, Asa, a Methodist Episcopal minister, was bom 
in West Brookfield, Mass., May 9, 1780. In 1801 he was 
licensed as an exhorter, and appointed to Weathersfield 
Circuit, Vermont; in 1802 he joined on trial the New York 
Conference, and was appointed to Wliitingham Circuit. 
The following year he became a member of the old New 
England Conference, and during tlie thirty-six years suc- 
ceeding filled appointments at Bnrnard.Yt.; Athens, AT.; 
Lunenburg, AY. ; Ashburnham. Mass. ; Salisbury, Mass. ; 
Salem, N. IL; Lynn, Mass.; Bristol. ILL; New London, 
Conn.; Nantucket, R. I.; Middlcborough, Rochester, 
Mass.; Chestnut Street, Providence, R. I.; Elm Street, 
New Bedford, Mass. ; Newport, R. L; Charlestown, An- 
dover, Mass.; and Edgartown, Martha’s A’inevard. Dur- 
ing this period, ill health, brought on hv the strain of 
indefatigable labors upon a naturally delicate constitu- 
tion, compelled him several times to take supernumerary 
and superannuated relations. In 1814-17 he was presid- 
ing elder of the New London district. He was a dele- 
gate to the General Conference in New AY>rk in 1812, 
and also in Baltimore in 1810. From the date of his 
last appointment in 1839 to the day of his death, Sept. 1, 
1800, lie was always laboring when his health would 
permit. He wrote much for Zion's Herald and the 


KENT 


47 


KEPLER 


Christian Advocate and Journal. His productions were | 
characterized by a clear, concise, iinornaniental style, 
freshness of thought, and deep spirituality. Not osten- 
tatious in the expression of his religious convictions and 
experiences, he claimed personal knowledge of the doc- 
trine of entire sanctification. ‘‘ Uniformly cheerful, full 
of buoyant hopes in Christ, he always was remarkably 
sedate.” — Meth. Minutes for 1801 ; New York Christian 
Advocate. 

Kent, James, a distinguished English composer of 
Church music, was born at Winchester in 1700, and at 
an early age employed as chorister in the cathedral of 
that city. His talents secured him admittance to the 
Chapel Royal, London, where he enjoyed the tuition of 
the celebrated Dr. Croft. After completing his educa- 
tion, he was chosen organist of Finden, in Northampton- 
shire, and subsequently was appointed organist of Trin- 
ity College, Cambridge. In 1737 he was elected to fill 
the same situation in the cathedral of his native place, 
which he accepted and held until 1774. He died in 1770. 
Mr. Kent greatly assisted Dr. Boyce in the preparation 
of his magnificent work, the collection of Cathedral Mu- 
sic, and Ins services are duly acknowledged by that 
learned editor. Mr. Kent published a volume of Twelve 
Anthems (London, 1773, 4to), among which are, Hear 
my Prayer , When the Son of Man, My Sony shall be of 
Mercy, and others which are favorites with the congrega- 
tions of English cathedrals. After his decease, a Morn- 
ing and Evening Service , and Eiyht A nthems , composed by 
him for the Winchester choir, were collected and printed 
by Mr.Corfe, of Salisbury; but the probability is that the 
author never intended them for publication, as they are 
not equal to his other published productions. “ Mr. Kent 
was remarkably mild in his disposition, amiable in his 
manners, exemplary in his conduct, and conscientiously 
diligent in the discharge of his duties. His performance 
on the organ was solemn and impressive, and he was by 
competent judges considered one of the best musicians 
of the age in which he lived” {Ilarmonicoii). (J.1I.W.) 

Kentigern, St., a Scottish prelate who flourished 
toward the close of the Gth century, was actively en- 
gaged in the interests of the Christian Church among 
the natives of Scotland. lie is said to have made many 
converts while bishop of Glasgow. Bishop Kentigern 
died about A.D. GOO. 

Kephar- (“122, village), a frequent prefix to the 
Ileb. name of hamlets or small places in Palestine, as in 
that here following, and many others mentioned by Be- 
laud (Paliest. ii. G84 sq.) and Schwarz (Palest, p. 1 18, 1 10, 
1G0, 170, 177, 187, 188, 100, 200, 201, 204, 235). See Ca- 

P1IAU-. 

Kephar-Chananiah (SO:2n “ifis, i. e. village of 
Ilananiah), a place named in the Talmud, and now 
called Kefr A nan, 5 miles S.W. of Safed, containing the 
ruins of a synagogue (Schwarz, Palest, p. 187 ; compare 
Robinson, Later Bib. Res. p. 78, note). 

Kephir. See Lion. 

Kepler, Johann, the celebrated astronomer, deserves 
a place here not so much on account of his services to the 
science of astronomy as for the relation he sustained to, 
and the treatment he received from the Christian Church 
of the Kith century. He was born near the imperial 
city of Weil, in Wiirtemberg, Dec. 27, 1571, and in his 
childhood was weak and sickly, lie was sent to school 
in 1577, but the straitened circumstances of his father 
caused great interruption to his education, lie was 
soon taken from school, and employed in menial services 
at his father’s tavern. In his twelfth year, however, he 
was again placed at the same school, but in the follow- 
ing year was seized with a violent illness, so that his 
life was for some time despaired of. In 158G he was ad- 
mitted to the monastic school of Maulbronn, where his 
expenses were paid by the duke of Wiirtemberg. The 
three years of Kepler’s life following his admission to 
this school were marked by a return of several of the 


disorders which had well-nigh proved fatal to him in 
his childhood. To add to his misfortunes, his father left 
home in consequence of disagreements with his mother, 
and soon after died abroad. After the departure of his 
father his mother quarrelled with her relations, ‘"having 
been treated,” says Hantseh, Kepler’s earliest biographer, 
(in his edition of Epistolie ad J. Keplerum, etc. [Leipz. 
1718]), "with a degree of barbarity by her husband and 
brother-in-law that was hardly exceeded even by her 
own perverseness.” As a natural consequence, the fam- 
ily alfairs were in the greatest confusion. Notwith- 
standing these complications, young Kepler took his de- 
gree of master at the University of Tubingen in Au- 
gust, 1591, holding the second place in the examination. 
While at the university he had paid particular atten- 
tion to the study of theology, and no doubt intended to 
enter the ministry; but, annoyed by the strife which 
the controversy on the Formula of Concord occasioned, 
and opposed to the doctrine of ubiquity, at that time 
made an article in the confession of Wurtemberg’s state 
religion, he failed to secure a position as minister. lie 
now turned to mathematical studies. His attention 
was first directed to astronomy by the offer of the as- 
tronomical lectureship at Gratz,tlie chief town of Stvria. 
At that time he knew very little of the subject, but, 
having accepted the lectureship, he was forced to qual- 
ify himself for the position. While engaged in these 
investigations, he came by degrees to understand the 
superior mathematical convenience of the system of Co- 
pernicus to that of Ptolemy, llis general views of as- 
tronomy, however, were somewhat mystical, as may be 
seen in his Prodromus. lie supposed the sun, stars, and 
planets were typical of the Trinity, and that God dis- 
tributed the planets in space in accordance with regular 
polyhedrons, etc. 

In 1 595 Kepler completed his Mysterium Cosmoyraph- 
icum, in which he details the many hypotheses lie had 
successively formed, examined, and rejected concerning 
the number, distance, and periodic times of the planets, 
and endeavors to demonstrate the correctness of the Co- 
pernican system, which at that time was still discredited 
and rejected as un-Biblical by both Romanists and Prot- 
estants. To avoid persecution, Kepler took the precau- 
tion to secure the opinion of eminent theologians of both 
churches before publication, and for this purpose sub- 
mitted the MS. to the faculty of Tubingen University. 
Of course they quickly condemned the sacrilegious effort 
and daring of the young astronomer (see below), but 
not so thought duke Louis of Wiirtemberg, who not 
only approved of the work, but furnished the means (in 
159G) to defray the expense of printing it. It must be 
borne in mind that in the lGtli century astronomical 
truth was equally unknown to the clergy and the laity, 
and that the motion of the earth and the stability of 
the sun were doctrines apparently inconsistent with 
holy Scripture. Besides, in those days the truths of re- 
ligion were guarded by a sternness of discipline and a 
severity of punishment which have disappeared in more 
enlightened times. In order to form a correct judgment 
respecting the causes which led to the opposition to 
Kepler by the Church, and the subsequent trial and 
condemnation of Galileo (q. v.), we must turn to that 
period when they first submitted their opinions to the 
public. The philosophy of Aristotle was then preva- 
lent throughout Europe. It was taught in all its uni- 
versities by professors lay and clerical, and every at- 
tempt to refute their doctrines exposed its author to the 
opposition of the learning and scholarship of that day. 
One of the principal dogmas of the Aristotelian philos- 
ophy was the immutability of the heavens. The bril- 
liant discoveries of Kepler and Galileo struck a blow at 
the ancient philosophy, and consequently exposed them 
to the hostility of the Peripatetic philosophers. Now 
when we reflect that the minds of all thinking men 
were then completely moulded by that philosophy, and 
that the.se, again, governed the reflections of those im- 
mediately beneath them, and from them the results 


KEPLER 


48 


KERCHIEF 


of Aristotelianism, mingling up, as they did, especially I 
with the religious opinions of the day, thus reached 
the whole of the popular intellect, we will find it no 
matter of surprise that the zeal of these innovators met. j 
with the most determined opposition. ‘‘The Aristote- 
lian professors, the temporizing Jesuits, the political 
churchmen, and that timid but respectful body who at 
all times dread innovation, whether it be in legislation 
or in science, entered into an alliance against the philo- 
sophical tyrants who threatened them with the penal- 
ties of knowledge.” “lie who is allowed to take the 
start of his species,” says Sir David Brewster, and to 
penetrate the veil which conceals from common minds 
the mysteries of nature, must not expect that the world 
will be patiently dragged at the chariot-wheels of his 
philosophy. Mind has its inertia as well as matter, and 
its progress to truth can only be insured by the gradual 
and patient removal of the difficulties which embarrass 
it.” Those Protestants, therefore, who are so ready to 
censure the Church of Pome for its action with regard 
to these great men should remember that it was but 
carrying out the spirit of the age, and a measure which 
the spirit of the people demanded. Surely Protestant- 
ism has but little to boast of in this matter. More than | 
half a century later we find that the great and good Sir 
Matthew Hale condemned to death two women for witch- | 
craft on the ground, first, that Scripture had affirmed 
the reality of witchcraft; and, seeondlv, that the wis- | 
dom of all nations had provided laws against persons 
accused of the crime. Sir Thomas Browne, the cele- 
brated author of the Religio Medici, was called as a wit- 
ness at the trial, and swore “ that lie was clearly of 
opinion that the persons were bewitched.” Not only 
so, but Henry More and Cud worth strongly expressed 
their belief in the reality of witchcraft ; and, more than 
all, Joseph Glauride, probably the most celebrated theo- 
logical thinker of his time, wrote a special defence of 
the superstition, without doubt the ablest book ever 
written on that subject. As late as 1G92 nineteen per- 
sons were executed and one pressed to death in Massa- 
chusetts on the same plea for witchcraft. See Salem. 
“To deny the possibility^, nay. actual existence of witch- 
craft and sorcery,” says Sir William Blackstone (Com- 
mentary on the Laws of England, bk. iv. ch. iv, see. G), 
“is at once flatly to contradict the revealed Word of 
God in various passages both of the Old and New Tes- 
taments.” See Witchcraft. 

In 1597 Kepler married Barbara Muller von Miilil- 
eckh. She was already a widow for the second time, 
although two years younger than Kepler himself. In 
the year following his marriage, on account of the 
troubled state of the province, arising out of the two 
great religious parties into which the German empire 
was then divided, he was induced to withdraw into Hun- 
gary. The Jesuits, anxious to secure for the Donnish 
Church the learning and renown of Kepler, earnestly 
worked in his behalf, and secured permission for his re- 
turn to Gratz. Very independent in character, Kepler 
was not the man to eat the bread of his opponents, and 
upon his frank refusal to join the Romanists he was vis- 
ited with still fiercer opposition. In 1G00 he paid a visit 
to Tycho Brahe, and, by recommendation of the latter, 
was appointed assistant imperial mathematician by em- 
peror Rudolph II. Upon the death of Tycho in 1 GO 1 , 
Kepler succeeded him as principal mathematician to the 
emperor, and took up his residence at Prague. The 
special task intrusted to Kepler at this time was the re- 
duction of Tycho's observations relative to the planet 
Mars, and to this circumstance is mainly owing his grand 
discovery of the law of elliptic orbits, and (hat of the 
equable description of terns. These continued studies, 
his searchings after harmony, led him at last to the dis- 
covery of the three remarkable truths called Kepler's 
Laws. (For an account of these, and the stfcps that led 
to their discovery, see the English Cyclopaedia, s. v., 
where also will be found a list of Kepler’s works.) In 
1G24 he went to Vienna, the emperor finding it impos- 


sible to make good his promises to assist Kepler, to se- 
cure t lie necessary means to aid him in the completion 
of the Rndolphine Tables; it was not, however, till 1G27 
that these tables — the first that were calculated on the 
supposition that the planets move in elliptic orbits — 
made their appearance; and it will be sufficient to say 
of them in this place, that, had Kepler done nothing in 
the course of his whole life but construct these, he would 
have well earned the title of a most useful and inde- 
fatigable calculator. He died in the early part of No- 
vember, IG30, and his body was interred in St. Peter’s 
church-yard at Ratisbon. “Ardent, restless, burning to 
distinguish himself by his discoveries, he attempted ev- 
erything; and, having once obtained a glimpse, no labor 
was too hard for him in following or verifying it. All 
Ins attempts had not the same success, and, iu fact, that 
was impossible. Those which have failed seem to us 
only fanciful; those which have been more fortunate 
appear sublime. When in search of that which really 
existed, he has sometimes found it; when he devoted 
himself to the pursuit of a chimera, he could not but 
fail ; but even there be unfolded the same qualities, and 
that obstinate perseverance that must triumph over all 
difficulties but those which are insurmountable.” See 
Breitschwerdt, Johann Kepler's Lehen n.Wirlen (Stuttg. 
1831); Brewster, Lives of the Martyrs of Science (Loud. 
1841) ; Baillv, Histoire de T astronomic moderne, ii. 4 sq. ; 
Bayle, Hist. Diet. s. v. ; Aschbacli, Kirchen-Ltxih. s. v. ; 
Brockhaus, Conversat . Lex. s. v. ; English Cyclop, s. v. ; 
Menzel, Gesch. tier Deutschcn , v, 104 sq., 327 sip, 471 ; vi, 
10 sq. 

Kerach. See Crystal. 

XCeralay, De, a French Roman Catholic mission- 
ary, who flourished in the early part of the 18th cen- 
tury, joined the Congregation of Foreign Missions, and 
in 1720 took charge of the mission at Mergui. In 1722 
he was consecrated bishop of Rosalia, and became co- 
adjutor to !M.de Cire', apostolic vicar of Siam, whom he 
succeeded in 1727. The court, which had at first ap- 
peared favorably inclined towards the Christians, soon 
I began, at the instigation of the bonzes, to persecute 
i them violently. The missionaries were forbidden pub- 
i lishing any books in the Siamese language, or teaching 
their doctrines to the people. Inscriptions insulting to 
1 the Christian faith were placed on the front or inside 
of the churches. Iveralav himself also was repeated- 
ly summoned before the authorities, to answer for his 
infringements of their regulations, but be displayed 
throughout great firmness and patience. The death of 
the king and the civil war which followed gave the 
Christians some respite, lmt after a short lime persecu- 
tions began anew, and it was during these that Kcralay 
died at Juthia, Nov. 27, 1737. See Lettres edif antes; 
Henrion, IJist. des Missions ; Pallegoix, Description da 
royaume Thai (Paris, 1854, 12mo) ; Hoefer, Xouv. Biog, 
Generate , xxvii, 595. (J. N. P.) 

Kerazin. See Ciiorazin. 

Kerchief (only in the plur. r *1155*2, mispachoth', 
so called from being spread out; Sept. t7ri(36\aia v. r. 
~tot3( \aia, Symmaclius v—av\ivia, Vulg. cerricalia ), 
an article of apparel or ornament that occurs only in 
Ezek. xiii, 18, 21, where it is spoken of as something ap- 
plied to the head by the idolatrous women of Israel, but 
the meaning of which it is difficult to discover. Some 
of the ancient versions (e.g. Symmaclius, the Vulgate, 
etc.) understand pillows or cushions for the head, as in 
the parallel member (so Kosenm Uller, Gesenius, etc.) ; 
others (e. g. the Sept., Syriac, etc.) think that months or 
coverings for the head are intended. Ilitzig understands 
the talith or long cloth worn by Jewish worshippers. 
See Fringe. The derivation of the Hebrew word, and 
the fact that the article might be torn (ver. 21), shows 
that it was long, loose, and flexible, like the shawl with 
which Oriental women envelop themselves (Ruth iii, 15; 
Isa. iii, 22); and the statement that they were adapted 
to be placed “ upon the head of every stature” (’dil ~V 


IvERCKIIERDERE 


49 


KERI AND KETHIB 


n^ip“bs, i. e. persons of whatever height), confirms 
this view. Kimehi says it was a rich upper garment. 
It was probably a long anti elegant veil or head-dress, 
perhaps denoting by its shape or ornament the charac- 
ter of those who wore them. See Veil. The false 
prophetesses alluded to practiced divinations, and pre- 
tended to deliver .oracles which contradicted the divine 
prophecies. (See IIiivernick,Co>rtweH/. atlloc.). Schroe- 
der {De vest . mul. Ilebr. p. 200, 209) well interprets “ veils 
such as those with which in the East women cover the 
entire head, especially the face” (eomp. Ruth iii, 15 ; Isa. 
iii, 22). The Eastern women bind on their other orna- 
ments with a rich embroidered handkerchief, which is 
described by some travellers as completing the head- 
dress, and falling without order upon the hair behind. 
See Head-dress. This, if of costly and splendid ma- 
terial, would be a not unapt decoration for the meretri- 
cious purpose in question. See also Handkerchief. 

Kerckherdere, John Gerard, a Dutch theolo- 
gian and pliilologian, was born near Macstricht about 
1678, and was educated at Louvain, where he afterwards 
became a professor. He died March 10, 1738. His the- 
ological works of note are, Sy sterna Apocalypticum (Lou- 
vain, 1708, 12mo): — Prodromus Danielicus, sive nori co- 
nntus Mstorici critici in celeberrimas difficult cites histories 
Vet. Test, monarch iarum Asia?, etc., ac prweipue Daniel, 
prophet. (Louv. 1711, 12mo) : — De Monarchia Romm pa - 
game secundum concordiam inter prophet as Danielem et 
Joanne m ; consequens historia a monarchies conditoribus 
usque ad urbis et imperii ruinam; accessit series histories 
Apocah/pticee (Louv. 1727, 12mo): — De Situ Paradisi 
terrsstris (Louv. 1731, 12mo). — Hoefer, Nouv.Biog. Gene- 
rate, xxvii, G03. 

Kerckkove, John Polyander van den, a Dutch 
Protestant theologian, born at Metz March 2G, 15G8, was 
educated at Embden, where his father was pastor of the 
French Church, and afterwards went to study Hebrew 
and philosophy at Bremen, and theology at Heidelberg, 
imder Du Jon and Crellius, and at Geneva under The- 
odore de Beza and Antony Lafaye. In 1591 he became 
pastor of the French Church at Leyden, and soon after 
at Dort. In 1G1I he succeeded Arminius as professor of 
theology in the University of Leyden. lie took part in 
the Synod of Dort, and was one of the theologians com- 
missioned to draw up the eanon of that synod ; he was 
also member of a committee for revising the Bible. 
Kerckliove died Feb. 4, 1 G4G. He wrote A ccord desqjas - 
sages de VEcriture qui semblent ctre contraires les uns aux 
autres (Dort, 1599, 12mo) : — Theses logicee atque ethicce 
(1G02) : — Rcsponsio ad interpoluta A. Cocheletii, doctoris 
Sorbonnistee (1610) ; Coclielet answered in his Cexmetc - 
rium Calvini: — Miscellanea? Tructationes theologicce, in 
quibus agitur de qireedestinatione et Can a Domini (Ley- 
den, lG29,8vo): — Prima Concertatio anti-socinian<i (Am- 
sterd. 1G40, 8vo) : — De essentiali Christi Existentia Con- 
certatio, contra Johunnem Crellium (Leyden, IG43, 12mo); 
etc. He also published Thomas Cartwright’s Commen- 
tarii in Proverbia Salomonis, and was one of the pub- 
lishers of the Sgnopsis punoris Theologiis (Leyden, 1G25, 
8vo). See Foppcns, Bibliotheca Belgicti ; Boxhorn, The- 
atrum Holland he, p. 361 ; Paquot, J/ e moires, vol. v. ; Joli. 
Fabricius, Ilistor . Bibliothecarnm, iv, 92. — Iloefer, Xouv. 
Biog. Generate , xxvii, G04. (J. N. P.) 

Ke'ren-liap'puch (Ileb. Kc'ren-hap-Pak ' , 

horn of the fa ce-paint, i. e. cosmetic-box; Sept. 
’ApaXSuag [v. r. ’ApaXSaiag, ’ApaXStag, 

i. e. horn of plenty ; Vnlg. correctly Cornu stibii, 
i. e. of antinionj 7 ), a name given to Job’s third daughter 
(Job xliii, 14), after the Oriental ideas of elegance (see 
Kitto’s Daibj Bib. III. ad loc.). B.C.cir.2220. See Paint. 

Keri and Kethib (E^rci p, plural 

so frequently found in the margins and foot- 
notes of the Hebrew Bibles, exhibit the most ancient 
various readings, and constitute the most important 
portion of the critico-exegetical apparatus bequeathed 
V.— D 


to us by the Jews of olden times. On this subject we 
substantially adopt Ginsburg’s article in Kitto’s Cgclo - 
pcedia, s. v. See Masorah. 

I. Signification, Classification, and Mode of Indication 
of the Keri and Kethib. — The word keri', may 

be either the imperative or the participle passive of the 
Chaldee verb tnp, to call out, to read, and henee may 
signify “Read” or “It is read,” i. e. the word in ques- 
tion is to be substituted for that in the text. 7VP3, 
kethib', is the participle passive of the Chaldee verb 
EPS, to write, and signifies “It is written ,” i. e. the word 
in question is in the text. Those who prefer taking 
the word as participle, do so on the ground that it 
is more consonant with its companion E*T3, which is 
the participle passive. The two terms thus correspond 
substantially to the modern ones margin (Keri) and text 
(Kethib). Wc may add that the Ilabbins also call the 
Keri XEpE, mikra', scripture, and the Kethib SlElOEj 
masorah', tradition; but, according to our ideas, these 
terms should be reversed. 

The different readings exhibited in the Keri and 
Kethib may be divided into three general classes: a. 
Words to be read differently from what they are written, 
arising from the omission, insertion, exchanging, or trans- 
position of a single letter (E^rE^l “Hp^l -V2); 
b. Words to be read, but that are not -written in the 
text (E“TO tfbl ^Ep); and, c. Words written in the 
text, but that are not to be read ("Hp X'P) E^TE). 

a. The first general class ( variations ) comprises the 
bulk of the various readings, and consists of— 

1. Corrections of errors arising from mistaking hom- 
onyms, c. g. 50, the negative particle, for the similarly 
sounding lb, the pronoun, of which we have fifteen in- 
stances (eomp. Exod. xxi, 8; Lev. xi, 21 ; xxv, 30; I 
Sam. ii, 3 ; 2 Sam. xvi, 18 ; 2 Kings viii, 10 ; Ezra iv, 2 ; 
Job xiii, 15; xli, 4; Psa. c, 3; cxxxix, 16; Prov. xix, 
7; xxvi, 2; Isa. ix, 2; lxiii, 9), and two instances in 
which the reverse is the case (1 Sam. ii, 1G; xx. 2). 
Besides noticing them in their respective places, the 
Masorah also enumerates them all on Lev. xi, 15. The 
Talmud (Sopherim, vi) gives three additional ones, viz., 
I Chron. xi, 21 ; Job vi, 21 ; Isa. xlix, 5. b m J for btf, of 
which we have four instances (1 Sam. xx, 24; 1 Kings 

i, 33 ; Job vii, I ; Isa. lxv, 7 ; Ezek. ix, 5). 

2. Errors arising from mistaking the letters which 
resemble each other, e. g. E for E (comp. Prov. xxi, 29) ; 

. X for T (Ezek. xxv, 7) ; E for “ (1 Sam. iv, 13); 1 for 
*1, of which the Masorah on Prov. xix, 19, and Jer. xxi r 
40, gives four instances (2 Sam. xiii, 37 ; 2 Kings xvi,. 
G; Jer. xxi, 40; Prov. xix, 19); IE for T (Jer.xxviii, 1 ;. 
xxxii, 1); <E for D (2 Sam.xxiii, 13); H for H, of which 
the Masorah on Prov. xx, 21 gives four instances (2 
Sam. xiii, 37 ; Prov. xx, 21 ; Cant, i, 17 ; Dan. ix, 24) 

13 for "O (1 Sam. xiv, 32); *' for 1 in innumerable in- 
stances; - for E in eleven eases (Josh, iv, 18; vi, 5, 15'; 
I Sam. xi, 6, 9 ; 2 Sam. v, 24 ; 2 Kings iii, 24 ; Ezra viii, 
14; Neh. iii, 20; Estli. iii, 4; Job xxi, 13; E for H (Isa. 
xxx, 32) ; Ii for 2 (2 Kings xx, 4) ; E for “I twice (Jer.. 

ii, 20; Ezra viii. 14) ; T\ for n (Eecles. xii, 6) T\ for n 
(2 Kings xxiv, 14 ; xxv, 17 ; Jer. Iii, 21). 

3. Errors arising from exchanging letters which be- 
long to the same organs of speech, e. g. E for E. of 
which the Keri exhibits one instance (Josh, xxii, 7), 
and vice-versa, of which the Great Masorah, under letter 
E, gives six instances (Josh, iii, 16; xxiv, 15; 2 Kings 
v, 12; xii, 10; xxiii,33; Dan. xi, 18); n for 55 (2 Kings 
xvii, 21); V for 55 (1 Sara, xx, 24; 1 Kings i, 33; Job 
vii, 1 ; Isa. lxv, 7 ; Ezek. ix, 5) ; E for £ (Isa. lxv, 4). 

4. Errors arising from the transposition of letters. 


KERI AND KETHIB 


50 


KERI AND KETHIB 


which the Masorah designates “"lITiXE! E^pVE, and 
of which it gives sixty-two cases, as, for instance, the 
textual reading, or lvethib, is bnXJl, the tent , and the 
marginal reading, or Keri, transposing the letters b and 
n, has J"!5Xn, time (comp. Josh. vi, 13; xx, 8; xxi, 27; 
Judg. xvi, 26; 1 Sam. xiv, 27 ; xix, 18, 22, 23 [twice] ; 
xxvii, 8; 2 Sam. iii, 25; xiv, 30; xvii, 16; xviii,8; xx, 
14; xxiv, 16; 1 Kings vii, 45; 2 Kings xi, 2; xiv, 6; 
1 Chron. i, 46; iii, 24; xxvii, 29; 2 Chron. xvii, 8; 
xxix,8; Ezraii,46; iv, 4; viii, 17 ; Nell. iv,7; xii, 14; 
Esth. i, 5, 16; Job xxvi, 12; Psa. Ixxiii, 2; exxxix, 6; 
exlv, 6; Prov. i, 27; xiii, 20; xix, 16; xxiii, 5, 26; 
xxxi, 27; Ecelcs. ix, 4; Isa. xxxvii, 30; Jcr. ii, 25; 
viii, 6; ix, 7; xv, 4; xvii, 23; xxiv, 9; xxix, 18, 23 ; 
xxxii, 23 ; xlii,20; 1,15; Ezek. xxxvi, 14 ; xl, 15; xlii, 
16 ; xliii, 15, 16 ; Dan. iv, 9 ; v, 7, 16 [twice], 29). 

5. Errors arising from the small letter "> being dropped 
before the pronominal 1 from plural nouns, and making 
them to be singular, of which there are a hundred and 
thirteen instances [it is very strange that the Masorah 
Magna only enumerates fifty-six of these instances] 
(Gen. xxxiii, 4; Exod. xxvii, 1 1 ; xxviii, 28; xxxii, 19 ; 
xxxix, 4, 33 ; Lev. ix, 22 ; xvi, 21 ; Numb, xii, 3 ; Deut. 

ii, 33; vii, 9; viii, 2; xxvii, 10; xxxiii, 9; Josh, iii, 4; 
viii, 11 ; xvi, 3; 1 iuth iii, 14; 1 Sam. ii, 9, 10 [twice]; 

iii, 18; viii, 3; x, 21; xxii, 13; xxiii, 5; xxvi, 7 
[twice], 11, 16 ; xxix, 5 [twice] ; xxx, 6 ; 2 Sara, i, 1 1 ; 

ii, 23; iii, 12; xii, 9, 20; xiii, 34; xvi, 8; xviii, 7, 18; 
xix, 19; xx, 8; xxiii, 9, 11; xxiv, 14, 22; 1 Kings v, 
17; x, 5; xviii, 42; 2 Kings iv, 34; v, 9; xi, 18; Ezra 

iv, 7; Job ix, 13; xiv, 5; xv, 15; xx, 11; xxi, 20; 
xxiv, l; xxvi, 14; xxxi, 20; xxxvii, 12; xxxviii, 41; 
xxxix, 26, 30; xl, 17; Psa. x, 5; xxiv, 6; lviii, 8; evi, 
45; cxlvii, 19; exlviii, 2; Prov. vi, 13 [twice]; xxii, 
24; xxvi, 24; Isa. Iii, 5; Ivi, 10; Jcr. xv, 8; xvii, 10, 
11; xxii, 4; xxxii, 4; Iii, 33; Lam. iii, 22, 32, 39 ; Ezek. 

iii, 20; xvii, 21; xviii, 23, 24; xxxi, 5; xxxiii, 13, 16; 
xxxvii, 16 [twice], 19; xl, 6, 22 [twice], 26; xliii, 11 
[thrice], 26; xliv, 5; xlvii, 11; Dan. xi, 10; Amos ix, 
6; Obad. v, 11 ; llab. iii, 14); as well as from the in- 
sertion of before the pronominal 1 and before the pro- 
nominal ” in singular nouns, and making them plural ; 
the Keri exhibits seven instances of the former (1 Kings 
xvi, 26; Psa. ev, 18, 28; Prov. xvi, 27; xxi, 29; Eccles. 

iv, 17; Dan. ix, 12) and eight of the latter in the word 
"-“J (Judg. xiii, 17; 1 Kings viii, 26; xxii, 13; Psa. 
cxix, 117, 161 ; Jer. xv, 16 [twice] ; Ezra x. 12). 

6. Errors of a grammatical nature, arising from drop- 
ping the article Pi where it ought to be, of which the 
Keri exhibits fourteen instances (l Sam. xiv, 32; 2 Sam. 
xxiii, 9 ; 1 Kings iv, 7 ; vii, 20 ; xv, 18; 2 Kings xi, 20 ; 
xv, 25; Isa. xxxii, 15; Jer. x, 13; xvii, 19; xl, 3; Iii, 
32; Lam. i, 18; Ezek. xviii, 20), or from the insertion 
of it where it ought not to be, of which there are ten 
instances (1 Sam. xxvi, 12; 1 Kings xxi, 8; 2 Kings 
vii, 12. 13; xv, 25; Eccles. vi, 10; x, 3, 20; Isa. xxix, 
11; Jer. xxxviii, 11); or from the dropping of the Pi 
after nr:, or writing SOP! instead of SOP! when used as 
feminine. 

7. Errors arising from the wrong division of words, 
e. g. the first word having a letter which belongs to the 
second, exhibited by the Keri in three instances, and 
stated in the Masorah on 2 Sam. v, 2 (2 Sam. v, 2; Job 
xxxviii, 12; Lam. iv, 16), or the second word having a 
letter which belongs to the first, of which there are 
two instances (1 Sam. xxi, 12; Ezra iv, 12); or one 
word being divided into two separate words, of which 
the Masorah on 2 Chron. xxxiv mentions oight-instan- 
ccs (Judg. xvi, 25; 1 Sain, ix, Ij, xxiv, 8; 1 Kings xviii, 
5; 2 Chron. xxxiv, 6; Isa. ix, 6; Lam. i, 6; iv, 3), or 
two separate words being written as one, exhibited by 
the Keri in fifteen instances (Gen. xxx, 11; Exod. iv, 
2; Deut. xxxiii, 2; 1 Chron. ix, 4; xxvii, 12, Neh. ii, 


23; Job xxxviii, 1 ; xl, 6; Psa. x, 10; lv, 16; exxiii,4; 
Isa. iii, 15 ; Jcr. vi, 29 ; xviii, 3 ; Ezek. viii, 6). 

8. Exegetieal Keris or marginal readings which sub- 
stitute euphemisms for the cacophonous terms used in 
the text, in accordance with the injunction of the an- 
cient sages, that ‘Call the verses wherein indecent ex- 
pressions oecur are to be replaced by decent words (e. g. 
nrbm" 1 by [of which the Keri exhibits four 

instances, viz. Deut. xxviii, 30; Isa. xiii, 16; Jer. iii, 2; 
Zech. xiv, 2]; E^blEE by E*Hini2 [of which the Keri 
exhibits six instances, viz. Deut. xxviii, 27; 1 Sam. v, 
6, 9; vi, 4, 5, 17; omitting, however, 1 Sam. v, 12]; 
E“3^“n by E"':*P EP [of which the Keri exhibits one 
instance, viz. 2 Kings vi, 25]; EPPPin by EPSOE [of 
which the Keri exhibits two instances, 2 Kings xviii, 
27; Isa. xxxvi, 12]; EPPS*^ by EPPSin 

[of which the Keri exhibits two instances, 2 Kings 
xviii, 27; Isa. xxxvi, 12] ; r.lXHPIEP by PPSCOE^ [of 
which there is one instance, 2 Kings x, 27, comp. J/e- 
gilla, 25 b]).” 

The manner in which this general class of various 
readings is indicated is as follows : The variations speci- 
fied under 1 and 2, not affecting the vowel points, are 
simply indicated by a small circle or asterisk placed 
over the word in the text (E^PC), which directs to the 
marginal reading ("'“ip), where the emendation is giv- 
en, as, for instance, the Kethib in Exod. xxi, 8 is S<P, 
in 1 Sam. xx, 24 W, and in Prov. xxi, 29 an( i 
the marginal gloss remarks ii p, p, "pE" 1 p, the 
p being an abbreviation for "'“Ip. In the variations 
specified under 3 and 4, where the different letters of the 
Kethib and the Keri require different vowel points, the 
abnormal textual reading, or the Kethib, has not only 
t lie small circle or asterisk, but also takes the vowel 
points which belong to the normal marginal reading, or 
the Keri, e. g. the appropriate pointing of the textual 
reading, or the Kethib, in 2 Kings xvii, 21, is &PP1, but 
it is pointed X-Pl, because these vowel signs belong to 
the marginal reading, or the Keri, PTP1, which it is in- 
tended should accompany the vowel points in the text. 
The same is the ease with the textual reading in 2 Sam. 
xiv, 30, which, according to the marginal reading, ex- 
hibits a transposition of letters, and which can hardly 
be pronounced with its textual points PPPPiTil), be- 
cause these vowel signs belong to the Keri, PIIP'EPP. 
Finally, in the variations specified under 5, G, 7, and 8, 
which involve an addition or diminution of letters, and 
which have therefore either more or fewer letters than 
are required by the vowel points of the Keri, a vowel 
sign is sometimes given without any letter at all, or two 
vowel signs have to be attached to one letter, and some- 
times a letter has to be without any vowel sign; the 
variation itself being either indicated in the margin by 
the exhibition of the entire word which constitutes the 
different reading, or by the simple remark that such 
and such a letter is wanting or is redundant. For 
instance, in Lam. v, 7, which, according to the Masorah, 
exhibits two of the twelve instances where the “1 con- 
junctive has been dropped from the beginning of words 
(comp, also 2 Kings iv, 7; Job ii, 7; Prov. xxiii, 24; 
xxvii, 24; Isa. lv, 13; Lam. ii, 2; iv, 16; v, 3, 5; Dan. 
ii, 43), the textual reading, or Kethib, is ED^Ss. 
and the marginal reading, or Keri, is E-^SO, "EPESOj 
the vowel sign of the conjunction from the margin being 
inserted in the text under the little circle, which, con- 
sequently, has no. letter at all; in Jcr. xiii, 6, again, 
where the textual reading is HX, and the marginal 
reading yet the Kethib, which has only three 

letters, takes the vowel signs of the Keri, which lias 
five letters, and is pointed jEX, with two different vow- 


KERI AND KETHIB 


51 


KERI AND KETHIB 


el points attached to the one *1; whilst in 2 Kings vii, 
15, where the reverse is the case, the marginal read- 
ing having fewer letters, and hence fewer vowels than 
the textual reading, which takes the vowel signs of the 
former, the Kethib is pointed CJEHriS, and the n has 
no vowel sign at all. There is a peculiarity connected 
with the marginal indication of those words the varia- 
tions of which consist in the diminution or addition of a 
single letter. When a letter is dropped from a word in 
the text, the whole word is given in the marginal read- 
ing with the letter in question, and the remark “ Read 
so as, for instance, 1 Sam. xiv, 32 ; Prow xxiii, 24, 
where the Si, according to the Masorah, is dropped from 
Vp'wH, and 1 from as indicated by and 

iV'P ; the marginal glosses are bVi'fl p; 

but when the reverse is the case, if a letter has crept 
into a word, the whole word is not given in the mar- 
ginal gloss, but it is simply remarked that such and 
such a letter is redundant (“PrP), or is not to be read 
("Hp JO), as, for instance, in Eccles. x, 20 ; Neh. ix, 17, 
where the n, according to the Masorah, has crept in 
before and 1 before PDn, the marginal gloss 

simply remarks n P*rP, *1 fc "PrT\ Upon this point, 
however, the greatest inconsistency is manifested in 
the Masoretic glosses ; compare, for instance, the Kethib 
and in Eecles. iv, 8, 17, both of which, ac- 

cording to the Keri, have a redundant % and are sin- 
gular nouns, yet the Masoretic note upon the former is 
p ? exhibiting the whole word, whilst on the latter 
it simply remarks n ‘"PPP. 

b. The second class (insertions directed), which com- 
prises entire words that have been omitted from the 
text, exhibits ten such instances which occur in the 
Hebrew Bible, as follows: Judg. xx, 13; Ruth iii, 5, 17; 

2 Sam. viii, 3; xvi, 23; xviii, 20; 2 Kings xix, 31, 37; 
Jer. xxxi, 38; 1, 29. Besides being noted in the mar- 
ginal glosses on the respective passages, these omissions 
are also given in the Masorah on Deut. i and Ruth iii, 
lb. They are also enumerated in the Talmud (Tract 
Sopherim, vi, 8, and in Xedarim, 37 b). In Xedarim, 
however, the passage which refers to this subject is as 
follows: “The insertion of words in the text (*p n Pp 
■pV'D xb*!) is exhibited in ms [2 Sam. viii, 3]; 

[ibid, xvi, 23]; 0^X3 [Jer. xxxi, 38] ; rib [ibid. 

I, 29]; PN [Ruth ii, II]; [ibid, iii, 5, 17] ;” thus 
omitting four instances, viz. Judg. xx, 13 ; 2 Sam. xviii, 
20; 2 Kings xix, 31, 37, and adding one, viz., Ruth ii, 

II, which is neither given by the Masorah nor in iSo- 
pherim. 

This class of variations is indicated by a small circle 
or asterisk placed in the text with the vowel signs of 
the word which is wanting, referring to the margin, 
where the word in question is given. Thus, for in- 
stance, in Judg. xx, 13, where, according to the Keri, the 1 
word is omitted, the Kethib is ° SDN xbl, 

upon which the marginal gloss remarks "Pp *^3 
3 ^ 7 "-. 

c. Of the third class (omissions suggested), exhibiting 
entire words which have crept into the text, there are 
eight instances, as follows : Ruth iii, 12; 2 Sam. xiii, 33 ; 
xv, 21 ; 2 Kings v, 18; Jer. xxxviii, lf>; xxxix, 12; li, 

3 ; Ezek. xl viii, 16. These variations are not only noted 
in the marginal glosses on the respective passages, but 
are also given in the Masorah on Ruth iii, 12. The 
passage in Xedarim , 27 b, which speaks of this class of 
variations, remarking, “Words which are found in the 
text, but are not read Cp^p XP1 "p^riD), are exhib- 
ited in N3 [2 Kings v, 18]; TXT [Jer. xxxii, 1 1]; “pTi 
[ibid, li, 3]; 3-n [Ezek. xlviii, 16]; LN [Ruth iii, 
12],” omits 2 Sam. xiii, 33; xv, 21 ; and Jer. xxxviii, 


16; xxxix, 12; and adds Jer. xxxii, 11, which does not 
exist in the Masorah ; whilst Sopherim , vi, 9, which re- 
marks ITS n -p-r mp"2S Trxa pars, refer- 

ring to 2 Sain. xiii. 33 ; Jer. xxxix, 12 ; 2 Sam. xv, 21 ; 
Ruth iii, 12; Jer. li, 3; Ezek. xlviii, 16; omits 2 Kings 
v, 18, and Jer. xxxviii, 16. 

This class of variations is not uniformly indicated in 
the different editions of the Bible. Generally the word 
in question has no vowel signs, but an asterisk or small 
circle is put over it, referring to the margin, where it is 
simply remarked *np N31 2^*13, written {in the text], 
but not [to be~] read; in one or two instances, however, 
the word itself is repeated in the margin, as in 2 Kings 
v, 18, where we have it *np &&1 2T2 80, [the word] 
JO [fs] written [in the text], but [is] not [to be] read. 

IT. Xumber and Position of the Keri and Kethib . — A 
great difference of opinion prevails about the number 
and position of these various readings. The Talmud, 
as we have shown above, and the early commentators, 
mention variations which do not exist in the Keris and 
Kethibs of the Masorah. This, however, is beyond the 
aim of the present article, which is to investigate the 
Keri and Kethib as exhibited in the Masorah and in the 
editions of the Hebrew Bible. From a careful perusal 
and collation of the Masorah, as printed in the Rabbinic 
Bibles, we find the following to be the number of the 
Keris and Kethibs in each book, according to the order 
of the Hebrew Bible : 


Genesis 24 

Exodus 12 

Leviticus 5 

Numbers 11 

Deuteronomy 24 

Joshua 3S 

Judges 22 

1 Samuel 73 

2 Samuel 99 

1 Kings 49 

2 Kings SO 

Isaiah 55 

Jeremiah 34S 

Ezekiel 143 

Ilosea G 

Joel l 

Amos 3 

Obadiah 1 

Micah 4 

Nahum 4 


Habakkuk 2 

Zephaniah 1 

llaggai 1 

Zechariah 7 

Malachi 1 

Psalms 74 

Proverbs 70 

Job 54 

Song of Songs 5 

Ruth 13 

Lamentations 2S 

Ecclesiastes 11 

Esther 14 

Daniel 129 

Ezra 33 

Nehemiah 2S 

1 Chronicles 41 

2 Chronicles 39 

Total 1353 


The disparity between AbrabanePs calculations about 
the number of Iveris and Kethibs, leading him to the 
conclusion that the Pentateuch has 65, Jeremiah 81, and 
1 and 2 Samuel 188 ( Introduction to Jeremiah ), and the 
numbers which we have stated as existing in these 
books, is easily accounted for when it is remembered 
that this erudite commentator died fifteen years before 
the laborious Jacob b.-Chajim collated and published 
the Masorahs on the Hebrew Scriptures, and therefore 
had no opportunity of consulting them carefully. But 
we find it far more difficult to account for the serious 
difference in the calculations of later writers and our re- 
sults, as may be seen from the table on the following 
page. 

For the collation of Bomberg’s Bible, the Plantin Bi- 
ble, and the Antwerp Bible, we are indebted to the ta- 
bles exhibited in Cappellus’s Critiea Sacra, p. 70, and 
Walton’s Prolegomena (ed. Cantabrigia?, 1828, i, 473) ; and 
though we have been able by our arrangement to cor- 
rect their blunder in representing Elias Levita as sepa- 
rating the Five Megilloth from the Hagiographa, and 
giving the number of Keris to be 329 exclusive of the 
Megilloth, yet we were obliged to describe the Megil- 
loth apart from the Hagiographa, to which they belong 
according to the Jewish order of the Canon. Elias Le- 
vita’s own words on the numbers are as follows: “E 
counted the Keris and Kethibs several times, and found 
that they were in all 848 ; of these, 65 are in the Penta- 
teuch, 454 in the Prophets, and 829 in t lie Hagiographa. 
It is surprising that there should only be 65 in the Pen- 
tateuch, 22 of which refer to the single word i“H23, which 


KERI AND KETIIIB 


52 


KERI AND KETIIIB 




Romberti’s 
Sec. Edit, 
of Bible, 
1524, 1525. 

The Plan- 
tin Bible, 
1566. 

The Ant- 
werp or 
Royal Bi- 
ble, 15*2. 

Elias 

Levita. 

Our 

Results. 

Penta- 

teuch. 


Variations 

Interpolations 
Deficiencies . . 

73 

1 

"74 

74 

1 

2 

77 

69 

1 

1 

71 

65 

7G 

Earlier 

Prophets. 


Variations — 

Interpolations 
Deficiencies .. 

337 

11 

2 

350 

239 

25 

5 

269 

277 

18 

5 

300 


3C1 

Later 

Prophets. 

\ 

Variations 

Interpolations 
Deficiencies .. 

348 

2 

350 

250 

25 

1 

270 

34T 

11 

358 

454 

377 

Five 1 

MEGILLOTH.j 


Variations 

Interpolations 

51 

11 

"62 

43 

14 

57 

48 

S 

“Ho 


71 

IIagiogka- 

tua. 

1 

Variations 

Interpolations 
Deficiencies . . 

362 

60 

1 

423 

1ST 

34 

1 

222 

242 

20 

1 

263 

329 

40S 

Grand total 

125!) 

901 

1048 | S48 i 1853 


N.B. — In this table, what are denoted by “Variations” are designated 
by the Masorites as *Hp; “Interpolations,” T'TV'; “Deficiencies,” 

is in the Kethib, and in the Keri; that the 

book of Joshua, which in quantity is .about a tenth part 
of the Pentateuch, should have 32; and that the books 
of Samuel, which are merely about a fourth the size of 
the Pentateuch, should contain 133” ( Massoreth Jla- 
Massoretli , ed. Sulzbaeh, 1771, p. 8 sq.). It will be seen 
from this extract that Elias Levita not only gives six 
Kerisless in Joshua than we have given, but also differs 
from Abrabancl in the number of Keris to be found in 
the books of Samuel. 

III. Griffin and Date of the Keri and Kethib.- — The 
Talmud traces the source of these variations to Moses 
himself, for we are distinctly told in Nedarim , 37 b, that 
“the pronunciation of certain words according to the 
scribes (E^S^O X")p"2),the emendations of the scribes 
the not reading of words which are 
in the text (“'"Ip ZTZ), and the reading of words 
which are not in the text (2T.D xbl ^p), etc., are 
a law of Moses from Sinai.” Jacob b.-Chajim defends 
this view in his elaborate Introduction to the Pabbinie 
Bible. Elias LdVj-ta, who also expresses this Talmudic 
declaration, explains it as follows: “The Keri and Keth- 
ib of the Pentateuch only are a law of Moses from 
Mount Sinai, and the members of the Great Synagogue, 

Haggai, Zeehariah, Malaehi, Daniel, lIananiah,Mishael, 

Azariah, Ezra, Nehemiah, Mordecai, and Zerubbabcl, 
and other wise men from the craftsmen and artisans 
mnno) to the number of a hundred and 
twenty, wrote down the Keri and the Kethib according 
to the tradition which they possessed that our teacher 
Moses (peace be with him !) read words differently from 
what they were written in the text; this being one of 
those mysteries which they knew, for Moses transmitted 


same view. It is in accordance with this 
recondite sense aseribed to the origin of 
the Keri and Kethib that Bashi remarks 
on Gen. viii, 16, “The Keri is the 

Kethib beeause he was first to tell 

them to go out; but if they should refuse 
to go, he was to make them go.” Kimchi. 
however, is of the opposite opinion, h'o 
far from believing that these variations 
proceeded from the sacred writers them- 
selves, who designed to convey thereby 
various mysteries, he maintains that the 
Keri and Kethib originated after the Bab- 
ylonian captivity, when the sacred books 
were collected by the members of the Great 
Synagogue. These editors of the long-lost 
and mutilated inspired writings “found dif- 
ferent readings in the volumes, and adopt- 
ed those which the majority of copies had, 
beeause these, according to their opinion, 
exhibited the true readings. In some 
places they wrote down one word in the 
text without putting the vowel signs to it, 
or noted it in the margin without insert- 
ing it in the text, whilst in other places 
they inserted one reading in the margin and another 
in the text” (Introduction to his Commentary/ on Josh- 
ua'). Ephodi (flourished 1391-1403), who maintains the 
same view, remarks that Ezra and his followers “made 
the Keri and Kethib on every passage in which they 
found some obliterations and confusion, as they were not 
sure what the precise reading was.” Abrabanel, who 
will neither admit that the Keris and Kethibs proceeded 
from the sacred writers themselves, nor that they took 
their rise from the imperfect state of the codices, pro- 
pounds a new theory. According to him, Ezra and his 
followers, who undertook the editing of the Scriptures, 
found the sacred books entire and perfect; but in pe- 
rusing them these editors discovered that they con- 
tained irregular expressions, and loose and ungrammat- 
ical phrases, arising from the carelessness and ignorance 
of the inspired writers. “ Ezra had therefore to explain 
these words in harmony with the connection, and this 
is the origin of the Keri which is found in the margin 
of the Bible, as this holy scribe feared to touch the 
words which were spoken or written by the Holy Ghost. 
These remarks he made on his own account to explain 
those anomalous letters and expressions, and he put 
them in the margin to indicate that the gloss is his own. 
Now, if you examine the numerous Keris and Kethibs 
in Jeremiah, and look into their connection, you will 
find them all to be of this nature, viz., that they are to 
be traced to Jeremiah’s careless and blundering writing. 
. . . . From this you may learn that the books whieh 
have most Keris and Kethibs show that their authors 
did not know how to speak correctly or to writ* prop- 
erly” (Introduction to his Commentary on Jeremiah ). 
Though Abrabanel’s hypothesis has more truth in it 
than the other theories, yet it is only by a combination 
of the three views that the origin of the Keri and 
Kethib can be traced and explained. For there can be 


this mystery to Joshua, Joshua to the elders, the elders 
to the prophets, etc., and these were put down in the | no doubt that some of the variations, as the Talmud, 
margin as liis readings, Ezra acting as a scribe. In the j Bashi, etc., declare, have been transmitted by tradition 
same manner they proceeded in the Prophets and 11a- from time immemorial, and have their origin in some 
giographa with every word respecting which they had recondite meaning or mysteries attached to the passages 


a tradition orally transmitted from the prophets and the 
sages that it. was read differently from what it was in 
the text. But they required no tradition for the post- 
exilian books, as the authors themselves were present 
with them; hence, whenever they met with a word 
which did not seem to harmonize with the context and 
the sense, the author stated to them the reason why he 
used such anomalous expressions, and they wrote down 
the word in the margin as it should be read” (Massoreth 
IJa-Massoreth , fol. 8 I), sq.). Mendelssohn, in his valu- 
able introduction to his translation of the Pentateuch, 
and most of the ancient Jewish writers, propounded the 


in question; that some, again, as Kimchi, Ephodi, etc., 
rightly maintain, are due to the blunders and corrup- 
tions whieh have crept into the text in the course of 
time, and which the spiritual guides of the nation tried 
to rectify by a comparison of codices, as is also admitted 
by the Talmud (comp. Jerusalem Meffillah , iv, 2; tSo- 
pherim, vi, 4) ; and'that others, again, as Abrabancl re- 
marks, are owing to the carelessness of style, ignorance 
of idioms and provincialisms, which the editors and suc- 
cessive interpreters of the Hebrew canon discovered in 
the different books, or, more properly speaking, which 
were at variance with the grammatical rules and exe- 


KERI AND IvETIIIB 


53 


KERI AND KETHIB 


getical laws developed in aftertime by the Masorites. 
Such, however, was their reverence for the ancient text, 
that these Masorites who made the new additions to it 
left the text itself untouched in the very places where 
they believed it necessary to follow another explanation 
or reading, but simply inserted the emendation in the 
margin, lienee the distinction between the ancient 
text as it mis written, or Kethib (IVC), and the more 
modern emended reading, or Ken (^p) ; and lienee, 
also, the fact that the Keri is not inserted in the syna- 
gogal scrolls, though it is followed in the public reading 
of the Scriptures. 

IV. Importance of the Keri and Kethib, especially as 
relating to the English Version of the Hebrew Scriptures . 
— Some idea of the importance of the Keri and Kethib 
may be gathered from the following analysis of the 
seven t}’-six variations which occur in the Pentateuch. 
Of the seventy-six Keris, twenty-one give l“nE3 in- 
stead of “123 (Gen. xxiv, 14, 10, 28, 55, 57; xxxiv, 3 
[twice], 12; Dent, xxii, 15 [twice], 10, 20, 21, 23, 24, 
25, 20 [twice], 27, 28, 29), which was evidently epicene 
in earlier periods (comp. Gesenius, Gramm, see. 23, see. 32, 
0 ; Ewald, Lehrbuch, sec. 175, b) ; fifteen have the plural 
termination *P“ affixed to nouns instead of the singular 
i in the text (Gen. xxxiii, 4; Exod. xxvii, 11 ; xxviii, 
28; xxxii, 19; xxxix, 4, 33; Lev. ix, 22; xvi, 21; 
Numb, xii, 3; Deut. ii, 33; v, 10; vii, 9; viii, 2; xxvii, 
10; xxxiii, 9), which some think is no real variation, 
since in earlier periods the termination 1 was both sin- 
gular and plural, just as ^30 stands for both and 
"H3E; seventeen give more current and uniform forms 
of words (Gen. viii, 17 ; x, 19; xiv, 8; xxiv, 33 with 1, 
20; xxv, 23 with xxxv, 11; xxvii, 3 with 5, 7; xxvii, 
29 with the same word in the next clause; xxxvi, 0, 14 
with ver. 18; xxxix, 20, 22 ; xliii, 28 with xxvii, 29 ; 
Exod. xvi, 2; xvi, 7 with Numb, xvi, 11; Numb, xiv, 
36 with xv, 24; Numb, xxi, 32 with xxxii, 39; xxxii, 
7 with xxx, 0 ; Deut. xxxii, 13 with Amos iv, 13) ; five 
substitute the termination third person singular, 1 for n 
(Gen. xlix, 11 [twice]; Exod. xxii, 20; xxxii, 17; 
Numb, x, 30), which is a less common pronominal suf- 
fix (comp. Gesenius, Gramm, sec. 91 ; Ewald, Lehrbuch , 
see. 247. cr) ; two make two words of one (Gen. xxx, 11 ; 
Exod. iv, 2); two have l^bvE instead of lb ’15 (Exod. 
xvi, 13; Numb, xi, 32); three give plural verbs instead 
of singular (Lev. xxi, 5 ; Numb, xxxiv, 4 ; Deut. xxxi, 
7), which are no doubt an improvement, since Numb, 
xxxiv, 4 is evidently a mistake, as may be seen from a 
comparison of this verse with verse 5; three substitute 
the relative pronoun lb for the negative particle Nb 
(Exod. xxi, 8; Lev. xi, 21 ; xxv, 30), which is very 
important; two substitute euphemisms for cacophonous 
expressions (Deut. xxviii, 27, 30) ; and two are purely 
traditional, viz., Numb, i, 16 ; xxvi, 9. The Pentateuch, 
however, can hardly be regarded as giving an adequate 
idea of the importance of the Keri and Kethib, inasmuch 
as the Jews, regarding the law as more sacred than any 
other inspired book, guarded it agaiust being corrupt- 
ed with greater vigilance than the rest of the canon. 
Hence the comparatively few and unimportant Keris 
when contrasted with those occurring in the other vol- 
umes. Still, the Pentateuch contains a few specimens 
of almost all the different Keris. 

As to the question how far our English versions have 
been influenced by the Keri and Kethib, this will best 
be answered by a comparison of the translations with 
the more striking variations which occur in the Proph- 
ets and llagiographa. In Josh, v, 1, the textual read- 
ing is “till we were passed over” ISIEE), thelveri has 
“until they passed over;” and though the Sept.., 
Vulg., Chaldee, Luther, the Zurich Bible, Coverdale, the 
Bishops’ Bible, the Geneva Version, etc., adopt the Keri, 
the A. V., following Kimehi, adheres to the Kethib; 


whilst in Josh, vi, 7, where the textual reading is “and 
they said (TIEN"*,) unto the people,” and the marginal 
emendation is “and he said” (“lEJX 1 ^), and where the 
Vulg., Chaldee, Luther, the Zurich Bible, Coverdale, the 
Bishops’ Bible, and the Geneva Version again adopt the 
Keri, as in the former instance, the A. V. abandons the 
textual reading and espouses the emendation. In Josh, 
xv, 47, where the Keri is “ the bordering sea (E“H 
b^nrot) and its territory,” and the Kethib has “and the 
great sea (b*lMl E^Jl) and the territory,” which is again 
followed by the ancient versions and the translations of 
the Beformers, the A. V., without taking any notice of 
the textual reading in the margin, as in Josh, viii, 10, 
adopts the emendation, whereas in Josh, xv, 53 the 
A. V. follows the textual reading (E13"') Janum, noti- 
cing, however, the emendation (O’E* 1 ) Janus in the mar- 
gin. All the ten emendations of the second class, which 
propose the insertion of entire words into the text ("H p 
H-'PE Nb^), are adopted in the A. V. without the slight- 
est indication by the usual italics that they are not in 
the text. Of the eight omissions of entire words in the 
third class (*Hp tfbl E^TE) nothing decisive can be 
said, inasmuch as six of them refer to simple particles, 
and they might either be recognised by the translators 
or not without its being discernible in the version. The 
only two instances, however, where there can be no mis- 
take (Jer. xli, 3 ; Ezek. xlviii, 16), clearly show that the 
A. V. follows the marginal gloss, and accordingly re- 
jects the words which are in the text. Had the limits 
of this article allowed it, we could have shown still more 
unquestionably that, though the A. V. generally adopts 
the marginal emendations, yet in many instances it pro- 
ceeds most arbitrarily, and adheres to the textual read- 
ing; and that, with very few exceptions, it never indi- 
cates, by italics or in the margin, the difference between 
the textual and the marginal readings. 

Inattention to the Keri and Kethib has given rise to 
the most fanciful and absurd expositions, of which the 
following may serve both as a specimen anti a warning. 
In looking at the text of the Hebrew Bible, it will be 
seen that there is a final Mem (C) in the middle of the 
word nannb, Isa. ix, 0. We have already alluded to 
the fact that it exhibits one of the fifteen instances 
where the Kethib, or the textual reading, is one word, 
and the Keri, or the emended reading, proposes two 
words (see above, see. 1). Accordingly, ITQIDb stands 
for rcE nb — cnbji.e. “ to them the dominion shall be 
great” corresponding to the common abbreviation EE 
for EHE. The question is not whether Eb may be con- 
sidered as an abbreviation of Eilb, seeing there are no 
other examples of it ; suffice it to say that Jewish scribes 
and critics of ancient times took it as such, just as they 
regarded cbiOfcs (Isa. xxxiii, 7) as a contraction of 
HiOX E!“ib — cb (comp, the Syriac, Chaldee, Aqnila, 
Symmachus, Theodotion, Vulgate, Elias Levita, etc.) ; 
and that the Sept. read it as two words (i. e. MEl HE). 
Subsequent scribes, however, found it either to be more 
in accordance with the primitive reading, or with their 
exegetical rules, as well as with the usage of the prophet 
himself (comp. Isa. xxxiii, 23), to read it as one word; 
but their extreme reverence for the text prevented them 
from making this alteration without indicating that 
some codices have two words. Hence, though they 
joined the two words together as one, they yet left the 
final Mem to exhibit the variation. An example of the 
reverse occurs in Neh. ii, 13, where E'U’HSEil has been 
divided into two words, EDITHS EH, and where the 
same anxiety faithfully to exhibit the ancient reading 
has made the editors of the Hebrew canon retain the 
medial Mem at the end of the word. It was to be ex- 
, pected that those Jews who regard both readings as 


KERI AND KETHIB 


54 


KERTOTII 


emanating from the Holy Spirit, and as designed to ‘con- 
vey some recondite meaning, would find some mysteries 
in tliis final Mem in the middle of HEEeE Ilcnce we 
find in the Talmud (Sanhedrin, 94) the following remark 
upon it: “Why is it that all the Mems in the middle 
of a word are open [i. e. -] and this one is closed [i. c. 
E]? The Holy One (blessed be he!) wanted to make 
Ilezekiali the Messiah, and Sennaeherib Gog and Ma- 
gog; whereupon Justice pleaded before the presence of 
the Holy One (blessed be he !), Lord of the World, ‘ What ! 
David the king of Israel, who sang so many hymns and 
praises before thee, wilt thou not make him the Messiah; 
but Ilezekiah, for whom thou hast performed all those 
miracles, and who has not uttered one song before thee, 
wilt thou make him the Messiah?’ Therefore has the 
Mem been closed.” Aben-Ezra again tells us that the 
scribes (not he himself, as Gill erroneously states) see in 
it an allusion to the recession of the shadow on the dial 
in Ilezekiah’s time; whilst Kimehi will have it that it 
refers to the “stopping up of the breaches in the walls 
of Jerusalem, which are broken down during the captiv- 
ity, and that this will take place in the days of salva- 
tion, when the kingdom which had been shut up till 
the coming of the Messiah will be opened.” Hut that 
Christian expositors should excel these mystical inter- 
pretations is surpassing strange. What are we to say 
to Galatiiius, who submits that this Mem, being the ci- 
pher of fiOO, intimates that six hundred years after this 
prophecy the birth of Christ was to take place? or to 
the opinion which he quotes, that the name E^EE 
mr, Maria Domina , or even the perpetual virginity 
of Mary is thereby indicated (lib. vii, c. xiii)? or to 
Calvin, who thinks that it denotes the close and secret 
way whereby the Messiah shoidd come to reign and set 
up his kingdom? or to the opinion which he mentions 
that it indicates the exclusion of the Jews from the. 
Messiah’s kingdom for their unbelief? or to the con- 
jecture of Gill, that “it may denote that the govern- 
ment of Christ, which would be for a time straitened, 
and kept in narrow bounds and limits, should hereafter 
be throughout the world, to the four corners of it, so as 
to be firm and stable, perfect and complete, which the 
figure of this letter, being shut and four-square, may be 
an emblem of?” 

It should be added that there are some words which 
are always read differently p“ip) from what they are 
written in the text (E^rz), and which, from the fre- 
quency of their occurrence, have only the vowel signs 
of the proposed Keri, without the latter being exhibited 
in the marginal gloss. These are, a. The name fit IT, 
which has always the vowel signs of *31^, and is pro- 
nounced with these vowels, i. c. JYIPP, except when it 
precedes this name itself, in which case it has the vowel 
signs of D^n'bx, i. e. iTJPP; A The name Jerusalem, 
when, as in the earlier books of Scripture, it is written 
with a Yod before the Mem, has never its own points, i. e. 
cVe*"? or C", but has the vowel signs of E^w^?, 
and is read so; c. The word X*!"!, which was epicene in 
earlier periods, is always pointed 50H in the Pentateuch, 
when it is used as feminine, to make it conformable to 
the later feminine form X*iE; and, c. The name EZVl'EP 
is always furnished with the vowels belonging to the 
Keri, EZlLp with one Sinn. 

It remains only for us to say under this head that 
the judicious critic will often find good reason for dif- 
fering from the opinion that seems to be implied in 
these Masoretic notes, and will in such eases, of course, 
prefer the Kethib to the Keri. See Criticism, Bib- 
lical. 

V. Literature . — One of the earliest attempts freely to 
discourse upon the origin and value of the Keri and 
Kethib is that of D. Kimehi, in the Introduction to his 


Commentary on Joshua ; Abrabanel, too, has a lengthy 
disquisition on this subject, in the Introduction to his 
Commentary on Jeremiah . He was followed by the la- 
borious Jacob ben-Chajim, who fully discusses the Keri 
and Kethib in his celebrated Introduction to the Ilab- 
binic Bible, translated by Ginsburg in the Journal of 
Saered Literature for July, 1803; and by the erudite 
and bold Elias Levita, who gives a very lucid account 
of the Keri and Kethib in his Massoreth I/a-Massoreth, 
ed. Sulzbach, 1771, p. 8 a, sq. ; 21 a, sq. Of Christian 
writers are to be mentioned the masterly treatises by 
Cappellus, Critica Sacra , lib. iii, cap. ix, sq.; Buxtorf, 
Tiberias , cap. xiii; Buxtorf the younger, Anticritica 
(Basilea', 1053), cap. iv, p. 448-500; Ililleri De Arcano 
Kethib et Keri (Tub. 1092); Walton, Biblia Pohjylotta , 
Proley. (Cantab. 1828), i, 412 sq. ; Wolf, Bibliotheca lie- 
brmt , ii, 507-533; Frankel, Yorstudien zu der Septua- 
cjinta (Leipzig, 1841), p. 219 sq. ; Stielit, J)e Keri et 
Kethibh (Altona, 1700; and against him Dreschler, Sen- 
tentia Stichii , etc. Lips. 1703) ; Triigard, De **p“! E "TZ 
(Gryph. 1775); Wolffradt, De Keri et Ch'thibh (Post. 
1739). See Various Readings. 

Keri, Francis Borgia, a learned Hungarian Jes- 
uit, born in the beginning of the 18th century, in the 
county of Zemplin, Hungary, entered the Jesuitical order 
when yet very young, and became an instructor of phi- 
losophy and mathematics at Tyrnau. He died at Ihula 
in 17G9. Keri distinguished himself greatly as a his- 
torian, especially by his Imperatores Ottomuni a cajita 
Constuntinopoli (Tyrnau, 1749, 9 pts. folio). He wrote 
also Impei'utores Orient is compendio exhibit!, e eompluri- 
bus Grteeis pr&cipue seriptoribns, a Constantino Mayno 
— ad Constantinum iiltimnm (Tyrnau, 1744, folio). See 
Iloefer, None. Bioy. Gencr. xxvii, 012; Ilorangi, Nova 
Memoria llunyurorum , ii, 332. 

Keri, Janos, a noted Hungarian prelate, born in the 
first half of the 17th century; entered as a mere youth, 
in 105G, the order of St. Paul, became afterwards director 
of the establishment, and held successively the bishop- 
rics of Sirmium,Csanad, and Waitzen. lie died in 1G85. 
Bishop Keri wrote Pe?'oeia Mari is Tureici (Pos. 1G72, 
8vo): — Philosophia scholastica (Presb. 1G73, 3 vols. fob), 
etc. — Iloefer, None. Bioy. Gen. xxvii, G12; Czwittinger, 
Hunyaria Litcrata, p. 203. 

Ke'rioth (Heb. Keriyoth’, PE-Ep, cities; Sept, in 
Jer. KapiwS, in ver. 41 v. r. ’A KKapubS and ’ AKicapiov , 
elsewhere TroXtig) Yulg. C'arioth ; Autli. Ycrs.“ Kirioth” 
in Amos ii. 2), the name of two places. 

1. A town in the south of Judah (hence probably in- 
cluded within Simeon), mentioned between Iladattah 
and llezron (Josh, xv, 25). From the absence of the 
copulative after it, Reland (Paleest. p. 700,708) suggest- 
ed that the name ought to be joined with the succeed- 
ing, i. q. cities of llezron, i. e. Ilazor itself, as in several 
ancient versions (but see Keil, ad loe.) ; and Maurer 
(Comment, ad loc.) lias defended this construction, which 
the enumeration in ver. 32 requires, i. e. Kerioth-llezron 
= Ilazor-Amam. See Judah, Tribe of. It seems 
to be the place alluded to in the name of Judas Iscariot 
(iaKaptMTijg, i. e. D^p z3"X, native of Keriotk). Dr. 
Robinson conjectures (Bibl. Researches, ii, 472) that the 
site is to be found in the ruined foundations of a small 
village discovered by him on the slope of a ridge about 
ten miles south of Hebron, and still called by the equiv- 
alent Arabic name el-Kuryetein (comp. De Smiley’s J)ead 
Sea , i, 431 ; Yan de Yelde, Narrative, ii, 82). With this 
agree t\\c plural form of the word, the associated epithets, 
and t lie frontier position, suggesting that the place was 
a fortification of contiguous hamlets for nomades rather 
than an individual city. See City; IIazor. 

2. A strong city of the land of Moab, mentioned in 
connection with Beth-gamid and Bozrah (Jer. xlviii, 
24), in the prophetic denunciations of its overthrow by 
the Babylonian invaders on their way to Palestine (Jer. 
xlviii, 41; Amos ii, 2). But for the mention of Kiri- 


KERITHUTII 


55 


KERR 


athaim in the same connection (from which, however, it 
is somewhat difficult to distinguish it), we should be in- 
clined (see Ritter’s Erdk. xv, 583) to locate it at Kureyat 
on Jebel At tarns, east of the Dead Sea. See Kirjath- 
nuzoTir. Porter confidently identities it with the pres- 
ent Kureiyeh , six miles east of Iiusrah, in the plain at the 
foot of the mountain range of Bashan, where are very 
extensive remains of former edifices (Damascus, ii, 191 
srp). Hut the associate names (in the first passage of 
Jer.) appear to indicate a locality south-west of Bozrah, 
and it is doubtful whether the Mishor (q. v.) of Moab 
extended so far as this. See Bozuau. The Kerioth 
(cities) in question may therefore be “ the ancient cities 
to the north of Amman and south-west of Busrah, still 
bearing the names of Kiriath and Kiriatin , where the 
edifices are of such gigantic proportions and primitive 
forms as to induce a strong conviction that they were 
the work of the early Emim” (Graham, in the Jour, of 
Sac. Lit. April, 1858, p. 240). 

Kerithuth. See Talmud. 

Kerkaroth. See Camel. 

Kerkassandi, in Hindu mythology, is the name 
of the first Buddha who appeared (when men were yet 
attaining to the desirable age of 40,000 years) to take 
upon himself the sins of the world, to redeem them, and 
to secure them the continued enjoyment of the high age 
mentioned. — Vollmer, Jfythol. Worterb. s. v. 

Kernel (only in the plur. chartsanmm' , so 

called from their sharp taste; Sept. Vulg. 

uva passd) is understood by the Talmudists (so the A.V.) 
to mean the grape-stones (Mishna, Nasir. vi, 2) as op- 
posed to the skin (“ husk”), i. e. the entire substance of 
the grape from the centre to the surface (Numb, vi, 4). 
The ■ ancient versions, however, refer it to the sour or 
unripe grapes themselves, and this signification is fa- 
vored by the use of kindred words in the cognate lan- 
guages. (See further in Gesenius, Thesaur. Jleb. p. 527.) 
See Grape. 

Kero, a monk of St. Gall, who lived in the 8th cen- 
tury, is considered as the old German commentator of 
the rule of the Benedictines. His work appeared in the 
first volume of Schilter’s Thesaurus antiquitatum Teu- 
tonic., in the second volume of Goldast’s Scriptores re- 
rum Aleman., and in the first volume of Ilattemer’s 
Denkniale d. Mittelalters. lie is also considered as the 
author of the translation of the Lord’s Prayer and the 
Apostles’ Creed into old High-German, and is said to 
have written the Glossarium Keronis (to be found also 
in llattemer’s Denkmale), and a number of hymns, etc. 
— Pierer, Unirersal Lex. viii, s. v. 

Ke'ros (Heb. Keyros', D’-PJS, curved, Neh. vii, 47; 
Sept. Kt tpaQ v. r. Kipde; or Keros', Ezra ii, 44; 
Sept. K ijpaug v. r. Kopsc, K dSrjg; Vulg. Ceros ), a man 
whose descendants (or a place whose former inhabit- 
ants) returned as Nethinim from Babylon with Zerub- 
babel (Ezra ii, 44 ; Neh. vii, 47). B.C. ante 530. 

Kerr, George (l),D.D.,LL.D., a Presbyterian min- 
ister, particularly eminent as a Christian educator, was 
born in Antrim County, Ireland, Dee. 18, 1814, and came 
to this country with his parents in 1823. Early attached 
to the Church, he decided to enter the ministry, for which 
he sought thorough preparation, first by a full classi- 
cal course at Williams College, Mass., and later at the 
Union Theological Seminary of New York City. He 
was licensed and ordained in 1844, and began his ministe- 
rial labors as pastor of the Reformed (Protestant Dutch) 
Church in Cones ville, Schoharie Co., N.Y. In 1840 he 
received an urgent call to the principalship of Franklin 
(N.Y.) Academy, an institution then hardly deserving a 
higher place than the district school. Kerr, accepting 
the position, soon made this academy one of the best 
in the state. For a short period he filled a chair in 
the New York State Agricultural College, and then be- 
came principal of Watertown Academy, N. Y., and in 


1805 removed to Cooperstown, where he did active and 
valuable service for the large seminary then located 
there. In 1807 he decided to return to Franklin and 
to resume his position in that school, but, while prepar- 
ing for the removal, died, March 27. “Dr. Kerr was a 
man of work; his characteristics were prominent and 
clearly defined ; all through life he was intellectually on 
the alert; everywhere, on all worthy subjects, analyt- 
ical, independent, discriminating, lie was a thorough 
scholar, especially in Greek literature, and a marvel of 
enthusiasm and power as a teacher” (Wilson, Presb. His. 
Almanac, 1808, p. 215). lie aimed not only to educate 
the mind, but had particular regard for the education of 
the heart of all his students. (J.H.W.) 

Kerr, George (2), a Methodist minister, was born 
in Ireland in 1819. His parents, who emigrated to Can- 
ada in 1822, intended him for the mercantile profession ; 
but, converted when seventeen years old, and shortly 
after impressed with the conviction that he was called 
to preach, he came over to the States, and settled at 
Winstead, Conn., was made a local preacher, and in 1844 
joined the New York Conference. In 18G6 he was su- 
perannuated, and made Hudson, N. Y., his residence. lie 
died while on a visit to his friends in Ireland, Sept. 8, 
1869. He was much esteemed, not only by members of 
his own Church, but by ministers and members of other 
evangelical churches of the city. — Smith, A nnals of De- 
ceased Preachers of N. Y. and N. Y. E . Corf. p. 119. 

Kerr, Henry M., a Presbyterian minister, was born 
in York District, S. C., Dec. 30, 1782. In very early life 
his mother had consecrated him, as Hannah did her 
Samuel, to the Lord, and had often expressed her desire 
to him that he should be a minister of the Gospel of the 
blessed Jesus. His parents being in moderate circum- 
stances, and he the oldest of eleven children, he was com- 
pelled to labor for their maintenance; hence his educa- 
tion was much neglected in his earlier years, lie went 
first to an academy in Roman County, N. C.; then he re- 
paired to Iredell County, and enjoyed the advantages of 
instruction under the celebrated James Hall, D.D. Here 
he completed a very extensive course of scientific study, 
and was readily received as a candidate for the ministry 
by Concord Presbytery in 1811. He pursued his theo- 
logical course part of the term with the Rev. Dr. Kilpat- 
rick, and part of it with James M‘Kee, D.D. In 1814 he 
was licensed by Concord Presbytery. At that time he 
was residing in Salisbury, N. C. He remained there, 
teaching and preaching, until the spring of 1816, when 
he removed to Lincoln County, and he was ordained in 
November of that year pastor of Olney, Long Creek, and 
New Hope churches. In 1819 he removed to Ruther- 
fordtown to take charge of the village academy. He 
preached at the same time in the old church of Little 
Britain, and, after three years, removed into the bounds 
of this church. Here he spent fourteen years, and his 
labors were again blessed in a remarkable degree. In 
1833 he removed to Jonesboro’, East Tennessee ; but, not 
finding his ministerial associations pleasant, he travelled 
further west, and settled in Hardeman County, West 
Tennessee, in 1835. Here he performed much mission- 
ary labor in all the surrounding counties, and organized 
many churches. The infirmities of age made it neces- 
sary for him to abandon, in part, his evangelistic labors, 
and he devoted the last years of his life to Bethel and 
Aimwell churches, in M‘Nairv County. In the fall of 
1860 he settled near Watervalley, in the Presbytery of 
North Mississippi, where he finished his long and useful 
career January 28, 1865. Trained under the old system, 
he made no effort at rhetorical display. II is discourses 
were pre-eminently scriptural, lie used “ the sword of 
the Spirit, which is the Word of God,” and it was sharp 
in the heart of the King’s enemies. “ Ilis style was per- 
spicuous and energetic, and he was often truly eloquent. 
The providence of God cast his lot chiefly in destitute 
portions of the land, and his labors were evangelistic. 
He organized more churches, it is believed, than any 


KERR 


56 


KERIi 


other member of the Presbytery. For many years he 
was stated clerk of the Presbytery of Western Tennessee 
District, and his acquaintance with the form of govern- 
ment and discipline was so perfect that his word was 
taken as the solution of all doubts and difficulties.” — Wil- 
son, Presb. Historical A Imanac , 18G8, p. 338. 

Kerr, James, a Presbyterian minister, a native of 
Scotland, was born in 1805, and was educated in the 
University of Glasgow, where he took his A.B. in 1832. 
In his twenty-fifth year he emigrated to the United 
States, and shortly after entered the Western Theolog- 
ical Seminary, was licensed to preach by the Presbytery 
of Baltimore April 27, 183G, and was ordained an evan- 
gelist by the Presbytery of Winchester at Martinsburg, 
Ya., April 22, 1837. He labored first as a missionary in 
Hampshire County, Ya., for two years, and was success- 
ful in his ministry, planting the standard of the Cross in 
many portions of that hitherto forsaken country. He 
was next invited by the Church of Cadiz, Ohio; began 
his ministerial work in this congregation Dec. 2, 1838, 
and was regularly installed June, 1839. He died April 
19, 1855. Kerr was the author of Mode of Baptism, 
and a small work on Psalmody. “lie was a good pres- 
byter, and made an excellent presiding officer of an ec- 
clesiastical court, to which both the members of the 
Presbytery and Synod can testify. His decisions were 
uniformly correct, and his thorough acquaintance with 
the government and polity of our Church gave him a 
superior influence in all her judicial meetings upon 
which he was called to attend, lie was remarkably 
conscientious in every sphere of life, whether as a citi- 
zen, a Christian, or a minister. So decided was he 
against reading sermons, or even taking the smallest 
abstract into the pulpit, that he invariably voted against 
the licensure and ordination of any young man that did 
commit this 1 great mistake,’ as he sometimes termed it. 
As a preacher he was clear and logical, plain and inter- 
esting, in his statements of the great truths of the Gos- 
pel. His pulpit productions thoroughly partook of his 
own character, and came forth as the result of close ap- 
plication and much study; and on no occasion would he 
agree to preach, if it could at all be avoided, without 
special preparation.” — Wilson, Presb. Historical A Ima- 
nac, 18G7, p. 1G0. 

Kerr, John, a Baptist minister of Scottish descent, 
was born in Caswell County, N. C., Aug. 14, 1782, con- 
verted in 1800, baptized in 1801, and at once licensed to 
preach. “ Determined to avail himself of every means 
in his power to render his ministry efficient and useful, 
the young evangelist travelled to South Carolina to see 
the excellent Marshall and listen to his preaching, and 
thence to Georgia to form the acquaintance of the dis- 
tinguished and venerable Mercer. Returning from the 
South, he visited Yirginia, and became personally known 
to the lamented Semple and other valuable ministers 
of the state. Wherever he went his preaching pro- 
duced a thrilling effect. His youthful appearance, the 
ardor and gracefulness of his maimer, and the beauty of 
his diction, attracted universal attention. There are 
not a few who still remember his visit to Eastern Yir- 
ginia with lively emotion after the lapse of almost half 
a century.” In 1811 he embarked on the stormy sea of 
politics, consenting to become a candidate for Congress, 
and lie was twice elected thereto. He was a member 
of that body during the War of 1812, and served his 
country at that critical period with a fervent and en- 
lightened patriotism. At the close of his Congressional 
career he returned to Halifax, and served the churches at 
Arbor and at Marv Creek. In March, 1825, he removed 
to the city of Richmond, and became the pastor of the 
First Baptist Church. Here his line pulpit talents were 
brought into active and successful, operation. Crowds 
hung with delight on his ministry. In less than a year 
more than live hundred members were added to the 
Church, two hundred and seventeen of whom were 
white. This successful work continued until dissension 


was sown among his parishioners by the preaching of 
Alexander Campbell, whose efforts finally drew from 
Kerr’s church nearly half of its members (in 1831). By 
the close of 1832 he had grown weary of the contentions 
to which the division had given rise, and resigned his 
charge. He died Sept. 29, 1842. He was naturally of 
a frank, generous, and disinterested disposition. Inca- 
pable of artifice himself, he was not always guarded 
against it in others. His temperament, peculiarly ar- 
dent, sometimes perverted his judgment. His manners 
were uniformly bland, gentle, and conciliating. In so- 
cial intercourse he was highly gifted, never failing to 
impart an interest and a charm to conversation. He 
was dignified without ostentation, and cheerful without 
levity. “As a Christian, he imbibed in a high degree 
the spirit of his Master. Ilis piety was not the dwarf- 
ish and stunted growth of sectarianism — morose, censo- 
rious, and persecuting, but the product of enlarged and 
liberal views — cheerful, candid, and conciliatory. Though 
he was firm to his convictions as a Baptist, he was re- 
markably free from bigotry, and was a lover of good 
men of every communion. As a preacher he possessed 
commanding talents. A fine person, a sonorous voice, 
and a graceful manner at once prepossessed his hearers 
in his favor. Ilis apprehension was quick, his percep- 
tion clear, and his imagination remarkably vivid. lie 
is ranked among the most popular preachers of his day 
in Yirginia, and for more than thirty years he rarely if 
ever failed to be appointed at associations and other im- 
portant meetings to preach on occasions of the greatest 
interest.” — Sprague, A muds, vi, 41G sq. 

Kerr, Joseph, D.D., a prominent minister of the 
Associate Reformed Church, was bom in Antrim County, 
Ireland, in 1778; educated at the University of Glas- 
gow, and, with a view of entering the ministry, pursued 
theological studies under the direction of the Associate 
Presbytery of Derry. He came to this country in 1801, 
and was licensed by the Second Presbytery of Pennsyl- 
vania shortly after. Ilis appointment lay over a vast 
area of country west of the Alleghanies, a work for 
which he seemed to have been endowed by nature. In 
1804 he was called to Mifflin and St.Clair as regular pas- 
tor, and, accepting, was installed October 17. When the 
Presbytery decided to establish a theological school at 
Pittsburg, they looked to him for its head, and felt con- 
strained to urge his removal to that place, and appointed 
him professor of theology, a post which he successfully 
filled until he died, Nov. 15,1829. “The death of Dr. 
Kerr shed a gloom not only over the large circle of his 
friends and acquaintances, and the families of his pas- 
toral charge, but over the entire Synod of the West, as 
it seemed at once to dash the brightening prospects of 
the infant theological seminary intrusted to his super- 
vision. . . . With an athletic physical constitution, of 
more than ordinarily prepossessing appearance, he was 
endowed with intellectual powers of the first order, high- 
ly cultivated, and possessed of all the essential elements 
of a natural orator. With undoubted yet unostenta- 
tious piety, mild, kind, affable, affectionate, benevolent, 
liberal, and hospitable almost to a fault, he at once won 
the friendship and affections of his acquaintances, and 
the confidence of the congregations to whom he minis- 
tered, and, without assuming it, or even being apparent- 
ly conscious of it. he occupied from the commencement 
of his ministry the position of a master spirit, which was 
accorded to him without envy and without opposition by 
his co-presbyters.” — (Wilson, Presb. Historical A Imanac , 
18G3, p. 372 sq. 

Kerr, Joseph R., son of the preceding, and also a 
minister of the Associate Reformed Presbyterian Church, 
was born in St.Clair township, Alleghany Co., l*a., Jan. 
18, 1807, and was educated at the Western University 
of Pennsylvania, where he graduated in 182G with the 
highest honors of his class. In the fall of 1827 he en- 
tered the theological seminary at Pittsburg, founded 
then only a short time, over which his father presided. 


KERR 


57 


KESITAH 


and was licensed Sept. 2, 1829. Only two and a half 
months later his father died, and young Kerr was called 
to fill his place in the pastorate, and, accepting the prof- 
fered place, was ordained July 29, 1830. “ Thus called 

by Providence to till the pulpit of such a man as his fa- 
ther, he succeeded, from the very first, in giving entire 
satisfaction to his people, and soon became one of the 
most, if he was not altogether the most, popular of the 
preachers in the city, but it was at the expense of such 
exhausting toil as contributed slowly but surely to un- 
dermine a constitution at best but delicate. From being 
a student of divinity, and without any experience, he 
entered at once on the pastoral oversight of a large con- 
gregation, and all the duties connected with the office of 
the Christian ministry. In his preparation for the pul- 
pit he was a close, unwearying student. lie was ambi- 
tious of excellence in whatever he attempted connected 
with his office, and became a workman that needeth not 
to be ashamed’ 7 (Sprague, Annuls [Associate Ref. Presb. 
Church ], ix, 162. His health, however, failed him, and 
in 1832 he was obliged to take an assistant, Moses Kerr 
(<j. v.), a younger brother. His health, notwithstand- 
ing this timely precaution, continued to fail, and he died 
June 14, 1843. Kerr published an address, Responsibil- 
ity of Literary Men (1836), and a sermon on Duelling 
(i838). (J.1I.W.) 

Kerr, Moses, a minister of the Associate Reformed 
Presbyterian Church, third son of Dr. Joseph Kerr (q. 
v.), was born in >St. Clair, Pa., June 30, 1811. Naturally 
of a serious and thoughtful cast of mind, and manifest- 
ing in very early life decided piety, his education was 
directed from the first with a view to qualifying him for 
the sacred ministry. Signs of failing health, however, 
induced him to devote himself to mercantile life, but it 
soon proved as unfavorable to his health as his applica- 
tion to study, and he engaged in farm-work. 1 1 is health 
becoming restored, he entered the Western University of 
Pennsylvania, and graduated in 1828. In the fall of the 
same year he began the study of theology in the seminary 
then under the care of his father; was licensed to preach 
on the 28th of April, 1831, and shortly after was called as 
pastor to Alleghany. Hut when the Presbytery met to or- 
dain and install him, he returned the call on account of a 
hemorrhage of the lungs. The Presbytery, however, pro- 
ceeded with his ordination to the office of the ministry. 
This was on the 9th of October, 1832. Shortly after he 
sailed for Europe, and on his return, with every appear- 
ance of restored and established health, resumed preach- 
ing, and finally accepted a call by the large and influen- 
tial congregation of Robinson’s Run, in the vicinity of 
Pittsburg, September 2, 1834. But a little more than six 
months later he was again attacked with hemorrhage 
of the lungs, and demitted his pastoral charge. During 
a vacancy he discharged for a time the duties of pro- 
fessor of languages in the Western University of Penn- 
sylvania; afterwards of Biblical literature and criticism 
in the theological seminary, Alleghany. But his tastes 
and talents were for the pulpit, and he again accepted 
a call as a preacher, this time from the Third Church, 
Pittsburg, 18th of October, 1837. With that congrega- 
tion he closed his life on the 26th of January, 1840. 
Moses Kerr “was a student from the love of study, and 
a careful reader of the best writings not only in theolo- 
gy, but in literature generally. With a becoming ap- 
preciation of the demands of his profession, he aimed to 
store his mind not only with the matter of text-books 
of theology anil the works of past ages, but the fresh 
discussions of living divines, and at the same time keep 
up with the general advance of literature and science in 
the world. As a preacher he had capabilities which, 
with ordinary health and an ordinary length of life, must 
have rendered him eminent in his profession.” — Sprague, 
Annals, ix, 166. 

Kersey, Jesse, a minister of the Society of Friends, 
was born at York, Pa., in 1768. In his early youth his 
heart was given to God. In his seventeenth year he 


experienced a call to the Gospel ministry, but still re- 
mained an apprentice to the trade of a potter about four 
years, and afterwards taught school. In 1804 he em- 
barked for England on a Gospel mission. In 1805 he 
returned to America, and in 1814 went on a religious 
mission to the Southern States, afterwards returning to 
his home, and continuing to labor and preach. He died 
near Ivennet, I’a., in 1845. As a minister, Mr. Kersey’s 
affability of manners, his grave and dignified deport- 
ment, the soundness of his principles, the beauty and 
simplicity of his style of address, heightened in their ef- 
fect by the depth of his devotional feelings, gave an in- 
terest and a charm which gained him many admirers. 
See Janney, Hist, of the Friends , iv, 1 16. (J. L. S.) 

Keryktik (from jo/piWw, to preach'), i.e. the art 
of preaching, is a modern name for Homiletics, first intro- 
duced by Stier ( Keryktik , 1830, 1846). See Homiletics. 

Keseph. See Silver. 

Kesitall (FK^Cp, A.Y. “piece cf money,” “piece 
of silver”). The meaning and derivation of this word, 
which only occurs tliricc in the O.T., has been a subject 
of much controversy. The places where it. is found — 
Gen. xxxiii, 19, recording Jacob’s purchase of a piece of 
ground at Shecliem; Josh, xxiv, 32, a verbal repetition 
from Genesis; and Job xlii, 11, where the presents made 
to Job are specified, and it is joined with rings of gold — 
indicate either the name of a coin or of some article used 
in barter. The principal explanations of the word are ; 

1. That of the Sept, and all ancient versions, which 
render it “a lamb,” either the animal itself or a coin 
bearing its impress (Hottinger, Diss. de Numm. Orient.), 
a view which has been revived in modern times by the 
Danish bishop Munter in a treatise published at Copen- 
hagen, 1824, and more recently still by Mr. James Yates, 
Proc. of Numism. Society, 1837, 1838, p. 141. The entire 
ivant of any etymological ground for this interpretation 
has led Bochart ( Uierozoic . i, 1.2, c. 3) to imagine that 
there had been a confusion in the text of the Sept, be- 
tween tKaruv pvd)v and Ikcituv cifxvwv. and that this 
error has passed into all the ancient versions, which 
may be supported by the singular fact that in Gen. xxxi, 
7, 41, we find r’Twi' (A. V. 11 ten times,” n:^, how- 
ever, more usually standing for a particular weight) 
translated by the Sept. CtKci dpreov, which it is difficult 
to account for on any supposition save that of a mistake 
of the copyist for pvmv. See Sheep. 

2. Others, adopting the rendering “lamb,” have imag- 
ined a reference to a weight formed in the shape of that 
animal, such as we know to have been in use among 
the Egyptians and Assyrians, imitating bulls, antelopes, 
geese, etc. (see Wilkinson’s Anc. Egypt, ii, 10; Layard, 
Nineveh and Babylon, p. 600-602 ; Lepsius, Denhnale, iii, 
plate 39, No. 3). 

3. Faber, in the German edition of Ilarmcr's Obs. ii, 
15-19, quoted by Gesenius ( Thesaur . p. 1241), connects 
it with the Syriac hesta, lleb. rpp, “a vessel,” an ety- 
mology accepted by Grotefend (see below), and consid- 
ers it to have been either a measure or a silver vessel 
used in barter (comp. ^Elian, U. II. i, 22). 

4. The most probable view, however, is that support- 
ed by Gesenius, Bosenmuller, Jahn, Kaliscli, and the 
majority of the soundest interpreters, that it was, in 
Grotefend’s words (Numism. Chron. ii, 248), “merely a 
silver weight of undetermined size, just as the most an- 
cient shekel was nothing more than a piece of rough 
silver without any image or device.” The lost root was 
perhaps akin to the Arabic kasat, “he divided equally.” 
Bochart, however ( ut sup.), is disposed to alter the punc- 
tuation of the Shin, and to connect the word with LJgTp, 
“ truth,” adding “ potuit p id est vera dici moneta qua?- 
cunque habuit justum pondus,aut etiam moneta sincera 
et dicij3cij\oc.” 

According to Rabbi Akiba, quoted by Bochart, a cer- 
tain coin bore this name in comparatively modern times, 
so that he would render the word by ddvaictc. — 


KETURAII 


KESLER 58 


Kitto, s. v. See Kit to, Daily Bible Illustrations , ad loc. 
Job. See Money. 

Kesler, Andreas, a German theologian, born July 
17, 1595, was educated at the University of Jena, and 
afterwards became adjunct professor in the philosoph- 
ical faculty of Wittenberg. In 1623 lie was called to 
till a professorship in Coburg; in 1625 he became pastor 
and superintendent at Eisfeld; in 1633 director of the 
gymnasium at Scliweinfurt, whence in 1635 he was re- 
called to Coburg to fill a high ecclesiastical position, 
lie died May 15, 1643. Ilis writings consist, besides 
sermons, of polemical works against the Homan Catholic 
Church, for a list of which see Hagolhan, Leichenrede. 
See also Henning Witte, Memorial Theologorum (Decas 
5 ), p. 557 scj. — Herzog, Real-Encyklop. vii, 518. 

Kessler, Christian Rudolph, a German Re- 
formed minister, born February 20, 1823, in the Canton 
of Graubuenden, Switzerland, was educated in the best 
schools of his native land, and afterwards spent some 
time at the University of Leipsic; came to America 
with his parents in 1841; studied theology at Mercers- 
burg, Pa.; was licensed and ordained in the spring of 
1843, and took charge of congregations in Pendleton 
County, Va. In 1844 he became associated with Dr. 
Bibighaus as assistant pastor in the Salem congrega- 
tion, Philadelphia. Ilis health failing, in 1848 he re- 
moved to Allentown, Pa., to establish a female seminary. 
In this enterprise he was remarkably successful, lie 
died March 4, 1855, leaving the institution he had found- 
ed in a flourishing condition. 

Kessler (Ahenarius), Johann Jacob, was born 
at St. Gall in 1502, and studied theology at Basle. In 
1522 he went to Wittenberg to hear Luther, and on his 
way fell in with him at Jena, yet without knowing him. 
In 1523 he returned to St, Gall, but his inclination to the 
reform doctrines would not conscientiously permit him 
to enter the priesthood, and he became a saddler. At 
the request of his compatriots, he finally, in 1524, began 
Sunday evening meetings for the study of Scripture, 
which, on account of the general interest, were in 1525 
transferred to the Church of St. Lawrence. He was some- 
what opposed at first by a few narrow-minded theolo- 
gians, and at their request even discontinued his meet- 
ings for a time; but the public, determined to hear the 
preaching of Kessler, induced him finally to enter the 
ministry, and he became, in 1535, evangelical pastor of 
the Church of St. Lawrence, and dean of St. Gall in 1573. 
He died March 15, 1574. Kessler wrote Sabbatha, St. 
Gullisehe Reformat Umsehronik. See J. J. Bernet, ./. 
Kessler (St. Gall, 1826); Herzog, Real - Encyklop. vii, 
518 ; Pierer, Universal Lex. s. v. 

Kethem. See Gold. 

Ketliib. See Keri. 

Kethubim. See IIagiograpiia. 

Ketliuboth. See Talmud. 

Ketsach. See Fitciies. 

Ketsiyali. See Cassia. 

Kett, Henry, B.D., a learned English divine, was 
born at Norwich in 1761 ; studied at Trinity College, 
Oxford, of which he became fellow, and afterwards ob- 
tained the living of Charlton, Gloucestershire. lie was 
drowned, while bathing, in 1825. Ilis principal works 
arc: History, the Interpreter of Prophecy (London, 4th 
ed., with additional notes, 1801, 2 vols. 8vo): — Sermons 
preached , 1790, at the Led arcs founded by the late Rev. 
John Brampton, 31. f. (London, 2d ed. 1792, Xvo) : — Ele- 
ments of general Knowledge (Loud. 8th edit. 1815, 2 vols. 
8vo). — Allibone, Diet. Engl, and, A mer. A uthors , s. v. 

Kett(e)ler, Wilhelm, bishop of Munster from 1553 
to 1557, though a layman, was promoted to the prelatieal 
dignity by special recjiiest of the duke of Clove. He was 
one of the most, enlightened minds of this period in the 
Roman Catholic Church, and himself inclining to the Ref- 
ormation, in concert with the duke of Cleve, persuaded 


Cassander (q. v.) to use liis influence and his pen to 
prevent further schism in the Church, and to bring back 
those who had left the Romanists. At Rome he was 
disliked for his mildness towards the Reformers, and 
finally quitted the bishopric. 

Kettenbach, Heinrich von, an eminent German 
writer of the period of the Reformation, was probably 
of French extraction. Little is known of his life. He 
became a Franciscan, and in 1521 went to Ulm in the 
place of one of the brethren expelled by the general of 
the order for holding evangelical opinions. Ketten- 
bach, however, soon followed the example of liis prede- 
cessor : he preached against the papacy and the monks, 
and, having thus aroused the enmity of the Dominicans, 
was in turn obliged to leave Ulm the same year. He 
then went to Wittenberg, where he openly joined the 
Reformation, took part in all the movements in favor 
of emancipation from Rome, and was probably killed in 
the peasants’ war. Kettenbach was a very popular 
preacher, and made many converts from Romanism, 
wbieli he attacked in Yergleichung des A lie rheiligsten 
Ilerrn v. Yaters Papst gegen d. seltsamen u.fnmden Gast 
in d. Christcnheit, geuunnt Jesus, etc. (Wittenb. 1523) : — 
Practica ; Neue Apologie u. Ye rant wo dung Martini Lu- 
thers wider d. Papisten 3/ordgeschrci (1523). It is gen- 
erally supposed that Kettenbach wrote largely, but that 
liis works have been lost. His influence among the 
Reformers must have been great, or be would not have 
been among the persons cited by Eck to appear with 
Luther before the Reichstag at Augsburg. See I’ierer, 
Univ. Lex. s. v. ; Vcesenmeyer, Beitrdge z. Gcsch. cl. Lit - 
eratur u. Ref. p. 79 sq. ; Keim, in Herzog, Real-Ency- 
klopddie, s. v. 

Kettle (“1*11, dud, so called from boiling ), a large 
pot for cooking purposes (1 Sam. ii, 14; elsewhere ren- 
dered “pot,” Psa. lxxxi, 6; Job xli, 20; “caldron,” 2 
Citron, xxxv, 13). The same term in the original also 
signifies “basket” (2 Kings x, 7; Jer.xxiv, 2; probably 
Psa. Lxxxvi, G). From tjie passage in 1 Sam. ii, 13, 14, 
it is evident that the kettle was employed for the pur- 
pose of preparing the peace-offerings, as it is said (verse 
14), “All that the flesh-hook brought up the priest took 
for himself.” In the various processes of cookery rep- 
resented on the monuments of Egypt, we frequently see 
large bronze pots placed over a fire in a similar manner. 
See Flesh-pot. 

Kettlewell, John, B.D., an eminent English di- 
vine (nonjuror), was born at Northallerton, Yorkshire, 
March 10, 1653; studied at St. Edmund’s Hall, Oxford, 
and in 1675 became fellow of Lincoln College. Still but 
a youth, he distinguished himself by the publication of 
bis celebrated work. Measures of Christian Obedience. 
lie was geuerallv noticed, and in 1682 lord Digby pre- 
sented young Kettlewell with the vicarage of Coleshill, 
Warwickshire, but he was deprived of it soon after the 
Revolution on account of his refusal to take the oath of 
obedience to William and Mary. He removed to Lon- 
don, and died there April 12, 1695. Ilis principal works 
have been collected and published under the style, 
Works printed f mm Copies revised and improved bg the 
A nthor a little before his Death (Loud. 1719, 2 vols. lob): 
— The Duty of 31 oral Rectitude (Tracts of Angl. Fathers, 
iv, 219). — Darling, Cyclajuedia Bibliographica , ii, 1725; 
Macaulay, llist. of England, vol. iv (1856) ; Nelson, Life 
of Kettlewell (Loud. 1718). 

Kettner, Friedrich Ernst, a German theologian, 
was born at Leipzig Jan. 21, 1671, and educated at the 
university of that place. He was licensed in 1697, and 
became shortly after superintendent in Quedlinburg, and 
first court preacher. lie died July 21, 1722. Ilis writ- 
ings arc mainly confined to local Church History. — All - 
gemeines Hist. Lex. iii, 22. 

Ketu'rah (Ileb. Keturah', girdled, other- 

wise incense ; Sept. Xtrroipa), “the second wife, or, as 
she is called in 1 Chron. i, 32, the concubine of Abra- 


KEUCHEXIUS 


59 


KEY 


ham ; by her he had six sons, whom he lived to see 
grow to man’s estate, and whom he established ‘in the 
east country,’ that they might not interfere with Isaac 
(Gen. xxv, 1-G). R.C. eir. 1097 et post. As Abraham 
was 100 years old when Isaac was born, who was given 
to him by the special bounty of Providence when ‘he 
was as good as dead’ (lleb. xi, 12) ; as he Avas 140 years 
old when Sarah died ; and as he himself died at the age 
of 175 years, it has seemed improbable that these six 
sons should liaA'e been born to Abraham by one woman 
after he was 140 years old, and that he should ha\’e seen 
them all grow up to adult age, and have sent them forth 
to form independent settlements in that lfist and feeble 
period of his life. It has therefore been suggested that, 
as Kcturah is called Abraham’s ‘concubine’ in Chroni- 
cles, and as she and Ilagar are probably indicated as his 
‘concubines’ in Gen. xxa', G, Kcturah had in fact been 
taken by Abraham as his secondary or concubine Avife 
before the death of Sarah, although the historian relates 
the incident after that event, that his leading narrative 
might not be interrupted. According to the standard 
of morality then acknowledged, Abraham might quite 
as properly have taken Kcturah before as after Sarah’s 
death” (Kitto) ; although, it is true, this Avouhl hardly 
have been in keeping Avith his usual regard for Sarah’s 
feelings, and Avould haA'e been likely to introduce into 
the family another scene of discord such as he had seen 
Avith Ilagar. In opposition to these and similar argu- 
ments, hoAA’CA'er, Avliich are maintained by Prof. Push 
(Aote on Gen. xxv, 1), Dr. Turner justly urges ( Com - 
p union to Genesis , p. 293 sq.) the evident order of the 
narrative, the occasion offered by the death of Sarah, 
A\ r hich preceded Abraham’s demise thirty-six years, and 
the emphatic manner in Avhieh Kcturah is introduced 
as a full icife, Avith laAvful heirs, although of less esteem 
than Sarah. As to the objection draAvn from the impo- 
tence of Abraham in consequence of advanced age, it is 
readily removed by the implied renewal of his vigor at 
the promise of an heir by Sarah (compare I kb. xi, 11) ; 
and, if sound, it Avould proA'e too much, for it would re- 
quire the birth of all the six sons by Keturah to he dated 
before that of Isaac, See Anr.Aii am. 

On the Arabian affinities of Keturah, see the Journal 
A siatiqne , Aug. 1838, p. 1 97 sq. *■ Tier sons Avere ‘ Zim- 
ran, and Jokshan, and Medan, and Midian, and Islibak, 
and Shush* (Gen. xxa', 2) : besides the sons and grand- 
sons of Jokshan, and the sons of Midian. They evi- 
dently crossed the desert to the Persian Gulf, and occu- 
pied the Avhole intermediate country, Avhere traces of 
their names are frequent, wliile Midian extended south 
into the peninsula of Arabia Proper. In searching the 
Avorks of Arab Avriters for any information respecting 
these tribes, AA'e must, be contented to find them named 
as Abraliamic, or eA'en Ishmaelitish, for under the latter 
appellation almost all the former are confounded by their 
descendants. Keturah herself is by them mentioned 
very rarely and vaguely, and evidently only in quoting 
from a rabbinical Avriter. (In the Kdnrits the name is 
said to he that of the Turks, and that of a young girl 
[or slave] of Abraham ; and, it is added, her descendants 
are the Turks!) M. Caussin de Perceval (EssaL i, 179) 
has endeavored to identify her with the name of a tribe 
of the AmaleUites (the 1st Amalek) called K at ura, but 
his arguments are not of any AA'eiglit. They rest on a 
weak etymology, and are contradicted by the statements 
of Arab authors, as Avell as by the fact that the. early 
tribes of Arabia (of Avhieh is Katura) have not, Avith the 
single exception of Amalek. been identified Avith any 
historical names; Avhile the exception of Amalek is that 
of an apparently aboriginal people AAdiose name is re- 
corded in the Pible ; and there are reasons for supposing 
that these early tribes Avere aboriginal” (Smith). See 
Arabia. 

Keuchenius, Petrus, a learned Dutch theologian, 
was born at IIois-le-Duc August 22, IG54,and studied at 
Leyden and Utrecht, lie Avas successively minister at 
Alem,Tiel, and Arnheim. He died March 27, 1G89. He i 


AATote A nnotata in omnes A r . T.libros , the second and 
only complete edition of Avhieh, superintended by Al- 
berti, appeared at Leyden in 1755. “ The author’s aim 

in these annotations is to throAV light on the N. Test, by 
determining the sense in which words and phrases Avere 
used at the time it Avas written, and among those with 
Avhom its Avriters Avere familiar. For this purpose he 
compares the language of the N. Test, with that of the 
Septuagint, and calls in aid' from the Chaldee and Syriac 
Aversions. His notes are characterized by sound learn- 
ing and great good sense. Alberti commends in strong 
terms his erudition, his candor, solidity, and impartial- 
ity.” — Kitto’s Biblical Cyclopitdiu , ii, 729. 

Kewley, John. D.D., a Roman Catholic priest, Avas 
hv birth an Englishman, and of Roman Catholic parent- 
age. lie Avas educated at St. Omar’s, and Avas in early 
life a Jesuit. lie aftenvards renounced the doctrines 
and communion of the Church of Rome, joined “ Lady 
Huntingdon’s persuasion,” preached someAvhat among 
that body and the Methodists, and, coming to the United 
States, Avas admitted to holy orders in the Protestant 
Episcopal Church by bishop C’laggett (about 1804) ; iii 
1809 became rector of an Episcopal Church in Middle- 
town, Conn., and in 1813 of the parish of St. George’s, 
NeAv York, where lie continued till he sailed for Europe 
in 181G. He after\A'ards became reconciled to the Church 
of Rome, and returned to his original ecclesiastical con- 
nection, in which he continued till his death. KeAvley 
AA'as a man of great meekness and gentleness, ahvays un- 
tiring in the discharge of his holy functions, and fervent 
and effecth'e in his preaching, lie published a Sermon 
delivered at the opening of the Convention of the Prot- 
estant Episcopal Church in Maryland in 180G; also a 
sermon entitled Messiah the Physician of Souls, preach- 
ed at Middletown and Cheshire in 1811. See Sprague, 
*1 nnals of the A merican Pulpit, x, 545. (J. L. S.) 

Key is a common heraldic bearing in the insignia of 
sees and religious houses, particularly such as are under 
the patronage of St. Peter. Tavo keys in saltire are fre- 
quent, and keys are sometimes interlaced or linked to- 
gether at the bous, i. e. rings. Keys indorsed are placed 
side bv side, the Avards aAvav from each other. 

Key (HrS’S, maphte’iieh, an opener, Judg. iii, 25; 
Isa. xxii, 22; “ opening,” 1 Cliron. ix, 27 ; from its 

use in shutting, Matt, xvi, 19; Luke xi, 52; Rev. i, 18; 
iii, 7 ; ix, 1 ; xx, I), an instrument frequently mentioned 
in Scripture, as avcII in a literal as in a figurative sense. 
The keys of the ancients Avere very different from ours, 
because their doors and trunks AA'ere generally closed 
Avith bands or holts, Avhieh the key served only to loosen 
or fasten. Chardin says that a lock in the East is like 
a little harroAA', Avhieh enters half way into a wooden 
staple, and that the key is a Avooden handle, Avith points 
at the end of it, Avhieh are pushed into the staple, and 
so raise this little harroAV. See Lock. Indeed, early 
Oriental locks probably consisted merely of a Avooden 
slide, drawn into its place by a string, and fastened there 
by teeth or catches; the key being a hit of Avood, crook- 
ed like a sickle, Avhieh lifted up the slide and extracted 
it from its catches, after Avhieh it Avas drawn back by 
the string. Rut it is not difficult to open a lock of this 
kind eA'en Avithout a key, viz. Avith the finger dipped in 
paste or other adhesive substance. The passage Cant. 
ax 4, 5 is thus probably explained (Warmer, Obs. iii, 31 ; 
vol. i, 394, ed. Clarke; Ramvolff, ap. Ray, True, ii, 17). 
Ancient Egyptian keys are often found figured on the 
monuments. They Avere made of bronze or iron, and 
consisted of a straight shank, about five inches in length, 



Iron Key. (From Ancient Thebes, in Egypt.) 


Avith three or more projecting teeth ; others had a near- 
i er resemblance to the Avards of modern keys, Avith a short 


KEY 


60 


KEYS. POWER OF THE 


sliank about an inch long; and some resembled a eom- 
mon ring, with the wards at its back. The earliest 
mention of a key is in Judg. iii, 23-25, where Elmd hav- 
ing gone “ through the porch and shut the doors of the 
parlor upon him, and locked them,” it is stated that Eg- 
lon’s “servants took a key and opened them.” Among 
the Assyrian monuments are extant traces of strong 
gates, consisting of a single leaf, which was fastened by 
a huge modern lock, like those still used in the East, of 
which the key is as much as a man can conveniently 
carry (Isa. xxii, *22), and also by a bar which moved into 
a square hole in the wall. See Door. 

The term key is frequently used in Scripture as the 
symbol of yovernment , power, and authority. Even in 
modern times, in transferring the government of a city, 
the keys of the gates are delivered as an emblem of au- 
thority. In some parts of the East, for a man to march 
along with a large key upon his shoulder at once pro- 
claims him to be a person of •consequence. The size 
and weight of these oftentimes require them to be thus 
carried (Thomson, Land and Book , i, 493). So of Christ 
it is said, “And tli 3 key of the house of David will I lay 
upon his shoulder ; so he shall open, and none shall shut ; 
and he shall shut, and none shall open” (Isa. xxii, 22; 
Lev. iii, 7). He also has the “ keys of hell and of death” 
(Lev. i, 18; comp, ix, 1; xx, 1). Our Saviour said to 
Peter, as the representative of the apostles generally, 
upon whom collectively the same prerogative was on 
another occasion conferred, “ And I will give unto thee 
the keys of the kingdom of heaven; and whatsoever 
thou shalt bind on earth shall be bound in heaven; and 
whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth shall be loosed in 
heaven” (Matt, xvi, 19; xviii, 18) — that is, the power 
of preaching the Gospel officially, of administering the 
sacraments as a steward of the mysteries of God, and 
as a faithful servant, whom the Lord hath set over his 
household. This general authority is shared in common 
by all ministers and officers in the Church. The grant 
doubtless likewise included the authority to establish 
rules and constitutional orders in the Church, to which 
Christ himself gave no special ecclesiastical form, but 
left it to be organized by the apostles after his own res- 
urrection. This power, too, in a subordinate degree, is 
delegated to the Church of later times; for it is notewor- 
thy that even the apostles have not definitely prescribed 
any specific form of Church polity, and this is therefore, 
in a great measure, left to the discretion of each body of 
Christians. Indeed, the settlement of the cardinal doc- 
trines of Christianity, as a basis of Church-membership 
and ecclesiastical discipline, appears to be the only ex- 
plicit element of the authority conferred in these pas- 
sages by Christ to his apostles— and this exclusively 
belonged to them, inasmuch as their office was not trans- 
missible; so that the canon of Scripture, as well as the 
essential points of Church constitution, have been com- 
pleted by them for all time. See Succession. As to 
Peter himself, it is a gratuitous assumption on the part 
of Lomanists that the authority was conferred upon him 
personally above his fellow-disciples, since in the other 
passage the general “ye” is used in place of the individ- 
ual “ thou.” It is true, however, that as Peter was here 
addressed as the foreman, so to speak, of the apostolical 
college, he was eventually honored as the instrument of 
the introduction of the first Gentile as well as Christian 
members into the ( 'Lurch (see Acts ii, x), a fact to which 
Peter himself alludes in a very unassuming way (Acts 
xv, < ). The association of this authority with the power 
of absolution is another unauthorized gloss of thelioman 
Catholic Church; for the passage in whieh this is con- 
ferred (John xx, 23, “ Whosesoever sins ye remit, they 
are remitted unto them; and whosesoever sins ye re- 
tain, they are retained”) stands in a very different con- 
nection, and is evidently to be interpreted of Jhe exclu- 
sively apostolical right to pronounce upon the religious 
state of those to whom, l>v the imposition of hands, they 
imparted the peculiar miraculous gifts of the primitive 
age (see Acts viii, 14-17; xix, 0). In accordance with 


the above analogies, the “key of knowledge” is the 
means of attaining to true knowledge in respect to the 
kingdom of God (Luke xi, 25; comp. Matt, xxiii, 13; 
Luke xxiv, 32). It is said that authority to explain 
the law and the prophets was given among the Jews 
by the delivery of a key.. See Bixd. The IJabbins say 
that God has reserved to himself four keys — the key of 
rain, the key of the grave, the key of fruitfulness, and 
the key of barrenness. See Keys, Power of tiie. 

Keyes, Josiaii, a Methodist Episcopal minister, was 
born at Canajoliarie, N. Y., Dec. 30, 1799; converted at 
the age of twelve; entered the Genesee Conference in 
1820; in 1831-34 was presiding elder on Black Liver 
•District, and in 1835 on Cayuga District, where he died 
April 22, 183G. Air. Keyes possessed a grasping intellect 
and great application. Without regular instruction, he 
acquired “a respectable knowledge of Latin, Greek, and 
Hebrew, and as a general scholar, a theologian, and a 
preacher, he stood eminent among the Methodist minis- 
try of the day. Tie was a very useful man, a sineere 
Christian, and many souls were converted through his 
labors.” — Minutes of Conferences, ii, 412 ; Geo. Peek,D.D., 
Early Methodism (N. Y. 18G0, 12mo), p. 473. (G. L. T.) 

Keys, John, a Presbyterian minister of English de- 
scent, was born at Wilton, N. IL, in 1778. He gradu- 
ated at Dartmouth College, Hanover, N. II., in 1803, and 
afterwards taught school for several years. He studied 
theology at Morristown, N. J., under James Lieliards, 
D.D. ; was licensed in 1805, and in 1807 ordained by the 
New York Presbytery at Orangedale, N. J., and in 1808 
installed pastor of the Church at Sand Lake, near Al- 
bany, N. Y. In 1814 he accepted a call from the Congre- 
gational Church of Wolcott, Conn.; in 1824 removed to 
Tallmadge, Ohio, as pastor of a Congregational Church, 
and afterwards preached successively at Dover, New- 
burg, Ohio ; at Peoria, 111. ; at St. Louis, Mo. ; and at Ce- 
dar Lapids and Elkader, Iowa. At last lie returned to 
Dover. Ohio, where he died January 27, 1 8G7. Mr. Keys 
was an industrious student. As a preacher he took the 
greatest delight in his work; as a Christian he had 
great faith in the power of special prayer. See Wilson, 
Presb. Historical A Imanac, 18G8, p. 21 G. (J. L. S.) 

Keys, Power of the, a term which in a general 
sense denotes the extent of ecclesiastical power, or, in a 
narrower sense, the right to authorize or prohibit abso- 
lution; and it is upon the interpretation in the one sense 
or the other that the Protestant and Loniish churches 
differ from each other. We base this article, in the 
main, upon that in Herzog, Ileal- Encyklop. xiii, 579 sq. 

I. Xeic-Tcstament Doctrine. — The expression T\TZ m 2 
or “ key of the house of David” (Isa. xxii, 22), 
denotes the power whieh was given to the king’s officer 
over the royal household. In literal symbolism. rcXelg 
Aavid (Lev. iii, 7) denotes the authority which Christ 
as King exercises over his realm with special regard to 
his right of admission or dismission. When Jesus (Matt, 
xvi, 19) solemnly intrusted to Peter, as a representative 
of the apostles, the keys of the heavenly kingdom, he 
invested him by that act simply. with his apostolical 
station, whieh involves the founding of the Christian 
Church by the preaching of the forgiveness of sin (Luke 
xxiv, 47) and the establishment of the Gospel doctrine 
(Matt, xx, 19). In this sense the commission (John xx, 
23) to the other eleven apostles must likewise be inter- 
preted, for we have no reason to believe that the apos- 
tles ever exereised the authority, as Jesus did, of reliev- 
ing the sinner of his guilt ; and yet. even if proofs could 
be adduced to show that the apostles did exercise such 
authority, all evidence that such authority was trans- 
ferred to the Clmreh after the apostolic age is surely 
wanting. Besides, it is proper to make a distinction be- 
tween the power of the keys claimed for Peter as an ex- 
pression of apostolical authority, and the power 4 * to bind 
and to loose” which Jesus (Matt, xvi, 19) also conferred 
not only upon his other apostles, but upon the whole 
Church (Matt, xviii, 18). Both expressions, to bind and 


KEYS, POWER OF TIIE 


Cl 


to loose , which in New-Testament usage do not require 
a personal, but an impersonal object, mean, according to 
Habinnical language, to permit and to forbid, to confirm 
and to revoke (see Lightfoot, ad Ioc. Matt., and comp, the 
art. Bind); and in the N.-T. passages quoted they can 
refer only to the sphere of Christian social life. Against 
the opinion of the later Church, that Paul (1 Cor. v, 3-5) 
made use of the apostolic authority to forgive and to 
retain sins, Hitschl (A It-Kathol. Kirche, 2d edit., p. 337 
sq.) argues that in this passage only a disciplinary reg- 
ulation is referred to ; that Paul conceded to the Church 
the right of discipline, and only exercised authority 
when he supposed himself to act in harmony with the 
wish of the Church ; and that, if the apostle (2 Cor. ii, 
G-10) held a contrary doctrine, he would be subject to the 
charge of simulation. The apostolical writings, more- 
over, do not allude to any other agency in the Church 
for the remission of sins than that spoken of by Paul 
himself, 2 Cor. v, 18 sq., namely, reconciliation by Christ 
and the prayers of believers (1 John v, 1G; James v, 1G). 

II. Doctrine of the Patristic Period. — The misconcep- 
tion of the meaning of the power to bind and to loose was 
early manifested in the Church. The Jewish-Christian 
Clementine Homilies , it is true, still evince a knowledge 
of the original signification of the words to bind and to 
loose , inasmuch as they still supply — in the N.-T. sense 
— simply an impersonal object; but, withal, they have so 
far enlarged upon the meaning of the expression as to 
find comprehended in the power to which it alludes all 
privileges of the episcopal office as a continuation of the 
apostolical office (iii. 72). Quite the opposite was held 
in the Gentile-Christian Church of the 2d century. It 
interpreted the power “to bind and to loose” as author- 
ity to retain and to forgive sin, and supplied the two 
verbs with personal objects; yet regarded — in the spirit 
of the apostolic Church — as the authorities vested with 
the power to bind and to loose , the society (Church), and 
not the bishop. 

In so far as from a heathen-Christian stand-point the 
power of the “keys” was identified with the power “to 
bind and to loose,” the former was held to express in one 
conception both the latter acts, viz. excommunication 
and readmittance to the Church ; but as the keys of 
Peter were taken also to comprehend all rights of Church 
government, and especially of ecclesiastical jurisdiction, 
we need not wonder that among the Church fathers of 
the patristic period all these different views were some- 
what mixed (comp. Tertullian, I)e Pndic. 21 ; Cyprian, 
De unit, eccles. cap. 4). It. was in the period of scholas- 
ticism that a really strict distinction was aimed at, and 
yet to this day Homan Catholics have failed to recog- 
nise generally this discrimination. 

The whole Church was at first regarded as bearers of 
the keys, i. e. of the power to bind and to loose, evidently 
because Christ works and has his abode there. (For 
this reason, also, the martyrs were accorded the position 
of “pnecipua ecclesirc membra,” in whom Christ is active 
for his own glorification. Comp. Eusebius, v, 2, 5 ; Ter- 
tullian, De Pudic. ; Idem, A polar j. 39). 

The first decided change of view is found among the 
Montanists. Tertullian (in his De Pudicitia) limits the 
promise of Matt, xvi, 18 sq. simply to the person of Pe- 
ter as the apostolical founder of the Church ; the power 
to forgive sin lie regards as the right of the Church in 
so far as she is identical with the Holy Ghost. The 
bearer of this right he holds to be the spiritual man 
(spiritualis homo), but that the latter, in the interests 
of the Church, abstains from exercising this prerogative. 
His opponent, the Homan bishop, however, interpreted 
it in favor of all the bishops (bishopric =numerus epis- 
coporum, chap. xxi). This thought Cyprian enlarged 
upon with a free use of the Montanistic thesis, holding 
that the episcopate is the inheritor (heir) of the apos- 
tolic power, the seat and the organ of the Holy Ghost, 
and therefore possessed of power to bind or to loose of its 
own accord. Of course, from such a stand-point. Cyprian 
was forced to reject as presumption the claim of the 


KEYS, POWER OF TIIE 

martyrs to the power of the keys; he only conceded to 
them the right of intercession for the fallen. To prove 
the ideal unity of the Church, Cyprian advances the ar- 
gument that the power of the keys was first intrusted 
by Christ to Peter, and only afterwards to the other 
apostles (De unit, ecclcs. cap. iv). In the writings of 
Opt at us Milevitanus this thought takes the form that 
Christ intrusted the keys to Peter, and that Peter him- 
self surrendered them to the other apostles. The power 
of the keys in this sense evidently denotes the episcopal 
power in all its extent, i. e. the ecclesiastical govern- 
ment. With Cyprian, to bind and to loose already means 
to retain or forgive sins forever, yet he only uses these 
expressions when speaking of the forgiveness of sins by 
baptism (e. g. Epist. 73, c. 7). Later, however, they are 
used in a narrower sense, and refer to great sins com- 
mitted after baptism; in short, they denote the right of 
exercising penance-discipline, a power in principle con- 
ceded to the bishop, but which actually he was permit- 
ted to exercise only in union with all his clergy. Not 
all sins committed after baptism were subject to the 
power of the keys, only the greater ones, as Augustine 
has it, “ committed against the Decalogue” (Serm. 351, i, 
“ De pcenit.” c. 4). This declaration, however, is to be 
taken with the exception of all inward sins, i. e. tres- 
passes against the ninth and tenth commandments; 
moreover, in the older practice, onty the different, species 
of idolatry, murder, and unchastity were punished by 
ecclesiastical courts. It is incorrect to argue, as has 
been done on the part of Protestants, that only the pub- 
lic sins — those which caused trouble to the Church, were 
taken account of by the Church. As to the sins alluded 
to above, whether committed in secret or publicly, it 
was supposed that they did injury to the gifts of regen- 
eration, and entangled the soul in the meshes of spirit- 
ual death ; they were therefore called peccata (delicta or 
crimina) mortalia , also capitalia ; the others were regard- 
ed as simply daily experiences of the remains of weak- 
ness cleaving to the believer, of which it seems almost 
impossible to be rid in this life. For the former only 
the power of the keys and the exercise of penance were 
regarded as in force ; the latter, on the other hand, were 
supposed to be atoned for by the daily penance of a be- 
lieving heart, by the fifth request in the Lord's Prayer, 
by oblation and the encharist, etc. They were called 
peccata renialia. 

Actually the power of the keys was exercised by the 
whole clerical body, under the presidency of the bishop. 
In formal inquisitorial proceedings, the fact of the com- 
mission of a mortal sin was determined either by the 
voluntary confession of the perpetrator or by indictment 
and hearing of witnesses, followed, in case of established 
guilt, by the declaration of excommunication; but the 
excommunicated retained the privilege of praying for 
admission to the exercise of penance in the Church. 
This last, in early days, was in all cases public, especially 
after the time of Augustine, at least in cases of public 
crime; but after the beginning of the 4th century it 
was regulated by steps corresponding to catceliumcnical 
grades. Upon the expiration of the term of penance, the 
length of which, in t he early Church, was discretionary 
with the bishop, but in later times was determined by 
ecclesiastical laws, the excommunicated was again re- 
ceived into Church membership. This act, which was 
consummated by imposition of hands, prayer, and the 
kiss of peace by the bishop, with the assistance of the 
clergy before the altar (ante apsidem), in presence of 
the membership of the Church, was called reconciliation , 
or the bestowal of peace (paccm dare). Penitent souls, 
however, in danger of immediate death, could be recon- 
ciled even before the expiration of their period of pen- 
ance, in presence of the bishop, by any presbyter, or, if 
such a one was not accessible, even by a deacon (Cyp- 
rian, Epist. xviii, 1 ; Cone. Eliberit. can. 32) ; a practice 
which we find even as late as the Middle Ages, and 
which clearly proves that in the early Church reconcil- 
iation was more an act of jurisdiction than of order. 


KEYS, POWER OF TIIE 


G2 


KEYS, POWER OF THE 


In the earliest days of the Church, the exercise of its 
prerogative of the power “ to loose/’ in reconciliation, 
coincided completely with absolution, except that to this 
term there was not given the meaning which it re- 
ceived in the Middle Ages. Above all, it must not be 
forgotten that the Church fathers did not place the 
atoning power in the reconciling activity of the Church, 
but in the activity of the penitent himself; from the 
Church the penitent received only instruction how to 
heal the wound he had created by sin: hence they fre- 
quently designated penance as the medicine, and the 
clerus imposing it as the physician; he (the penitent) 
was to repair himself from his crime by his good works, 
and merit the divine forgiveness. Thus must be un- 
derstood Cyprian’s frequent demand of ‘‘justa pceniten- 
tia,” which consists in the eongrnity of the guilt with 
the penance offered as reparation. That God alone ab- 
solved from sin was the accepted axiom of the early 
Church. Yet the Church hesitated not to consider it- 
self one of the means of grace, competent to assist in 
the work of salvation, acting upon the theory laid down 
by Cyprian : “ Extra eeclesiam nulla sains.” So long 
as the mortally sinning one saw himself inwardly and 
outwardly separated from the Church, the absolute way 
to salvation, divine forgiveness, seemed to him inacces- 
sible; there was no need of judgment by the courts, he 
was already judged. If the Church again admitted 
him tn membership among the purified, he was not nec- 
essarily among the number of the saved, but lie had at 
least the prospect of salvation ; he now belonged to the 
number of those over whom the Lord on the final day 
would sit in judgment, from whom he would select his 
own. Upon this point Cyprian (Ep. Iv, 15, 24) and Pa- 
eian (Epist. ad Sympron . in fine) are very clear. As the 
absolving judgment of the Church thus becomes rather 
uncertain, depending upon approval or rejection in the 
final judgment, there was need of further elucidation. 
Reconciliation was therefore joined with prayer by a 
petition that God would forgive the penitent his sins, 
accept as sufficient his repentance, which of course could 
only afford a limited satisfaction for the committed of- 
fence, and restore to him the lost spiritual gifts. For 
thi< reason the act was accompanied by the imposition 
of hands ; compare Augustine, JJe Baptism, iii, c. 16, who 
says of this ceremony that it is “oratio super hominem,” 
i. e. the symbolic pledge that the answer of prayer 
should benefit the penitent, and that with it was be- 
stowed the gift of the Holy Ghost. In this sense Cyp- 
rian speaks of a ‘Temissio facta per saeerdotes apud 
Dominion grata” — for he knows only a forgiving activ- 
ity of God; and with him all absolving action of the | 
Church confines itself to the restitution of external com- ' 
munion. and the prayerful intercession of the Church, ■ 
viz. of the priests, martyrs, and believers. However 
greatly l’acian and Ambrosius may differ in their de- 
fence against the Novations on the right of the priest 
to absolve from sin, they never claimed for the priest j 
more than the power of intercession — a privilege which 
they believed be held in common with the congregation. I 
It is in the Augustinian period that we first discover 
an endeavor to define the place of the priest in the ex- 
ercise of the "power of the keys. The older fathers, Cyp- 
rian and Ambrose, had limited the effect of mortal sins 
bv bolding that they indicted a mortal wound upon the 
fallen— calling to mind the mail who, on his way from 
Jerusalem to Jericho, fell among murderers; and so ec- 
clesiastical penance was regarded simply as a remedy J 
for the aftficted. In t lie Augustinian period, however, 
sin was held to be a dentb-intlietiug agent, implying 
that the fallen was dead, and had to he restored to life. 
Put, as the Church did not possess this power, a change 
of heart was supposed to precede the exercise of the 
power of the keys — in short, tlfat a divine influence vis- 
ited the heart before any human agency could he effec- 
tually applied. Augustine, in several passages of his 
writings (c. g. Tract. 22 in Ev. Joh. ; Tract. 4b, No. 24) 
finds the process exemplified in the resurrection of Laz- 


arus : the sinner, like Lazarus, is dead, and, so to speak, 
rests spellbound in the grave; Mercy awakens liim, and 
restores him to life by wounding him inwardly, and, 
amid great pain, brings him to a consciousness of his 
offences; upon Mercy's call lie arises, like Lazarus, from 
the grave, and comes to light, bowed down by Ids guilt, 
and, with an acknowledgment to the bishop, seeks the 
means of salvation in the practice of penance; he is at 
last freed by the activity of the priests, as Lazarus was 
freed by the disciples. This picture we find, from this 
time forward, in most representations of the penance- 
process, down to the Middle Ages; and especially did 
the Yictorinians form their conception of absolution 
upon it. If in this picture the act of loosing can only 
designate the united action of the Church on the fallen, 
viz. the imposition of penance, intercession, the removal 
of excommunication, and the admission to the means 
of grace, it would seem that in other places Augustine 
holds that the forgiveness of sin is to be mediated by 
the Church; yet even here he does not speak of the 
Church as a professed institution of mercy, but rather 
the community of saints, or of the predestined, by whom 
the Spirit of God performs its work. Thus he savs 
(Berm. 00 , cap. 9) : “ The Spirit forgives, not the Church ; 
this Spirit is God. God dwells in his temple, i. e. in his 
saintly believers, in his -Church, and he forgives sin by 
this agency, because it is the living temple.” Hut even 
this forgiveness is considered only as the fruit of pray- 
ers pleasing to God, and therefore answered by him. 
While, therefore, Augustine traces forgiveness in recon- 
ciliation mainly to the prayerful intercession of the 
faithful, Leo the Great argues that the priests alone are 
specific intercessors for the fallen, and that without their 
intercession forgiveness cannot be secured (“ut indiil- 
gentia nisi snpplieationibus saeerdotum neqneat obtine- 
ri”). He bases this exclusive intercession prerogative 
of the priests upon the fact that the Saviour, according 
to bis promise (Matt.xxviii, 29), whieli Leo refers sim- 
ply to the clerus, always assists the action of his priests, 
and that he makes them the channel of his spiritual 
gifts (Ep. 82, al. 108 ; ad Theod. cap. 2). It is thus that 
the Catholic notion of the clerical priesthood, which, 
independent of the laity, communicates God’s mercy, 
and regards this mediatorship as essential, has taken 
definite shape; and what has been added in later times 
is simply a more complete or perfect development of the 
idea as it originated with Leo. But even he does not 
make the assertion that the priest, instead of being a 
mediator by prayer for forgiveness, lias himself the au- 
thority, by virtue of his office, to absolve from sin. 

We do not possess an absolution-formula of the first 
ages of the Church, but we have every reason to sup- 
pose, upon the premises stated, that it could only have 
been deprecative. Augustine even denounced the ex- 
pression “I forgive thy sins,” of the Donatists, as heret- 
ical (Berm. 00, e. 7-9). If, in our last allusion to the 
reconciliation of the sinner by means of prayerful inter- 
cession, the priest alone seemed to be entitled to be dep- 
reeator, we find a very different view was entertained 
by other Church fathers. In accordance with Lev.xiv, 
2, Jerome says that the priests cannot make the leper 
clean, nor the reverse; they can simply distinguish be- 
tween the clean and the unclean (Comm, in Matt. lib. 
iii). Not understanding, therefore. Matt. xvi. 19 to con- 
cede to the bishops and the elders any other power, it 
follows that lie concedes to the ecclesiastical office sim- 
ply the authority of distinction, i. e. the judicial power 
of pronouncing those as loosed who by the mercy of God 
had been inwardly loosed, and those as bound who have 
not yet been loosed by God’s mercy — a judicial decision 
whose validity is essentially confined to the forum of 
the Church, and does not extend to the forum of God. 
Just so says Gregory the Great (Horn. 26, in Ev. No. 6), 
‘•it must be determined what guilt has preceded and 
what penitence has followed guilt in order that the 
shepherd may loose those whom the Lord in his mercy 
visits with a sense of repentance. Only when the judg- 


G3 


KEYS, POWER OF THE 


KEYS, POWER OF THE 


meat of the inner judge is obeyed can the action of the 
officer to loose be a correct and real one.” Adding, as 
he does, like August ine, the narrative of the resurrection 
of Lazarus, it is evident that Gregory did not consider 
the bishop's action in mortal sins as anything more than 
constituting a recognition of the inner condition of the 
sinner ; those into whose heart God has breathed the 
spirit of life the ecclesiastical judge is to pronounce as 
loosed, those yet spiritually dead as bound. 

As in the early Church great penitence was conceded 
only once, so reconciliation by the Church was not re- 
peated a second time. In the writings of Sozomen (lib. 
vii, 10) we first find a witness for the principle of ad- 
mitting also backsliders to penance and reconciliation. 
This change of practice was a necessary consequence of 
the enactment of penitential laws which extended the 
use of the term mortal sin also to such offences as had 
formerly been considered simply venial. 

III. Doctrine of the Middle A yes and the Roman Cath- 
olic Church. — The ancient Church classified her mem- 
bers into three sections— the faithful, the catechumens, 
and the penitent. The power of the keys was exercised 
upon the last, and in a certain sense also upon the sec- 
ond class: these two only were in any need of reconcil- 
iation or absolution by the Church. There is not the 
slightest evidence or reason to believe that the faithful 
were obliged to make confession of sins to the priest, 
even before communion. On the other hand, we find, 
after the beginning of the Middle Ages, a tendency 
among the newly-converted Germanic nations to en- 
large the practice of penance into a general institution 
in the Church, and to make the power of the keys, 
which concerned the penitent alone, a general court of 
appeal and of mercy for all the faithful. This was done 
first by subjecting also mental sins to the power of the 
keys, while in the earlier Church such a thing had nev- 
er been dreamed of. The origin of this innovation has 
been demonstrated with full evidence by Wasserschle- 
ben (Dussordnuny d. abendldndisehen Kir che, p. 108 sq.). 
Monachism was the exercise of penance for all life. In 
the monastery it was early considered an act of asceti- 
cism to disclose to the brethren the most secret mani- 
festations of sin. In the old British and Irish Church 
education was directed especially to the order and in- 
terests of practical Church life; morals and discipline 
were generally regulated by monastic rule, which thus 
penetrated society at large, and more or less influenced 
all civil legislation. As early as the penance-canons of 
Tinmans, who flourished towards the end of the 5th 
century, the order is given that mental sins, even though 
prevented from execution, should be atoned for by ab- 
stinence from meat and wine for the period of twelve 
months. The Anglo-Saxon Panitcntialc, which bears 
the name of Theodore of Canterbury, prescribes for lusts 
of fornication twenty to forty days’ abstinence. The 
rules of penance of the Irish monk Columban (died A. 
D. 615) imported these regulations to the Continent, 
and ordered that all sinful lusts of the mind should be 
atoned for by penance with bread and water from forty 
days to six months (compare Wasserschleben, Dussord- 
nuny, p. 108, 1 00, 185,353). In the 5th century the semi- 
Pelagian John Cassian, of Marseilles, established eight 
principal or radical sins (vitia principalia), from which 
spring the actual sins, namely, intemperance, licentious- 
ness, avariciousness, anger, sadness, bitterness, vanity, 
pride (Coll. 8. 8. Pat rum F, “de octo principalibus vi- 
tiis”). In the instructions of Columban (Biblioth. Patr. 
maxim, xii, 23) they are mentioned under the name of 
“crimina capitalia,” by which the early Church desig- 
nated simply those actual mortal sins that were subject 
to public penitence, and under this name they were in- 
troduced into several Anglo-Saxon and Frankish pen- 
ance-regulations. The Synod of Chalons, in the year 
813, directs the priest, in canon 32, to pay special regard 
to the principal sins of the confessors, a commendation 
which Alcuin already made in his De divinis officiis, cap. 
13. From these eight radical sins the seven death-sins 


of scholasticism were developed. In these regulations 
of penance we find also already penance redemptions, so 
important to the history of absolution, which originate d 
simply by a transfer of the old Germanic composition 
system to ecclesiastical life. 

The extension of the power to bind and to loose over 
all Christians was a necessary consequence of such in- 
fluences as those just alluded to. In the instructions 
for penance of the abbot Othman, of St. Gall (died A.R. 
761), we have the principle laid down that without con- 
fession there is no forgiveness of sin. In Columban’s 
book of confession (can. 30), on the borders of the 6th 
and 7th centuries, it is ordered that before every com- 
munion there should be confession, especially of mental 
excitements. According to Rcgino of Prum (died 015) 
{De discipl. eccles. ii, 2), every person ought to confess 
at least once a year. The first provincial synod which 
makes confession a general obligation is that of Aenham, 
A.D. 1109 (canon 20, in two very varying recensions). 
Innocent III is really the originator of the general pen- 
ance law [see Penance], and thus likewise of the reg- 
ular periodical exercise of the power of the keys over all 
Christians. His regulation had no doubt the intention 
of staying, by ecclesiastical shackles on the conscience, 
a spreading heresy, as seems evinced by the similarity 
of canon 29 of the fourth Lateral! synod with the twelfth 
canon of the celebrated Synod of Toulouse in 1229. 

Notwithstanding the opposition which manifested 
itself in the Frankish realm against the penitential 
books and those of its rules not corresponding to the 
regulations of the older canons, its principles took effec- 
tual hold, and caused a decided revolution in the prac- 
tice of penance and reconciliation. Even though, after 
the 4th century, by the side of the public penance, pri- 
vate penance for secret offences had been practiced, rec- 
onciliation had remained public ; now a distinction was 
made between public and private penance; the latter 
was inflicted on voluntary confession, the former for of- 
fences publicly proved against the perpetrator ; and for 
great crimes, such as murder, public penance was fol- 
lowed by public reconciliation, which was gradually 
called absolution. But as, moreover, the extension and 
enlargement of the practice of penance and confession 
greatly increased the confessional business, the imposi- 
tion of public penance, and the grant of a corresponding 
reconciliation, remained the prerogative of the bishop, 
while private confession and private absolution fell to 
the presbyter, who, however, exercised the right to for- 
give sin merely as the bishop’s delegate. In the early 
Church reconciliation was granted only upon the expi- 
ration of penance; the penance regulations of Gildas, 
however, permitted private reconciliation upon comple- 
tion of half of the penitential period ; the rules of Theo- 
dore of Canterbury granted it at the expiration of a 
year, or even after six months. Boniface ordered in his 
statutes that it should be granted immediately after 
confession (Gieseler, Ch. Ilist. ii, 1, § 19, note b). All 
these changes became prevalent in the Carlovingian 
Age. 

Public reconciliation of the penitents Avas practiced 
in the Romish Church as early as the 5th century on 
Green-Thnrsday {Kpist. Innoeentii J, ad Dcccntium, c. 
7) ; in the Milanese and Spanish on Char-Friday ( Mo- 
rin. lib. ix, cap. 29). After the penitents on Ash- 
Wednesdav had received ashes upon their head, and 
had been solemnly expelled from the Church, they were, 
according to the Pontifcale Ronianum, again solemnly 
led, on Crecn-Thursdav, to the cathedral, where they 
were relieved of their excommunication and blessed by 
the bishop after the mercy-seat had been implored and 
the person sprinkled with holy water and incense. Pub- 
lic reconciliation and public penance naturally, in the 
course of the Middle Ages, gradually gave place to pri- 
vate confession and private absolution. Since the Ref- 
ormation it has become obsolete, and the formulas for 
the same find a resting-place in the Episcopal ritual 
(comp. Daniel, Codex lituryicus, i, 279-288). 


G4 


KEYS, POWER OF THE 

Upon the theological importance of absolution, and 
the relation v’hicli the priest in the administering of it 
sustains to it, the same opposite opinions which we found 
in the patristic period were entertained in the first half 
of the Middle Ages. According to the view of which 
Jerome and Gregory the Great must be especially des- 
ignated as representatives, the priest is judge in foro 
ecclesue, and may by his judgment simply determine and 
certify for the Church the manifestation of divine mer- 
cy in the penitent’s heart. Thus, in the Homilies of 
Eligius of Noyon, which, in all probability, belong to 
the Carlovingian period, we read that the priests, who 
are hi Christ's stead, must by their office, in a visible 
manner (externally or ecclesiastically), absolve those 
whom Christ, by an invisible (inwardly effected) abso- 
lution, declares worthy of his reconciliation (atonement). 
Thus says Hay mo of Halberstadt (died 853), in a ser- 
mon ( llom . in Octai\ Pasch .), after alluding to the prac- 
tices of the O.-T. priests towards lepers: “■Those whom 
he recognises by repentance and worthy improvement 
as inwardly loosed, the shepherd of souls may absolve 
by his declaration.” According to this view, divine for- 
giveness not only precedes priestly absolution, but also 
confession; it is the portion of the sinner from the mo- 
ment when he repents in his heart and turns to God. 
Absolution of the Church in this instance is simply the 
confirmation of what God has already done. A proof 
that this was the stand-point in the 12th century is fur- 
nished in Gratian’s treatment of the Decretals (caus. 
xxxiii,qu. iii). lie there proposes the question wheth- 
er anybody can give satisfaction to God by simple re- 
pentance without confession (and consequently, also, 
without absolution). He first adduces the reasons and 
authorities that must compel an affirmative answer to 
this question, then those that would answer it in the 
negative; at the close he leaves it to the reader to de- 
cide for himself in favor of the one or the other, as both 
opinions have the favor and disapproval of wise and 
pious men. Peter the Lombard, Gratian’s contempo- 
rary, says {Sent. lib. iv, dist. 17) that the sense of for- 
giveness is felt before the confession of the lips, indeed, 
from the moment when the holy desire fills the heart. 
The priest has therefore the power to bind and to loose 
only in the sense that he declares men bound or loosed, 
just as the disciples declared Lazarus free from his 
bonds only after Christ had restored him to life. The 
declaration of the priest has therefore simply the effect 
of releasing before the Church the person already loosed 
by God. According to cardinal Robert Pulleyn (died 
1115), the death-sinner enjoys divine forgiveness as soon 
as he repents; absolution is a sacrament, i. e. the sym- 
bol of a sacred cause, for it externally represents forgive- 
ness already secured in the heart by repentance, not as 
if the pr iest actually forgave, hut by the external symbol , 
for the sale of greater consolation , he makes the penitent 
doubly sure of forgiveness, although it has already become 
manifest { Sentent . lib. vii, 1). If, at the same time, the 
anxiety still remaining in the heart is lessened or re- 
lieved, this is the effect of absolution, not depending so 
much upon the activity of the priest as upon God, from 
whom it springs. JJy the exercise of divine forgive- 
ness the sinner is simply relieved of the ultimate conse- 
quences of his guilt, i. e. eternal damnation; yet earlier 
or more immediate punishment can only be prevented 
by his future efforts to atone for the act. Hence the 
priest imposes a certain measure of satisfaction, a com- 
pliance with which can alone free the transgressor from 
punishment corresponding to the greatness of his guilt ; 
if the satisfaction is too moderate, the penitent must not 
fancy himself absolved before God; he will have to 
atone to the fulness of the measure either in this world 
or in purgatory. The direct bestowal of complete abso- 
lution before God we evidently do not find here con- 
ceded to be the prerogative of the Church; her judg- 
ment is competent only to free the sinner after compli- 
ance with her imposition of punishment; on divine 
punishments she has no judgment. 


KEYS, POWER OF THE 

Nearest in view to Hubert Pulleyn comes Peter of 
Poictiers, chancellor of the University of Paris (he died 
about 1204), who (in his five Libri Sentent iaruni) lays 
down the doctrine that forgiveness of sin precedes con- 
fession, and that it is secured by repentance, lie ear- 
nestly contends that the priest cannot relieve the con- 
fessing one of his guilt or of eternal punishment ; both 
he asserts to be the prerogative of God alone. The 
priest has simply the authority to indicate or. to declare 
that God has forgiven the penitent his sin. God, how- 
ever, relieves of eternal punishment only on condition 
of definite satisfactions, which the priest has to deter- 
mine as to measure, and to impose according to the 
greatness of the crime; and on this account the priest 
must possess not simply the power to loose, but also the 
power of discretion (elavis discretionis), which is not 
granted to everybody. The penitent is therefore ad- 
vised in all cases to go, if possible, beyond the measure 
of satisfaction imposed by the priest, lest in purgatory 
the offender may be obliged to make satisfaction for his 
neglect here. It is quite characteristic that this scho- 
lastic regards confession as a sacrament of the O. T., for 
the whole process of penance he bases upon the personal 
activity of the penitent {Sent, iii, cap. 13 and 1C). 

Alongside of this view, according to which the pos- 
sessor of the power of the keys officiates essentially as 
judge in foro ecclesue, another is entertained, which finds 
its strongest exponent in Leo the Great, according to 
whom the priest is intercessor and mediator for the pen- 
itent before God. This particular view, in its successive 
developments, has exerted the greatest influence in ex- 
panding the priestly power of the keys. This position 
is assigned to the priest in all late penitential books. 
Its nature is clearly defined by Alenin, who, from the 
analogy of Leviticus (v, 12), in which the sinner is ad- 
vised to seek the priest with his sacrifice, draws the con- 
clusion that Christian penitents also must bring their 
sacrifice of confession to God by way of the priest, in 
order that it may be pleasing to and secure the forgive- 
ness of the Lord {Ad fratr. in prorinc . Gothornm , ep. %). 
For this very reason he calls (in his J)e oficiis divinis) 
the priest “sequester ac medius inter Deum et peceato- 
rem hominem ordinatus, pro peccatis intercessor.” This 
sacerdotal intercession received a higher import in the 
11th or 12tli century by the De vera et falsa pcenitentia, 
a work attributed, though incorrectly, to Augustine. It 
develops the following doctrines: 1. That the priest in 
confession stands in God’s stead — his forgiveness is God’s 
forgiveness ; for does not Christ say, “ Whom ye hold to 
be loosed and bound, but on whom ye practice the work 
of justice or of mercy?” (cap. xxv). 2. Gregory the 
Great had already laid down the dogma that by pen- 
ance (but not by absolution), sin, which hi itself was ir- 
remissiblc, became remissible, i. e. became an expiable 
guilt by the personal activity of the penitent. This 
thought was modified in the work just alluded to, so 
that in confession, it is true, the sinner is not cleared be- 
fore God, but the committed offence is changed from a 
mortal to a venial sin (cap. xxv). 3. Such sins no 
longer incur eternal, but simply temporal punishment, 
and may be atoned for, either in this world by works of 
confession, or after death in purgatory, where the pain 
to be endured for them shall far exceed any torments 
which the martyrs ever suffered in this life. This 
thought was taken up by the Vietorinians, and from it 
was developed a complete system. Hugo of St. Victor 
regarded the priest as the visible medium which man, 
spellbound by his senses, needs in his approaches to 
God, and which God uses to pour upon the human heart 
his mercies; yea, in virtue of this position he does not 
hesitate to refer the passage in Exodus xxii, 28 to the 
priests, and to call them gods (comp. lib. ii ,De sacr. pt. xiv, 
cap. 1). And why should he not? Had not pope John 
VIII, in the year 878 ( Epist . GC), already assumed for 
himself the power, in virtue of his authority from Peter, 
to bind and to loose, to absolve from all sins, those who 
had fallen in battle for the Church ? and had not bishop 


G5 


KEYS, POWER OF TIIE 


KEYS, POWER OF TIIE 


JordamiSj of Limoges, in J 031, at the council held in that 1 
city, developed the principle that Christ had intrusted to 
his Church such a power, that she may loose after death 
those whom in life she had bound? (Mansi, xix, 539; 
Gieseler. Ch. Hist . ii, 1 , § 35, note K). Hugo’s principles 
quickly spread among his contemporaries. Cardinal Pul- 
leyn says that confession made to the priest means vir- 
tually (quasi) confession to God ; and Alexander III de- 
clares that what the priest learns in confession he does 
not learn as judge, but as God (“ut Deus,” cap. 2, ap. 
Greg. De ojjic.judicis ordin. i, 31). Now if we behold in 
the priest an intermediate being between God and man, 
surrounded by a splendor before which the layman’s eye 
is blinded, it is no more than reasonable to expect that 
his acts must gain in importance, and his position ap- 
proach nearer and nearer to the office of God’s repre- 
sentative. Hugo beholds the sinner bound by a twofold 
bondage — by an internal and external, by hardness and 
by incurred damnation ; the former God loosens by con- 
trition, the latter by the assistance of the priest, as the 
instrument by which he works. Here also the resur- 
rection of Lazarus serves both as example and as proof 
(lib. ii, pt. xiv, cap. 8). His pupil, Richard of St.Vietor, 
goes a step further in his tract De potestate liyandi ci 
solvendi . Loosing from guilt, the effects of which are 
manifest in imprisonment (impoteney) and servitude 
(sin service), God alone performs, either directly, or indi- 
rectly by men, who need not necessarily be priests ; it is 
done even before confession, by contrition. The loosing 
from eternal punishment God performs by the priest, to 
whom, for this purpose, the power of the keys has been 
intrusted ; he changes it (i. e. the punishment) into a 
transitory one, to be absolved either upon earth or in 
purgatory. The loosing from transitory punishment is 
effected by the priest himself by changing it into an ex- 
ercise of penance, which is done by the imposition of a 
corresponding satisfaction. 

If hitherto we lind independently, side by side, two 
opinions, namely, that the administrator of the power of 
the keys either judges in foro ecclesice or as an interced- 
ing mediator, we need not wonder that the advance of 
doctrinal development soon effected a dialectical union 
of the two. Richard of St.Vietor evidently aimed at 
such a fusion ; the great scholastics of the 13th century 
accomplished it ; and Thomas Aquinas is to be especially 
regarded as the author of the doctrine defined by the 
Council of Trent. Alexander of Hales, in his Summa 
Theoloffhe (pt. iv, qu. 20, membr. iii, art. 2), opens with 
the sentence, “ The power to bind and to loose really 
belongs only to God ; the priest can simply co-operate.” 
But wherein shall this co-operation consist? Never 
would the priest take the liberty to absolve any one did 
he not suppose him to be loosed by God. Alexander is 
the iirst writer who meets the alternative as to whether 
the priest is to be regarded as depreeator or as judge. 
He holds him to be both in one person; the former he 
is before God, the latter before the penitent. But the 
power to loose he can exercise only after God has loosed. 
He is to the sinner simply an interpreter of what God 
has already accomplished in him, or is doing in reply to 
priestly intercession. Alexander of Hales then proceeds 
to the question whether the priest can remit eternal pun- 
ishment. He replies (membr. ii, art. 2), that as eternal 
punishment is infinite, and cannot be severed from the 
offence, the priest does not possess any power to remit 
it; only God, whose powers have no bounds, can do this. 
On the other hand, the power of the keys can extend to 
temporal (or finite) punishments, inasmuch as the priest 
is God’s instituted arbitrator. He explains this in detail 
thus : God’s mercy forgives so that it does not affect his 
justice. His justice would require a measure of punish- 
ment exceeding our powers of endurance ; therefore he 
has instituted, in his mercy, the priest as arbitrator, and 
given him authority to levy the divine punishment, and 
also, in virtue of Christ’s sufferings, to remit a portion of 
it, for which God’s justice need not be exercised. To 
the question whether the keys have authority also over 
V.— E 


purgatory, he replies, only/jer accidens , inasmuch as the 
priest may change the purgatorial punishment into a 
temporal one, i. e. into an exercise of penance. Just so 
reason Bonaventura (lib. iv, dist. xviii, art. ii) and Albert 
the Great ( Comment . lib. iv, dist. xviii, art. xiii), the for- 
mer often in the very words of Alexander. 

Upon this basis Thomas Aquinas completed the doc- 
trine of the Romish Church on the power of the keys. As 
Thomas generally distinguishes in ecclesiastical ‘‘pow- 
er” between potestas ordinis and potesias jurisdictionis 
(Suppl. part iii, Simmer, (ju. 20, a. 1, resp.), so there ex- 
ists also a twofold “ key,” namely, clue is ordinis and 
clavis jurisdictionis (qu. 19, art. 3). The keys of the 
Church themselves are the power to remove the obsta- 
cle interposed by sin, and thus make admission to heaven 
possible (qu. 17, art. 1). The clavis ordinensis , so called 
because the priest receives it at ordination, directly opens 
heaven to the person by the forgiveness of sins (sacra- 
mental absolution), while the clavis jurisdictionis only 
indirectly causes this result, namely, by the intercession 
of the Church through excommunication and absolu- 
tion in the ecclesiastical forum. It is therefore not in a 
strict sense a clavis cezli, but simply quadam disposiiio 
ad ipsam (qu. 19, art. 3). To the acts of clavis jurisdic- 
tionis belong furthermore also the grant of indulgence 
(qu. 25, art. 2, ad 1 m.). Only the clavis ordinis is of a 
sacramental nature (ibid.) ; hence also laymen and dea- 
cons may possess and exercise the clavis jurisdictionis , 
like the judges in foro ecclesice, for instance, the arch- 
deacons (quest. 19, art. 3) and the papal legates (quest. 
26, art. 2). On the other hand, the use of the sacra- 
mental clavis ordinis necessarily presupposes the posses- 
sion of the clavis jurisdictionis , as the priest receives at 
ordination simply the authority to forgive sins, while 
for the exereise of it a definite circle of men (so to speak, 
the material or the object of the power of the keys), who 
are subjected to his jurisdiction (“plebs subdita per ju- 
risdietionem,”qu. 17, art. 2, ad 2 m.), is necessary. The 
clavis ordinis can therefore not be exercised until after 
the possession of the clavis jurisdictionis (qu. 20, art. I 
and 2) ; and, vice-versa, a bishop may, by the withdrawal 
of the clavis jurisdictionis, deprive a schismatic, heretic, 
excommunicated, suspended, or degraded person of his 
inferiors (subjects), as well as of the possibility of exer- 
cising the clavis ordinis (qu. 19, art. 6). 

The sacramental power of the keys {clavis ordinis) 
eomes into practice in priestly absolution, and it is par- 
ticularly due to Thomas Aquinas that in the Romish 
doctrine this power of the keys has gained so much im- 
1 portance, that all parts of the sacrament of penance se- 
cure their unity in it. Thomas himself argues that God 
alone relieves of guilt and eternal punishment on condi- 
tion of mere contrition; but this contrition can only as- 
sure the heart and afford evidence of forgiveness when 
followed by the fulness of love (as an attendant oifuks 
formata ), and furthermore must be accompanied with a 
desire for sacramental confession and absolution. To 
him who thus repents, guilt and eternal punishment are 
already remitted before confession, because in the con- 
comitant desire, while repenting, to subject himself to 
the pow f cr of the keys, the latter at once exerts its influ- 
ence {in roto existit, although not in actu se cxercef). If 
such a person comes into the penance-chair, the grace 
showered upon him is greatly increased (augetur gra- 
tia) by the exereise (in actu) of the pow r er of the keys. 
But if contrition docs not sufficiently fill the sinner’s 
heart (for want of love, as is frequently the ease in the 
simple attritio), and therefore his disposition does not 
admit the actual exereise of the power of the keys, then 
the latter supplements his disposition by removing any 
still existing hinderanee to the inpouring of sin-forgiv- 
ing grace, provided he does not himself bar all aceess to 
his heart. In all these relations the priest has that 
plaee in the sacrament of penance whieh w'ater holds in 
the sacrament of baptism ; the former is instmmentum 
animatum , as the latter is instrumentum inanimatum. 
His power, whether simply in voto requested or in actu 


GO 


KEYS, POWER OF THE 


KEYS, POWER OF TIIE 


exerted, makes way for the overflowing stream of mer- 
cy, and secures the necessary disposition for its recep- 
tion (ibid. qu. IS, art. 1 ami 2). The power of the keys 
is consequently the red thread which is threaded at con- 
trition, drawn through penance, and becomes visible to 
the outward eye also in absolution. It gives the real 
form, the frame that secures to all acts of penance 
(which by it first become partes sacrament i, and receive 
a sacramental character) their inner connection, and 
supplies to all what is still needed for their completion 
(comp. (pi. 10, art. 1). This is manifest in the effects of 
absolution by the power of the keys; for example (ac- 
cording to (pi. 18, art. 2), temporal punishment is remit- 
ted (just the opinion of Richard of St.Victor). Yet this 
is not completely done as in baptism, but only so in part; 
the portion still remaining must be atoned for by the 
personal satisfactions of the penitent, by his prayer, by 
almsgiving, by fasting to the fulness of the measure 
meted out by the priest (qu. 18, art. 3). The imposi- 
tion of satisfactions Thomas calls binding , i. e. obliging 
to atone for punishments still in reserve. The satisfac- 
tions have the twofold object of appeasing divine jus- 
tice and of counteracting any tendency in the soul to 
sin. Punishment still in reserve (poeme satisfactorise) 
again can be remitted in virtue of the clavis jurisdic- 
tion is by means of indulgence (qu. 25, art. 1), which in 
the forum of God has the same value as in that of the 
Church; and this, according to the idea of substituting 
satisfaction on which it rests, may be of benefit even to 
souls in purgatory. 

By this further development of the doctrine of the 
power of the keys the form of absolution also was nec- 
essarily considerably altered. Alexander of llales says 
that in his day the deprecative formula preceded and 
was followed by the indicative; and this he justifies 
from his stand-point by the sentence, “ Et deprecatio gra- 
liam impetrat et absolutio gratiam supponit” (comp. pt. 
iv,qu.21,membr. 1). The indicative form of absolution, 
however, must have been an innovation, for the un- 
named opponent of Thomas alluded to in his opusculum 
xxiii (others xxii) actually asserts that to within thirty 
years the absolution formula used by all priests was Ab- 
solutionem et remissionem tibi tribuat Deus. Thomas de- 
fends with special emphasis the formula Ego te absolvo , 
etc., because it has in its favor the analogy of other sac- 
raments, and because it precisely expresses the effect of 
the sacrament of penance, namely, the removal of sin, as 
an exercise of the power of the keys. lie interprets its 
contents in the following words: “Ego impendo tibi sac- 
ramentum absolutionis.” But he also advises that the 
indicative form be preceded by the deprecative, lest on 
the part of the penitent the sacramental effects may be 
prevented (comp. Daniel, Cod. Liturg. i, 297). 

The doctrine of Thomas had in its essentials already 
been dogmatically defined by Eugenius IV in 1439 at 
the Council of Florence (Mansi, xxxi, 1057), and in its 
(liflerent rules more minutely at the Council of Trent, 
at its fourteenth session, Nov. 25, 1551. The Council of 
Trent, in its decree and the canons appended, had sim- 
ply pronounced authoritatively the exclusive right of 
the priest to absolve, and it explained the spirit of the 
latter to be not merely an announcement of forgiveness, 
but a judicial and sacramental act. The Roman cate- 
chism enters far more into detail on this particular point: 
as the priest in all sacraments performs Christ's office, 
the penitent has to honor in him the person of Christ. 
Absolution announced by him does not simply mean, but 
actually procures forgiveness of sin (pt. ii. cap. v, qu. 17 
and 11), for it causes the. blood of Christ to flow unto us, 
and washes away sins committed after baptism (qu. 10). 
If, in contrition, confession, and satisfaction, the personal 
activity of the penitent (the opus ope vans') is pre-emi- 
nent, on the other hand, in absolution (by which, as the 
forma sacramenti , those acts of'pemmce first 'really as- 
sume a sacramental character, and become partes sacra- 
mend ), he must become perfectly passive (for it operates 
altogether ex opere operato ). From this stand-point the 


objection frequently raised on the Roman Catholic side 
against Protestant polemics seems in some sort reasona- 
ble, namely, that absolution is neither hypothetical nor 
absolute, and that it is a sacramental act to which this 
distinction cannot actually be applied; and it must be 
conceded on our part that, with the conditions under- 
stood to be concurrent, it furnishes such a degree of cer- 
tainty that its effects cannot fail to be manifest in every 
one who does not intentionally frustrate it. 

This, however, is only one side, in which the priest 
stands as intercessor between God and the penitent, no 
longer (as formerly regarded) as a deprecant simply, but 
as dispenser of mercies. The Roman Catholic concep- 
tion of absolution furnishes for consideration still anoth- 
er side, according to which the priest is essentially judge , 
not simply in foro ccclesiee, but also, at the same time, in 
foro Dei , i. e. judge in God’s stead. As such, he inves- 
tigates sin to determine a corresponding punishment, 
and examines the spiritual condition of the confidant in 
order to know whether to bind or to loose. lie is there- 
fore not simply executor of the opus operation, but also 
judge of the opus operans . Now, as such, he gives a 
judgment, and this must be either hypothetical or ab- 
solute. If we look at the form of the sacramental prac- 
tice, “Ego te absolvo,” and compare with it the assur- 
ances of the Roman catechism that the voice of the ab- 
solving priest is to be looked upon as if he heard the 
words of Christ to the leper, “Thy sins be forgiven thee” 
(/.<*. qu. 10), we cannot do otherwise than regard the 
priestly decision as absolute, both bv its form and con- 
tents, as an infallible divine decision. But if, on the 
other hand, we consider that the priest — and this is con- 
ceded on the part of the Roman Catholics — may also be 
fallible; that the confessor is, after all, a very imperfect 
surrogate on account of his want of omnipotence; yea, 
that but very rarely lie can attain to an accurate knowl- 
edge of the spiritual condition of the confidant, his 
judgment must necessarily become conditioned; the 
whole sacrament becomes equally hypothetical, as upon 
this rests its basis. Thus the Roman Catholic doctrine 
fluctuates between two opposite poles of assurance and 
contingency. This, indeed, is the necessary consequence 
of its development as we have followed it in history, in 
which two separate originally distinct views as to the 
position of the priest in absolution bad been combined, 
without, however, really agreeing with each other. 

IV. Doctrine of the Reformation and Protestantism . — 
A very new development was given to the doctrine of 
the power of the keys by the Reformers. Especially 
noteworthy is, 

1. Luther's Attitude. — He retained private confession 
and private absolution, although he knew them to be 
innovations of the Middle Ages; lie even never wholly 
abolished the sacramental character of absolution. Yet, 
notwithstanding this apparent adherence to Romish 
practices, it will be found that he changed, so to speak, 
regenerated the whole institution in a reformatory spir- 
it. With Luther also the power of the keys is identical 
with the power to bind and to loose. The keys lie re- 
gards as nothing else than the authority or office by 
which the Word is practiced and propagated. As the 
Word of God, from the nature of its contents, is both 
law and gospel, so the sermon has the twofold task of 
alarming the secure sinner by threats of the law, and of 
giving peace to the troubled conscience by the consola- 
tions of the Gospel, i. e. by the forgiveness of sins. The 
former is denoted by the binding key, the latter by the 
loosing key, which are both equally essential to keep 
Christians in the narrow path of spiritual life. Even 
the sermon Luther therefore considers as an act (the 
essential act) of the power of the keys, and the consola- 
tion afforded by it as a perfectly effectual absolution. 
From the latter, however, is to be particularly distin- 
guished common absolution, accorded at the close of 
the sermon, to which Luther assigns the task of admon- 
ishing all hearers to obtain for themselves forgiveness 
of sin ; also private absolution, to be received only at the 


KEYS, POWER OF THE 


67 


KEYS, POWER OF TIIE 


confessional, and which is nothing more nor less than 
a sermon confined to one auditor. The existence of 
these different modes of exercising the power of the 
keys he ascribes partly to God’s riches, who did not 
wish to manifest any littleness in the matter, and partly 
to the wants of an abashed conscience and a timid heart, 
which greatly need this strength and stimulant against 
the devil. The value of private absolution he places in 
its quasi sacramental character, for, like the sacrament, 
it also affords a real advantage in confining the Word to 
a particular person, and thus more securely strikes home 
than in the sermon. It is true, for this reason, private 
absolution cannot be regarded as an absolute necessity to 
forgiveness of sin ; but he views it as unquestionably ben- 
eficial and advisable (Steitz, Privatheichle v.Privatabso- 
lution , p.7-14). As Luther, moreover, did not look upon 
the confessional as a judicial authority, but simply as a 
mercy-seat, so he looked upon absolution, which he rec- 
ognised as the most important feature of confession, not 
as a judicial decision, but as the simple announcement of 
the Gospel: “Thy sins are forgiven thee”— the apportion- 
ment of the forgiveness of sin to a particular person, the 
confinement of its consolation to the most individual 
needs of a single heart. The power and effect do not 
depend, according to Luther, upon the priestly character 
or upon the priestly utterance of him who administers it, 
but upon the word of Christ, which is announced by it, 
and upon the command of Christ, which is executed by 
it. For this very reason, all distinction of human and di- 
vine activity disappears from it; neither is the sentence 
of the person absolving afterwards ratified by God, nor 
docs the absolver announce upon earth the judgment 
of heaven ; but in the forgiveness at absolution God’s 
forgiveness is directly afforded. The only condition 
upon which the effect of absolution depends is that upon 
which rests the effect likewise of the Word of God, i. e. 
of the sermon, namely, faith ; for by faith it is received. 
Repentance is efficacious only so far as it is the indis- 
pensable preparation for the reception, but in itself can- 
not insure forgiveness, as without faith it remains sim- 
ply sin come to life and experienced in the heart, a 
Judas-pain of despair (Steitz, itt supra , § 6, 13, 15-18). 
Notwithstanding this irremissible necessity of faith, Lu- 
ther is far from basing upon it the power of absolution ; 
a weak faith may receive strength also; yea, even to 
the unbeliever it is truly offered, and affords him for- 
giveness on account of the indwelling of the Word of 
God, at least for the moment, but if repelled by unbelief 
it only adds to his responsibility before the judge. The 
result of absolution is consolation to the conscience and 
peace with God in forgiveness of sins and restitution in 
innocence of the baptismal pledge. Private absolution, 
Luther holds, must be administered to every individual 
who demands it; and on this account the power to loose 
in private absolution is not accompanied by the power 
to bind. Upon this rests the importance of the distinc- 
tion between private absolution and private confession ; 
for to confess does not mean anything else than inward- 
ly to desire absolution for our sins and for our guilt: 
confession can therefore not be offered to any one, for 
God himself does not offer it; it must be an inward 
want. For this reason, again, no remuneration can be 
demanded of the person confessing. Luther makes no 
distinction between the absolution of the layman and that 
of the priest. It is also his opinion that man cannot 
too frequently enjoy absolution and the consolation of 
forgiveness, hence God, in the riches of his mercy, has 
so ordered it that this consolation may be experienced 
wherever the Church of the faithful exerts her influ- 
ence. He holds, finally, that while it may be well to 
confess all one’s different sins, it is most important to 
confess those that particularly oppress the heart. 

The hey to bind , for which Luther found no place in 
private confession, he assigned particularly to jurisdic- 
tion ; it found its application, therefore, in the ban. Lu- 
ther’s opinions on this point may be summed up as fol- 
lows : the ban can be exercised only in cases of public 


sin and reproach, and for notorious disinclination to re- 
pentance ; it is the public declaration of the Church that 
the sinner lias bound himself, i. e. has deprived himself 
of all association of love, and surrendered himself to the 
devil. It excludes simply from the public association 
with the Church and her sacraments, not from the inner 
membership of the Church, from which the sinner him- 
self only can cut loose. It is merely a public punish- 
ment of the Church, and has no other object than to 
improve the sinner. For this reason he is simply ex- 
cluded from the sacrament, not from the sermon, nor 
even from the intercession of the Church on his behalf. 
The loosing from the ban is the public declaration of 
the Church that the person hitherto under ban has been 
reconciled to and is again accepted by the Church. 
This loosing is to be granted to any one who seeks it in 
repentance and faith ; and this absolution of the Church, 
in virtue of the power of the keys, is God’s absolution. 
A ban unjustly imposed can do the person so punished 
no harm, and should be borne patiently ; nor must it be 
forgotten that external membership in the Church may 
be coexistent with exclusion from inner membership. 

2. Melancthon coincided generally with Luther on 
the doctrine of the power of the keys, but with this dif- 
ference, that he regarded the keys as an essential attri- 
bute of the episcopal or ministerial office. Yet we find 
in ecclesiastical regulations made under his supervision, 
as early as 1543, some decided deviations from Luther’s 
doctrines. It is there directed to admit no one to com- 
munion “unless he have previously received private 
absolution from his pastor or some other competent per- 
son” (Richter, Kirchenordnung, ii, 45). Furthermore, 
the right is conceded to the absolving minister, under 
certain conditions, to deny absolution to the confessing. 
Theban itself, however, in consequence of its abuse, was 
early taken from the hands of the clergy, and its impo- 
sition left to the Consistory. Absolution was bestowed 
in the church at Sunday vesper service by imposition 
of hands. The formulas of absolution are partly exhib- 
itory; not unfrequently both stand side by side for se- 
lection. 

Chemnitz is the first who disputes that absolution 
can be regarded as a sacrament in the same manner as 
baptism and communion, and assigns for his reason that 
it rests simply upon the Word of God, and has received 
no additional external sign. lie also regards the exer- 
cise of absolution as a specific prerogative of the sacred 
office, although he still holds to the old Protestant prin- 
ciple that the keys were given to the Church herself. 
(See Schmidt, Doymatik , § 53, note 5 ; 1 Ieppe, Doymatik,. 
iii, 250; Kliefoth [see below], p. 278.) Moreover, he 
argues that it must be left to the absolving clergyman, 
to use his judgment and cognition in the refusal or grant 
of absolution. 

Quite differently teach Quenstedt and Hollaz. They 
explicitly speak of the power to forgive sin as an official 
prerogative of the servants of the divine Word, and the 
latter even teaches, in a quite un-Protestant manner, that 
the servants (ministers) relatively and effectually con- 
vert, renew, and bless the sinner by the Word of God ; 
so they also relatively and effectually forgive sin (Ileppe, 
p. 252). _ ‘ 

As a misconstruction of the original Protestant view 
on this doctrine, we must certainly regard Baier’s posi- 
tion that absolution is a juridical act ; and he, in con- 
sequence, distinguishes the potestas ordinis and the po - 
testas clavium or jurisdiction^ and determines the former 
to be a potestas publice docendi et sacramehta ad minis - 
trandi, and the latter a potestas remittendi et retinendi 
peccata (comp. Schmidt, § off, note 9). 

3. The Siciss reformers, from the very commence- 
ment, interpreted the power of the keys to refer espe- 
cially to the exercise of ecclesiastical government, aud 
rfiore particularly to Church discipline, and in this sense 
they have formulated in their confessions the rules per- 
taining to this subject. On the other hand, Calvin re- 
ferred the power of the keys altogether to the preaching 


KEYS, POWER OF TIIE 


G8 


KEYS, POWER OF THE 


of the Gospel and the exercise of Church discipline, disre- 
garding the sacramental idea, lie taught : 1. Absolution 
is twofold: one part serves faith, the other belongs to 
Church discipline. 2. Absolution is nothing else than the 
witness of the forgiveness of sin based upon the forms of 
the Gospel ( Instit . lib. iii, cap. iv, § 23). 3. Absolution is 
conditional; its conditions are repentance and faith. 4. 
As to the existence of these conditions men must neces- 
sarily be uncertain, so that the certainty of binding and 
loosing does not depend upon the judicial decision of a 
human court. The servants of the divine Word can 
therefore absolve only conditionally (§ 18) : in virtue, 
viz. of this Word they can promise forgiveness to all 
who believe on Christ, and threaten damnation to those 
who do not lay hold of Christ (§ 21). 5. In this exer- 

cise of their functions they can, for this reason, not fall 
into error, for they do not promise more than the Word 
of God commands them; while the sinner can secure 
for himself certain and complete absolution with perfect 
assurance whenever he will lay hold upon the mercy of 
Christ in accordance with the spirit of the Bible prom- 
ise, “According to thy faith be it unto thee” (§ 2*2). 6. 
The other absolution, which forms a constituent of 
Church discipline, has nothing to do with secret sins; it 
extinguishes only any offence which may have been 
given to the Church (§ 23). In this also the Church 
follows the infallible rule of the divine Word : in virtue 
of this word she announces that all adulterers, thieves, 
murderers, misers, and the unjust shall have no part in 
the kingdom of God; and in this binding she cannot 
err. With this same Word she looses the repenting 
ones, to whom she brings consolation (§ 21). Accord- 
ing to these principles, which, with utter disregard of 
the sacramental idea, designate absolution simply as a 
species of sermon, and with it reproduce the doctrine of 
German Protestantism in an improved form, Calvin 
could not cast aside private absolution; yet he declined 
to recognise in it a general institution of the Church, 
and made its administration dependent upon the indi- 
vidual need of those who should demand it. Its value 
to the end in view he speaks of very much in the strain 
of the Lutheran Church: “It happens sometimes that 
some one hears the promises given to all the faithful, 
and nevertheless remains in doubt whether to him also 
his sins are forgiven. When such a one uncovers his 
secret wound to his pastor, and hears that voice of the 
Gospel, ‘Be of good cheer, thy sins are forgiven thee’ 
(Matt, ix, 2), addressed to himself, his heart is cpiieted 
and freed from all fear. Nevertheless we must take 
care lest we should dream of a power of the keys not in 
accordance with the doctrine of the gospels” (§ II). It 
is true, this does not look exactly like Lutheran private 
absolution, but it is certainly the only evangelical sense; 
and of this alone the Scriptures, the apostolic Church, 
and the following centuries down to the Middle Ages, 
know anything. 

4. Private absolution, as a whole, could be a blessing 
only so long as that specific religious interest which the 
Deformation awakened in all circles remained fresh and 
lull of life; with a lassitude of the latter, the former also, 
togethet with confession, its offspring, necessarily dete- 
riorated to a dead ecclesiastical form, and, instead of 
encouraging faith, favored a false security. In several 
Lutheran churches its exercise was ignored, and finally 
resulted in a complete change of the manner of confes- 
sion au l absolution (Steitz, p. 159 sq.). The fresh and 
living spirit of the Deformation had (led, private con- 
fession and ‘private absolution had sunk to a mere 
thoughtless form, Church ban bad become a punish- 
ment, public reconciliation a public restitution; this ec- 
clesiastical punishment was pronounced only by the con- 
sistories, and simply in cases of offences of the flesh. 

5. Suddenly Pietism came forward with aloud protest, 
and demanded a decided reform in the exercise of t lie 
power of the keys. The forerunner in this direction was 
Thcophilus Grossgebauer, professor at Dostoek ( \V dc.fi- 
terstimme aus dem venciistetcn Zion, 1661), who regard- 


ed as essential for private sins only confession before 
God, but for public sins, to which alone he referred the 
power to bind and to loose, public confession and recon- 
ciliation in presence of the offended Church. Spener, 
although in favor of retaining private confession and 
private absolution, advocated a modified form, viz., an- 
nouncement to the pastor, and, as its object, advice for 
and examination of the condition of the confidant’s soul; 
and he insisted that the confessor, whose choice he left 
to personal confidence, should absolve only those truly 
repenting, but should impress the sinner with his guilt, 
and should turn over the doubtful ones to a college of 
elders for them to judge and to exercise the authority 
of the ban. With special emphasis he declared the pow- 
er of the keys to be a right of the whole Church or of the 
brotherhood, which, by way of abuse, had fallen exclu- 
sively into the hands of the ecclesiastics. With far 
greater decision his adherents opposed the institution 
of private confession : the attacks of pastor Johann Kas- 
par Schatle, of Berlin, on the confessional, which he call- 
ed an institution of Satan, and his abolition of private 
absolution of liis ow*n accord, resulted first in an investi- 
gation of the merits of the question (Nov. 16, 1698), and 
finally in an electoral resolution (shortly afterwards fol- 
lowed by a like regulation on the part of other states), 
which ordered confession and absolution of all confidants 
in common, but, on the other hand, left private confes- 
sion and private absolution to be determined by the 
needs of the individual. The war thus opened between 
l’ietism and Lutheran orthodoxy led the latter to de- 
clare private confession and private absolution a divine 
institution, and thus only brought some credit to the 
old Lutheran institutions, while it greatly increased the 
fervor of their opponents. 

G. In the sphere of dogmatics Sclileiermacher was the 
first among German Protestant divines to reintroduce 
the idea of the power of the keys, but he confines its 
application, after special exclusion of the sermon, to 
the law-giving and judicial (administrative) power of 
the Church, which he regards as the essential outgrowth 
of the ecclesiastical office of Christ, and whose exist- 
ence he ascribes to the association of the Church with 
the world (§ 144, 145). When we consider, however, 
how vague and contradictory are the confessional books 
of the evangelical churches on this point (we need in- 
vite only to a comparison of the passages collected by 
Schleiermacher in § L15), how things altogether distinct 
are there joined, and how difficult it is in an excgetical 
way to define the subject with any degree of certainty, 
it seems the most proper course to ignore the attempt 
altogether of introducing into dogmatics such figurative 
terms as “ keys of the heavenly kingdom, ’’ to “ bind and 
loose.” What has thus far been written upon these 
phrases would have been much more in place in defining 
“forgiveness of sin” and “justification” when alluding 
in practical theology to preparation for communion (as 
has been done, with a good deal of tact, by Nitzsch in 
his Prakt. Theol. ii, 2,428), and in ecclesiastical law un- 
der discipline without any cause for fear of complication. 

As regards the idea of absolution so prominent in the 
exercise of the power of the keys, it has, during the last 
twenty years, again become (in Germany) matter of 
general investigation. The beginning was made by the 
court preacher, Dr. Aekermann (at the Church diet in 
Bremen in 1852), on private confession. Although he 
did not lay particular stress upon absolution, but simply 
justified confession on its own account and as a psycho- 
logical need, it naturally led to a debate oil absolution 
by the Church diet, followed by a lively discussion be- 
tween the Lutheran and Deformed ministers. On the 
part of the Lutherans every possible effort was made to 
reinvest private absolution with its former rights, and 
to pave the way at least for its early ^introduction. 
They went so far as to vindicate it as a divine institu- 
tion, argued for general absolution as a duty, and, well 
knowing its origin in the Middle Ages, appealed to it 
as an institution sanctified by tradition of the Church. 


69 


KHAN" 


KEYS, POWER OF THE 

Even the assertion was not wanting that absolution, un- 
der all circumstances, possesses divine power, so as act- 
ually to free the sinner from his guilt, quite in contra- 
diction to the new Lutheran doctrine. See Lutheran- 
ism, New. 

V. Doctrine of the Greek Church. — The Greek Church 
entertains views on the doctrine of the power of the 
keys and on absolution very similar to those entertain- 
ed by the Latin Church in the Middle Ages. The sub- 
ject is treated in full in Covel, Account of the Greek 
Church (Cambridge, 1722, fob), p. 229 sq. ; Neale, East- 
ern Church, Introd. ii. See Greek Church. 

VI. Doctrine of the Church of England and of the 
Protestant Episcopal Church. — On the question of abso- 
lution, as involved in the so-called “power of the keys,” 
there is a division of opinion similar to that noticed 
above in the Lutheran Church of Germany. This dif- 
ference is but part of a wide divergency of views on the 
whole question of ministerial functions, and is generally 
denoted by the opposite terms the High-Church and the 
Low-Church party. See Ritualism. 

VII. Literature . — J. Morinus, De disciplina in admin- 
istratione sacramenti pcenitentiie (Paris, 1G5I, Antwerp, 
1682) ; Daille, De poenis et satisfactionibus humanis 
(Amst. 1G49); De sacrament all sire auriculari Latino- 
rum confessione (Gen. 1GG1); Ilottingcr, Smegma exerd- 
tcii. de pcenitentia antiquioris Romance ccclesice (Tigurini, 
1706); Wernsdorf, De absolutione non mere declarativci 
(Vitt. 1761); Abicht, De confessione privata (Gedan. 
1728); Fix, Gesch. d. Peichte (Chemnitz, 1800); Dens, 
Theologia , tom. vi ; De Sacrament. Panit. No. 14, tom. 
ii, No. 91, De Primatu Petri; Mohnike, Das Sechste 
flauptstiick im Katechismus (Strals. 1S30); Barron, On 
the Supremacy (in Works, vii, 134 sq., Oxf. 1830); Chas. 
Elliott, Delineation of Roman Catholicism (3d ed., by Dr. 
Hannah, Lornl. 1851), p. 195 sq., G13 sq. ; Mohlcr, Sym- 
bolism (transl. by Robertson, 3d ed., N. V. Cathol. Publ. 
House, 1870), p. 217 sq. ; II. C. Lea, Studies in Ch. Hist . 
(Phila. 1869), p. 153, 223 sq. ; Haag (Romish), llistoire 
des Dogmes Chretiens, vol. ii, § 20; London Review, 1864 
(July), p. 86 sq. ; Evcing. Quart. Rev. 1869 (April), p. 69, 
269; (July) p. 69, 341 ; Martignv, Dictionnaire des An - 
t ignites, p. 156. Among the early monographs on the 
keys we may mention those of Wigan d, De clave ligante 
(Franeof. 1561); Schmid, De clctribus ecclesice (Argent. 
1667); Botface, De clavibns Petri (llaf. 1707); Luther, 
Von d. Schliisseln (ed. Wiesing, Fraukft. and Lpz. 1795). 
Of late (chiefly German) treatises specially on the sub- 
ject we may name Rothe, A mt d. Schliissel (Gorl. 1801); 
Brescius, Amt d. Schliissel (Breslau, 1820); Steitz, Das 
Bussacrament (Frankft. 1854); idem, Die Privatbeichtc 
und Priv at absolution (Frankft. 1851); Kliefoth, Beichte 


und Absolution (Schwer. 185G) ; Pfisterer , Luther's Lehre 
von der Beichte (Stuttg. 1857). See also Absolution; 
Lay Representation; Rock. 

Keyser, Leonhard, a Baptist martyr, originally a 
Roman Catholic priest, flourished in the first half of the 
16tli century. He joined the Baptists in 1525, and im- 
mediately began preaching the Reformation doctrine, un- 
dismayed by all the tyranny exerted against the faith- 
ful by water, fire, and sword. In the second year of his 
ministry (1527) he was apprehended at Seherding, on 
the River Inn, and condemned to the flames. “The 
chief heads of accusation against him were, that faith 
alone justifies, without good works; that there are only 
two saeraments ; that the Gospel was not preached by 
the papists in Germany; that confession is not God’s 
command; that Christ is the only satisfaction for sin; 
that there is no purgatory; that Christ is the only Me- 
diator; and that all days (alluding to feast or saints’ 
days) are alike with God.” — Baptist Martyrs, p. 60. 

Kezi'a (Ileb. Ketsiuh', cassia, as in Psa. 

xlv, 9 ; Septuag. Karraia v. r. Kaofa), the name of Job’s 
second daughter, born to him after the return of his 
prosperity (Job xlii, 14). B.C. cir. 2220. 

Ke'ziz (Hebrew Ket sits', abrupt ; only with 

p1£2 ? e'mek, valley, prefixed; Septuag. both ' AjahKacriQ, 
Vulg. Vallis Casts'), or rather Emek-Keziz (Vale of Ke- 
ziz), a city of the tribe of Benjamin, mentioned between 
Beth-lioglah and Beth-arabah (Josh, xviii, 21), and 
therefore probably situated in a steep ravine of the same 
name leading to the valley of the Jordan. See Beth- 
basi. M. De Saulcv found a small valley by the name 
of Kaaziz about an hour and a half distant from Beth- 
any, in the direction of Jericho ( Narrative , ii, 17), which 
he conjectures (p. 26) was the ancient Valley of Keziz. 
So also Van de Velde (Memoir, p.328) calls it Wady cl- 
Kaziz. 

Khadijah is the name of the^rstf wife of the Is- 
lamite prophet. See Mohammed. 

Khan is the more common Arabic name for the pub- 
lic establishments which, under the less imposing title 
of menzil , or the more stately one of caravanserai (q.v.), 
correspond to our Occidental ideas of an inn (q. v.). 
These afford lodging, but not usually food, for man and 
beast. They are generally found near towns, hut some- 
times in the open country on a frequented route. They 
are mentioned in the N. Test. (7rau£oyt7oi', Luke x, 34) 
and Talmud (p'lS'S, Lightfoot, Opp. p. 799), and some- 
thing of the kind seems to occur in the later books of 
the O. T. (r,ip£, Jer. xli, 17 ; the KardXvpa of Luke ii, 
7 is, however, thought by some to have been of a more 



70 


KIILESL 


KI1ATCIIADUR 

private character). The earlier Hebrews knew of no I 
such provision for travellers (Gen. xlii, 27 ; Exod. iv, 
24; 2 Kings xix, 23; the yb'Z being merely the stop- 
ping-place over night; the 1HD1T of Josh, ii, 1 indicating 
rather a brothel, and the PV^ of 1 Sam. xix, 18 the 
home of the prophet-scholars). Entertainment was 
generally furnished by individual hospitality (q. v.). — 
Winer, i, 479. 

Khatchadur, an Armenian theologian, nourished 
in the opening of the 17th century. He was bishop of 
Dehougha, and in 1G30 was sent by the Armenian patri- 
arch Michael 111 to Constantinople on an ecclesiastical 
mission, and later to Poland. He is particularly cele- 
brated, however, as a poet. — Iloefer, Xoav. Blog. Gener. 
xxvii, 075. 

Khatchid I, elected patriarch of Armenia in 972, is 
noted in the annals of the ecclesiastical history of Arme- 
nia for the interest he manifested toward literature and 
the tine arts, and for the establishment of a number of 
monasteries. He died at his residence in Arkina in 992. 
— Iloefer, A ouv. Biog. Generate , xxvii, G7G. 

Khatchid II was patriarch of Armenia in 1058, but 
was oppressed by the Byzantine emperor Constantine 
Ducas, who imprisoned him for some three years, and 
then banished him to Cappadocia, lie died in 10G4. — 
Iloefer, Xour. Biog. Generate , xxvii, 67G. 

Khazars or Khozars is the name of a Finnish 
people, a rude but powerful nation, north of the Cauca- 
sus, related to the Bulgarians and Hungarians, which 
in the 8tli century embraced Judaism. After the disso- 
lution of the empire of the Huns they settled on the 
borders of Europe and Asia, and at one time possessed a 
realm near the mouth of the Wolga (by them called 
I til or Atel), on the Caspian Sea (after them sometimes 
called Khazar Sea), where the Kalmucks (q. v.) now 
live. They gave much uneasiness to the Persians, es- 
pecially during the reign of lvliosru I (q. v.), and ill the 
7th century, after the downfall of the Sassanians, the 
Khazars went across the Caucasus, invaded Armenia, 
and conquered the Crimea, hence called at one time 
Khnzari or Cho(ii)zari . The Byzantine emperors trem- 
bled before the warlike skill of the Khazars, and paid 
large tributes to keep them at a respectful distance 
from Constantinople; the Bulgarians and other peoples 
were their vassals ; the Russians (Kievians) appeased 
their desire for conquest by an annual tribute, and 
with the Arabs they were waging constant Avarfare. 
But by degrees, as they abandoned their nomadic hab- 
its, their warlike spirit decreased, and they largely 
fostered commercial intercourse with the outer world. 
They exchanged dried fish, the furs of the north, and 
slaves for the gold and silver and the luxuries of south- 
ern climates. Merchants of all religions — Jews, Chris- 
tians, and Mohammedans — were freely admitted, and 
their superior intelligence over his more barbarous sub- 
jects induced one of their kings, Bulan, to forsake their 
coarse, idolatrous worship, greatly mixed with sensu- 
ousness and licentiousness, and to embrace (A.D. 740) 
the Jewish religion. “By one account,” says Milman 
(Jews, iii, 138), “he was admonished by an angel; by 
another, he decided in this singular manner between 
the claims of Christianity, Moslemism, and Judaism. 
He examined the different teachers apart, and asked 
the Christians if Judaism were not better than Moham- 
medanism ; the Mohammedan, whether it was not bet- 
ter than Christianity. Both replied in the affirmative; 
on which the monarch decided in favor of Judaism.” 
According to one statement secretly, to another openly, 
he embraced the faith of Moses, and induced learned 
teachers of the law to settle in his dominions. Of Course, 
at lirst, the change of religious belief was confined to the 
royal household, and the four thousand nobles of the 
land, who, with Bulan, embraced Judaism ; but soon the 
new religion spread, and ere long the majority of the 
nation bowed in adoration to the one and ever-living 


God. Judaism actually became a necessary condition 
to the succession to the throne, but there was the most 
liberal toleration to all other forms of faith. See Oba- 
diaii. Rabbi Hasdai, a learned Jew, who was in the 
highest confidence with Abderrahman, the caliph of 
Cordova, tirst received intelligence of this sovereignty 
possessed by his brethren through the ambassadors of 
the Byzantine emperor. After considerable difficulty, 
Hasdai succeeded in establishing a correspondence with 
Joseph, the reigning king. The letter of Hasdai is ex- 
tant, and an answer of the king, which does not possess 
equal claims to authenticity. The whole history has 
been wrought out into a religious romance, entitled 
Cosri [see Jeiuda ha-Levt], which has involved the 
question in great obscurity. Basnage rejected t he whole 
as a fiction of the Rabbins, anxious to prove that “the 
sceptre had not entirely departed from Israel.” Jost 
inclines to the belief that “ there is a groundwork of 
truth under the veil of poetic embellishment.” The 
latest writers upon the subject admit without hesita- 
tion, and Jewish writers almost boast of the kingdom 
of Khazar. Comp. Frahn’s Commentary of Jbn-Foszlan 
“ I)e Chazaris” (in the Memoires de V Academic Imperi - 
ale des Sciences de Petersbourg, , 1822, vol. viii) ; D’llos- 
son, Penples du Caucase; Dutremery, in the Journal 
Asiutique, 1849, p. 470 sq. ; Rcinaud, Abulfeda , Introd. p. 
299 ; Vivien de St. Martin, Les Khazars (in the Menu a 
V Academic des Inscriptions ft des Belles-Lettres , Paris, 
1851). The Khazars became extinct as a nation in A. 
1). 945, when they were conquered by Swaitoslaw [duke 
of Kiev (q. v.)], and their name, otherwise almost for- 
gotten, was preserved in the archives of the Muscovite. 
See Schweitzer, Judriissiche Yulher ; Carmolv, Bine - 
raires de la Terre Sainte (Brux. 1847), p. 1-104; Eapo- 
port, Kerem Chemed, v, 197 sq. ; Cassel. in Erseh und 
Gruber, Encghlopddie ; Gratz, Geschichte d.Juden , a-, 211 
sq. ; Rule, Karaites, p. 79 sq. See Kief. (J. H.\V.) 

Khedr, Al, is the name which figures in the Koran 
(chap, xviii, Sale’s edition, p. 244) as that of a person 
whom the Mohammedans assert the Lord pointed out 
to Moses as superior in wisdom to any other living per- 
son, Moses included. The story the Mohammedans tell 
is thus gh'en by Sale: “Moses once preaching to the 
people, they admired his knowledge and eloquence so 
much that they asked him whether he knew any man 
in the world who Avas Aviser than himself, to which he 
ansAvered in the negative; whereupon God, in a revela- 
tion, having reprehended him for his vanity (though 
some pretend that Moses asked God the question of his 
oavu accord), acquainted him that his servant Al Khedr 
Avas more knoAving than he; and, at Moses’s request, 
told him that he might find that person at a certain 
rock Avliere the t a\'o seas met, directing him to take a 
fish Avith him in a basket, and that Avhere he missed the 
fish that Avas the place. Accordingly Moses set out, 
with his servant Joshua, in search of Al Khedr.” See 
Sale’s Koran, p. 244. 

Khlesl, Melchior, a German theologian, born at 
Vienna in 1553 of Protestant parents, was induced to 
enter the Roman Catholic Church, and joined the Jes- 
uits. After studying five years under the Jesuits he 
took the tirst four orders, then continued his studies for 
two years at Ingolstadt, and Avas ordained priest in 1579. 
lie became successively provost of the cathedral at Vi- 
enna, administrator of the bishopric of Neustadt in 1588, 
and bishop of Vienna in 1598. The loose conduct of 
the Roman Catholic clergy having greatly contributed 
to the rapid spreading of Protestant doctrines, Khlesl 
shoAved himself a zealous partisan of reform in this re- 
spect, Avhile, on the other hand, he did his utmost to 
bring Protestants back into the fold of Romanism. Vet 
he AA\as still more inclined to mingle in politics than in 
Church affairs. lie attached himself to the grand duke 
Matthias, eldest brother of the emperor Rudolph II, 
AA’hom the latter particularly disliked on account of a 
prediction, according to Avhich this brother Avas to de- 
pose him. The emperor contemplated exiling Kldesl, 


KHLEST O VSHCII iCKI 


11 KIILISTIE 


but the latter succeeded in organizing a conspiracy, and 
Matthias was made emperor in Rudolph's place. The 
Protestant princes had a part in this revolution, but 
Khlesl took good care that they should not derive any 
benefit from it to further their religion. Under empe- 
ror Matthias he became president of the privy coun- 
cil in 1011, and cardinal in 1016. Notwithstanding his 
opposition to Protestantism, which lie rigorously perse- 
cuted in 1616-18, he remained at the head of the Ger- 
man party, and opposed the adoption of the grand duke 
Ferdinand as heir to the throne. Ferdinand revenged 
himself by arresting Klilesl at Vienna, July 20, 1618, 
and confining him first at the castle of Ambras, and 
then at the convent of Georgenberg, in Tyrol. In 1622 
a requisition from the pope caused him to lie transferred 
to Rome, where he was imprisoned for seven months in 
the castle of St. Angelo. After his liberation he return- 
ed to Vienna in 1627, and was restored to the possession 
of his property and his offices. lie gave up politics to 
attend exclusively to the management of ecclesiastical 
affairs, and died Sept. 18, 1630. Ilis fortune, amount- 
ing to over half a million, he left to the bishopric of Vi- 
enna; 100,000 florins to Neustadt and Vienna for a yearly 
mass for his soul ; 100,000 florins to the convent of Him- 
melspforte, 20,000 to the Jesuits, and 46,000 to his rela- 
tives. Klilesl’s motto was “ Strong and mild strong 
in action, mild in manner; the latter was somewhat 
difficult for him to submit to, as he was naturally hasty. 
He had not received a classical education, but was well 
versed in the Bible, in patristics, and in homiletics. See 
Hammer - Purgstall, Lebensbesch re ibuncj des Cardinals 
Khlesl (Vienna, 1847-51,4 vols.Svo) ; Pierer, Univ.Lex. 
s. v. ; Wetzer und Welte, Kirck.-Le x. vi, 225. 

Khlestovslicliicki. See Skoptzi. 

Klllistie (Lashers), also called Danielites, is the 
name of a powerful Russian sect. They call themselves 
“ people of God,” “Tribe of Israel,” “worshippers of the 
true God,” or “ Brothers and Sisters.” They originated 
in the first year of the reign of the emperor Alexis (A.D. 
1645). According to their tradition, there descended, in 
the days of Alexis, upon Mt. Gorodin, in the district of 
Wladimir, in great power, on a wagon of fire surrounded 
by a cloud, “God the Father,” accompanied by the hosts 
of heaven. The latter returned again to the other world, 
but the Lord himself remained on the earth, and mani- 
fested himself in the flesh in the person of Daniel Pliil- 
ippon (or Philippitch). This they hold to have been 
the second manifestation of God the Father in the flesh, 
and as in his first manifestation Jerusalem was enlight- 
ened, so at this time Russia was blessed with special di- 
vine favor; and, corresponding to Jerusalem, they point 
out as their Zion, or, as they call it, “ the higher region,” 
the province Kostroma, in which Daniel Philippon was 
born. The historical facts in the case, as related by 
Dixon (Free Russia, p. 139), however, are, that Daniel 
was a peasant in the province of Kostroma, and, after 
serving for a time in the Russian army, ran away from 
liis flag in battle, declared himself the Almighty, and 
wandered about the empire, teaching those who would 
listen to his voice his doctrine, inculcated in the follow- 
ing twelve commandments : 

1. I am the God of whom the prophets spoke. I came 
for the second time into the world to redeem the souls of 
men. There is no God besides me. 

2. There is no other doctrine, and no other is to be 
sought. 

3. In what you are taught, therein also remain. 

4. Keep the commandments of your God, and become 
fishers of men in general. 

5. Drink no strong drinks, and do not fulfil the lust of 
the flesh. 

G. Do not get married, and whosoever is married let him 
live with his wife as with his sister. This is the sense of 
the Old-Testament Scriptures. The unmarried should not 
marry, and those who are married should separate. 

7. No abusive word ( diabol ) is to be used. 

8. Not to attend wedding or baptism festivities, or drink 
at parties. 

9. Not to steal ; and if any one takes of another the 
smallest coin, it will have to melt on bis head at the judg- 


ment day from the heat of punishment before he can be 
pardoned. 

10. These commandments are to be kept secret, not to 
be revealed even to father or mother. The suffering from 
fire and the knout must be endured, because for it the 
kingdom of heaven and bliss on earth are obtained. 

11. Friends are to visit friends, to give suppers of friend- 
ship, to exercise love, to keep these commands, and pray 
to God. 

12. To believe in the Holy Spirit. 

Their own tradition asserts that Daniel himself did 
not issue these commands, but that a son was born to 
him fifteen years before his appearance in this world, in 
the person of Ivan Timofejen, in the village Maksakon, 
of a woman one hundred years old. That this Ivan, 
when thirty-three years old, was summoned by Daniel 
to the village Staraja, and there received his godhead, 
and that thereupon father and son ascended into heav- 
en, and, after a short tarry, from the same place de- 
scended Jesus the Christ, in the person of Ivan, who at 
once commenced to preach, assisted by twelve disci; les, 
the doctrines embodied in the twelve commandments 
above cited, and entered into tlie state of holy matri- 
mony with a young female, whom they call “the daugh- 
ter of God.” To add to the romance of the story, the 
persecutions to which these fanatical religionists were 
subject has given rise to an imitation of the resurrection 
narrative of the N.-T. Scriptures. After suffering per- 
secution under various forms and of divers kinds, Ivan 
was partly burned and then crucified ; hut, after remo- 
val from the cross, and his burial on a Friday, he rose 
again, and on the Sunday after appeared in the midst of 
his followers. Again seized by the authorities, he was 
tried and crucified a second time, and his skin taken off ; 
one of his female followers standing by then wrapped 
the body in a sheet, out of which a new skin formed it- 
self, and after burial he again rose and commenced 
anew the preaching of his doctrines, and made many 
followers. Thereafter Ivan took up his residence at 
Moscow, and openly taught his new religion. The house 
which he occupied was called the “ New Jerusalem.” lie 
died on the day of St. Tichon, after living some forty- 
five years at Moscow, and ascended to heaven in pres- 
ence of his disciples, to join his father and the saints. 
Notwithstanding the frenzy of this fabulous narrative, 
the sect is numerous, and lias among its members many 
of the nobles of the land. 

Like the Skoptzi, the sect of the Khlistie also observe 
some of the practices of the regular Church, to ward off 
suspicion and to shield themselves from persecution. 
From their usages it is known that before they go to 
communion in the church they first partake of it accord- 
ing to their own form. They also have a separate form of 
baptism. They have pictures of their god Daniel Phil- 
ippon, their Jesus Christ, their mother of God, saints, 
prophets, and teachers whom they adore. The orthodox 
church edifices they call “ ant-nests,” and their priests 
“idolaters and adulterers.” Marriage is considered an 
impurity, and all entering this state are lost, yet they 
permit one of the nearest relatives of Daniel Philippon 
and Ivan Timofejen to enter this state to prevent the 
interruption of the lineage. The water from a well in 
the village Staraja, near Kostroma, is in the winter sent 
about in the shape of ice, and used by them to bake 
their communion bread. In the same village lived in 
1847 a girl, Uliana Yisilijewa by name, who was adored 
as the last of the lineage by many from all parts, among 
them nobles and merchants of Moscow, and though for 
this reason the government passed unnoticed her sacri- 
legious acts, she was at last arrested and sent to a mon- 
astery. 

Their mode of worship is very much like that of the 
Skoptzi, except that after service they partake of an 
ordinary meal in common, which is prolonged till late 
| in the evening, and often becomes the occasion of licen- 
tious sins. This sect is known in various localities by 
j different names; in some parts they are called Ljady 
i (useless"), in others Ch or ashy (hypocrites), Vertnni (turn— 
i ers), Kupidony (Cupido, the god of love). Great num- 


K1I0LBAII 


KHONDS 


bcrs of these hereties have been sent into the Caucasus | 
aiul Siberia, where many of them have been forced to 
enter the armies and the mines. See Dixon, Free Rus- 
sia, , chap. xxiv. 

Kholbah (Arabic), a peculiar form of prayer used 
in Mohammedan countries at the commencement of 
public worship in the great mosques on Friday at noon. 
It was originally performed by the Prophet himself, and 
bv his successors up to A.D. 1)36, since which time special 
ministers are appointed for the purpose. The Kholbah 
is chiefly “a confession of faith,” and a general petition 
for the success of the Mohammedan religion. It is di- 
vided into two distinct parts, between which a consid- 
erable pause is observed, which the Mussulman regards 
as the most solemn and important part of his worship. 
The insertion of the sultan’s name in this prayer has al- 
ways been considered one of his chief prerogatives. See 
Brande and Cox, Diet, of Science, Literature, and A rt, ii, 
28*2. 

Khonds. There are throughout India manifest 
traces of a rude primitive stock of people who occupied 
the country anterior to the Aryo-Scvthian races, and 
there are still great divisions of the people bearing na- 
tional characteristics which distinguish them from the 
Hindus. The earliest knowledge we have of these peo- 
ple is through the great epic poems of the Hindus, the 
Mahabharcita and the Ramuyana, which describe the 
wars of the Aryans, as the invading race, with the ab- 
original inhabitants of these impenetrable forests. Suc- 
cessive wars of invaders, however, subdued, to a greater 
or less extent, some of these, and modified their views 
and usages; but these, in turn, affected the religion and 
manners of their conquerors. 

Divisions. — Some of these races have attached them- 
selves to Hindu society, and serve in a condition of 
degradation as Chanda Is or Mlechas , i. e. outcasts or 
pariahs. They often hold offices of trust and responsi- 
bility in village communities, but, according to Hindu 
law, they should live outside of villages, and own no 
property but dogs and asses. Their customs and insti- 
tutions are, however, everywhere different from those 
of the Hindus. 

There are others of these aboriginal tribes who have 
not mingled with Hinduism at all, or only very partial- 
ly. Among these are the Kuh of Bengal and Eastern 
Xagpoor, the Khonds of Central India, the Blieels of the 
Vindhya Mountains, the Khaudesh Malwah, etc., of Cen- 
tral India, and others in the south amid the forests of 
the Neilgherry Hills, in Guzerat, and other places (see 
Edinb . Review, April, 1804). These preserve their own 
habits, even where Hinduism most presses them. They 
have no castes, their widows are allowed to remarry, 
they have no objection to any kind of llesh, and other- 
wise differ greatly from the Aryan peoples. 

The least raised above their primitive condition are 
the Khonds of Orissa, who ‘•occupy a district about two 
hundred miles long by one hundred and seventy broad, 
in I’ampur, in the district of Gunjam” (Brace, p. 142), a 
tract of land back from the coast of the Bay of Bengal, 
where it trends eastward to Calcutta and southward to 
Madras, and embracing the plateaux of the Vindhya 
and other mountains. 

Xante. — They term themselves Knee, Kui , Koinya, 
K winy a. but are known to Europeans by their Hindu 
name of Khond or Komi. Their language is affiliated 
with the Criya (Ooriya), but the dialects are many, and 
often **a Khond of one district has been found unable 
to hold communication with one of a neighboring tribe.” 
The speech has “ a peculiar pectoral enunciation.” Eth- 
nologically, all these tribes are Turanian or Mongolian. 

Domestic Relations. — Marriage may only take place 
without the tribe, but never with strangers, the tribes 
intermarrying. Boys often of- twelve year$ of age are 
married to girls of fifteen or sixteen, the arrangements 
being always made by the parents. The hither of the 
bridegroom generally pays twenty or thirty ‘’lives” of 
cattle to the bride’s father. The marriage rite itself is 


very simple. The father of the bridegroom, with his 
family and friends, bears <i quantity of rice and liquor in 
procession to the house of the parents of the girl. The 
priest takes it, and dashes the bowl down, and pours 
out a libation to the gods. The parents of the parties 
join hands, and declare the contract completed. An en- 
tertainment follows, with dancing and song. Late at 
night the married pair are carried out on the shoulders 
of their respective uncles, when, the burdens being sud- 
denly exchanged, the boy’s uncle disappears, and the 
company assembled divides into two parties, who go 
through a mock conflict; and thus the semblance of a 
forcible abduction, remains or indications of which are 
found so frequently in widely separated quarters, are 
preserved among the Khonds of Orissa (see M‘Lennan’s 
Primitive Marriaye). The marriage contract is, how- 
ever, loosely held. If childless, the wife may return to 
her father at any time, or, in any event, within six 
months of the marriage if the money given at her mar- 
riage be restored to her father. She cannot be forcibly 
retained, however, even if the money be not returned. 
If her withdrawal be voluntary she cannot eontraet an- 
other matrimonial alliance. A man may ally himself 
with another woman than his wife, with the wife’s con- 
sent. Concubinage is not disgraceful, fathers of re- 
spectable families allowing their daughters to eontraet 
such marriages. An unmarried woman may become a 
mother without disgrace. 

Births are eelebrated on the seventh day by a feast 
given to the priests and villagers. The name is deter- 
mined by a peculiar rite, in which grains of rice are 
dropped into a cup of water. 

Death. — After the death of a private person his body 
is burned, without any ceremony other than a drinking 
feast. If, however, a chief die, “the heads of society” 
are assembled from every quarter by the beating of 
gongs and drums ; the body is placed on the funeral pile; 
a bag of grain is laid on the ground, a staff being plant- 
ed in it; and all the personal effects of the deceased, his 
clothes, arms, and eating and drinking vessels, being 
first placed by the flag, are afterwards distributed, when 
the pile is tired, and the company dance round the flag- 
staff. 

Social Organization and Government. — The family is 
the unit of organization and the government patriar- 
chal, all the members of the family living in subordina- 
tion to the head, the eldest son succeeding to his au- 
thority. All property belongs to the father, the married 
sons having separate houses assigned them, except the 
youngest, who always remains with the father. This 
father, or patriarch, is called Abbaya. 

A number of families constitute a village, which gen- 
erally numbers forty or fifty houses, over whom there is 
a village abbaya or patriarch. A number of villages 
are organized into a district, superintended by a district 
abbaya, who, however, must be lineally descended from 
the head of the colony. A number of distric ts consti- 
tute a tribe, with a tribal abbaya, and a number of tribes 
constitute a federal group, with a federal abbaya or 
chief. This chieftainship is immemoriallv hereditary 
in particular families, but is elective as to persons. The 
head, however, is only the first among equals, and his 
rule is without external pomp, or castle, or fort. The 
chief receives no tribute, but he takes part in all impor- 
tant discussions, whether social or religious, and leads 
liis people in war. His influence is very great. Orig- 
inally and theoretically, the abbaya is the priest. This 
is not so now in all cases, yet lie is religiously venerated. 
The family and the religious principles are thus com- 
bined. The theory of government, as above sketched, 
is not, however, often completely realized, there being 
every possible deviation from it, and the tribes being 
much intermingled. These tribes bear names resem- 
bling those adopted by the Xortli American Indians, e. 
g. “Spotted Deer.” “ Bear,” “Owl,” etc. 

Personal and Social Characteristics. — These people, 
like almost all known rude races, are “given to hospi- 


KHONDS 


13 


KIIONDS 


tality.” For the safety of a guest life and honor are 
pledged. He is “ before a child.” A murderer even 
may not be hurt in the house of his enemy ; it is doubt- 
ful if he may be even starved in it. The Kliond phys- 
iognomy is clearly Turanian. The color varies from 
that of light bamboo to a deep copper; the forehead is 
full, the cheek-bones high, the nose broad at the point, 
the lips full, but not thick, and the mouth large. The 
Khonds are of great bodily strength and symmetry, well 
informed on common subjects, of quick comprehension, 
and otherwise show considerable intellectual capability. 
Their mode of salutation is with the hand raised over 
the head. Their natural moral qualities are of mixed 
character. They are personally courageous and reso- 
lute. They have so great a love of personal liberty that 
it is affirmed they have been known to tear out their 
tongues by the roots that they might perish rather than 
endure confinement. They are not very intensely at- 
tached to their tribal institutions, but have great devo- 
tion to the persons of their patriarchal chiefs. They 
have, however, a great spirit of revenge, and are given 
to seasons of periodical intoxication. They drink a 
liquor made of the Mow flower, this tree being found 
near every hut and in the jungles. They are a “na- 
tion of drunkards,” and will drink any intoxicating bev- 
erage, the stronger the better. 

Laws . — They have no code by which they are gov- 
erned, but follow custom and usage. The right of prop- 
erty is recognised. Murder is left to private revenge 
or retaliation. In case of matrimonial unfaithfulness, 
the seducer may be put to death if the husband choose, 
or he may accept the entire property of the criminal in 
lieu of his right to put him to death. Property stolen 
must be returned, or its equivalent given. There are 
seven judicial tests; common oaths are administered on 
the skin of a tiger or lizard. Ordeals of boiling water 
and oil are likewise resorted to. 

.1 rts and Manufactures . — The Khonds manufacture 
axes, bows and arrows, a species of plough, and other 
implements; they distil liquor, extract oil, work in clay 
and metals, and dye their simple garments. Their 
houses arc formed of strong boards, plastered inside. 

A rms and A griculture . — They use the sling, bow and 
arrows, and a broad battle-axe, and adorn themselves 
for battle as for a feast. They raise rice, oils, millet, 
pulse, fruits, tobacco, turmeric, mustard, etc. No money 
other than “cowries” (shells) was until recently known, 
all property being estimated in “lives,” as of bullocks, 
buffaloes, goats, fowls, etc. Women share in the work 
of harvest and sowing. 

Diseases and Remedies. — For external wounds they 
resort to a poultice of warm mud, made of the earth of 
the ant-hills. They also cauterize with a hot sickle 
over a wet cloth. For internal ailments they have no 
medicines. They consider all diseases to be supernatu- 
ral, and the priest, being the physician, must discover 
the deity that is displeased, lie divides rice into small 
heaps, which he dedicates to sundry gods; then he bal- 
ances a sickle with a thread, puts a few grains upon 
each end of it, and calls upon the names of the gods, 
who answer by agitating the sickle, whereupon the 
grains are counted, and if the number of them be odd 
he is offended. The priest becomes “ full of the god,” 
shakes his head frantically, utters wild and incoherent 
sentences, etc. Deceased ancestors are invoked in the 
same way, when offerings of fowls, rice, and liquor are 
made, which subsequently become the priest’s portion. 

Magical and Superstitions Usages. — Spells, charms, 
incantations, etc., are substituted for medicines; wiz- 
ards, witches, ghosts, sorcerers, augurs, astrologers, con- 
jurors, and all like means arc in constant use. Death 
is not a necessity, not the appointed lot of man ; it is a 
special penalty of the gods, who destroy through war, 
or assume the shapes of wild beasts to destroy mankind. 
Magicians may take away life. 

Mythology. — (I. ) The catalogue of gods worshipped 
among the Khonds is extensive. (1.) At the head of 


the pantheon is the Earth-Goddess , who, with the sun, 
receives the principal worship. The Earth-Goddess is 
the superior power, and presides over the productive 
energies of nature. She is malevolent, and is invoked 
in war. She controls thd seasons, and sends the period- 
ical rains. To her human sacrifices were offered. There 
are, besides her, (2.) a God of Limits, who fixes bounda- 
ries, and whose altar is on the highways. (3.) The sun 
and moon ; ceremonially worshipped. (4.) The God of 
Arms, to whom a grove is devoted. (5.) The God of 
Hunting, worshipped by parties who hunt in companies 
of thirty or forty, and surround their game. (G.) The 
God of Births, worshipped in case of barrenness. (7.) 
The God of Small-pox, who “sows” that disease as men 
do the earth with seeds. (8.) The llill-god, without 
formal worship. (9.) The Forest-god, to whom birds, 
hogs, and sheep are offered. (10.) The God of Bain. 
(11.) Of Fountains. (12.) Of Rivers. (13.) Of Tanks ; 
and (14.) the village gods, who are the guardians of lo- 
calities, and of domestic and familiar worship. 

(II.) Besides the above principal gods there are infe- 
rior local or partially acknowledged gods, worshipped 
under symbols of rude stone smeared with turmeric, etc. 
The great conservative principle is worshipped. 

Priesthood . — The abbayas are the priests, but this of- 
fice may be assumed by others. Priests eat only with 
priests; take part in marriages, elections, political coun- 
cils, etc. They are of about the same level of culture 
as those of other tribes among Turanian races. 

Religious Hites and Sacrifices . — Nothing was definite- 
ly known of the tribes of Giimsur until the British army 
was brought into collision with them in 183G, subse- 
quently to which the custom of human sacrifices was 
discovered to exist among them. The British govern- 
ment, after a long series of efforts, succeeded in abolish- 
ing it. Major Campbell says, “The Khonds generally 
propitiated their deity (the Earth-Goddess) with human 
offerings (p. 38, 39). This had been handed down 
through successive generations, and was regarded as a 
national duty. In Giimsur it is offered under the efiigy 
of a bird, in other localities as an elephant (p. 51). The 
victim, called Meriuh, must be purchased, may be of 
any age, sex, or caste, adults being best, and the more 
costly the more acceptable. These are purchased from 
relations in time of famine or poverty, or arc stolen 
from other regions by professed kidnappers of the Panoo 
caste (p. 52). In some cases JMeriah women were al- 
lowed to live until they had borne children to Kliond 
fathers, the children being reared for sacrifice. . . . The 
sacrifice, to be efficacious, must be public (p. 53). In 
Giimsur it was offered annually. The priest officiates. 
For a month previous there is much feasting, dancing, 
intoxication, etc. One day before, the victim is stiipc- 
fied with toddy, and bound, sitting, at the bottom of a 
post bearing an efligv. The crowd dance, and say, ‘O 
god, we offer this sacrifice to yon; give us good crops, 
seasons, and health.’ To the victim they say, ‘AVe 
bought you with a price, and did not seize you; now 
we sacrifice you according to our custom, and no sin 
rests with ns’ (p. 55). Various other ceremonies are 
performed, after which they return to the post near the 
village idol, always represented by three stones, a hog 
is sacrificed, the blood flows into a pit, the human vic- 
tim, having been intoxicated, is thrown in and suffoca- 
ted in the bloody mire. The priest cuts a piece of the 
flesh and buries it ; others do likewise, carrying the 
flesh to their own villages. In some cases the flesh is 
cut while the victim is yet alive, and buried as a sacred 
and supernatural manure.” 

Cognate Tribes. — These and other aboriginal races 
have received so much attention from ethnographers, 
philologers. and other scientific men that further details 
are not needed here. The prominence given to these 
aboriginal races of late years might justify full articles 
on the kindred tribes, but, as they are of substantially 
of the same level, we have chosen to make a tolerably 
full sketch of the Khonds, as typical of the aboriginal 


KHORSABAD 


74 


KIBZAIM 


Turanian element in Hindustan. The following copious 
literature will enable persons to make a pretty exhaus- 
tive study of what is known concerning them. 

Literature. — Edinburgh Review, April, 1 864 ; Calcutta 
Review, vol. v, vi, x; Calcutta Christian Observer , April, 
Julv. I? >37; Transactions of Ethnological Society, i, 15; 
vi, 24-27; also for 1305, p. 31 ; B. II. Hodgson, Aborig- 
ines of the Eastern Frontier; Chepang and Busunda 
Tribes; Aborigines of Southern India (Calcutta, 1849); 
Aborigines of India (Calcutta, 1847); MTlierson’s Re- 
ports upon the Khonds of the Districts of Gnnjam and 
Cubback (Calcutta, 1842) ; A personal Narrative of thir- 
teen Years among the wild Tribes of Khondistan for the 
Suppression of human Sacrifices , by Major Gen. John 
Campbell, C. B. (Loud, 1804) ); Sonthalia and the Son- 
thals , by E. G. Man (bond. 1808) ; Metz, The Tribes of 
the Xeilgherries ; Lewin, Hill Tracts of Chittagong; 
Ilarkncss, A bo?'igines of the Xeilgherries (London, 1832) ; 
The People of India, by J. F. Watson and J. W. Kaye, 
vol. i ; History of the Suppression of Infanticide, etc., by 
John Wilson, D.D., F.R.S. (Bombay and London, 1855) ; 
Tvlor, Primitive Culture, vol. i and ii (London, 1871); 
Lubbock, Origin of Civilization, etc. (Lond.1871) ; Brace, 
Races of the Old World (Xew York, 1803) ; Latham, 
Elements of Comparative Philology (Lond. 1802); Ander- 
son, Foreign Missions (New York, 1809); M‘Lennan, 
Primitive Marriage; Hunter, Rural Bengal. (J. T. G.) 


Khorsabad. See Nineveh. 


Khosru, or Khusra I, surnamed Nusiiirvan (the 
noble soul), and known in Byzantine history as Chosroes 
I, the greatest monarch of the Sassanian dynasty, a son 
of lvobad, king of Persia, mounted the throne in A.D.531. 
1 le is noted in ecclesiastical history for his contests with 
Justinian (q. v.), and gave shelter to great numbers of 
those whom Justinian, the Byzantine emperor, perse- 
cuted for their religious opinions, lie also waged war 
with Justin II (570), and Justinian, grand-nephew of 
the emperor of that name. Khosru, however, did not 
live to see the end of the contest, as he died in 579. Ilis 
government, though very despotic, and occasionally op- 
pressive, was yet marked by a firmness and energy rare- 
ly seen among the Orientals, it was during the reign 
of this prince that the fanatical followers of Mazdak, 
who had obtained numerous proselytes to the inviting 
doctrine of a communism of goods and women, were ban- 
. islied from the lands of the Sassanidte. Persia, during 
his reign, stretched from the lied Sea to the Indus, and 
from the Arabian Sea far into Central Asia. “The vir- 
tues, and more- particularly the justice of this monarch, 
form to the present day a favorite topic of Eastern 
panegyric, and the glories and happiness of his reign 
are. frequently extolled by poets as the golden age of 
the Persian sovereignty. Ilis reign forms an important 
epoch in the history of science and literature : he found- 
ed colleges and libraries in the principal towns of his 
dominions, and encouraged the translation of the most 
celebrated Greek and Sanscrit works into the Persian 
language. A physician at his eourt, of the name of 
Bnrztiyeh, is said to have brought into Persia a Pehlvi 
translation of those celebrated fables which are known 


under the name of Bidpai or Pilpav, and it was from 
this translation of the Indian tales that these fables 
found their way to nearly every other nation of West- 
ern Asia and Europe. The conquests of Khosru were 
great and numerous; his empire extended from the 
shores of the Bed Sea to the Indus; and the monarchs 
of India, China, and Thibet are represented by Oriental 
historians as sending ambassadors to his eourt with val- 
uable presents to solicit his friendship and alliance” 
(English Cyclopedia). See Ewald, Zeitschrift fur die 
Kunde des Morgenlandes, i, 185 sq.; Malcolm, History of 
Persia (see Index). See Persia. 

Khosru II, grandson of the preceding, surnamed 
Prnviz (the Generous), was raised to the throne in 590. j 
In the first years of the 7th century he opened war upon ' 
the Romans, and for seventeen years inflicted upon the i 


Byzantine Empire a series of disasters the like of which 
they had never before experienced. Syria was con- 
quered in 01 1, Palestine in 014, Egypt and Asia Minor 
in 010, and the last bulwark of the capital, Chaleedon, 
fell soon after. “ The Roman Empire was on the brink 
of ruin ; the capture of Alexandria had deprived the in- 
habitants of Constantinople of their usual supply of corn, 
the northern barbarians ravaged the European prov- 
inces, while another powerful Persian army, already ad- 
vanced as far as the Bosporus, was making prepara- 
tions for the siege of the imperial city. Peace was ear- 
nestly solicited by Heraclius, who had succeeded Phoeas 
in 010, but without success. Khosru, however, did not 
cross the Bosporus, and at length, in 021, he dictated 
the terms of an ignominious peace to the emperor. But 
Heraclius, who had hitherto made very few efforts for 
the defence of his dominions, rejected these terms, and 
in a series of brilliant campaigns (A.D. 622-627) recov- 
ered all the provinces he had lost, repeatedly defeated 
the Persian monarch, and advanced in his victorious ca- 
reer as far as the Tigris. Khosru was murdered in the 
spring of the following year, 028, by his son Siroes” ( Eng- 
lish Cyclopaedia). See Persia. 

Khozars. See Kiiazars. 

Kibby, Epapiiras, a Methodist minister, was born 
in Somers, Connecticut, in 1777, In 1793 he joined the 
Methodist Episcopal Church at New London, and imme- 
diately became active in religious duties, and in 1798 
entered the ministry". Through his labors Methodism 
was introduced into Bath and Hallowell, Maine. Mel- 
ville B. Cox, the first foreign missionary of the M. E. 
Church, was converted under his preaching in the latter 
place, lie also formed the first Methodist society in 
New Bedford, lie was a local preacher eleven years; 
returned superannuated in 1811, in which relation he 
continued till his death, Sept. 8, 18C4. Kibby’s habits 
of study were careful and close, as shown in his aeeu- 
ratelv-trained reasoning powers, as well as his elegant 
and forcible diction. He was passionately fond of choice 
literature and poetry, and was himself a poet of taste 
and considerable ability. Ilis pulpit talents were of a 
superior order, his judgment cool and clear, his piety 
deep and uniform. See Conf Minutes, 1865, p. GO; Ste- 
vens, History of the Methodist Episcopal Church, iv, 35, 
72,73,481. (.J.L.S.) 

Kib'roth-hatta'avah (Heb. Kibroih'-hat-Tac- 
vah', iT'ttnFl graves of the longing; Sept. Mr/;* 

para ri)c i-Av/dag, Yulg. Sepulchra concupiscent ire), 
the fifteenth station of the Israelites in the desert of Si- 
nai, between Taberah and Ilazeroth, so called from be- 
ing the burial-place of the multitudes that died from 
gorging themselves with the preternatural supply of 
quail-flesh (Numb, xi, 34, 35; xxxiii, 16, 17; Deut. ix, 
22; comp. Psa. lxxviii, 30, 31 ; 1 Cor. x, 6). From the 
omission of Taberah in the list at Numb, xxxiii, 16, and 
the absence of any statement of removal in Numb, xi, 
it has been by some inferred that Taberah and lvibrotli- 
hattaavah were but different names for the same place ; 
but in Deut. ix, 22 they are clearly distinguished, al- 
though they apparently lay not far apart. Ivibroth- 
hattaavah was probably situated in wady Mur rah, not 
far N.E. from Sinai (Robinson. Res. i, 221 sq.). correspond- 
ing in position to* the Ertveis el-Eberig, where Palmer 
has found traces of an ancient encampment (Desert of 
the Exodus, p. 212 sq.). Schwarz’s identification (Pales- 
tine, p. 213) with Ain esh-Shehabeh, in the interior of the 
desert (Robinson, i, 264), is far astray. See Exode. 

Kibza'im [many Kib'zaim) (Hebrew Kibtsa'yim. 
two heaps; Sept. Kafiaaip), a Levitical city 
of the tribe of Ephraim, assigned to the Kohatliites, and 
appointed a city of refuge (Josh, xxi, 22, where it is 
mentioned in connection with Gezer and Beth-horon, as 
if lying on the edge of the mountains of Ephraim) ; oth- 
erwise called Jokmkam (1 Chron. vi, 68), which, how- 
ever, is elsewhere (Josh, xxi, 34) assigned to the Me- 
rarites in Zebulon, probably by a slight diversity arising 


KID 


75 


KIDRON 


from its contiguity to the Kishon, which formed the 
boundary-line between those tribes (Josh, xix, 11). 

Kid (properly gedi', so called from cropping the 
herbage; more fully, “Ha, “kid of the goats;” 

fem. gediyah’ , a she-kid, Cant, i, 8 ; also 7!?“*j3, son 

of a goat, 2 Chron. xxxv, 7, orig. ; sometimes for 717, a 
goat, itself, Numb, xv, 11 ; 1 Kings xx, 27 ; likewise 
TZ.-b, sair, hairy, i.e. a goat, Gen. xxxv, 31 ; Lev.iv,23 ; 
ix, 3; xvi, 5; xxiii, 19, etc.; fem. set rah, Lev. 

iv, 28; v, 6; Greek tpi^og, Luke xv, 29; “goat,” Matt, 
xxv, 32, ver. 33 ioifiov, diminutive), the young of the 
goat, reckoned a great delicacy among the ancients; 
ancl it appears to have been served for food in preference 
to the lamb (Gen. xxvii, 9 ; xxxviii, 17; Jiulg. vi, 19; 
xiv, 6 ; 1 Sam. xvi, 20). It still continues to be a choice 
dish among the Arabs. By the Mosaic law, the Hebrews 
were forbidden to dress a kid in the milk of its dam ; 
and this remarkable prohibition is repeated three several 
times (Exod. xxiii, 19 ; xxxiv, 2G ; Dent, xiv, 21 ). This 
law has been variously understood. However, it is gen- 
erally supposed that it was intended to guard the He- 
brews against some idolatrous or superstitious practice 
of the neighboring heathen nations. The practice is 
quite common with modern Orientals (Thomson, Land 
and Book, i, 135). Kids were also among the sacrificial 
offerings (Exod. xii, 3, margin; Lev. iv, 23-26; Numb, 
vii, 16-87). See Goat. 

Kidd, Benjamin, a noted Quaker minister, was born 
in Yorkshire, England, about 1692 ; entered the minis- 
try at the age of twenty-one, emigrated to this coun- 
try about 1722, and labored here successfully for some 
time. lie afterwards returned, however, to England, 
and settled at Banbury, Oxfordshire, “where his exem- 
plary conduct gained him the esteem of all ranks and 
persuasions.” He died March 21, 1751. Kidd served 
his generation in “ turning many from darkness to light, 
and from the paths of disobedience to the wisdom of the 
just.” — Janncy, Hist, of the Friends, iii, 287. 

Kiddah. See Cassia. 

Kidder, Richard, D.D., an eminent English prelate 
and learned Orientalist, was born at Brighthelmstone, in 
Sussex. He studied at Emanuel College, Cambridge, 
of which he was elected fellow in 1655. He afterwards 
became viear of Stanground, Huntingdonshire, but was 
ejected in 1662 for nonconformity. He, however, con- 
formed some time after, and became rector of Baine, Es- 
sex, in 1664, and successively rector of St. Martin’s Out- 
wick, London, in 1674; prebendary of Norwich in 1681; 
dean of Peterborough in 1689; and finally bishop of 
Bath and Wells in 1691. lie died in 1703. lie was 
considered one of the best divines of his time, and a 
clear and elegant writer. His principal works are Dem- 
onstration of the Messias, etc. (London, 1684, 1699, 1700, 
3 vols. ; another edit. 1726, fob, aud often since): — The 
Judgment of private Discretion in Matters of Religion de- 
fended — a sermon on 1 Thcss. v, 21 (Lond. 1687, 4to) : — 
A Sermon preached before the King and Queen at White- 
hall, Nov. 5, 1G92 [on 2 Sam. xxiv, 14] (Lond. 1693,4to) : 
— Sermon, Zech.vii, 5, of Fasting (Lond. 1694, 4to) : — .4 
Commentary on the Five Books of J doses, etc. (London, 
1094,2 vols. 8vo) : — Bella rmine examined (Gibson’s Pre- 
servative, iv, 55) : — On Repentance (Tracts of Angl. Fa- 
thers, ii, 300). — Darling, Encyclop . Bibliograph . vol. ii, s. 

v. ; Birch, Life of Tillotson; Hook, Eccles. Biog. s. v. 

Kidderminster. See Kyderminster. 
Kiddushim. See Talmud. 

Kidney (only in plur. JYpbs, kelayoth’ , prob. from 
the idea of its being the seat of longing'), the leaf-fat 
around which was specially to be a burnt-offering, sig- 
nificant of its being the richest and most central part of 
the victim (Exod. xxix, 13, 22; Lev. iii, 4, 10, 15; iv, 
9; vii, 4; viii,16, 25; ix, 10, 19; Isa. xxxiv, 3). Spo- 
ken also of the “ reins ” of a human being, i. e. the in- 
most soul, which the ancients supposed to be seated in 


the viscera (compare the Homeric Qpijv, midriff, hence 
mind), both in a physical sense (Job xvi, 13; xix, 27; 
Psa. cxxxix, 13 ; Lam. iii, 13), and figuratively (Psa. vii, 
9 ; xvi, 7 ; xxvi, 2 ; lxxiii, 21 ; Prov. xxiii, 16 ; Jer. xi, 
20; xii, 2; xvii, 10; xx, 12). Sometimes applied to 
kernels of grain, from their kidney-like shape and rich- 
ness (Dent, xxxii, 14). 

Kid/ron (Ileb. Kidron ', ‘ji“rtJ7 | , turbid, compare Job 
vi, 16 ; Sept. Ketpwu, N. T. KfOpwy, John xviii, 1, where 
some copies erroneously have Kfepwu, and the Auth. 
Version “Ccdron;” Josephus Kfcpwu, Gen. -mvoq), the 
brook or winter torrent which flows through the valley 
of Jehoshaphat (as it is now called), on the east side of 
Jerusalem (see 1 Mace, xii, 37). “The brook Kidron” 
is the only name by which “the valley” itself is known 
in Scripture, for it is by no means certain that the name 
“Valley of Jehoshaphat” in Joel (iii, 12) was intended 
to apply to this valley. The word rendered “brook” (2 
Sam. xv, 23; 1 Kings ii, 37 ; xv, 13; 2 Kings xxiii, 6, 
12; 2 Chron. xv, 1 6 ; xxix, 16; xxx, 14; Jer. xxxi,40; 
compare Neh. ii, 15; Amos vi, 14) is bna, ndchai which 
may be taken as equivalent to the Arabic wady, mean- 
ing a stream and its bed or valley, or properly the val- 
ley of a stream, even when the stream is dry. The 
Septuagint and evangelist (in the above passages'), as 
well as Josephus (A tit. viii, 1,5; but <panaf£ in ix, 7, 3 ; 
1 Var, v, 6, 1), designate it \e igappog, a storm brook, or 
winter torrent. But it would seem as if the name were 
formerly applied also to the ravines surrounding other 
portions of Jerusalem, the south or west, since Solo- 
mon’s prohibition to Shimei to “pass over the torrent 
Kidron” (1 Kings ii, 37 ; Josephus, Ant. viii, 1, 5) is said 
to have been broken by the latter when he went in the 
direction of Gath to seek his fugitive slaves (ver. 41,42). 
Now a person going to Gath would certainly not go by 
the way of the Mount of Olives, or approach the eastern 
side of the city at all. The route — whether Gath were 
at Beit-Jibrin or at Tell es-Safieh — would be by the 
Bethlehem gate, and then nearly due west. Perhaps 
the prohibition may have been a more general one than 
is implied in ver. 37 (comp, the king’s reiteration of it 
in ver. 42), the Kidron being in that ease specially men- 
tioned because it was on the road to Bahurim, Shimei’s 
home, and the scene of his crime. At any rate, beyond 
the passage in question, there is no evidence of the 
name Kidron having been applied to the southern or 
western ravines of the city. 

The Kidron is mentioned several times in the Scrip- 
ture history, being the memorable brook which David 
crossed barefoot and weeping when fleeing from Absa- 
lom (2 Sam. xv, 23, 30) ; and Jesus must often have 
crossed it on his way to the Alt. of Olives and Bethany 
(see John xviii, 1). According to the Talmud, the blood 
of the animals slaughtered in the Temple, and other ref- 
use (probably the impurities from the city, Nazir, 1 vii, 
4), were carried through a sewer into the lower Kidron, 
and thenee sold as manure to gardeners (Joma, Iviii, 2). 
For early notices of the Kidron, see William of Tyre, 
viii, 2 ; Brocardus, p. 8 ; Reland. p. 294 sq. The distin- 
guishing peculiarity of the Kidron — that in respect to 
which it is rrx>st frequently mentioned in the O. T. — is 
the impurity which appears to have been ascribed to it. 
Excepting the two casual notices already quoted, we 
first meet with it as the place in which king Asa demol- 
ished and burnt the obscene phallic idol (see Asuerah) 
of his mother (1 Kings xv, 13 ; 2 Chron. xv, 16). Next 
we find the wicked Athaliah hurried thither to execu- 
tion (Joseph. Ant. ix, 7, 3 ; 2 Kings xi, 16). It then be- 
comes the regular receptacle for the impurities aud 
abominations of the idol-worship, when removed from 
the Temple and destroyed by the adherents of Jehovah 
(2 Chron. xxix, 16; xxx, 1*4; 2 Kings xxiii, 4, G, 12). 
In the course of these narratives the statement of Jose- 
phus just quoted as to the death of Athaliah is support- 
ed by the fact that in the time of Josiah it was the com- 
mon cemetery of the city (2 Kings xxiii, 6; comp. Jer. 


KIDRON 


70 


KIDRON 


xxvi, 23, “graves of the common people”), perhaps the 
“valley of dead bodies” mentioned by Jeremiah (xxxi, 
40) in close connection with the “fields” of Kidron, and 
the restoration of which to sanctity was to be one of the 
miracles of future times (ibid.). It was doubtless the 
Kidron valley which was in the miiul of the prophet 
Ezekiel when he described the vision of the holy and 
healing waters flowing from the Temple through the 
desert into the sea (xlvii, 8); and this very contrast 
with its customary uses serves to add emphasis to his 
prophecy (comp. Wilson, Lands of the Bible, ii,32 ; Stan- 
ley, tiyr. and Pal. p. 288). Ilow long the valley contin- 
ued to be used for a burving-place it is very hard to as- 
certain. After the capture of Jerusalem in 1090 the 
bodies of the slain were buried outside the Golden Gate- 
way (Mislin, ii, 487 ; Tobler, Umgebunyen, p. 218) ; but 
what had been the practice in the interval the writer 
has not succeeded in tracing. To the date of the mon- 
uments at the foot of Olivet we have at present no clew ; 
but, even if they are of pre-Christian times, there is no 
proof that they are tombs. From the date just men- 
tioned. however, the burials appear to have been con- 
stant, and at present it is the favorite resting-place of 
Moslems and Jews, the former on the west, the latter on 
the east of the valley. The Moslems are mostly con- 
fined to the narrow level spot between the foot of the 
wall and the commencement of the preeipitous slope, 
while the Jews have possession of the lower part of 
the slopes of Olivet, where their scanty tombstones are 
crowded so thick together as literally to cover the sur- 
face like a pavement. 

1 he Kidron is a mountain ravine, in most places nar- 
row, with precipitous banks of naked limestone ; but 
here and there its banks have an easy slope, and along 
its bottom are strips of land capable of cultivation. It 
contains the bed of a streamlet, but during the whole 
summer, and most of the winter, it is perfectly dry; in 
fact, no water runs in it except when heavy rains are 
falling in the mountains round Jerusalem. The resident 
missionaries assured Dr. Kobinsoii that they had not 
during several years seen a stream running through the 
valley (see Bill. Researches, i,39G-402). On the broad 
summit of the mountain ridge of Judaea, a mile and a 
quarter north-west of Jerusalem, is a slight depression; 
this is the head of the Kidron. The sides of the de- 
pression, and the elevated ground around it, are whiten- 
ed by the broad, jagged tops of limestone rocks, and al- 
most every rock is excavated, partly as a quarry, and 
partly to form the facade of a tomb. The valley or de- i 
pression runs for about half a mile towards the city; it j 
is shallow and broad, dotted with corn-fields, aiulsprink- ! 
led with a few old olives. It then bends eastward, and 
in another half mile is crossed by the great northern 
road coming down from the hill Scopus. On the east 
side of the road, and south bank of the Kidron, are the 
celebrated Tombs of the Kings. The bed of the valley 
is here about half a mile due north of the city gate. It 
continues in the same course about a quarter of a mile 
farther, ami then, turning south, opens into a wide basin 
containing cultivated fields and olives. Here it is cross- 
ed diagonally by the road from Jerusalem to Anathoth. 
As it advances southward, the right bank, forming the 
side of the hill Bczetha, becomes higher and steeper, 
with occasional precipices of rock, on which may be seen 
a few fragments of the ancient city wall; while on the 
left the base of Olivet projects, greatly narrowing the 
valley. Opposite St. Stephen’s gate the depth is fully 
100 feet, and the breadth not more than 400 feet. The 
olive-trees in the bottom are so thickly clustered as to 
form a shady grove; and their massive trunks and 
gnarled houghs give evidence of great age. This spot 
is shut out from the city, from the view of public roads, 
and from the no! ice and interruption of wayfarers. See 
Getii.skmane. A zigzag path descends the steep bank 
from St. Stephen’s gate, crosses the bed of t lie valley by 
an old bridge, and then branches. One branch leads 
direct over the top of Olivet. 1 his path has a deep his- 


torical interest ; it was by it that David went when he 
lied from Absalom : “ The king passed over the brook 
Kidron, and all the people passed over, towards the way 
of the wilderness” (2 Sam. xv, 23). See Olivet. An- 
other branch runs round the southern shoulder of the 
hill to Bethany, and it has a deep sacred interest, for it 
is the road of Christ’s triumphal entry (Matt.xxi, 1 sq. ; 
Luke xix, 37). Below the bridge the Kidron becomes 
still narrower, and here traces of a torrent bed first be- 
gin to appear. Three hundred yards farther down, the 
hills on each side — Moriah on the right and Olivet on 
the left — vise precipitously from the torrent bed, which 
is spanned by a single arch. On the left bank is a sin- 
gular group of tombs, comprising those of Absalom, Je- 
hoshaphat, and St. James (now so called) ; while on the 
right, 150 feet overhead, towers the south-eastern angle 
of the Temple wall, most probably the “pinnacle” on 
which our Lord was placed (Matt, iv, 5). The ravine 
runs on, narrow and rocky, for 500 yards more; there, 
on its right bank, in a cave, is the fountain of the Vir- 
gin ; and higher up on the left, perched on the side of 
naked cliffs, the ancient village of Siloam. A short dis- 
tance farther down, the valley of the Tvropceon falls in 
from the right, descending in terraced slopes, fresh and 
green, from the waters of the Pool of Siloam. The Kid- 
ron here expands, affording a level tract for cultivation, 
and now covered with beds of cucumbers, melons, and 
other vegetables. Here of old was the “ King’s Garden” 
(Neh. iii, 15). The level tract extends down to the 
mouth of Hinnom, and is about 200 yards wide. A 
short distance below the junction of Hinnom and the 
Kidron is the fountain of En-Bogel,now called Bir A'v fib, 
“ the Well of Job,” or “ Joab.” The length of the valley 
from its head to En-Ilogel is 2f miles, and here the his- 
toric Kidron may be said to terminate. Every refer- 
ence to the Kidron in the Bible is made to this section. 
David crossed it at a point opposite the city (1 Sam.xv, 
23); it was the boundary beyond which Solomon for- 
bade Shimei to go on pain of death (1 Kings ii, 37); it 
was here, probably, near the mouth of Hinnom, that Asa 
destroyed the idol which Maaehah his mother set up 
(xv, 13) ; and it seems to have been at the same spot, 
“in the fields of Kidron,” that king Josiah ordered the 
vessels of Baal to be burned (2 Kings xxiii,4). It would 
seem, from 2 Kings xxiii, G, that a portion of the Kid- 
ron, apparently near the mouth of Hinnom, was used as 
a burying-groimd. The sides of the surrounding cliffs 
are tilled with ancient rock tombs, and the greatest boon 
the dying Jew now asks is that his bones be laid in the 
Valley of Jehosliapliat. The whole of the left bank of 
the Kidron, opposite the Temple area, far up the side of 
Olivet, is paved with the white tombstones of Jews. 
This singular longing is doubtless to be ascribed to the 
opinion which the Jews entertain that the Kidron is 
the V alley of Jehoshaphat mentioned by doel (iii, 2). 
See Jehoshaphat, Valley of. Below En-liogel the 
Kidron lias little of historical or sacred interest, it runs 
in a winding course east by south, through the Wilder- 
ness of Judaea, to the Dead Sea. For about a mile be- 
low En-llogel the bottom of the valley is cultivated and 
thickly covered with olive-trees. Farther down a few 
fields of corn are met with at intervals, but these soon 
disappear, and tlie ravine assumes the bleak and deso- 
late aspect of the surrounding hills. About seven miles 
from Jerusalem the features of the valley assume a much 
wilder and grander form. Hitherto the banks have 
been steep, with here and there a high precipice, and a 
jutting cliff’, giving variety to the scene. Now they 
suddenly contract to precipices of naked rock nearly 300 
feet in height, which look as if the mountain had been 
torn asunder by an earthquake. About a mile farther, 
on the side of this frightful chasm, stands the convent 
of St. Saha, one of the most remarkable buildings in Pal- 
estine, founded by the saint whose name it bears, in the 
year A. D. 439. The sides of the chasm both above and 
below the convent arc tilled with eaves and grottoes, once 
the abode of monks and hermits, and from these doubt- 


KIEF 


KIFFIN 


less this section of the valley has got its modern name, I 
Wady er-Raheb , “Monk’s Valley” (Wolcott, Researches \ 
in Pal. , in Biblical Cabinet, xliii, 38). Below Mar Saba 
the valley is called Wady en-Xar, “Valley of Fire” — a 
name descriptive of its aspect, for so bare and scorched 
is it that it seems as if it had participated in the doom 
of Sodom. It runs on, a deep, narrow, wild chasm, until 
it breaks through the lofty line of cliffs at Ras el-Fesli- 
khah, on the shore of the Dead Sea. It will thus be 
seen that the head of the Kidron is just on the verge of 
the water-shed of the mountain-chain of Judah, about 
2600 feet above the sea. Its length, as the crow dies, is 
only twenty miles, and yet in this short space it has a 
descent of no less than 3912 feet — the Dead Sea having 
a depression of 1312 feet (Van dc Velde, Memoir, p. 179, 
182). — Kitto; Smith. In 1848 the levelling party of the 
Dead Sea Expedition, under command of Lieut. Lynch, 
worked up the wady en-Nar, the bed of the Kidron, from 
the Dead Sea to Jerusalem. They encountered several 
precipices from ten to twelve feet high, down which cat- 
aracts plunge in winter. They found the ravine shut 
in on each side by high, barren cliffs of chalky lime- 
stone, and the dry torrent-bed interrupted by boulders, 
and covered with fragments of stone (A r arrative, p. 384, 
387). The place where it empties into the Jordan is a 
gorge 1200 feet deep, narrow at the bottom, with a bed 
tilled with confused fragments of rock, much worn, but 
perfectly dry (i&.). For further notices, see Ritter’s Erd- 
kunde, xv, 600 ; Robinson, Biblical Researches , ut sup. 

Kief or Kiev, the name of the chief town of the 
government of that name, on the west bank of the Dnie- 
per, one of the oldest of the Russian towns, and formerly 
the capital (containing 60,000 inhabitants, with a uni- 
versity and a theological school), was in 864 taken from 
the Khazars by two Norman chiefs, companions of Ru- 
ric, and conquered from them by Oleg, Ruric’s success- 
or, who made it his capital. In 1240 (when it ceased to 
be the capital) it was nearly destroyed by Batu, khan 
of Kiptcliak. Christianity was first proclaimed hi Rus- 
sia at Kief in 988. In the 14th century it was seized 
by Gedimin, grand duke of Lithuania, and annexed to 
Poland in 1569, but in 1686 was restored to Russia. 
Kief is the oldest Russian metropolitan’s residence, the 
cradle of Russian Christianity. It is also noted on ac- ' 
count of two Church (Greek) councils that have been 
held there. See Landon, Manual of Church Councils. 

(a) The first of these convened about 1147, and is 
noted for the manner in which the bishops elected a me- 
tropolitan in the place of Michael II. With the excep- 
tion of Niphont of Novogorod,they all agreed to take the 
election into their own hands, without allowing to the pa- 
triarch of Constantinople the exercise of his right either 
to nominate or confirm. Niphont strongly protested 
against the step, but without effect. The choice of the 
synod fell upon Clement, a monk of Smolensk. As a 
substitute for the patriarchal consecration, Onuphrius 
proposed that the hand of St. Clement of Rome, whose 
relics had been brought from Cherson, should be placed 
upon his head. This election led to great disorder, and 
subsequently the patriarch Luke Chysoberges consecra- 
ted Constantine metropolitan, who condemned the acts 
of this synod, and suspended for a time all the clergy 
ordained by Clement. — Mouravieff’s Hist. Russ. Church 
(by Blackmore), p. 35. 

(b) Another council was convened here in 1622. Me- 
letius, archbishop of Polotsk, at one time a most zealous 
defender of the orthodox Church in Russia, had been 
obliged to flee into Greece upon a groundless suspicion 
of having been concerned in the murder of Jchoshaphat, 
Uniate archbishop of Polotsk, and, urged by fear, had 
given himself up to the Uniate party, and written an 
apology in censure of the orthodox Church ; in this 
council he was called to account, made to perform open 
penance, and to tear his book. Soon after he entirely 
apostatized; and, going to Rome, had the title of arch- 
bishop of Hieropolis conferred on him. — Mouravieff, p. 
179. 


In the neighborhood of Kief is the convent of Kievo- 
Petcliersk, a celebrated Russian sanctuary, which an- 
nually attracts thousands of pilgrims from the most re- 
mote corners of the empire. In the days of kingWlad- 
imir, the river Bug, near this city, was considered sa- 
cred by many Russian sects, and in many respects Kief, 
in those days, resembled the city of Benares in India. 
The reader can best obtain a view of the worship of riv- 
ers in the East bv turning to the article Ganges (comp. 
Vollmer, Mythol. Wurterbuch , p. 1049). 

Kiernander, John Zaciiariaii, a Swedish Prot- 
estant missionary, was born at Axtadt. Ostrogotliia (now 
the ken Lindkoping), Dec. 1, 1710. He studied at the 
school of Lindkoping, and afterwards at the universities 
of Upsal and llalle. Professor Franke recommended 
him to the English Society for the Diffusion of Chris- 
tian Knowledge, and he was sent to India in 1740. Here 
he labored zealously for sixty years, and acquired such 
reputation that the shah of Persia intrusted to him the 
Arabic translation of the Psalms and the N. T. In 1767 
he established at Calcutta a church, which was opened 
in 1770, but, as he was obliged to bear the expense al- 
most exclusively himself, he was reduced to poverty. 
Kiernander was successively connected with the Dutch 
Church at Chinsurah, Bengal, and when that town was 
taken by the English in 1795 he was made prisoner, but 
afterwards permitted to settle at Calcutta. He died iu 
1799. See Walcli, Xeueste Religionsgesch. ; Acta Jlis- 
torico-ecclesiastica ; Asiatic A nnual Register ; Rose, New 
Biographical Dictionary ; Hoefer, Xouv. Biog. Generate , 
xxii, 715. (J. N. 1\) 

Kiesling, Johann Rudolph, a German Protestant 
theologian, was born at Erfurt, Oct. 21, 1706; became 
first deacon of Wittemberg in 1738, extraordinary pro- 
fessor of philosophy at Leipzig in 1740, professor of Ori- 
ental languages in the same university hi 1746, and, 
finally, professor of theology at Erlangen in 1762. He 
retained this latter position until his death, April 17, 
1778. He wrote a large number of works, the most re- 
markable of which arc, Exercitationes in qiiibus J. Chr . 
Tj'ombelli Dissertationes dc cultu sanctorum modcste dilu- 
untur (Lpzg. 1742-1746, 3 pts. 4to) : — Jlistoria de Vsu 
Symboloram (Lpzg. 1753, 8vo) : — De Disciplina Clerico- 
rum , ex epistolis ecclesiast. conspicua , Liber (Lpzg. and 
Nuremberg, 1760, 8vo): — Program, antiquoris Ecclesue. 
Christianas hereticos contra immaculutam Marue Virginia 
conceptionem testes sistit (Erlangen, 1775, 4to) : — Ldcrge- 
baude d. Wiedertuufer (Revel, 1776, 8 vo). lie also pub- 
lished during the years 1756-61 the theological journal 
entitled Xeue Beit rage von alien v.neuen theolog. Sachen, 
established by J. E. Knapp in 1751 (Lpzg. 8vo). See 
Winer, f/arnlb. d. theologischen Literatur ; Hoefer, Xouv. 
Biog. Generule , xxvii, 716. (J. N. P.) 

Kiffin, William, a distinguished English Baptist min- 
ister, born in 1616, originally a merchant, by his wealth 
exerted great influence at the courts of king Charles II 
and James 11, and thereby indirectly secured many favors 
to his brethren. By his means the false and scurrilous 
pamphlet entitled Baxter Baptized in Blood was exam- 
ined and condemned; and by his intercession, also, twelve 
Baptists who had been condemned to death at Ayles- 
bury received the king’s pardon. In 1683, two of his 
grandsons, Benjamin and William Hewling, young gen- 
tlemen of great fortunes, accomplished education, and 
eminent piety, were concerned in the ill-timed and ill- 
fated expedition of the duke of Monmouth, which ter- 
minated in the destruction of almost all who had any 
hand in it, including the two llcwlings, though every 
effort was made by Kiffin to save their lives. Kilfin 
was pastor of the Baptist church, Devonshire Square, 
London, from 1639 to 1701. lie died iu the latter year, 
at an advanced age, - leaving behind him a character 
of rare excellence, tried alike by the fire of prosperity 
and adversity in the most eventful times.” He wrote 
in favor of strict communion in reply to John Bunyan, 
opposed Dr. Featley in the famous disputation at South- 


KIKAYON 


1 8 


KILIIAM 


wark, and was handled with severity by Edwards in his 
Gangrccana. 11c is regarded as the hither of the “ Par- 
ticular Baptists.” An estimate may be formed of the 
high position Kiffin must have occupied in his day if 
Macaulay {History of England, vol. ii) could say, “ Great 
as was the authority of Bunyan with Baptists, that of 
William Kiflin was still greater. Kiffin was the first 
man among them in wealth and station.” “His por- 
trait,” says Skcats {Hist. English Free Churches, p. 154), 
“does not bear out the once current-impression concern- 
ing the Baptists of that age. With skull-cap and flow- 
ing ringlets, with mustache and ‘ imperial,’ with broad 
lace collar and ample gown (sec his portrait in Wilson’s 
Dissenting Churches, i, 403), lie resembles a gentleman 
Cavalier rather than any popular ideal of a sour-visaged 
and discontented Anabaptist.” See Crosby, Hist. Engl. 
Baptists ; and Lives (Lond. 1650, 4to, and one by Joseph 
Gurney, 1833, 8vo; also his Autobiography, edited by 
Orme, Lond. 1823, Svo). (J. 11. W.) 

Kikayon. Sec Gourd. 

Kilburn, David, a Methodist Episcopal minister, 
born at Gilsum, N. II., October 24, 1784, was converted 
when seventeen years old, licensed to preach in 1805, 
and, after three years’ labor as a local preacher, was re- 
ceived into the New England Conference, and obtained 
his first appointment at Union, Me. llis subsecpient 
stations were Beadfield, Ale. ; Stanstead, Canada ; Dan- 
ville, Barnard and White Liver, Needham, Boston, Port- 
land, Me.; Wethersfield and Barre, Vt. ; Providence, Ik 
I. ; Lowell, Lynn-Common, Bridgewater. North-west 
Bridgewater, Waltham, Barre, Ashburnham, South lioy- 
alston, Enfield, and Southampton. lie travelled also 
the following districts as presiding elder : Portland Dis- 
trict, Maine Conference ; New Hampshire, Boston, 
Springfield, and Providence Districts, in the New Eng- 
land Conference. In 1851 lie became superannuated, in 
1852-53 effective, in 1854 supernumerary, in 1850 effec- 
tive, in 1858 again supernumerary, and in 1859 he again 
became superannuated, in which relation he remained 
till the time of his death, July 13, 1805. Kilburn “ was 
a man of great endurance, and constitutionally qualified 
for the immense labor lie performed; of sound judg- 
ment, clear understanding, strong will ; earnest and con- 
scientious in the performance of duty. During his la- 
borious ministry he sustained a high reputation and 
exerted a powerful influence. . . . Ilis prudent fore- 
sight, his comprehensive views, his knowledge of men, 
his almost intuitive perception of character, his urban- 
ity, his high moral and Christian virtues, entitled him 
to an honorable social and official position in the Church 
which he so faithfully served.” — Conf. Minutes , 1806, p. 
50. 

Kilbye, Biciiaud, an English theologian, was born 
at Batcliffe in the second half of the 16th century, and 
was educated at Oxford University, with which he was 
identified throughout life ; he was its rector in 1590, and 
held a professorship of the 1 Iebrew language. He died 
Nov. 7, 1020. Bichard Kilbyc was one of the transla- 
tors of king James’s version of the Bible. lie also pub- 
lished several Sermons (1013, etc.) and a Commentary on 
Exodus. 

Another English divine of the same name flourished 
about the same time in Warwickshire. He died in 1017, 
and is the author of a work entitled Burthen of a load - 
cned Conscience (1G1G, 8vo; often reprinted). — Hoefcr, 
A 'our. Biogr. Did. xxvii, 720 ; AUibone, Did. of English 
and American A uthors, vol. ii, s. v. 

Kildare, an ancient church in central Ireland, found- 
ed A.I). 180, derived its name from the Irish ce/fe, church, 
and dair, the oak, and was at first established by St. 
Bridget as a Christian school, and afterwards ealled a 
nunnery, for the purpose of teaching pagan women, 
married or single, the doctrines and duties of Christian- 
ity. Soon a town or city grew up around it, and in la- 
ter times it formed an extensive diocese. In the early 
period of Ireland’s history it is nothing remarkable to 


find woman assuming the position of public instructor; 
Druidism, the former religion of Ireland, assigned offices 
to females. In the early history of the Irish Church we 
have several intimations that Christian women were 
employed in its services. St. Patrick, in his Confession , 
sect, xviii, writes about a woman of noble birth, of the 
daughters of the minor king, and even handmaids in 
servitude, who were active in the cause of Christianity. 
The Book of Armagh, an accredited manuscript of the 
7th century, in speaking of an earlier period, says ex- 
pressly, “ The early Irish Christians did not reject the 
fellowship and help of woman, for they were founded on 
the rock, and did not fear the blast of temptation.” St. 

1 Bridget, the founder of this church and female semi- 
nary, tradition says, died about A.D.515, at an advanced 
age, loved in life and lamented in death. In honor of 
her memory, through an extent of fourteen centuries, in 
different countries and in different languages, millions 
have been called by her name; more children, perhaps, 
than after any other Christian woman whose name is 
not in the inspired records. Her memory was cherish- 
ed by the Piets and the British Scots, but in no place 
except Kildare was it more honored than in the Heb- 
rides, where at a later and less pure age she became 
the patroness of their churches. Several lives of her 
have been written by foreigners and in different lan- 
guages, but the best and the fullest is said to be that by 
St.Ultan, the materials for which he obtained from a 
manuscript in the monastery of Batisbon, Germany. See 
Moore, Hist, of Ireland; Ware’s Irish A ntiquities ; Todd, 
Irish Church, p. 28. (D. D.) 

Kilham, Alexander, one of the most celebrated 
characters in the history of Methodism, the founder of 
the “New Connection of Wesleyan Methodists,” fre- 
quently called simply “ Kilhamites,” and really the first 
man in the Methodist connection who advocated the 
representation of the lay element in the government of 
the Church, was born at Epwortli, England, July 10, 
1762. His parents were Methodists, and he enjoyed a 
training strictly in accordance with their own religious 
convictions. Vacillating in character and impetuous in 
temper in his youthful days, lie struggled hard against 
all religious impressions, but was finally converted at 
‘the age of eighteen, and shortly after began preaching. 
Brackenburv, one of Wesley’s right-hand men, met 
young Kilham one day at Epwortli while himself on a 
preaching excursion, and engaged him at once as his 
travelling companion. In Brackcnbury’s missionary 
visit to the Channel Islands, Kilham proved himself an 
able assistant. In 1785, shortly after their return from 
the islands, Wesley received Kilham into the regular 
itinerant ministry. Like all other laborers of early 
Methodism, his ministrations frequently met with op- 
position, and an encounter with a mob was almost a 
daily experience. At Bolton his chapel was stoned ; at 
Alford market-place he was attacked by a clergyman 
and a constable; at Spilsby he was assailed with dirt 
and eggs. In another place gunpowder was laid under 
the spot where he expected to preach, with a train ex- 
tending some distance, but without effect, for he took 
his stand elsewhere and escaped the danger. It was 
amid such difficulties and trials that Kilham zealously 
labored for the cause of his Master. In 1791 the found- 
er of Methodism expired. During the life of Wesley 
there had been no actual separation of the Wesleyans 
from the Established Church. He had been careful to 
avoid religious meetings during the hours for public 
worship in the Establishment. He had never allowed 
the celebration of the ordinances of baptism and the 
Lord’s Supper by his own preachers; his people received 
these at the hands of the ministers of the Established 
Church. Frequently a voice dissenting from this course 
was heard from among the Wesleyan ministers. Kil- 
ham himself had dared, three years before the death of 
Wesley, to record the wish, “Let us have the liberty of 
Englishmen, and give the Lord’s Supper to our socie- 
ties.” About the time of Wesley’s death he wrote, “I 


KILHAM 


79 


KILIA1ST 


have had several warm contests with a friend because I 
would not have my child baptized in the usual way. 
The storm, however, soon blew over. I hope God will 
open the eyes of the Methodists to see their sin and fol- 
ly in their inconsistent connection with the Church.” 
The opposition against ecclesiastical subserviency to the 
laws of the Church of England became more determined 
after the decision of the Conference at Manchester, July 
20, 1791, the first after Mr, Wesley’s death, to “ take the 
plan as Mr. Wesley had left it.” “The controversy 
could not,” says Stevens {History of Methodism , iii, 38), 
“but be resumed, and more definite results must be 
reached before the Church could be at rest. Partisans 
of the national Church regarded the pledge as binding 
the Methodists to the Establishment ; the advocates of 
progress dissented, and, in the language of Pawson, de- 
clared, '’Not so; our old plan has been to follow the 
openings of Providence, and to alter or amend the plan 
as we saw it needful, in order to be more useful in the 
hand of God.’ Hanby, whom Wesley had authorized 
to administer the sacraments, still claimed the right to 
do so wherever the societies wished him. Pawson 
wrote the same year that if the people were denied the 
sacraments they would leave the connection in many 
places. Taylor was determined to administer them in 
Liverpool; and Atmore wrote that, having ‘solemnly 
promised upon his knees before God ami his people that 
he would give all diligence not only to preach the word, 
but to administer the sacraments in the Church of God,’ 
he would do so wherever required by the people. 4 We 
were as much divided,’ he later wrote, ‘ in our views and 
practice as before;’ and numerous disputes occurred dur- 
ing the year respecting the administration of the sacra- 
ments and a total separation from the Church of Eng- 
land. Circular letters in great abundance were sent into 
different parts of the kingdom, and the minds of the 
people were much diverted from the pursuit of more 
sublime objects by others which tended but little to the 
profit of the soul.’ The diversified opinions of the con- 
nection were, in flue, resolving themselves into three 
classes, and giving rise to as many parties, composed 
respectively of men who, from their attachment to the 
Establishment, wished no change, unless it might be a 
greater subordination to the national Church by the 
abandonment of the sacraments in those cases where 
Wesley had admitted them ; of such as wished to main- 
tain Wesley’s plan intact, with official provisions which 
might be requisite to administer it; and such as desired 
revolutionary changes, with a more equal distribution 
of powers among laymen and preachers.” Kilham be- 
longed to the third party, and used all the means at 
his command to influence the leaders in that direction. 
At the next Conference, however, he was severely crit- 
icised for his assertion of the popular rights, and for the 
publication of a pamphlet on the Progress of Liberty , in 
which he urged a distribution of the power of govern- 
ment between the clerical and the lay elements. In the 
course of the controversy severe remarks had been 
thrown out by Kilham, which were construed by the 
preachers into defamations of the society, and at the 
London Conference of 1 TOC he was formally arraigned, 
and expelled from the connection. This summary pro- 
cess precipitated the division of sentiment, and resulted 
in the establishment of an independent body (now known 
as the New Connection Methodists ) in 1797 at Ebenezer 
Chapel. See Methodists, New Connection. A writ- 
er in the Wesleyan Times of May 12, 1 8C2, furnishes doc- 
uments which go to prove that Kilham’s course, both in 
1793-4, and even as late as 1790, had the approval of the 
most celebrated leaders of Methodism. At that time 
Dr. Adam Clarke, Pawson, Bromwell, and Cownley, all 
earnestly indorsed the movement. Kilham himself did 
not long survive the ecclesiastical censure of his breth- 
ren. lie died in 1798. It is but just to his memory to 
say that he is acknowledged by all to have been a man 
of fervent piety, and that he was animated by great 
zeal for the success of the Wesleyan cause. What he 


actually sought to accomplish was the entire separation 
of the Methodists from the Established Church, with a 
due representation of the lay element in the govern- 
ment of the new Church, to be formed at once. See, for 
a fuller discussion of this subject, besides the article 
New Connection Methodists, and the authorities al- 
ready quoted, Smith, Hist . of Wesleyan Methodism (new 
edition), ii, 3fi sq. ; Cooke, Ilist. of Kilham. (J. II. W.) 

Kilhamites. See Kilham. 

Kilian or Kyllina, a saint of the Homan Catholic 
Church, and bishop of Wurzburg in the 7th century, was 
a native of Ireland, and a member of that distinguished 
body of Irish missionaries among the Teutonic nations 
to whose labors in the Gth and 7th centuries Chris- 
tianity and civilization were so largely indebted in the 
southern and south-eastern countries of Europe. He 
was of a noble family, and while yet young entered the 
monastic life in his native country. Having under- 
taken, in company with several of his fellow-monks, a 
pilgrimage to Home, he was seized, on his journey (A.D. 
GG5) through the still pagan province of Thuringia, with 
a desire to devote himself to its conversion, and with his 
fellow-pilgrims, the presbyter Colman and the deacon 
Donatus, he seemed for the project at Rome, in G87, the 
sanction of pope Conon, by whom he was ordained bish- 
op. On his return he succeeded in converting the duke 
Gosbert, with many of his subjects, and in opening the 
way for the complete conversion of Thuringia. Unfortu- 
nately, however, Kilian provoked the enmity of Gcilana, 
who, although the widow of Gosbert’s brother, had been 
married to Gosbert, by declaring the marriage invalid, 
and having induced Gosbert to separate from her, lie was 
murdered at her instigation, during the absence of Gos- 
bert in 789, together with both his fellow-missionaries, 
and the Bible, Church monuments, and ecclesiastical 
vestments consigned to the flames. After Gosbert’s re- 
turn Geilana denied the deed, but both she and the mur- 
derer fell a prey to insanity, and Gosbert himself fell by 
the hands of a murderer, his son Iledan II was deposed, 
and, indeed, his whole family became extinct. Such arc 
the oldest legends concerning Kilian’s fate. One of 
them, written in the 10th or 11th century, is to be found 
in Mabillon, A ct . Sanct. (ii, 991) ; another, with some ar- 
bitrary variations, in Surius (iv, 131). Yet this legend 
appears somewhat doubtful, since no mention is other- 
wise made of any British missionaries before Boniface. 
Rhabanus Maurus (Canisius, Lcet. Antiq. ii, 2, p. 333) 
claims that Gosbert himself condemned Kilian in 847 on 
account of his preaching. As to the punishment said 
to have overtaken all the family of Gosbert, it is con- 
tradicted by history, for llcdan II was yet in peaceful 
possession of his dukedom in 716, remained in relation 
with the British missionaries, and gave St.Willebrord 
some land at Arnstadt and Miihlberg, near Gotha. The 
facts may be that Kilian belonged to the Anglo-Saxon 
Roman Church, and that his death was caused by his 
strict enforcement of the rules concerning matrimony. 
Before his appointment to Thuringia Kilian seems to 
have already distinguished himself in the ministry. 
Moshcim says, “lie exercised his ministerial functions 
with great success among the Franks, and vast numbers 
of them embraced Christianity” {Eccles. History, i, 441 ). 
Hence he is sometimes denominated “the Apostle of 
Franconia.” The Rev. Mr. De Yinne, a writer on the early 
Church history of Ireland, gives eredence to the legend 
concerning Kilian’s missionary efforts in Germany, and 
his sad fate, on the ground that “ towards the close of the 
7th century there appear to have been a great number 
of Irish ecclesiastics and scholars in Germany and oth- 
er parts of Central Europe. Many of these, that they 
might be the more useful to the people, translated their 
names into Latin or German, and in all things not sin- 
ful identified themselves with the different nationalities 
among whom they labored. To this class belong Wiro, 
Rumbold, bishop of Mechlin, Florentius, bishop of 8tras- 
burg, Colman, Albinus, Clcmentus, and many others, of 
whom Moshcim said there were ‘French and Irish who 


KILLIGREW 


SO 


K DIG HI 


refused a blind submission, and gave much trouble to 
Rome’” (comp. De Vinne, Printit . Irish Ch.\ See Ign. 1 
Gropp, Lebensbesch. d. hdligen Kiliani Bischojjens u.dessen 
Gesellen (Wurtzburg, 1738, 4u0 ; J= Rion, Lcben u. Tod d. 
heil. Lilian (Asehall'enburg, 1834) : J.Cli. A.Seiters,/?o«- 
if actus. , etc. (Mavence, 1815), p. 97 sq.; F. W. Rettberg, | 
K irch engesch .Dent sc hi. (Gottingen, 1848), ii, 303 ; Todd. . 
Irish Church, p. 70 sq. (J. 11. W.) 

Killigrew, IIenry, D.D., an English divine, was 
born in 1(312, and educated at Christ Church, Oxford, ; 
where he graduated in 1628. lie was made chaplain i 
to James, duke of York, and prebend of Westminster, in 
1642, and died about 1685. II is Sermons were pub- 
lished (1666, 4to; 1685, 4to; 1689, 4to; and 1695, 4to: 
the last edition was by bishop Patrick, who highly eu- 
logized the abilities of Killigrew as a pulpit orator). — 
Alii bone, Diet, of Engl, and Atner. J uthors , vol. ii, s. v. 

Kilvert, Francis, an English theologian and teach- 
er, was born in Bath in 1793. II is early education was 
under the instruction of Dr. Rowlandson, at llungerford ; 
afterwards he was at the Bath Grammar School, where, 
because of his superior acquirements, he was engaged as 
one of the assistant masters prior to his entering Oxford. 
He went to Worcester College in 1811, was ordained 
deacon in 1816, and priest in 1817. His first curacy was 
that of Claverton, near Bath. In 1837 he became pos- 
sessor of Claverton Lodge, in which he continued to 
teach privately until his death, Sept. 19, 1863. Kilvert 
was a man of uncommon purity of life, and as an in- 
structor of the youth his precepts and holy example 
were invaluable. lie published a volume of Sermons 
(preached in St. Mary’s Church, Bathwick, 1827): — Se- 
lection from unpublished Papers of Bishop ) Varburton 
(1841): — Collection of original Latin Inscriptions ; and 
Memoirs of Bishop Hurd (I860). See Appleton, A mer- 
ican . I miual Cyclopiedia, 1863, p. 571. (J. L. S.) 

Kilwardeby, Robert, a noted English prelate, 
flourished in the second half of the 13th century. lie 
was educated at the universities of (Oxford and Paris. 
In 1272 he became archbishop of Canterbury, and in 
1277 was made cardinal. He died in 1279. Cardinal 
Kilwardeby is said to have written as many as 39 dif- 
ferent works, but none of these were ever printed. See 
Iloefer, Xouv. Biog. Gen. xxvii, 730. 

Kimashon. See Thorn. 

Kimber, Isaac, an English dissenting minister, 
horn at Wantage, Berkshire, in 1692, was educated at 
Gresham College, London, and the Dissenters’ Academy, 
and in 1724 became pastor at Namptwich, Cheshire, but 
resigned in 1727 on account of some difficulties with his 
congregation, and returned to London, where he pub- 
lished a periodical which lived some four years, lie 
was also employed by booksellers in various literary 
undertakings, compiling a number of historical works, 
among which we remark the Life of Oliver Cromwell 
(London, 1714, 8vo). lie wrote also the Life of bishop 
Beveridge prefixed to the folio edition of that prelate’s 
works, of which he was editor: — Sermons , etc., to which 
is prefixed Memoirs of the Life and Writings of the A u- 
thor (London, 1756, 8 vo). lie died in 1758. See Chal- 
mers, General Biographical Dictionary ; Allibone, Dic- 
tionary of English and American Authors, vol. ii, s. v. 

(J. x.v.) 

Kimchi, David, ben- Joseph (by the Jews fre- 
quently called Pedah, from the initial letters p “H = 
* i n -p **>*“1 “.), one of the most distinguished Jewish 
writers of the Middle Ages, the great exponent of He- 
brew grammar and lexicography, was horn at Narbonne, 
in the south of Franee, in 1160. Very little is known 
of his private life. lie must certainly have enjoyed, 
even among his contemporaries, considerable influence, 
gained perhaps, in a measure, by bis masterly defence 
of Moses Maimonides; for in 1232 we find him acting as 
t he arbiter to settle the dispute then existing between 
the Spanish and French rabbis respecting the opinions 


advanced in the More Xebokim of Maimonides. He 
died about 1240. 11 is works are: (1.) Commentary on 

the Pentateuch (n“"rn 22* 32* ”2), only Genesis has 
been published by A. Ginsbnrg (Pressburg, 1842), cap. 
i, 1-10 being supplied by Kirchheim from the writings 
of Kimchi, as the MS. was defective : — (2.) Commentary 
on the earlier Prophets (Z m y 22 *i21“2), i. 

e. Joshua, Judges, Samuel, and Kings, printed in the 
Rabbinical Bibles edited by Jacob ben-Chajim (Venice, 
1525, 1548), Buxtorf (1619), and Frankfurter (1724-27) : 

— (3.) Commentary on the later Prophets (22 "2* "2 

^‘ , X‘ , Z2), i. e. Isaiah, Jeremiah. Ezekiel, and 
the minor prophets; also given in the Rabbinical Bibles: 

— (4.) Commentary on the Psalms (E“2nn 22 32112), 

first printed in 1477, reprinted several times, and also 
given in the Rabbinical Bibles of Jacob ben-Chajim, 
but not in those edited by Buxtorf and Frankfurter: — 
(5.) Commentary on Ruth (r“H P.2 “3*2 b2 12*1 "*5), pub- 
lished for the first time bv Mercier (Paris, 1563) : — (6.) 
Commentary on Chronicles *'■“121 22 3T*H£), 

given in the Rabbinical Bibles: — (7.) Commentary on 
Job {'1XS. b>V rr-S), which has not yet been publish- 
ed: — (8.) The celebrated work called Mtklol (2* 222), 
or Perfection , which consists of two parts — a. A Hebrew 
Grammar (pllpin p2n), usually bearing the name 
Mil'lol, edited, with notes, by Elias Levita (Yen. 1545), 
and by M. Hecliim (Furth, 1793): — and (9.) b. A He- 
brew Lexicon Cj"22n p2H), commonly called The Booh 
of Roots (3“2nrn *125), the best editions of which are 
by Elias Levita (Venice, 1546), and Biesenthal and Leb- 
reeht (Berlin, 1847): — (10.) Refutation of Christianity 
(2"“.2‘ , :b — H), in which he denies that Messian- 

ic predictions are embodied in the Psalms; printed to- 
gether with Lippmann’s celebrated Xitsachon (pnS3) 
(Amst. 1709, 1711; Kbnigsberg, 1847):— and (11.) An- 
other polemical work called IT 21, also printed with the 
Xitsachon. Kimchi, as he himself frankly says in his 
introduction to the Miklol, did not so much furnish 
new and startling criticism as an exhibit of the results 
of the manifold and extensive labors of his numerous 
predecessors. Ilis lexicon is. to a great extent, a trans- 
lation of Ibn-Ganacli’s Book of Roots [see Ibn-G anacii ], 
and he freely quotes the great Jewish- Arabic commen- 
tators, grammarians, and lexicographers, Saadia, Ibn- 
Koreish, Chajug, Ibn-Ganach, Ibn-Gebirol, lbn-Giath, 
lbn-Balaam, Gikatilla, and many other celebrities. “ But, 
though his claims are modest,” says Ginsbnrg, in Ivitto 
( Cyclop . Bibl. Lit. vol. ii, s. v.), “yet bis merits are great. 
He was the first who discovered the distinction between 
the long and the short vowels, whereby the understand- 
ing of the changing of vowels has been greatly facilitated, 
lie moreover defended a simple, natural, and grammat- 
ical exegesis, at a time when most of his Jewish breth- 
ren were enamored of Hagadic, Cabalistical, and astro- 
logical interpretations. It is therefore not to be wondered 
at that he became so eminent among his brethren that 
they applied to him, by a play of words, the saying in 
theMishna {Aboth, iii, 17), tt“*P * ( "X !V2p *fX 2X, 
Xo Kimchi. no understanding of the Scriptures .” Among 
Christian scholars also Kimchi enjoyed great celebrity, 
more especially, however, among the precursors of the 
Reformation and the Reformers themselves, ‘•notwith- 
standing his hostility to Christianity, which is displayed 
throughout his commentaries, and which arose from the 
persecutions that the Jews had to endure at the hands 
of t lie Crusaders.” Many passages obnoxious to adher- 
ents of the Christian faith were struck out by the In- 
quisition, and are omitted in later editions of Kimchi’s 
Commentaries. 1‘ococke collected ail the passages which 
had been omitted from the Prophets in Xot. ad Portam 
Mosis, in his theological works (ed. Loud. 1 / 10).i.241 sq. 
The first efforts of Christian scholars in compiling Heb. 


KIMCIII 


81 


KINAH 


lexicons, or glossaries, anti grammars, were based on the 
labors of Kimclii, and the notes accompanying the Latin 
Bibles of Munster and Stephen are derived from him. 
Excerpts of his Commentary on Isaiah were translated 
into Latin by Munster, and a Latin version of the whole 
of it was published by Malanimeus (Florence, 1774). 
Leusden published Latin versions of Joel (Utrecht, 1G5G) 
and Jonah (Utrecht, 1G57). De Muis published a Latin 
translation of Malachi (Paris, 1G18). Yelie published a 
German translation of Amos (Col. 1581), and Dr. M‘Caul 
translated the Commentary on Zechariah and the Pref- 
ace to the Psalms into English (London, 1837). A Lat- 
in translation of the Commentary on the Psalms was 
made by Janvier (Constanz, 1544). His grammatical 
labors embraced in the Miklol was translated into Latin 
by Guidacier (Paris, 1540), and a Latin version of the 
Roots was published in 1535. See Steinsclmeider, Cata- 
logus Lib . I l (hr. in Bibliotheca Bodleiana , col. 8G8-875; 
F first, Bibliotheca Judaica , ii, 183 sq., and his Introd. to 
Hebrew Dictionary ; the masterly biography of Kimchi 
by Geiger in Ozar Kechmad (Vienna, 1857), p. 157 sq. ; 
Dukes, Die Familie Kimchi (Literal urblatt des Orients , 
1850) ; Griitz, Gesch. der Juden, vi, 236 sq. ; lvitto, Bill. 
Cyclop, s. v. 

Kimchi, Joseph, B ex-Isaac, a distinguished 
Jewish Babbi, father of the preceding (David), was born 
in Spain in the latter half of the 11th century, but was 
obliged to quit Spain during the terrible persecutions 
by the Mohammedans, and settled at Narbonne, France. 
Just as little is known of his personal history as of his 
son’s. lie was well versed in the science of the He- 
brew language and Biblical exegesis, and by the intro- 
duction into Southern France of that thorough scholar- 
ship for which the Spanish Jews in his day are so cele- 
brated, gave a new impetus to the study of the O.-Test. 
Scriptures in the original. As has been pithily said, he 
became the Aben-Ezra of Southern France. He died 
about 1180. He wrote a number of valuable contribu- 
tions to exegetical theology, but it is as a theologian, 
especially as a polemic, that Joseph Kimchi excelled. 
Ilis most important works are: rp32il 323 (Book of 
the Covenant) , a treatise against Christianity, in the 
form of a dialogue between a Jew (Maamin or believ- 
er) and a Christian (Min or heretic), and which was 
published in the Milchemeth ha-Shem (Constantinople, 
1710, 8vo): — El2i3 311313^3 ISO, against a Jew named 
Peter Alphonse, who had become a Christian : this work 
was never published. He also wrote in Hebrew verse the 
maxims of Solomon ben-Gabirol (of this fragments ap- 
peared in the Zion [Francf.1842, 8 vo],ii, 97-100) ; some 
Hebrew hy'mns, which were inserted in the Aijaleth ha - 
SJiachar (published by Mard. Jare [Mantua, lGP2,8vo]) ; 
a Hebrew translation of Bacliia ben-Joseph’s morals, 
printed in the works of the latter (Leipzig, 1846,1 2mo) ; 
besides commentaries on most of the books of the O. T. 
The last are as follows: (1.) Commentary on the Penta- 
teuch, entitled mm 323 (The Book of the Laic) ; frag- 
ments are extant in MS., De Bossi 1GG, and in the quo- 
tations of his son D. Kimchi: — (2.) Commentary on the 
earlier Prophets , called il3pE!"I 323, The Bill of Pur- 
chase , in allusion to Jer. xxxii, 11 : — (3.) Commentary 
on the later Prophets , called "l 2 3 (The unfolded 

Book , in allusion to Jer. xxxii, 14). These works, too, 
have not as yet come to light, and we only know them 
through the numerous quotations from them dispersed 
through David Kimchi’s Commentaries on the Proph- 
ets: — (4.) Commentary on Job , of which defective MSS. 
are preserved in the Bodleian Library and at Munich, 
2G0: — (5.) Commentary on Proverbs , a perfect MS. of 
which exists in the Munich Library, No. 242 : — (G.) 
Hebrew Grammar , called *p32T 323 (The Book of Re- 
membrance ), which is the first written by a Jew in a 
Christian country, and is quoted by D. Kimchi in the 
Miklol , SCp, b; — (7.) Another grammatical work, en- 
V.— F 


titled 3pbfl 3*1253 323, also quoted in the Miklol, 
ibp, a. “Both as a commentator and a grammarian,” 
says Ginsberg (in Kitto, Bibl. Cyclop . vol. ii, s. v.), “Jo- 
seph Kimclii deserves the highest praise; and, though 
his works still remain unpublished, his contributions to 
Biblical literature produced a most beneficial influence, 
inasmuch as they prepared the way in Christian coun- 
tries for a literal and sound exegesis. His son, David 
Kimchi, who constantly quotes him, both in his com- 
mentaries and under almost every root of his Hebrew 
Lexicon, has familiarized the Hebrew student with the 
grammatical and exegetical principles of this deservedly 
esteemed Hebraist.” See, besides the works cited under 
David Kimchi, Biesenthal and Lebrecht’s edition of D. 
Kimchi’s Radicum Liber (Berlin, 1847), col. xxiv sq. ; 
and Geiger’s excellent treatise in Ozar Kechmad (Vien- 
na, 185G), i, p. 97-110 ; Bartolocci, Mag. Biblioth. Rabbin. 
iii, 327 ; Literaturblatt des Orients, 1850 ; Fi'irst, Biblioth- 
eca Judaica, ii, 18G sq. (J. II. W.) 

Kimchi, Moses, bex-Josepii (also called Remak, 
from the initial letters p 33z=3j33p i3l23 3), eldest 
son of the preceding (Joseph), flourished about 11G0- 
1170. Though far inferior in ability to his father and 
brother, he has earned an honorable place as a commen- 
tator and grammarian. His works are : (1.) Commenta- 
ry on Proverbs (or n V33 323 13*132) (printed in the 
Babbinic Bibles of Jacob ben-Chajim,Ven. 152G, 1548; 
Buxtorf, Basel, 1G19; and Frankfurter, Amst. 1724-27). 
This work has been falsely’- ascribed to Aben-Ezra. Com- 
pare Beifmann, in Literaturblatt des Orients, 1841, p. 750, 
751 ; Zion (F. a. M. 1841), i, 7G; Lippmann, in Zion (F. 
a. M. 1842), ii, 113-117, 129-133, 155-157, 171-174, 185- 
188: — (2.) Commentary on Ezra and Kehemiah (also 
printed in the Babbinical Bibles, and erroneously at- 
tributed to Aben-Ezra) : — (3.) A grammatical work, en- 
titled 313353 *^“013 (or Journey on the Paths of 

Knowledge ), which became a manual for both Jews and 
Christians beginning the study of Hebrew grammar. 
It was highly commended by Elias Levita, who anno- 
tated and edited it in 1508. It was afterwards publish- 
ed, with a Latin translation, by Seb. Munster (Basel, 
1531), and since frequently, with diverse additions and 
modifications. “The chief merit of this little volume 
consists in the fact that M. Kimchi was the first to em- 
ploy therein the word 3p2 as a paradigm of the regular 
verbs, instead of the less appropriate verb media; guttu- 
ralis b32, which had been used by his predecessors, in 
imitation of Arabic grammarians :” — (4.) A grammati- 
cal treatise on the anomalous expressions, entitled 32 D 
ni313nr% quoted by D. Kimchi in the Miklol. See 
Biesenthal and Lebrecht’s edition of D. Kimchi’s Radi- 
cum Liber (Berlin, 1847), col. xxxviii sq. ; Fiirst, Bibli- 
otheca Judaica, ii, 187 sq. ; Steinsclmeider, Catalogus 
Libr.IIebr. in Bibliotheca Bodleiana, col. 1838-1844; by 
the same author, Bibliographisches Ilandbnch (Leipzig, 
1859), p. 74 sq. ; Geiger’s Ozar Kechmad, ii, 17 sq. ; Gins- 
burg, in Kitto, Bibl. Cyclop, ii, s. v. 

Kimmcsh, Kimosh. See Nettle. 

Kinah (Ileb. Kinah ', »3j^p, an elegy, as in Jer. ix,, 
9, etc. ; Septuag. K ivd v. r. ’I Kcifi), a city in the extreme 
south of Judah (hence prob. included within the terri- 
tory of Simeon), mentioned between Jagur and Dimo- 
nah (Josh, xv, 22). “ Stanley (Sinai and Pal. p. 1 GO) in- 
geniously connects Kinah with the Kenites ( l "0“'p), who 
settled in this district (Judg. i, 1G). But it should not 
be overlooked that the list in Josh, xv purports to re- 
cord the towns as they were at the conquest, while the 
settlement of the Kenites probably (though not certain- 
ly) did not take place till after it. It is mentioned in 
the Onomasticon of Eusebius and Jerome (s. v. Ktva, 
Cilia), but not so as to imply that they had auy actual 
knowledge of it. With the sole exception of Schwarz 
(Palest, p. 99), it appears to be unmentioned by any trav- 


KIN AX All 


82 


KING 


eller, and the ‘town Cinah , situated near the wilderness 
of Zin,’ with which lie would identify it, is not to be 
found in his own or any other map” (Smith). The true 
position of Kinah can only be conjecturally located as 
not far from the Dead Sea, possibly in wady Fikreh. 

Kinanah. See Marbaii. 

Kindervater,CnuiSTiANYiCTOR,a German preach- 
er and philosopher of the Kantian school, was born at 
Neuenheiligen, Thuringia, in 1758, and was educated at 
the University of Leipzig, lie became pastor at Pedel- 
witz, near Leipzig, in 171)0 ; in 1804, general superintend- 
ent at Eisenach, and died May 0, 180G. 1 1 is most im- 

portant works are, .1 n homo qui aninmm neget esse ini- 
mortalem , aninio possit esse tranquillo (Lips. 1785,4to): 
— Giebt cs unersckiitterliche Beruhigung in Leiden oluie 
den auf Moral itat gegriindeten Glaubcn an die Unsterb- 
lichkeit (1797): — Gesprdche iiber das We sen der Gutter 
(1787): — A d umbra tio qiuestianis , an Pyrrhonis doctri- 
na omnis tollatur virtns (1789, 4to): — Skeptische Dialo- 
gen iiber die Vortheile der Leiden, vnd Widerwdrtigkeiten 
dieses Lebens (1788, 8vo) : — Geschichte der Wink ungen der 
rersehiednen Religiouen auf die Sittlichkeit mid Gliickse- 
ligkeit des Menschengeschlechts in iiltern nnd neuern Zei- 
ten (1793, 8vo): — Geist des reinen Christenthiuns (1795, 
8 vo) : — Darstellung der Leidensgeseh. Jesu (1797, 8vo) : — 
Be indole atque forma regni Messke e mente Joharmis 
Baptistie Dissertatio (1803, 4to). — Krug, Encgklop. Lex. 
vol. ii, s. v.; During, Deutsche Kanzelredner d. 18' en and 
19' ew Jahrh. p. 155 sip 

Kindred. 1. The following are the Hebrew terms 
thus rendered in the English Bible : 

1. nruppp, mishpachah ', usually rendered “ family,” 
answering to the Latin gens , except that it more dis- 
tinctly includes the idea of original affinity or deriva- 
tion from a common stock; it. corresponds exactly with 
our word clan. It is used of the different tribes of the 
Canaanites (Gen. x, 18) ; of the subdivisions of the He- 
brew people (Exod.vi, 14; Numb. i, 20, etc.) ; sometimes 
for one of the tribes (Josh, vii, 17; Jtulg. xiii, 2, etc.), 
and in the later books tropically for a people or nation 
(Jer. viii, 3; xxv, 9; Ezck. xx,32; Micahii, 3). It is 
translated kindred in the A.V. at Gen. xxiv, 41; Josh. 
vi,23; Buth ii, 3 ; Job xxxii,2 — in all of which it refers 
to relationship by consanguinitg , more or less remote. 

2. rnVvs, mole'deth, conveys primarily the idea of 
birth, nativity ; hence a person born, a child (Gen. xxviii, 
9; Lev. xviii, 9, 11), and persons of the same family or 
lineage (Gen. xii, 1 ; xxiv, 4 ; xxxi, 3 ; xliii, 7 ; Numb, 
x, 30; Esth. ii, 10; viii, G — in all which passages it is 
translated kindred in the A.Y.). In some of these in- 
stances, however, the kinship is only the remote one of 
common nationality arising out of common descent. 

3. rrnvs, moda'ath, literally knowledge, is used to ex- 
press blood-relationship in Ruth iii, 2; compare 
(Until ii, 1 ; I’rov. vii, 4). 

4. IHZXis geullah', redemption, a word which properly 
designated such near relationship by blood as would con- 
fer the rights and obligations of a or kinsman, 
avenger, and redeemer, on the party. See Goel. As 
commonly used, however, it denotes cither the thing re- 
deemed (Iiuth iv, G), or the right of redeeming (Lev. 
xxv, 29, etc.), or the redemption price (Lev. xxv, 2G, 
etcA. The only passage in which it is translated kin- 
dred in the A. Y. is Ezek. xi, 15. Hengstenberg (Chris- 
tol. iii, 9, E.T.) and Iliiverniek ( Comment . ad loc.) con- 
tend that ribss is to be taken here not in the sense of 
relationship, but in that of suretyship or substitution- 
ary action, and they would translate the passage, “ Thy 
brethren are the men of thy suretyship,” or ‘‘redemp- 
tion,” i. c. the men whom it lies on them to redeem or 
act for. The Sept, seems to have read (7JP Y3, for they 
give ai\pa\io(7iaQ here. 

5. nx, ach, which properly means brother , occurs only 
once With the rendering kindred in the A. Y., hi 1 Chron. 


xii, 29. It is frequently used elsewhere in a wide sense, 
and may be understood of nearly all collateral relation- 
ships whatever, whether by consanguinity, affinity, or 
simple association. From this comes lYinx, brotherhood 
(Zeeh. xi, 14). 

Besides these terms, the Hebrews expressed consan- 
guinity by such words and phrases as flesh (Gen. 
xxxvii, 27 ; Isa. 1 viii, 7); my bone and 

my flesh (Gen. xxix, 14 ; Judg. ix, 2; 2 Sam. v, 1, etc.) ; 
~\X'2,fesh (Lev. xviii, 12, 13, etc.; Numb, xxvii, 41), 
with mX'2, coll, kinswomen (Lev. xviii, 17) ; and 
i flesh of his fesh (A. Y. near of kin, Lev. xviii, G ; 
nigh of kin, xxv, 49). — -Kit to. 

II. In the New Test, we have the following Greek 
words thus rendered: y'tvoc, the most general and fre- 
quent term, our kin, i. e. birth relationship, with its de- 
rivative ovyykvaa, co-relationship ; Trarpid (Acts iii, 
25), descent in a direct line (“ lineage,” Luke ii, 4 ; “ fam- 
ily,” Eplu iii, 15); and fv\t) (Uev.v,9; vii, 9; xi, 9 ; xiii, 
7 ; xiv, G), a tribe (as elsewhere rendered). 

In addition to these Ileb. and Greek words, various 
others of cognate derivation or similar signification are 
frequently rendered “kin,” “kinship,” etc. 

III. The terms expressive of immediate relationship 
are father, mother, brother, sister, sox, daugh- 
ter; those expressing collateral consanguinity are un- 
cle, aunt, nephew (niece does not occur in the A.Y., 
but brother’s or sister’s daughter), cousin; those ex- 
pressive of affinity are fatiier-in-law, mother-in- 

law, SON-IN-LAW, DAUGIITER-IN-LAW, BROTHER-IN- 

LAW. sister-in-law. See each of these in their place. 

IY. The relations of kindred, expressed by few words, 
and imperfectly defined in the earliest ages, acquired in 
course of time greater significance and wider influence. 
The full list of relatives either by consanguinity, i. e. as 
arising from a common ancestor, or by affinity, i. e. as 
created by marriage, may be seen detailed in the Cor- 
pus Juris Civ. Digest, lib. xxxviii, tit. 10, de Gradibus ; 
see also Corp. Jut. Canon. Deer, ii, c. xxxv, 9, 5. See 
Affinity. 

The domestic and economical questions arising out of 
kindred may be classed under the three heads of Mar- 
riage, Inheritance, and Blood -Revenge, and the 
reader is referred to the articles on those subjects for in- 
formation thereon. It is clear that the tendency of the 
Mosaic law was to increase the restrictions on marriage, 
by defining more precisely the relations created by it, as 
is shown by the cases of Abraham and Moses. For in- 
formation on the general subject of kindreil and its obli- 
gations, see Selden, De Jure Xaturali , lib. v ; Michaelis, 
Laws of Moses, ed. Smith, ii,3G; Knobcl on Lev. xviii; 
Philo, be Spec. Leg. iii, 3,4, 5, vol. ii, p. 301-304, ed. Man- 
gey; Burckhardt, A rub Tribes, i, 150; Kcil, Bibl. A rch. 
iL, 50, § 10G, 107. — Smith. Sec Kinsman. 

Kine (Cnz^arah/ i. c. fruitful, a heifer, Gen. xxxii, 
15; xii, 2-27 ; and so rendered in Numb, xix, 2-9; also 
a young milch-cow, 1 Sam. vi, 7-14; “cow,” Job xxi, 10; 
Isa. xi, 7 ; a “heifer” just broken to the yoke, Hos. iv, 
IG; put as a symbol of a voluptuous female, Amos iv, 1 : 
sometimes in the Auth.Ycrs. for pbjK, e'leph, usually an 
ox, as rendered in Psa. viii. 8 ; Prow xiv, 4 ; Isa. xxx, 
24; but lem. in Dcut. vii, 13; xxviii, 4, 18, 51 ; also for 
*1p2, bakar', Deut. xxxii, 14; 2 Sam. xvii, 29; a bee ve 
or one of a herd of cattle, elsewhere without distinction 
of sex, and rendered “ ox,” “ bullock,” “ herd,” etc.). Sec 
Cow. 

King (Heb. and Cbald. me’Uk, ruler; fiam- 
\ivtj), the most general term for an absolute, indepen- 
dent, and life-long sovereign. 

1. Scriptural Applications of the Title. — In the Bible 
the name does. not always imply the same degree of 
power or importance, neither does it indicate the magni- 
tude of the dominion or territory of the national ruler 
thus designated (Gen. xxxvi, 31). Many persons are 


KING 


83 


KING 


called “ kings” in Scripture whom we should rather de- | 
nominate chiefs or leaders; and many single towns, or 
towns with their adjacent villages, are said to have j 
kings. Hence we need not be surprised at seeing that | 
so small a country as Canaan contained thirty-one kings 
who were conquered (Josh, xii, 9, 24), besides many who 
no doubt escaped the arms of Joshua. Adonibezek him- 
self, no very powerful king, mentions seventy kings whom 
he had subdued and mutilated (Judg. i, 7 ; 1 Kings iv, 
21 ; xx, 1, 1C). Even at the present day the heads of 
Arab tribes are often called “king,” which in this case 
also means no more than sheik or chief. In like man- 
ner, in the New Test., owing to the peculiar political re- 
lations of the Jew r s, the title “king” has very different 
significations: (1.) The Homan emperor (1 Pet. ii, 13, 
17); and so the “seven kings” (Rev. xvii, 10) are perhaps 
the first seven Ctesars (comp. Thilo, Apocr. 579). (2.) 

Ilerod Antipas (Matt, xiv, 9; Mark vi, 22), although 
only tetrarch (compare Luke iii, 19). (3.) So also the 

ten provincial representatives of the Roman government 
(Rev. xvii, 12), as being supreme within their respective 
jurisdictions. See Governor, etc. 

“ King,” in symbolical language, signifies the possess- 
or of supreme power, whether lodged in one or more per- 
sons (Prov. viii, 15, 1G). It is applied in the Scriptures 
to God, as the sole proper sovereign and ruler of the 
universe (t Tim. i, 17), and to Christ, the Son of God, 
the sole Head and Governor of his Church (1 Tim. vi, 
15, 1G; Matt, xxvii, 1 1 ; Lukexix, 38; John i, 49; xviii, 
33, 34) ; also to men, as invested with regal authority by 
their fellows (Luke xxii, 25; 1 Tim. ii, 1, 2; 1 Pet. ii, 
13-17); so also the people of God are called kings and 
priests (Psa. xlix, 14; Dan. vii, 22, 27; Matt, xix, 28; 
Luke xxii, 29, 30 ; 1 Cor. vi, 2, 3 ; 2 Tim. ii, 12 ; Rev. i, 
G; ii, 2G, 27; iii, 21; v, 10; xxii, 5). In Job xviii, 14 
it is applied to Death, who is there called the “king of 
terrors.” In Job xli, 34, leviathan, or the crocodile, is 
thus designated : “he is a king over all the children of 
pride.” (See Wemyss’s Symbol. Diet.) 

The application, however, of the term “king,” with 
which we are here particularly concerned, is that of the 
name of the national ruler of the Hebrews during a pe- 
riod of about 500 years previous to the destruction of 
Jerusalem, B.C. 588. It was borne first by the ruler of 
the Twelve Tribes united, and then by the rulers of 
Judah and Israel separately. See Kings, Rook of. 

2. Origin of the Hebrew Monarchy. — Regal authority 
was altogether alien to the institutions of Moses in their 
original and nnadidterated form. Their fundamental 
idea was that Jehovah was the sole king of the nation 
(l Sam. viii, 7); to use the emphatic words in Isa. 
xxxiii, 22, “ the Lord is our judge, the Lord is our law- 
giver, the Lord is our king.” Although Moses ventnred, 
with his half-civilized hordes, on the bold experiment 
of founding a society without a king, and in doing so 
evinced a rare patriotism and self-denial, for without 
doubt the man who rescued the Jews from bondage and 
conducted them to the land of Canaan might, had he 
chosen, have kept the dominion in his own hands, and 
transmitted a crown to his posterity, yet he well knew 
what were the elements with which he had to deal in 
framing institutions for the rescued Israelites. Slaves 
they had been, and the spirit of slavery was not yet 
wholly eradicated from their souls. They had witness- 
ed in Egypt the more than ordinary pomp and splendor 
which environ a throne. Not improbably the prosperity 
and abundance which they had seen in Egypt, and in 
which they had been, in a measure, allowed to partake, 
might have been ascribed by them to the regal form of 
the Egyptian government. Moses may well, therefore, 
have apprehended a not very remote departure from 
the fundamental type of his institutions. Accordingly 
he makes a special provision for this contingency (Dent, 
xvii, 14), and labors, by anticipation, to guard against 
the abuses of royal power. Should a king be demanded 
by the people, then he was to be a native Israelite: he 
was not to be drawn away by the love of show, especial- 


| ly by a desire for that regal display in which horses 
have always borne so large a part, to send down to 
' Egypt, still less to cause the people to return to that 
land; he was to avoid the corrupting influence of a 
large harem, so common among Eastern monarchs; he 
was to abstain from amassing silver and gold ; he was 
to have a copy of the law made expressly for his own 
study — a study which he was never to intermit till the 
end of his days, so that his heart might not be lifted up 
above his brethren, that he might not be turned aside 
from the living God, but, observing the divine statutes, 
and thus acknowledging himself to be no more than ti e 
vicegerent of heaven, he might enjoy happiness, ar.d 
transmit his authority to his descendants. 

The removal of Moses and Joshua by death soon left 
the people to the natural results of their own condition 
and character. Anarchy- ensued. Noble minds, indeed, 
and stout hearts appeared in those who were termed 
judges; but the state of the country was not so satis- 
factory as to prevent an unenlightened people, having 
low and gross affections, from preferring the glare of a 
crown and the apparent protection of a sceptre to the 
invisible and, therefore, mostly unrecognised arm of 
Omnipotence. A king accordingly is requested (1 Sam. 
viii). The misconduct of Samuel’s sons, who had been 
made judges, was the immediate cause of the demand 
being put forth. The request came with authority, 
for it emanated from all the elders of Israel, who, after 
holding a formal conference, proceeded to Samuel, in 
order to make him acquainted with their wish. Samuel 
was displeased ; but, having sought in prayer to learn the 
divine will, he was instructed to yield to the demand; 
yet at the same time he was directed to “protest sol- 
emnly unto them, and show them the manner of the 
king that shall reign over them.” Faithfully did the 
prophet depict the evils which a monarchy would inflict 
on the people. In vain; they said, “ Nay, but we will 
have a king over ns.” Accordingly, Saul, the son of 
Kish, of the tribe of Benjamin, was, by divine direction, 
selected, and privately anointed by Samuel “ to be cap- 
tain over God’s inheritance;” thus he -was to hold only 
a delegated and subordinate authority (1 Sam. ix ; x, 
1-1G). Under the guidance of Samuel, Saul was subse- 
quently’- chosen by’ lot from among the assembled tribes; 
and though his personal appearance had no influence in 
the choice, y’et, when he was plainly 7- pointed out to be 
the individual designed for the sceptre, Samuel called 
attention to those personal qualities which in less civ- 
ilized nations have a preponderating influence, and are 
never without effect, at least, in supporting the physical 
dignity 7 of a reign (1 Sam. x, 17-27). (For a fuller dis- 
cussion of this change in the Hebrew constitution, see 
Kitto’s Daily Bible Illustrations under the portion of 
history pn question.) See Samuel. 

The special occasion of the substitution of a regal 
form of government for that of the judges seems to 
have been the siege of Jabesh-Gilead by Nahash, king 
of the Ammonites (1 Sam. xi, 1 ; xii, 12), and the re- 
fusal to allow the inhabitants of that city to capitulate 
except on humiliating and cruel conditions (1 Sam. xi, 2, 
4-6). The conviction seems to have forced itself on 
the Israelites that they could not resist their formidable 
neighbor unless they placed themselves under the sway’ 
of a king, like surrounding nations. Concurrently’ with 
this conviction, disgust had been excited by 7 the corrupt 
administration of justice under the sons of Samuel, and 
a radical change was desired by’ them in this respect 
also (1 Sam. viii, 3-5). Accordingly’, the original idea 
of a Hebrew king was twofold : 1st, that he should lend 
the people to battle in time of war; and, 2dly, that he 
should execute judgment and jnstiee to them in war and 
in peace (1 Sam. viii, 20). In both respects the desired 
end was attained. The righteous wrath and military 
capacity 7 of Saul were immediately triumphant over the 
Ammonites ; and though ultimately he was defeated 
and slain in battle with the Philistines, he put even them 
to flight on more than one occasion (1 Sam. xiv, 23 ; 


KING 


84 


KING 


xvii, 52), and generally waged successful war against 
the surrounding nations (1 Sam. xiv, 47). See Saul. 
Ilis successor, David, entered on a series of brilliant con- 
quests over the Philistines, Moabites, Syrians, Edomites, 
and Ammonites; and the Israelites, no longer confined 
within the narrow bounds of Palestine, had an empire 
extending from the Kiver Euphrates to Gaza, and from 
the entering in of Hamath to the river of Egypt (l 
Kings iv, 21). In the meanwhile complaints ceased of 
the corruption of justice; and Solomon not only consol- 
idated and maintained in peace the empire of his father 
David, but left an enduring reputation for his wisdom 
as a judge. Under this expression, however, we must 
regard him, not merely as pronouncing decisions, pri- 
marily or in the last resort, in civil and criminal cases, 
but likewise as holding public levees and transacting 
public business “at the gate,” when he would receive 
petitions, hear complaints, and give summary decisions 
on various points, which in a modern European kingdom 
would come under the cognizance of numerous distinct 
public departments. See David ; Solomox. 

3. Functions and Prerogatives. — Emanating as the 
royal power did from the demand of the people and the 
permission of a prophet, it was not likely to be unlimit- 
ed in its extent or arbitrary in its exercise. The gov- 
ernment of God, indeed, remained, being rather conceal- 
ed and complicated than disowned, much less super- 
seded. The king ruled not in his own right nor in 
virtue of the choice of the people, but by concession from 
on high, and partly as the servant and partly as the 
representative of the theocracy, llow insecure, indeed, 
was the tenure of the kingly power- how restricted it 
was in its authority, appears clear from the comparative 
facility with which the crown was transferred from Saul 
to David; and the part which the prophet Samuel took 
in effecting that transference points out the quarter 
where lay the power which limited, if it did not pri- 
marily, at least, control the royal authority. It must, 
however, be added that, if religion narrowed this au- 
thority, it also invested it with a sacredness which could 
emanate from no other source. Liable as the Israelitish 
kings were to interference on the part of priest and 
prophet, they were, by the same divine power, shielded 
from the unholy hands of the profane vulgar, and it 
was at once impiety and rebellion to do injury to “the 
Lord’s anointed” (Psa. ii, G, 7 sq.). Instances are not 
wanting to corroborate and extend these general ob- 
servations. When Saul was in extremity before the 
Philistines (1 Sam. xxviii), he resorted to the usual 
methods of obtaining counsel : “ Saul inquired of the 
Lord; the Lord answered him not, neither by dreams, 
nor by Urim, nor bv the prophets.” So David, when 
in need of advice in war (1 Sam. xxx, 7), resorted to 
Abiathar the priest, who, by means of the ephod, in- 
quired of the Lord, and thereupon urged the king to 
take a certain course, which proved successful (see also 
2 Sam. ii, 1). Sometimes, indeed, as appears from 1 
Sam. xxviii, it was a prophet who acted the part of 
prime minister, or chief counsellor, to the king, and who, 
a? bearing that sacred character, must have possessed 
very weighty influence in the royal divan (1 Kings xxii, 
7 sq.). We must not, however, expect to find any def- 
inite and permanent distribution of power, any legal 
determination of the royal prerogatives as discrimina- 
ted from the divine authority; circumstances, as they 
prompted certain deeds, restricted or enlarged the sphere 
of the monarch’s action. Tims, in 1 Sam. xi,4 sq., wc 
find Saul, in an emergency, assuming, without consulta- 
tion or deliberation, the power of demanding something 
like a levy en masse, and of proclaiming instant war. 
With the king lay the administration of justice in the 
last resort (2 Sam. xv, 2; 1 Kings iii, 1G sq.). lie also 
possessed the power of life and death (2 Sam.,xiv). To 
provide for and superintend the public worship was at 
once his duty and his highest honor (1 Kings viii ; 2 
Kings xii, 4; xviii, 4; xxiii, 1). One reason why the 
people requested a king was that they might have a 


recognised leader in war (1 Sam. viii, 20). The Mosaic 
law offered a powerful hindrance to royal despotism (1 
Sam. x, 25). The people also, by means of their elders, 
formed an express compact, by which they stipulated 
for their rights (l Kings xii, 4), and were from time to 
time appealed to, generally in eases of “great pith and 
moment” (1 Ohron. xxix, 1 ; 2 Kings xi, 17 ; Josephus, 
War, ii, 1, 2). Nor did the people fail to interpose their 
will, where they thought it necessar}', in opposition to 
that of the monarch (1 Sam. xiv, 45). The part which 
Nathan took against David shows how effective, as well 
as bold, was the check exerted by the prophets; indeed, 
most of the prophetic history is the history of the no- 
blest opposition ever made to the vices alike of royalty, 
priesthood, and people. If needful, the prophet hesitated 
not to demand an audience with the king, nor was he daz- 
zled or deterred by royal power and pomp (l Kings xx, 
22, 38; 2 Kings i, 15). As, however, the monarch held 
the sword, the instrument of death was sometimes made 
to prevail over every restraining influence (1 8am. xxii, 
17). See Pkoptiet. 

To form a correct idea of a Hebrew king, we must 
abstract ourselves from the notions of modern Europe, 
and realize the position of Oriental sovereigns. It 
would be a mistake to regard the Hebrew government 
as a limited monarchy, in the English sense of the ex- 
pression. It is stated in 1 Sam. x, 25, that Samuel 
“ told the people the manner of the kingdom, and wrote 
it in the book and laid it before the Lord,” and it is 
barely possible that this may refer to some statement 
respecting the boundaries of the kingly power. (The 
word literally judgment, translated “manner” in 

the A.T., is translated in the Sept. ciKaiioga, i. e. statute 
or ordinance [comp. Ecclus. iv, 17; Bar. ii, 12; iv, 13], 
But Josephus seems to have regarded the document as 
a prophetical statement, read before the king, of the ca- 
lamities which were to arise from the kingly power, as 
a kind of protest recorded for succeeding ages [ Ant . vi, 
4, G]). But no such document has come down to ns; 
and if it ever existed, and contained restrictions of any 
moment on the kingly power, it was probably disregard- 
ed in practice. The following passage of sir John Mal- 
colm respecting the shahs, of Persia may, with some 
slight modifications, be regarded as fairly applicable to 
the Hebrew monarchy under David and Solomon : “ The 
monarch of Persia has been pronounced to be one of the 
most absolute in the world. 11 is word has ever been 
deemed a law: and he has probably never had any fur- 
ther restraint upon the free exercise of his vast au- 
thority than has arisen from his regard for religion , his 
respect for established usages, his desire for reputation, 
and his fear of exciting an opposition that might be 
dangerous to his power or to his life” (Malcolm’s Persia , 
ii, 303; comp. Elphinstone’s India, bk. viii, eh. 3). It 
must not, however, be supposed to have been either the 
understanding or the practice that the sovereign might 
seize at his discretion the private property of individu- 
als. Ahab did not venture to seize the vineyard of Na- 
both till, through the testimony of false witnesses, Na- 
both had been convicted of blasphemy; and possibly his 
vineyard may have been seized as a confiscation, with- 
out flagrantly outraging public sentiment in those who 
did not know the truth (1 Kings xi, G). But no mon- 
archy perhaps ever existed in which it would not be 
regarded as an outrage that the monarch should from 
covetousness seize the private property of an innocent 
subject in no ways dangerous to the state. And gen- 
erally, when sir John Malcolm proceeds as follows in ref- 
erence to “one of the most absolute” monarchs in the 
world, it null be understood that the Hebrew king, 
whose power might be described in the same way, is 
not, on account of certain restraints which exist in the 
nature of things, to be regarded as “a limited monarch” 
in the European use of the words. “ We may assume 
that the power of the king of Persia is by usage absolute 
over the property and lives of his conquered enemies, 
his rebellious subjects, his own family, his ministers , over 


KING 


85 


KING 


public officers civil and military , and all the numerous 
train of domestics, and that he may punish any person 
of these classes without examination or formal procedure 
of any kind; in all other cases that are capital, the forms 
prescribed by law and custom are observed ; the mon- 
arch only commands, when the evidence has been ex- 
amined and the law declared, that the sentence shall be 
put in execution or that the condemned culprit shall 
be pardoned” (ii, 306). In accordance with such usages, 
David ordered Uriah to be treacherously exposed to 
death in the forefront of the hottest battle (2 Sam. xi, 
15) ; he caused liechab and Baa n ah to be slain instant- 
ly, when they brought him the head of Ishbosheth (2 
Sam. iv, 12); and he is represented as having on his 
death-bed recommended Solomon to put Joab and Shi- 
mei to death (I Kings ii, 5-9). In like manner, Solo- 
mon caused to be killed, without trial, not only his elder 
brother Adonijah and Joab, whose execution might be 
regarded as the exceptional acts of a dismal state-policy 
in the beginning of his reign, but likewise Shimei, after 
having been seated on the throne three years. And 
king Saul, in resentment at their connivance with Da- 
vid’s escape, put to death 85 priests, and caused a mas- 
sacre of the inhabitants of Nob, including women, chil- 
dren, and sucklings (l Sam. xxii, 18, 19). 

Besides being commander-in-chief of the army, su- 
preme judge, and absolute master, as it were, of the lives 
of his subjects, the king exercised the power of impos- 
ing taxes on them, and of exacting from them personal 
service and labor. Both these points seem clear from 
the account given (1 Sam. viii, 11-17) of the evils which 
would arise from the kingly power, and are confirmed in 
various ways. Whatever mention may be made of con- 
sulting “ old men,” or “ elders of Israel,” we never read 
of their deciding such points as these. When Pul, the 
king of Assyria, imposed a tribute on tbe kingdom of 
Israel, “ Menahem, the king,” exacted the money of all 
the mighty men of wealth, of each man 50 shekels of 
silver (2 Kings xv, 19). When Jchoiakim, king of Ju- 
dah, gave his tribute of silver and gold to Pharaoh, he 
taxed the land to give the money; he exacted the silver 
and gold of the people, of every one according to his 
taxation (2 Kings xxiii, 35). The degree to which the 
exaction of personal labor might be carried on a special 
occasion is illustrated by king Solomon’s requirements 
for building the Temple. He raised a levy of 30,000 
men, and sent them to Lebanon by courses of 10,000 a 
month ; and he had 70,000 that bare burdens, and 80,000 
hewers in the mountains (I Kings v, 13-15). Judged 
by the Oriental standard, there is nothing improbable 
in these numbers. In our own days, for the purpose of 
constructing the Mahmfideyeh Canal in Egypt, Me- 
bemet Ali, by orders given to the various sheiks of the 
provinces of Sakarali, Ghizeli, Mensurah, Sharkieh, Me- 
nuf, Bahyreh, and some others, caused 300,000 men, wom- 
en, and children to be assembled along the site of the 
intended canal (see Mrs. Poole’s Englishwoman in Egypt , 
ii, 219). This was 120,000 more than the levy of Solo- 
mon. 

In addition to these earthly powers, the king of Israel 
had a more awful claim to respect and obedience. lie 
was the vicegerent of Jehovah (1 Sam. x, 1 ; xvi, 13), 
and, as it were, Ilis son, if just and holy (2 Sam. vii, 14 ; 
Psa. lxxxix, 26, 27 ; ii, 6, 7). lie had been set apart as 
a consecrated ruler. Upon his head had been poured 
the holy anointing oil, composed of olive-oil, myrrh, cin- 
namon, sweet calamus, and cassia, which had hitherto 
been reserved exclusively for the priests of Jehovah, 
especially the high-priest, or had been solely used to 
anoint the Tabernacle of the Congregation, the Ark of 
the Testimony, and the vessels of the Tabernacle (Exod. 
xxx, 23-33; xl, 9; Lev. xxi, 10; 1 Kings i, 39). lie 
had become, in fact, emphatically “ the Lord’s anointed.” 
At the coronation of sovereigns in modern Europe, holy 
oil has frequently been used as a symbol of divine right ; 
but this has been mainly regarded as a mere form, and 
the use of it was undoubtedly introduced in imitation 


| of the Hebrew custom. But, from the beginning to the 
end of the Hebrew monarchy, a living real significance 
was attached to consecration by this holy anointing oil. 
From well-known anecdotes related of David — and, per- 
haps, from words in his lamentation over Saul and Jon- 
athan (2 Sam. i, 21) — it results that a certain sacredness 
invested the person of Saul, the Jirst king, as the Lord’s 
anointed; and that, on this account, it was deemed sac- 
rilegious to kill him, even at his own request (1 Sam. 
xxiv, 6, 10; xxvi, 9, 16; 2 Sam. i, 14). After the de- 
struction of the first Temple, in the Book of Lamenta- 
tions over the calamities of the Hebrew people, it is by 
the name of “ the Lord’s Anointed” that Zedckiah, the 
last king of Judah, is bewailed (Lam. iv, 20). Again, 
more than 600 years after the capture of Zedekiah, the 
name of the Anointed, though never so used in the Old 
Testament — yet suggested, probably, by Psa. ii, 2 ; Dan. 
ix, 26 — had become appropriated to the expected king, 
who was to restore the kingdom of David, and inaugu- 
rate a period when Edom, Moab, the Ammonites, and 
the Philistines would again be incorporated with the 
Hebrew monarchy, which would extend from the Eu- 
phrates to the Mediterranean Sea and to the ends of the 
earth (Acts i, 6; John i, 41 ; iv, 25; Isa. xi, 12-14; Psa. 
lxxii, 8). Thus the identical Hebrew word which sig- 
nifies anointed, through its Aramaic form adopted into 
Greek and Latin, is still preserved to ns in the English 
word Messiah. (Sec Gesenius’s Thesaurus , p. 825.) Sec 
§ 4, below. 

4. Appointment and Inauguration. — The law of suc- 
cession to the throne is somewhat obscure, but it seems 
most probable that the king during his lifetime named 
his successor. This was certainly the case with David, 
who passed over his elder son Adonijah, the son ofllag- 
gith, in favor of Solomon, the son of Batlisheba (1 Kings 

i, 30; ii, 22); and with Itehoboam, of whom it is said 
that he loved Maaehab, the daughter of Absalom, above 
all his wives and concubines, and that he made Abijali 
her son to be ruler among bis brethren, to make him 
king (2 Chron. xi, 21, 22). The succession of the first- 
born has been inferred from a passage in 2 Chron. xxi, 
3, 4, in which Jehoshaphat is said to have given the 
kingdom to Jehoram “ because he was the first*born.” 
But this very passage tends to show that Jehoshaphat 
had the power of naming his successor; and it is wor- 
thy of note that Jehoram, on his coming to the throne, 
put to death all his brothers, which he would scarcely, 
perhaps, have done if the succession of the first-born had 
been the law of the land. From the conciseness of the 
narratives in the books of Kings no inference either way 
can be drawn from the ordinary formula in which the 
death of the father and succession of his son is recorded 
(1 Kings xv, 8). At the same time, if no partiality for 
a favorite wife or son intervened, there would always 
be a natural bias of affection in favor of the eldest son. 
There appears to have been some prominence given to 
the mother of the king (2 Kings xxiv, 12, 15; 1 Kings 

ii, 19), and it is possible that the mother may have been 
regent during the minority of a son. Indeed, some such 
custom best explains the possibility of the audacious 
usurpation of Athaliah on the death of her son Ahaziah : 
a usurpation which lasted six years after the destruc- 
tion of all the seed-royal except the young Jchoash (2 
Kings xi, 1-3). The people, too, and even foreign pow- 
ers, at a later period interrupted the regular transmis- 
sion of royal authority (2 Kings xxi, 24 ; xxiii, 24, 30 ; 
xxiv, 17). See Heir. 

It is supposed both by Jahn (Bib. A rchwol. § 222) and 
Bauer (in his Jfeb. A Itert burner, § 20) that a king was 
only anointed when a new family came to the throne, or 
when the right to the crown was disputed. It is usual- 
ly on such occasions only that the anointing is speci- 
fied, as in 1 Sam. x, 1 ; 2 Sam. ii, 4 ; 1 Kings i, 39 ; 2 
Kings ix, 3; xi, 12; but this is not invariably the case 
(see 2 Kings xxiii, 30), and there does not appear suf- 
ficient reason to doubt that each individual king was 
anointed. There can be little doubt, likewise, that the 


KING 


KING 


86 


kings of Israel were anointed, though this is not speci- 
tied by the writers of Kings and Chronicles, who would 
deem such anointing invalid. The ceremony of anoint- 
ing, which was observed at least in the case of Saul, 
David, and Solomon (1 Sam. ix, 14; x, 1; xv, I; xvi, 
12; 2 Sam. ii, 4; v, 1 ; 1 Kings i,34; xxxix, 5), and in 
which the prophet or high-priest who performed the 
rite acted as the representative of the theocracy and the 
expounder of the will of heaven, must have given to 
the spiritual power very considerable influence; and 
both this particular and the very nature of the ob- 
servance direct the mind to Egypt, where the same 
custom prevailed, and where the power of the priestly 
caste was immense (Wilkiuson’s Anc. Egypt, v, 279 ). 
Indeed, the ceremony seems to have been essential to 
constitute a legitimate monarch (2 Kings xi. 1*2; xxiii, 
30); and thus the authorities of the Jewish Church held 
in their hands, and had subject to their will, a most im- 
portant power, which they could use either for their own 
purposes or the common good. In consequence of the 
general observance of this ceremony, the term “anoint- 
ed,” “ the Lord’s anointed” (1 8am. ii, 10; xvi, G; ^xiv, 

G ; 2 Sam. xix, 21 ; Psa. ii, 2 ; Lam. iv, 20), came to be 
employed in rhetorical and poetical diction as equivalent 
in meaning to the designation “ king.” See Anointing. 

We have seen in the case of Saul that personal and 
even external qualities had their influence in procuring 
ready obedience to a sovereign; and further evidence 
to the same effect may be found in Fsa. xlv, 3; Ezek. 
xxviii, 12 : such qualities would naturally excite the 
enthusiasm of the people, who appear to have manifest- i 
ed their approval by acclamations (1 Sam. x,24; 1 Kings 
i,25: 2 Kings ix, 13; xi, 13 ; 2 Chron. xxiii, 11 ; see also 
Josephus, War , i, 33, 9). 

5. Court and Revenues. — The following is a list of 
some of the officers of the king: 1. The recorder or 
chronicler, who was perhaps analogous to the histori- 
ographer whom sir John Malcolm mentions as an officer 
of the Persian court, whose duty it is to write the an- 
nals of the king’s reign (IJist. of Persia, c. 23). Certain 
it is that there is no regular series of minute dates in 
Hebrew history until we read of this recorder, or remem- 
brancer, as the word muzkir is translated in a marginal 
note of the English version. It signifies one who keeps 
the memory of events alive, in accordance with a mo- 
tive assigned by Herodotus for writing his history, viz. 
that the acts of men might not become extinct by time 
(Herod, i, 1 ; 2 Sam. viii, 1G; 1 Kings iv, 3; 2 Kings 
xviii, 18; Isa. xxxvi, 3, *22). See Kecorder. 2. The 
scribe or secretary, whose duty would be to answer let- 
ters or petitions in the name of the king, to write dis- 
patches, and to draw up edicts (2 Sam. viii, 17 ; xx, 25; 
2 Kings xii, 10; xix, 2; xxii, 8). Sec Scribe. 3. The 
officer who was over the house (Isa. xxxii, 15; xxxvi, 
3). 11 is duties would be those of chief steward of the 

household, and would embrace all the internal economi- 
cal arrangements of the palace, the superintendence of 
the king’s servants, and the custody of his costly ves- 
sels of gold and silver, lie seems to have worn a dis- 
tinctive robe of office and girdle. It was against Sheb- 
na, who held this office, that Isaiah uttered his personal 
prophecy (xxii, 15-25), the only instance of the kind 
in his writings (see Gcscn. Jesa. i, G94). Sec Steward. 
4. The king’s friend (1 Kings iv, 5), called likewise the 
king’s companion, it is evident from the name that 
this officer must have stood in confidential relation to 
the king, but his duties are nowhere specified. 5. The 
keeper of the vestry or wardrobe (2 Kings x, 2*2). G. 
The captain of. the hodv-guard (2 Sam. xx, 23). The 
importance of this officer requires no comment. It was 
he who obeyed Solomon in putting to death Adonijah, 
Joab, and Shiinci (1 Kings ii, 25, 34, 4G). 7. Distinct 

officers over the king’s treasures — his storehouses, la- 
borers, vineyards, olive-trees, and sycamore 1 ! recs, herds, 
camels, and flocks (1 Chron. xxvii, 25-31), 8. The of- 

ficer over all the host or army of Israel, the commander- 
in-chief of the army, who commanded it in person dur- 


ing the king’s absence (2 Sam. xx, 23 ; 1 Chron. xxvii, 
34; 2 Sam. xi, 1). As an instance of the formidable 
power which a general might acquire in this office, see 
the narrative in 2 Sam. iii, 30-37, when David deemed 
himself obliged to tolerate the murder of Abner by Joab 
and Abishai. 9. The royal counsellor (1 Chron. xxvii, 
32; Isa. iii, 3; xix, 11, 13). Ahithophel is a specimen 
of how much such an officer might effect for evil or for 
good; but whether there existed under Hebrew kings 
any body corresponding, even distantly, to the English 
Privy Council in former times, does not appear (2 Sam. 
xvi, 20-23; xvii, 1-14). 

The following is a statement of the sources of the 
royal income: 1. The royal demesnes, corn-fields, vine- 
yards, and olive-gardens. Some at least of these semi 
to have been taken from private individuals, but wheth- 
er as the punishment of rebellion, or on any other plau- 
sible pretext, is not specified (1 Sam. viii, 14; 1 Chron. 
xxvii, 26-28). 2. The produce of the royal flocks (1 

Sam. xxi, 7; 2 Sam. xiii, 23; 2 Chron, xxvi, 10; 1 
Chron. xxvii, 25). 3. A nominal tenth of the produce 
of corn-land and vineyards, and of sheep (1 Sam. viii, 

1 5, 17). 4. A tribute from merchants who passed through 
the Hebrew territory (1 Kings x, 14). 5. Presents made 
by his subjects (1 Sam. x, 27 ; xvi, 20; 1 Kings x, 25; 
Psa. Ixxii, 10). There is, perhaps, no greater distinc- 
tion in the usages of Eastern and Western nations than 
in what relates to the giving and receiving of pres- 
ents. When made regularly, they do, in fact, amount 
to a regular tax. Thus, in the passage last referred to 
in the book of Kings, it is stated that they brought to 
Solomon “ every man his present, vessels of silver and 
vessels of gold, and garments, and armor, and spices, 
horses and nudes, a rate year by year.” G. In the time 
of Solomon, the king had trading vessels of his own at 
sea, which, starting from Eziongebor, brought back once 
in three years gold and silver, ivory, apes, and peacocks 
(1 Kings x, 22). It is probable that Solomon and some 
other kings may have derived some revenue from com' 
mercial ventures (1 Kings ix, 28). 7. The spoils of war 
taken from conquered nations and the tribute paid by 
them (2 Sam. viii, 2,7,8, 10; 1 Kings iv, 21 ; 2 Chron. 
xxvii, 5). 8. Lastly, an undefined power of exacting 

compulsory labor, to which reference has already been 
made (1 Sam. viii, 12, 13, 1G). As far as this power was 
exercised it was equivalent to so much iucome. There 
is nothing in 1 Sam. x, 25, or in 2 Sam. v, 3, to justify 
the statement that the Hebrews defined in express terms, 
or in any terms, by a particular agreement or covenant 
for that purpose, what services should be rendered to the 
king, or what he could legally require. See Solomon. 

G. Usages . — A ruler in whom so much authority, human 
and divine, was embodied, was naturally distinguished 
by outward honors and luxuries. He had a court of Ori- 
ental magnificence. When the power of the kingdom 
was at its height, he sat on a throne of ivory, covered 
with pure gold, at the feet of which were two figures of 
lions, with others on the steps approaching the throne. 
The king was dressed in royal robes (1 Kings xxii, 10; 
2 Chron. xviii, 9): his insignia were a crown or diadem 
of pure gold, or perhaps radiant with precious stones (2 
Sam. i, 10; xii, 30; 2 Kings xi, 12; Psa. xxi, 3), and a 
royal sceptre (Ezek. xix, 11; Isa. xiv, 5; Psa. xlv, G; 
Amos i, 5, 8). Those who approached him did him obei- 
sance, bowing down and touching the ground with their 
foreheads (l Sam. xxiv, 8; 2 Sam. xix, 24); and this 
was done even by a king’s wife, the mother of Solomon 
(1 Kings i, 1G). 11 is officers and subjects called them- 
selves his servants or slaves, though they do not seem 
habitually to have given way to such extravagant salu- 
tations as in the Chaldean and Persian courts (1 Sam. 
xvii, 32, 31, 3G; xx, 8; 2 Sam. vi, 20; Dan. ii, 4). As 
in the East at present, a kiss was a sign of respect and 
homage (1 Sam. x, 1 ; perhaps Psa. ii, 12). He lived in 
a splendid palace, with porches and columns (1 Kings 
vii,2-7). All his drinking-vessels were of gold (1 Kings 
x, 21). 


KING 


87 


KING 


At his accession, in addition to the anointing men- 
tioned above, jubilant music formed a part of the popu- 
lar rejoieings (1 Kings i, 40) ; thank-offerings were made 
(1 Kings i, 25) ; the new sovereign rode in solemn pro- 
cession on the royal mule of his predecessor (1 Kings i, 
38), and took possession of the royal harem — an act 
which seems to have been scarcely less essential than 
other observances which appear to us to wear a higher 
character (1 Kings ii, 13, 22; 2 Sam. xvi, 22). A nu- 
merous harem, indeed, was among the most highly esti- 
mated of the royal luxuries (2 Sam. v, 13; 1 Kings xi, 
1 ; xx, 3). It was under the supervision and control of 
eunuchs, and passed from one monarch to another as a 
part of the crown property (2 Sam. xii, 8). The law 
(Dent, xv ii, 17), foreseeing evils such as that by which 
Solomon, in his later years, was turned away from his 
fidelity to God, had strictly forbidden many wives; but 
Eastern passions and usages were too strong for a mere 
written prohibition, and a corrupted religion became a 
pander to royal lust, interpreting the divine command 
as sanctioning eighteen as the minimum of wives and 
concubines. 

Deriving their power originally from the wishes of 
the people, and being one of the same raee, the Hebrew 
kings were naturally less despotic than other Oriental 
sovereigns, mingled more with their subjects, and were 
by no means difficult of access (2 Sam. xix, 8; 1 Kings 
xx, 39 ; Jer. xxxviii, 7 ; 1 Kings iii, 16 ; 2 Kings vi, 26 ; 
viii, 3). After death the monarchs were interred in the 
royal cemetery in Jerusalem : “ So David slept with his 
fathers, and was buried in the city of David” (1 Kings 
ii, 10; xi, 43; xiv, 31). But bad kings were excluded 
“ from the sepulchres of the kings of Israel” (2 Chron. 
xxviii, 27). — Kitto; Smith. 

See Schickard, Jus Reginm llebrceor. (Tubing. 1621) ; 
Carpzov, Appar. Crit. p. 52 ; Michaelis, Mos. Recht. i, 
298 ; Otho, Lex. Rabbin, p. 575 ; Hess. Gesch. d. K. Juda 
and Israels (Ziir. 1787) ; Iloutuyn, Monorchia Ilebreeo - 
rum (Leyd. 1685) ; Newman, Hebrew Monarchy (Lond. 
1847, 1853); Pastoret, Legislation dcs Ihbreux (Paris, 
1817); Salvador, Hist, des Lnstitutiones de Moist (Paris, 
1828); Hullmann, Staatsrerfassimg der Israeliten (Lpz. 
1834) ; Maurice, Kings and Prophets of the. 0. T. (Lond. 
1852, Bost. 1858) ; Brit, and For. Evang . Review , April, 
1861. See 31 onarci i y. 

King is the name of the five canonical works of the 
followers of Confucius. See the art. Coxfucius in vol. 
ii, p. 470 sq., especially p. 472. 

King, Alonzo, a Baptist minister, was born in Wil- 
braliam, Mass., April 1 , 1796. 11 is early educational ad- 
vantages were few; but in 1818 he went to proseeute 
his studies in the family of the Bev. Leland Howard, 
then pastor of the Baptist church in Windsor, Vt., where 
he was converted to Christ. He afterwards entered 
Waterville College, Maine, and graduated in 1825. lie 
was ordained pastor of the Baptist Church in North 
Yarmouth, Me., in 1826, subsequently of a small church 
in North borough, Mass., and finally settled at Westbor- 
ough, 3 lass., where he died in 1835. King was a man 
of great humility, self-consecration, and self-abandon- 
ment. His preaching was never bold or startling, but 
always quiet, tender, persuasive. lie had a talent for 
lyric poetry, and many of his productions arc abroad 
without his name. Ilis style as a writer was pure, with 
a decided cast of the imaginative or poetic, which was 
always apparent in his sermons and his printed produc- 
tions. He compiled the Memoir of the distinguished 
missionary, Bev. George D. Boardman. See Sprague, 
A finals of the A merican Pulpit , vi, 747. (J. L. S.) 

King, Barnabas, D.D., a Presbyterian minister, 
was born in New Marlborough, Mass., June 2, 1780. 
"W bile yet in his 14th year, his great proficiency in 
study attracted the attention of Dr. Catline, who after- 
wards bore all the expense of fitting him for Williams 
College, Mass., whieh he entered in 1802. In 1804 he 
graduated, and then for a year taught school and stud- 


ied theology with Dr. Catline. In 1805 he was licensed 
by the Berkshire Congregational Association, Mass., and 
in 1805 was ordained by the Presbytery, and installed 
as pastor of the Ilockaway Church, N. J., where he con- 
tinued to preach till 1848; his congregation then called 
a colleague pastor, which relation continued until the 
deatli of Dr. King, April 10, 1862. King was a man of 
admirable character; his consistent piety no one ques- 
tioned, and his sympathetic heart made him a model 
pastor. As a preacher, his style was very simple, but 
scriptural, and usually very earnest. See Wilson, Pres- 
byterian Hist. Almanac. 1863. (J. L. S.) 

King, Charles, the noted president of Columbia 
College, was born in New York, 31 arch 16, 1789. In 
company with his father, Bnfus King, he went to Eng- 
land, and, during his residence at the court of St. James 
as the representative of the American government, 
young Charles attended Harrow School, and later went 
to Paris to further prepare himself for admission to col- 
lege. He, however, afterwards abandoned this inten- 
tion and entered the mercantile profession. In 1823 he 
became co-editor of the New York American. In 1849 
he was chosen president of Columbia College. lie died 
at Frascati, near Borne, in Italy, Sept. 27, 1867. A list 
of his works, which are not of special interest to theo- 
logical students, is given by Allibonc, Diet, ef English 
and American Authors, ii, s. v. ; New American Cyclo- 
paedia , 1867, p. 425. 

King, Edward, a noteworthy English antiquary 
and lawyer, was born in 1735 in Norfolk, and was a 
graduate of Cambridge University. He was elected 
F.B.S. in 1767 and F.S.A. in 1770. He died in 1807. 
King wrote a number of works connected with theolo- 
gy, politics, political economy, and antiquities. We have 
room here only to note his Morsels of Criticisms , tending 
to Illustrate some few Passages in Holy Scripture upon 
philosophical Principles and an enlarged View of Things 
(Lond. 1788, 4to, and since). The contents of tl is work 
are: On the word “Heaven” in the Lord’s Prayer; 
Septnagint Translation of Genesis; John the Baptist be- 
ing Elias; Future coming of Christ; Day of Judgment; 
Series of Events in Bevelation ; Daniel’s Frophecy; 
Deaths of Ananias and Sapphira; Dissertations on 
Light; The Heavens; Stars; Fluid of Heat ; 3Iiracles; 
Jacob and Esau ; Soul, Body, Spirit, etc. King’s learn- 
ing was profound and extensive, but he was so inclined 
to the speculative and hypothetical that he perpetually 
fell into diffieulty by advancing statements whieh he 
was unqualified to establish. The want of discrimina- 
tion between theory and fact, supposition and reality, 
together with the tenacity with which he clung to his 
premature conclusions when assailed, proved quite det- 
rimental. In a work of his treating on the signs of the 
times, he was very desirous of tracing the history of the 
French Bevolution to the records of sacred antiquity; 
he also ventured to assert the genuineness of the second 
book of Esclras in the Apocrypha. He was replied to 
by Gough and bishop Horsley. See Chalmers’s Biog. 
Diet. vol. xix (Lond. 1815) ; Watkins’s 7? io*/. Diet. (Lond. 
1820); Blake’s Biog. ])ict. (3d edit. Phila. 1840); Alli- 
bone, Diet, of Engl, and American A uthors , ii, s. v. 

King, Henry, D.D., bishop of Chichester, and eld- 
est son of John King (q. v.), was born at Wornall, Buck- 
inghamshire, in Jan. 1591. He studied at Westminster 
School, from whence he was elected to Christ Chureh, 
Oxford, in 1608. Having entered the Church, he be- 
came chaplain to king James 1, archdeacon of Colches- 
ter, residentiary of St. Paul’s, and canon of Christ Church ;• 
dean of Boehcster in 1638, and finally bishop of Chi- 
chester in 1641. Although he was generally considered 
a Puritan, and his nomination had been a measure to 
conciliate that party, he remained a faithful adherent 
of the king during the civil war, and at the Bestoration 
was reinstalled in his bishopric. He died Oct. 1, 1669. 
He was considered a very successful preacher and a 
learned divine. His principal works are, Aw Exposition 


KING 


88 


KING 


upon the Lord's Prayer (London, 1034, 4to) : — A Sermon I 
of Deliverance, Psa. xci, 3 (Lond. 1626, 4to) : — Two Ser- 
mons upon the Act Sunday , July 10, 1625 (Oxford, 1G25, 
4to) : — The Psalms of David turned into Metre (1621, 
12mo; new edition, with biographical notice, notes, etc., i 
by Dr. John Hannah, 1843, 12mo); etc. Sec Wood, Athe- 
na? Oxonienses, vol. ii; Ellis, Specimens, vol. iii; Chal- 
mers, Gen. Bioy. Dictionary ; Iloefer, Nouv. Dioy. Ge- 
nerate, xxvii, 739 ; Allibonc, Diet, of English and Amer- 
ican A uthors, ii, s. v. (J. N. P.) 

King, James S.,a Presbyterian minister, was bom 
at Albany, N. Y., Aug. 20, 1832. He graduated from the 
College of New Jersey, Princeton, X. J., and studied the- 
ology in the Princeton Seminary. He was licensed by 
the New York Presbytery, and in 1858 ordained and in- 
stalled pastor of the Uockland Lake Church, New York, 
where lie was cpiite successful and greatly beloved by 
his people. Failing health, however, compelled him to 
withdraw from the active duties of the pastorate. Dur- 
ing the period of his necessitated rest he did some effec- 
tive work. 1 Ic died at Woodlawn, near Sing Sing, New 
York, Sept. 15, 1864. Mr. King was an estimable min- 
ister, of good talents, and thoroughly consecrated to his 
work. See Wilson, Prcsb. Hist. Almanac, 18GG, p. 126; 
Appleton, A nnual Cyclopaedia , 1865, p. 468. 

King, John (1), D.D., bishop of London, an English 
theologian and a descendant of Pobert King, first bishop 
of Oxford, was born at Wornall, Buckinghamshire, about 
1559. He studied at Christ Church, Oxford. Having 
entered the Church, he became successively chaplain to 
queen Elizabeth, archdeacon of Nottingham in 1590, 
D.D. in 1601, dean of Christ Church in iG05, and, final- 
ly, bishop of London in 1611. lie died in 1621. James 
I called him the king of preachers. He wrote Lectures 
upon Jonas, delivered at Yorke, 1594 (Lond. 1611, 4to), 
and some Sermons. See Wood, A thence Oxonienses, vol. 
i ; Dodd, Church History, vol. i ; Iloefer, Nouv. Biog. Ge- 
nerate, xxvii, 739; Allibonc, Diet, of English and Amer- 
ican A uthors. 

King, J ohn (25, D.D., an English theologian, was 
born in Cornwall in 1652. He studied at Oxford and 
Cambridge, and became snccosively rector of Chelsea 
and (in 1731) prebendary of the Cathedral of York. He 
died M ay 30, 1732. King wrote Animaehersions (2d ed. 
1702, 4 to): — The Case of John Atherton, Bishop of Wa- 
terford (Yi Id, 8vo) ; and a number of Sermons . — Hoefer, 
Nouv. Biog. Generate, xxii, 742. 

King, John (3), a Methodist minister, of whose 
early history nothing is definitely known, was one of 
the first lay evangelists who founded Methodism in this 
country. lie came from London to America in the lat- 
ter part of 1769, and his enthusiastic sympathy with the 
pioneer Methodists led him to throw himself imme- 
diately into their ranks. The Church hesitated when 
he presented himself for license, but, persistent in his 
determination to preach, he made an appointment “in 
the Potter’s Field,” where he proclaimed his first mes- 
sage over the graves of the poor, and began a career of 
eminent usefulness. Afterwards he was licensed, and 
stationed in Wilmington, Del. Thence he went into 
Maryland, and was the first to introduce Methodism to 
the people of Baltimore. In this latter place he preach- 
ed from tables in the public streets, and suffered much 
opposition from frequent mobs. King was afterwards 
received into the regular itinerancy, lie was a mem- 
ber of the tirst Conference of 1773, and was appointed 
to New Jersey. He soon after entered Virginia ; still 
later he was again in New Jersey. lie located during 
the Ilevolution, but in 1801 reappeared in the itinerant 
ranks in Virginia, and finally located in 1803. King 
was a pious, zealous, and useful man. lie died at an 
advanced ago, in the vicinity of Baleigh, N. C. Tie was 
probably the only survivor, at the time of his decease, 
of all the preachers of ante-revolutionary date. — Stevens, 
Hist, of the M. E. Church , i, 87. (J. L. S.) 

King, John Glen, D.D., F.K.S., F.A.S., a distin- 


guished English theologian and antiquarian, was bom 
in Norfolk about 1731. He studied at Cains College, 
Cambridge, entered the Church, and in 1764 was ap- 
pointed chaplain to the English factory at Petersburg, 
lie afterwards became successively rector of Wormley, 
Hertfordshire (in 1783), and minister of the cliapel in 
Broad Court, Drury Lane, London (in 1786). lie died 
Nov. 3, 1787. King wrote The Bites and Ceremonies of 
the Greek Church in Russia, containing an Account of Us 

Doctrine, Worship, and Discipline (Lond. 1772, 4to) : A 

Letter to the Bishop of Durham, containing some Obser- 
vations on the Climate of Russia, etc. (Lond. 1778, 4to); 
etc. See Gent. Magazine , lvii and lix; Chalmers, Gen. 
Biog. Dictionary ; Allibone, Dictionary of English and 
American Authors, ii, 1031. 

King, John L., a Presbyterian minister, was born 
in Indiana Feb. 1, 1835; was educated at Knox College, 
Galesburg, III., and studied divinity in Lane Theological 
Seminary, Ohio ; was licensed and ordained at Cincin- 
nati in 1861, and then assumed the pastorate at Wil- 
liamsport, Indiana ; afterwards labored as a missionary 
among the sailors at Detroit, Michigan, and finally went 
to Idaho and Colorado Territories. He died near Den- 
ver, Nov. 10, 1866. Mr. King was a man of ripe schol- 
arly attainments and fine abilities, earnestly devoted es- 
pecially to the work of elementary religious teaching. — 
Wilson, Presb. Historical Almanac, 1867. 

King, Peter, lord chancellor of England, was bom 
at Exeter, Devonshire, in 1669; went to Holland, and 
studied at the university at Leyden, and upon his re- 
turn to England studied law at Lincoln’s Inn, and be- 
came member of Parliament in 1699. In 1708 he was 
appointed recorder of London, and knighted. At the 
accession of George I he was made lord chief justice of 
the Court of Common Pleas, and soon after promoted to 
the peerage as lord King, baron of Ockham. He was 
made lord chancellor in 1725, but does not seem to have 
been as successful in that position as was expected. lie 
died in 1733. He was well versed in both ecclesiastical 
history and the law. 11 is principal works are, A n Enqui- 
ry into the Constitution, Discipline, Unity , and Worship of 
the Primitive Church, etc. [Anon.] (Lond. 1712, 8vo) : in 
this, his first publication, he advocated, with much abil- 
ity and learning, the right of Protestant dissenters from 
cpiscopaev to be comprehended in the scheme of the 
national establishment. The work excited much atten- 
tion, and provoked much discussion, especially when the 
second edition was issued (1713). Prominent among 
the opponents was the nonj tiring Selater, who wrote an 
Answer to it. King himself has been said to have af- 
terwards altered liis opinion on the subject : — The His- 
tory of the Apostles' Creed, with critical Observations on 
its several Articles [Anon.] (London, 1702, 8 vo) — a work 
displaying extraordinary learning and judgment, and 
highly commended by the ablest critics, among others 
by Mosheim. Sec Gentleman's Magazine, vol. lxii and 
lxx; Chalmers, General Biog. Dictionary ; Lord Camp- 
bell, Lives of Lords Chancellors ; Allibone, Diet, of Eng- 
lish and A merican A uthors, s. v. (J. II. W.) 

King, Richard, an English theologian, was bom 
at Bristol in 1749; studied at the University of Oxford, 
and became successively rector of Steeple, Morden, and 
of Worthing. He. died in 1810. King wrote Letters 
from A brakam Phjmley to his Brother Peter on the Cath- 
olic Question (Lond. 1803, 8vo), which created some sen- 
sation : — On the Inspiration of the Scriptures (1805, 8vo) : 
— On the Alliance between Church and State (1807, 8vo). 
II is wife, Frances Elizabeth Bernard, wrote Female 
Scripture Biography (12th edit. London, 1840, 12mo): — 
The Bemf ts of the Christian Temper ; etc. See Gent. 
Magazine (1810); Iiosc, New Biographical Dictionary , 
s. v. 

King, Thomas Starr, a Unitarian minister, was 
born in New York Dec. 16, 1824. II is father, Lev. T. F. 
King, was a Universalist clergyman of very decided 
ability, but died in the prime of life, and Thomas, at 


KING 


S9 


KINGDOM OF GOD 


the age of twelve years, while fitting to enter Harvard I 
College, found himself the principal support of a large I 
family. He managed, however, successfully to complete 1 
his studies, and in September, 1845, preached his first 
sermon in Woburn, Mass. The next year he was set- 
tled over his father’s former charge in Charlestown, 
whence he was called in 1848 to the Hollis Street Uni- 
tarian Church, Boston, where he preached with great 
acceptance and a constantly increasing reputation till 
1800, when he accepted the call of the Unitarian Church 
in San Francisco to become their pastor. He entered 
upon his new duties with a zeal and energy which won I 
the hearts of the people, and ere long he was as thor- j 
oughlv identified with California interests as if his J 
whole life had been spent there. His congregation in- j 
creased in numbers and power with great rapidity; but 
lie was a preacher for the whole city and state, and 
crowds liung upon his eloquent utterances, and his bold, 
earnest words. At the outbreak of our late civil war, 
King, finding California in a hesitating position, flung 
himself into the breach, and by his elocpience and ear- 
nestness saved the state ; and when the sanitary com- 
mission was organized, he first set in motion, and through 
the next three years pushed forward, the efforts in be- 
half of the sick and wounded soldiers. Ilis labors in 
this cause, added to his pastoral duties, were too severe 
for his strength, and he died March 4, 1864, after a very 
brief illness. Mr. King published several discourses and 
addresses, etc. — Appleton, New American Cyclopaedia, 
1865, p. 468. 

King, William, (I), archbishop of Dublin, a learn- 
ed divine and metaphysician, was born at Antrim, prov- 
ince of Ulster, Ireland, May 1, 1G50. He studied at 
Trinity College, Dublin, entered the Church in 1674, and 
became chaplain to Parker, archbishop of Tuam. The 
latter being translated to the archbishopric of Dublin in 
1G7D, King became chancellor of St. Patrick and St. 
Marburgh, Dublin. Ireland was then a prey to violent 
religious controversies, which served also as a cloak for 
political dissensions. King wrote several pamphlets 
against Peter Manbv, dean of Londonderry, who had 
embraced Roman Catholicism. In 1688 he was made 
dean of St. Patrick. The Revolution breaking out soon 
after, and James II having taken refuge in Ireland, King 
was twice sent to the Tower of Dublin as a partisan of 
the insurgents. He defended his opinions in a work 
entitled The State of the Protestants of Ireland under 
the late King Jameses Government (3d and best ed. Loud. 
1692, 8vo), which gave rise to a controversy between 
him and Charles Leslie, a partisan of the fallen mon- 
arch. In 1691 King was made bishop of Derry, and 
applied himself with much zeal to the task of bringing 
back into the Church the dissenters of his diocese. lie 
finally became archbishop of Dublin in 1702, was ap- 
pointed one of the lords justices of Ireland in 1717, and 
again in 1721 and 1723, and died at Dublin May 8, 1729. 
He was through life held in high esteem as a man, as 
well as in his character of a prelate and writer on the- 
ology. His principal work in that line is the De Origine 
Mali (Dublin, 1702, 4to ; Loml. 1702, 8vo). “ The object 
of this work is to show how all the several kinds of evil 
with which the world abounds arc consistent with the 
goodness of God, and may be accounted for without the 
supposition of an evil principle.” It was attacked by 
Bayle and also by Leibnitz : by the former for the 
charges of Manichajism made against him, and by the 
latter because King had taken him to task for his opti- 
mism. King, however, during his life made no reply, 
but he left among his papers notes of answers to their 
arguments, and these were given to the world after his 
death by Dr. Edmund Law, bishop of Carlisle, together 
with a translation of the treatise itself (Camb. 1758, 8vo). 
In 1 709 he published a sermon on Divine Predestination 
and Foreknowledge consistent with the Freedom of Man's 
Will, preached before the House of Peers. In this work 
he advanced a doctrine concerning the moral attributes 
of God as being different from the moral qualities of the 


same name in man. This valuable and most important 
work was often reprinted (Exeter, 1815, 8vo; London, 
1821, 8vo; and in the Tracts of Angl. Fathers, ii, 225). 
He wrote also A Discourse concerning the Inventions of 
Men in the Worship of God (Lond. 1697, sm. 8vo) : — An 
Admonition to the Dissenters (London, 1706, sm. 8vo) : — 
An Account of King James Il's Behavior to his Protes- 
tant Subjects of Ireland, etc. (Lond. 174G, 8vo) : — A Vin- 
dication of the Rev. Dr. Henry Sacheverell, etc. [Anon.] 
(Lond. 1710, 8 vo) ; etc. See Bibliographia Britannica ; 
Chalmers, General Biographical Dictionary ; Cyelopcvdia 
Bibliographica, ii, 1730 ; Hook, Ecclesiastical Biography . 
vi, 456 ; English Cyclopaedia, s. v. ; and especially Alli- 
bone, Diet. Engl, and A m. A uth. ii, 1032. (J. N. P.) 

King, William, (2), a Scotch Presbyterian minis- 
ter, was born in Tyrone, Ireland. He emigrated to 
America in 1830, and became pastor of a church at Kel- 
son, Canada West. After laboring there faithfully and 
earnestly for many years he removed to Carador, C.W., 
where he died, March 13, 1859. 

Kingdom of God or of Heaven (>/ fiaoCkda 
rou Dfou or twv o vpaviov). In the New Testament 
the phrases “kingdom of God” (Matt, vi, 33 ; Mark i, 
14, 15; Luke iv, 43; vi, 20; John iii, 3, 5), “kingdom 
of Christ” (Matt, xiii, 41 ; xx, 21 ; Rev. i, 9), “kingdom 
of Christ and of God” (Epli. v, 5), “kingdom of David,” 
i. e. as the ancestor and type of the Messiah (Mark xi, 
104, “the kingdom” (Matt, viii, 12; xiii, 19; ix, 53), and 
“kingdom of heaven” (Matt, iii, 2; iv, 17 ; xiii, 41, 31, 
33, 44, 47; 2 Tim. iv. 18), are all synonymous, and sig- 
nify the divine spiritual kingdom, the glorious reign of 
the Messiah. The idea of tins kingdom has its basis in 
the prophecies of the Old Testament, where the coining 
of the Messiah and his triumphs are foretold (Psa. ii, 6- 
12; ci, 1-7 ; Isa. ii, 1-4; Mic. iv, I ; Isa. xi, 1-10; Jer. 
xxiii, 5, G; xxxi, 31-34; xxxii, 37-44; xxxiii, 14-18; 
Ezek. xxxiv, 23-31 ; xxxvii, 24-28 ; Dan. ii, 44; vii, 14, 
27 ; ix, 25, 27). In these passages the reign of the Mes- 
siah is figuratively described as a golden age, when the 
true religion, and with it the Jewish theocracy, should 
be re-established in more than pristine purity, and uni- 
versal peace and happiness prevail. All this was doubt- 
less to be understood in a spiritual sense; and so the 
devout Jews of our Saviour’s time appear to have un- 
derstood it, as Zacharias, Simeon, Anna, and Joseph 
(Luke i, 67-79 ; ii, 25-30; xxiii, 50-51). But the Jews 
at large gave to these prophecies a temporal meaning, 
and expected a Messiah who should come in the clouds 
of heaven, and, as king of the Jewish nation, restore the 
ancient religion and worship, reform the corrupt morals 
of the people, make expiation for their sins, free them 
from the yoke of foreign dominion, and at length reign 
over the whole earth in peace and glory (Matt, v, 19; 
viii, 12 ; xviii, I ; xx, 21 ; Luke xvii, 20 ; xix, 1 1 ; Acts 
i, 6). This Jewish temporal sense appears to have been 
also held by the apostles before the day of Pentecost. 

It has been well observed by Knobel, in his work On 
the Prophets, that “Jesus did not acknowledge himself 
called upon to fulfil those theocratic announcements 
which had an earthly political character, in the sense 
in which they were uttered; for his plan was spiritual 
and universal, neither including worldly interests, nor 
contracted within national and political limits. lie gave, 
accordingly, to all such announcements a higher and 
more general meaning, so as to realize them in accord- 
ance with such a scheme. Thus, 1. The prophets had 
announced that Jehovah would deliver his people from 
the political calamities into which, through the con- 
quering might of their foes, they had been brought. 
This Jesus fulfilled, but in a higher sense, lie beheld 
the Jewish and heathen world under the thraldom of 
error and of sin, in circumstances of moral calamity, and 
he regarded himself as sent to effect its deliverance. In 
this sense he announced himself as the Redeemer, who 
had come to save the world, to destroy the works of the 
devil, to annihilate the powers of evil, and to bring men 
| from the kingdom of darkness to the kingdom of light. 


KINGDOM OF GOD 


90 


KINGDOM OF GOD 


2. The prophets had predicted that Jehovah would again 
be united to his restored people, would dwell among 
them, and no more give up the theocratic relation. 
This also Jesus fultilled in a higher sense. lie found 
mankind in a state of estrangement from God, arising 
from their lying in sin, and he viewed it as his vocation 
to bring them back to God. He reconciled men to God 
— gave them access to God — united them to him as his 
dear children, and made his people one with God as he 
himself is one. 3. The prophets had declared that Je- 
hovah would make his people, thus redeemed and re- 
united to him, supremely blessed in the enjoyment of 
all earthly pleasures. To communicate such blessings 
in the literal acceptance of the words was no part of the 
work of Jesus; on the contrary, he often tells his follow- 
ers that they must lay their account with much suffer- 
ing. The blessings which he offers are of a spiritual 
kind, consisting in internal and unending fellowship 
with God. This is the life, the life eternal. In the 
passages where he seems to speak of temporal blessings 
(e. g. Matt, viii, 11 ; xix, 27, etc.) he either speaks met- 
aphorically or in "reference to the ideas of those whom 
he addressed, and who were not quite emancipated from 
carnal hopes. 4. The prophets had predicted, in gen- 
eral, the re-establishment of their people into a mighty 
state, which should endure upon the earth in imperish- 
able splendor as an outward community. This prospect 
Jesus realized again in a higher and a spiritual sense by 
establishing a religious invisible community, internally 
united by oneness of faith in God and of pure desire, 
which ever grows and reaches its perfection only in an- 
other life. The rise and progress of this man cannot i 
observe, for its existence is in the invisible life of the j 
spirit (Luke xvii, 20), yet the opposition of the wicked | 
is an evidence of its approach (Matt, xii, 28). It has 
no political designs, for it ‘is not of this world;’ and 
there are found in it no such gradations of rank as in ' 
earthly political communities (Matt, xx, 25). What is 
external is not essential to it ; its prime element is mind, 
pious, devoted to God, and pleasing God. Hence the 
kingdom of Jesus is composed of those who turn to God 
and his ambassadors, and in faith and life abide true to 
them. From this it is clear how sometimes this king- 
dom may be spoken of as present, and sometimes as future. : 
Religious and moral truth works forever, and draws un- 
der its influence one after another, until at length it shall 
reign over all. In designating this community, Jesus 1 
made use of terms having a relation to the ancient the- 
ocracy; it is the kingdom of God or of heaven, though, 
at the same time, it is represented rather as the family 
than as the Mate of God. This appears from many other 
phrases. The head of the ancient community was call- 
ed Lord and King; that of the new is called Father ; 
the members of the former were servants, i. e. subjects 
of Jehovah; those of the latter are sons of God; the 
feeling of the former towards God is described as the 
fear of Jehovah; that of the latter is believing confi- 
dence or lore; the chief duty of the former was righteous- 
ness ; the first duty of the latter is love . All these ex- 
pressions are adapted to the constitution of the sacred 
community, either as a divine state or as a divine family. 
It needs hardly to be mentioned that Jesus extended its 
fulfilment of these ancient prophecies in this spiritual 
sense to all men.” 

Referring to the Old-Testament idea, we may there- 
fore regard the “ kingdom of heaven,” etc., in the New 
Testament, as designating, in its Christian sense, the 
Christian dispensation, or the community of those who 
receive Jesus as the Messiah, and who, united by his 
Spirit under him as their I lead, rejoice in the truth, and 
live a holy life in love and in communion with him 
(Matt, iii, 2: iv. 17, 23; ix, 35; x, 7 ; Mark i, 14, 15; 
Luke x, 3, 1 1 ; xxiii, 51 ; Acts xxvii. 31). This spirit- 
ual kingdom has both an internal and external form. As 
internal and spiritual, it already exists and rules in the 
hearts of all Christians, and is therefore present (Rom. 
xiv, 17 ; Matt, vi, 33 ; Mark x, 15 ; Luke xvii, 21 ; xviii, 


17; John iii, 3, 5; 1 Cor. iv, 20). 1 1 “ suffereth violence,” 
implying the eagerness with which the Gospel was re- 
ceived in the agitated state of men’s minds (Matt, xi, 
12; Luke xvi.G). As extenial.it is either embodied in 
the visible Church of Christ, and in so far is present and 
progressive (Matt, vi, 10; xii, 28; xiii, 24, 31, 33, 41,47 ; 
xvi, 10,28; Mark iv,30; xi, 10; Luke xiii, 18,20; Acts 
xix, 8 ; I leb. xii, 28), or it is to be perfected in the com- 
ing of the Messiah to judgment and his subsequent 
spiritual reign in bliss and glory, in which view it is fu- 
ture (Matt, xiii, 43; xxvi,29; Mark xiv, 25; Luke xxii, 
20,30; 2 Pet. i, 1 1 ; Rev. xii, 10). In this latter view it 
denotes especially the bliss of heaven , eternal life, which 
is to be enjoyed in the Redeemer’s kingdom (Matt, viii, 
11 ; xxv, 34; Mark ix, 47; Luke xiii, 18,20; Acts xiv, 
22; 1 Cor. vi, 0, 20; xv, 50; Gal. v. 21; Eph. v, 5; 2 
Thess. i, 5; 2 Tim. iv, 18; James ii, 5). I>ut these dif- 
ferent aspects are not always distinguished, the expres- 
sion often embracing both the internal and external 
sense, and referring both to its commencement in this 
world and its completion in the world to come (Matt, v, 
3,10,20; vii, 21; xi. 11 ; xiii, 11,52; xviii. 3, 4; Col. i, 
13 ; 1 Thess. ii, 12). In Luke i, 33, it is said of the king- 
dom of Christ “there shall be no end;” whereas in 1 
Cor. xv, 24-2G, it is said “ he shall deliver up the king- 
dom to God, even the Father.” The contradiction is 
only in appearance. The latter passage refers to the 
mediatorial dominion of Christ; and when the mediato- 
rial work of the Saviour is accomplished, then, at the 
final judgment, he will resign forever his mediatorial 
office, while the reign of Christ as God supreme will 
never cease. “Ilis throne,” in the empire of the uni- 
verse, is forever and ever” (Ileb. i, 8). 

‘‘ There is reason to believe not only that the expres- 
sion kingdom of heaven, as used in the New Test., was 
employed as synonymous with kingdom of God, as re- 
ferred to in the Old Test., but that the former expres- 
sion had become common among the Jews of our Lord’s 
time for denoting the state of things expected to be 
brought in hv the Messiah. The mere* use of the ex- 
pression as it first occurs in Matthew, uttered apparent- 
ly by John Raptist, and our Lord himself, without a 
note of explanation, as if all perfectly understood what 
was meant by it, seems alone conclusive evidence of 
this. The Old-Testament constitution, and the writings 
belonging to it, bad familiarized the Jews with the ap- 
plication of the terms king and kingdom to God, not 
merely with reference to his universal sovereignty, but 
also to bis special connection with the people he had 
chosen for himself (1 Sam. xii, 12; Rsn. ii, G; v, 2; xx, 
0; 1 Chron.xxix, 11; 2 Cliron. xiii, 8, etc.). In Daniel, 
however, where pointed expression required to be given 
to tlie difference in this respect between what is of earth 
and what is of heaven, we find matters ordered on a cer- 
tain occasion with a view to bring out the specific lesson 
that ‘the heavens do rule’ (iv, 2G); and in the inter- 
pretation given to the vision, which had been granted 
to Nebuchadnezzar, it was said, with more special refer- 
ence to New-Testameut times, that ‘in the days of those 
(earthly) kings the God of heaven (lit. of the heavens) 
should set up a kingdom that should never be destroy- 
ed’ (ii, 44). In still another vision granted to Daniel 
himself, this divine kingdom was represented under the 
image of ‘one like a Son of man coming with the clouds 
of heaven, and there was given him dominion, and glo- 
ry, and a kingdom, that all people, nations, and lan- 
guages should serve him’ (vii, 13, 14). It appears to 
have been in consequence of the phraseology thus in- 
troduced and sanctioned by Daniel that the expression 
1 kingdom of heaven’ r-1-b’C, malhith husha- 

mdyim ) passed into common usage among the Jews, and 
was but another nanie with them for a state of fellow- 
ship with God and devotedness to his service. Many 
examples of this are given bv Wet stein on Matt, iii, 2 
from Jewish writings: thus, ‘He who confesses God to 
be one, and repeats Dent, vi, 4, takes up the kingdom of 
heaven;’ ‘Jacob called bis sons and commanded them 


KINGDOM OF ISRAEL 


91 


KINGS 


concerning the ways of Gotl, and they took upon them 
the kingdom of heaven ‘The sons of Achasius did not 
take upon them the yoke of the kingdom of heaven; 
they did not acknowledge the Lord, for they said, There 
is not a kingdom in heaven,’ etc. The expression, in- 
deed, does not seem to have been used specifically with 
reference to the Messiah’s coming, or the state to be in- 
troduced by him (for the examples produced by Schott- 
gen [ De Messia, ch. ii] are scarcely in point); but when 
the Lord himself was declared to be at hand to remodel 
everything, and visibly take the government, as it were, 
on his shoulder, it would be understood of itself that 
here the kingdom of heaven should be found concen- 
trating itself, and that to join one’s self to Messiah would 
be in the truest sense to take up the yoke of that king- 
dom” (Fairbairn). See Kingly Office of Christ. 

The scriptural and popular usages of the term ‘‘king- 
dom of God,” “ kingdom of heaven,” etc., serve as a elew 
to the otherwise rather abrupt proclamation of the Bap- 
tist and Jesus at the very beginning of their public min- 
istrations. It is true that in the Old Testament the 
kingdom or reign of God usually signifies his infinite 
power, or, more properly, his sovereign authority over 
all creatures, kingdoms, and hearts. See King. Thus 
Wisdom says (x, 10), God showed his kingdom to Ja- 
cob, i. e. he opened the kingdom of heaven to him in 
showing him the mysterious ladder by which the an- 
gels ascended and descended ; and Eeclesiasticus (xlvii, 
13) says, God gave to David the covenant assurance, or 
promise of the kingdom, for himself and his successors. 
Still the transition from this to the moral and religious 
sphere was so natural that it was silently and continual- 
ly made, especially as Jehovah was perpetually repre- 
sented as the supreme and sole legitimate sovereign of 
his people. Indeed, the theocracy was the central idea 
of the Jewish state [see Judge], and hence the first 
announcements of the Gospel sounded with thrilling ef- 
fect upon the ears of the people, proverbially impatient 
of foreign rule, and yet, at the time, apparently bound in 
a hopeless vassalage to Borne. It was to the populace 
like a trumpet-call to a war for independence, or rather 
like one of the old paeans of deliverance sung by Miriam 
and Deborah. See Theocracy. 

Copious lists of monographs on this subject may be 
seen in Danz, Worterbuch, s. v. Ilimmel-Beich, Messias- 
Beich; Volbeding, Index Programmatum , p. 37; llase, 
Ltben Jesu , p. 72, 77. See Messiah. 

Kingdom of Israel. See Israel, Kingdom of. 
Kingdom of Judah. See Judah, Kingdom of. 

Kingly Office of Christ, one of the three great 
relations which Jesus sustains to his people, namely, as 
prophet, priest, and king, and to which he was solemn- 
ly inaugurated at his baptism by John. See Anoint- 
ing. It is by virtue of this that he became head of the 
Church, which is the sphere of his realm. See King- 
dom of God. This is that spiritual, evangelical, and 
eternal empire to which he himself referred when inter- 
rogated before Pontius Pilate, and in reference to which 
he said, “My kingdom is not of this world” (John xviii, 
3G, 37). Ilis empire, indeed, extends to every creature, 
for “all authority is committed into his hands, both in 
heaven and on earth,” and he is “ head over all things 
to the Church ;” but his kingdom primarily imports the 
Gospel Church, which is the subject of his laws, the seat 
of his government, and the object of his care, and, being 
surrounded with powerful opposers, he is represented as 
ruling in the midst of his enemies. This kingdom is 
not of a worldly origin or nature, nor has it this world 
for its end or object (Bom. xiv, 17 ; 1 Cor. iv, 20). It 
can neither he promoted nor defended by worldly power, 
inlhience, or carnal weapons, but by bearing witness unto 
the truth, or by the preaching of the Gospel with the 
Holy Ghost sent down from heaven (2 Cor. x,4, 5). Its 
establishment among men is progressive, but it is des- 
tined at last to fill the whole earth (Dan. ii ; Bev. xi, 15). 
Its real subjects are only those who are of the truth, and 


hear Christ’s voice ; for none can enter it but such as are 
born from above (John iii,3-5; Matt, xviii, 3 ; xix, 14; 
Mark x, 15), nor can any be visible subjects of it but 
such as appear to be regenerated by a credible profes- 
sion of faith and obedience (Luke xvi, 1G; Matt, xx, 
28-44). Its privileges and immunities are not of this 
world, but such as are spiritual and heavenly; they are 
all spiritual blessings in heavenly things in Christ Jesus 
(Epli. i, 3). Over this glorious kingdom death has no 
power; it extends as well to the future as the present 
world ; and though entered here by renewing grace (Col. 
i, 13), it is inherited in its perfection in the world of glo- 
ry (Matt, xxv, 34; 1 Cor. xv, 50; 2 Pet. i, 11). Hypo- 
crites and false brethren may indeed insinuate them- 
selves into it here, but they will have no possible place 
in it hereafter (Matt, xiii, 41, 47-50; xxii, 11-14; Luke 
xiii, 28, 29 ; 1 Cor. vi, 9, 10 ; Gal. v, 21 ; Rev. xxi, 27). — 
Watson. Its rule is one of love (Tholuck, Sermon on 
the Mount, i, 103). See Christ, Offices of. 

Kings, First and Second BOOKS OF, the sec- 
ond of the series of Hebrew royal annals, the books of 
Samuel forming the introductory series, and the books 
of Chronicles being a parallel series. In the Hebrew 
Bible the first two series alone form part of “ the Former 
Prophets,” like Joshua, Judges, and Ruth. See Bible. 
In our discussion of these we largely avail ourselves of 
the articles in Kitto’s, Smith’s, and Fairbaim’s Diction- 
aries, s. v. 

I. Number and Title. — The two books of Kings form- 
ed anciently but one book in the Jewish Scriptures, as 
is affirmed by Origen (apud Euseb. Prap. Prang, vi, 25, 
Bno’tXn'wF rplrt], rerdprj j, ip iri OuappiXex AafSic), 
Jerome {Prolog. Gal.), Josephus {Coni. Apion. i, 8), and 
others. The present division, following the Septuagint 
and Latin versions, has been common in the Hebrew Bi- 
bles since the Venetian editions of Bomberg. 

The old Jewish name was borrowed, as usual, from the 
commencing words of the book (“H'J Graecized 

as in the above quotation from Eusebius. The Septua- 
gint and Vulgate now number them as the third and 
fourth books of Kings, reckoning the two books of Sam- 
uel the first and second. Their present title, Curb's, 
BaaiXiior, Regum, in the opinion of Ilavernick, has re- 
spect more to the formal than essential character of the 
composition {Einleitnng, § 1G8); yet under such forms 
of government as those of Judah and Israel the royal 
person and name are intimately associated with all na- 
tional acts and movements, legal decisions, warlike prep- 
arations, domestic legislation, and foreign policy. The 
reign of an Oriental prince is identified with the history 
' of his nation during the period of his sovereignty. More 
especially in the theocratic constitution of the Jewish 
realm the character of the monarch was an important 
element of national history, and, of necessity, it had con- 
siderable influence on the fate and fortunes of the people. 

II. Independent Form .* — The question has been raised 
and minutely discussed whether the books of Kings (l 
and 2) constitute an entire work of themselves, or wheth- 
er they originally formed part of a larger historical work 
embracing the principal parts of the Pentateuch, Joshua, 
Judges, Samuel, and Kings, out of which these several 
books, as we now have them, have been formed. Ewald 
regards the books of Judges (with Butli), 1 and 2 Sam- 
uel, and 1 and 2 Kings, as forming parts of one whole 
work, which he calls “ The great book of the Kings.” 
The grounds on which this supposition has been built 
are partly the following: 

(1.) These books together contain one unbroken nar- 
rative, both in form and matter, each portion being con- 
nected with the preceding by the conjunctive 1, or the 
eontinuative (TV\ The book of Judges shows itself to 
be a separate work from Joshua by opening with a nar- 
ration of events with which that book closes; the work 
then proceeds through the times of the Judges, and goes 
! on to give, in Ruth, the family history and genealogy 


KINGS 


92 


KINGS 


of David, and in Samuel and Kings the events which 
transpired down to the captivity. 

(2.) The recurrence in Judges of the phrases, “And in 
those days there was no king in Israel” (xvii, G; xviii, 

1 ; xxi, 25); “ It came to pass in those clays when there 
was no king” (xix, 1); and in Itutli (i, 1), “Now it 
came to pass in the days when the judges ruled,” shows 
that this portion of the work was written in the times 
when there were kings in Israel. The writer therefore 
was in a position to pass under review the whole period 
of the times of the judges, and we find that he estimates 
the conduct of the people according to the degree of 
their conformity to the law of the Lord, after the man- 
ner of the writer of Kings (Judg. ii, 11-19; 2 Kings 
xvii, 7-23). 

Again, in Judg. i, 21, it is said that the Jehusites 
dwell with the children of Benjamin in Jerusalem unto 
this dag ; and in 2 Sam. xxiv, 16, mention is made of 
Araunah the Jebusite as an inhabitant of Jerusalem, 
from which it is inferred that the writer intended these 
facts to explain each other. (But see Josh, xv, G3.) 
So there is a reference in Judg. xx, 27 to the removal 
of the ark of the covenant from Shiloh to Jerusalem; and 
the expression “ in those days” points, as in xvii, G, etc., 
to remote times. There is thought to be a reference in 
Judg. xviii, 30 to the captivity of Israel in the days of 
Hoshea, in which case that book must have been written 
subsequently to that time, as well as the books of Kings. 

(3.) The books of Kings take up the narrative where 
2 Samuel breaks off, and proceed in the same spirit and 
manner to continue the history, with the earlier parts 
of which the writer gives proof of being well acquainted 
(comp. 1 Kings ii, 11 with 2 Sam. v, 4, 5; so also 2 Kings 
xvii, 41 with Judg. ii, 11-19, etc.; 1 Sam. ii, 27 with 
Judg. xiii, G; 2 Sam. xiv, 17-20, xix, 27, with Judg. xiii, 
G ; 1 Sam. ix, 21 with Judg. vi, 15, and xx ; 1 Kings viii, 

1 with 2 Sam. vi, 17, and v, 7, 9; 1 Sam. xvii, 12 with 
Ruth iv, 17 ; Ruth i, 1 with Judg. xvii, 7, 8, 9; xix. 1, 

2 [Bethlehem-Judah]). Other links connecting the 
books of Kings with the preceding may be found in the 
comparison, suggested by Dc Wette, of 1 Kings ii, 2G 
with 1 Sam. ii, 35; 1 Kings ii, 3, 4; v, 17, 18; viii, 18, 
19, 25, with 2 Sam. vii, 12— 1G ; and 1 Kings iv, 1-G with 
2 Sam. viii, 15-18. 

(4.) Similarity of diction has been observed through- 
out, indicating identity of authorship. The phrase 
“Spirit of Jehovah” occurs first in Judges, and fre- 
quently afterwards in Samuel and Kings (Judg. iii, 10; 
vi, 34, etc. ; 1 Sam. x, G, etc. ; 1 Kings xxii, 24; 2 Kings 
ii, 10, etc.). So “31an of God,” to designate a prophet, 
and *■ God do so to me and more also,” are common to 
them; and “till they were ashamed” to Judges and 
Kings (Judg. iii, 25; 2 Kings ii, 17 ; viii, 11). 

(5.) Generally the style of the narrative, ordinarily 
quiet and simple, but rising to great vigor and spirit 
when stirring deeds are described (as in Judg. iv, vii, 
xi, etc. ; 1 Sara, iv, xvii, xxxi, etc. ; 1 Kings viii, xviii, 
xix, etcA, and the introduction of poetry or poetic style 
in the midst of the narrative (as in Judg. v, 1 Sam. ii, 2 
Sam. i, 17, etc., 1 Kings xxii, 17, etc.), constitute such 
strong features of resemblance as lead to the conclusion 
that these several books form but one work. 

But these reasons are not conclusive. Many of the 
resemblances may be accounted for in other ways, while 
there are important and wide differences. 

(1.) If the arguments were sufficient to join Judges, 
Samuel, and Kings together in one work, for the same 
reasons Joshua must be added (Josh, i, 1; xv, G3; xxiii 
and xxiv; Judg. i, 1). 

(2.) The writer of Kings might he well acquainted 
with the previous history of his people, and even with | 
the contents of Judges and Samuel, without being him- 
self the author of those books. 

(3.) Such similarity of diction 'as exists m/ty be as- 
cribed to the use by the writer of Kings of earlier docu- 
ments, to which also the writer of Samuel had access. 

(4.) There are good reasons for regarding the Kings J 


as together forming an entire and independent work, 
such as the similarity of style and language, both vo- 
cabulary and grammar, which pervades the two books, 
hut distinguishes them from others — the uniform S} r stem 
of quotation observed in them, hut not in the books 
which precede them — the same careful attention to 
chronology — the recurrence of certain phrases and forms 
of speech peculiar to them. A great number of words 
occur in Kings, which arc found in them only ; such are 
chiefly names of materials and utensils, and architect- 
ural terms. Words, and unusual forms of words, occur, 
which are only found here and in writers of the same 
period, as Isaiah and Jeremiah, but not in {Samuel or 
Judges. See § v, below. 

III. Contents, Character, and Design . — The books of 
Kings contain the brief annals of a long period, from 
the accession of Solomon till the dissolution of the com- 
monwealth. The first chapters describe the reign of 
Solomon over the united kingdom, and the revolt under 
Rehoboam. The history of the rival states is next nar- 
rated in parallel sections till the period of Israel’s down- 
fall on the invasion of Shalmanezer. Then the remain- 
ing years of the principality of Judah are recorded till 
the conquest of Nebuchadnezzar and the commence- 
ment of the Babylonian captivity. See Israel; Ju- 
dah. For an adjustment of the years of the respective 
reigns in each line, see Chronology. 

There are some peculiarities in this succinct history 
worthy of attention. It is summary, but very sugges- 
tive. It is not a biography of the sovereigns, nor a 
mere record of political occurrences, nor yet an ecclesi- 
astical register. King, Church, and State are all com- 
prised in their sacred relations. It is a theocratic his- 
tory, a retrospective survey of the kingdom as existing 
under a theocratic government. The character of the 
sovereign is tested hy his fidelity to the religious obli- 
gations of his office, and this decision in reference to his 
conduct is generally added to the notice of his accession. 
The new king’s religious character is generally portray- 
ed by its similarity or opposition to the way of David, 
of his father, or of Jeroboam, son of Nebat, “who made 
Israel to sin.” Ecclesiastical alfairs are noticed with a 
similar purpose, and in contrast with past or prevalent 
apostasy, especially as manifested in the popular super- 
stitions, whose shrines were on the “high places.” Po- 
litical or national incidents are introduced in general for 
the sake of illustrating the influence of religion on civic 
prosperity; of showing how the theocracy maintained 
a vigilant and vengeful guardianship over its rights and 
privileges — adherence to its principles securing peace 
and plenty, disobedience to them bringing along with it 
sudden and severe retribution. The books of Kings are 
a verification of the Mosaic warnings, and the author of 
them has kept this steadily in view. He has given a 
brief history of his people, arranged under the various 
political chiefs in such a manner as to sh6w that the 
government was essentially theocratic ; that its spirit, as 
developed in the Mosaic writings, was never extinct, 
however modified or inactive it might sometimes appear. 
Thus the books of Kings appear in a religious costume, 
quite different from the form they would have assumed 
either as a political or ecclesiastical narrative. In the 
one ease legislative enactments, royal edicts, popular 
movements, would have occupied a prominent place ; in 
the other, sacerdotal arrangements, Levitical service, 
music, and pageantry, would have filled the leading sec- 
tions of the treatise. In either view the points adduced 
would have had a restricted reference to the palace or 
the temple, the sovereign or the pontiff*, the court or the 
priesthood, the throne or the altar, the tribute or tithes, 
the nation on its farms, or the tribes in the courts of the 
, sacred edifice. But the theocracy conjoined both the 
I political and religious elements, and the inspired annal- 
ist unites them as essential to his design. The agency 
of divinity is constantly recognised, the hand of Jeho- 
vah is continually acknowledged. The chief organ of 
theocratic influence enjoys peculiar prominence. We 


KINGS 


93 


KINGS 


refer to the incessant agency of the prophets, their great 
power and peculiar modes of action as detailed by the 
composer of the books of Kings. They interfered with 
the succession, and their instrumentality was apparent 
in the schism. They roused the people, and they braved 
the sovereign. The balance of power was in their hands ; 
the regal dignity seemed to be sometimes at their dis- 
posal. I n times of emergency they dispensed with usual 
modes of procedure, and assumed an authority with 
which no subject in an ordinary' state can safely be in- 
trusted. executing the law with a summary promptness 
which rendered opposition impossible, or at least un- 
availing. They felt their divine commission, and that 
they were the custodians of the rights of Jehovah. At 
the same time they protected the interests of the na- 
tion, and, eould we divest the term of its association 
with unprincipled turbnlenee and sedition, we would, 
like Winer ( Realicorterb . s. v. Prophet), style them the 
demagogues of Israel. The divine prerogative was to 
them a vested right, guarded with a sacred jealousy 
from royal usurpation or popular invasion ; and the in- 
terests of the people were as religiously protected against 
encroachments, too easily made under a form of govern- 
ment which had not the safeguard of popular represen- 
tation or aristocratic privilege. The priesthood were in 
many instances, though there are some illustrious ex- 
ceptions, merely the creatures of the crown, and there- 
fore it became the prophetical office to assert its dignity 
and stand forth in the majestic insignia of an embassy 
from heaven. The truth of these sentiments, as to the 
method, design, and composition of the books of Kings, 
is confirmed by ample evidence. 

(1.) Large space is occupied with the building of the 
Temple — the palace of the divine Protector — his throne 
in it being above the mercy-seat and between the cher- 
ubim (eh. v-viii). Care is taken to record the miracu- 
lous phenomenon of the descent of the Shekinali (viii, 
10). The prayer of Solomon at the dedication of the 
house is full of theocratic views and aspirations. 

(2.) Inference is often made to the Mosaic law, with 
its provisions, and allusions to the earlier history of the 
people frequently oeeur (1 Kings ii, 3 ; iii, 14 ; vi, 11, 12 ; 
viii, 58, etc.; 2 Kings x, 31; xiv, G; xvii, 13, 15,37; xviii, 
4-6; xxi, 1-8). Allusions to the Mosaic code are found 
more frequently towards the end of the second book, 
when the kingdom was drawing near its termination, as 
if to account for its decay and approaching fate. 

(3.) Phrases expressive of divine interference arc fre- 
quently introduced (1 Kings xi, 31 ; xii, 15 ; xiii, 1,2, 9 ; 
and xx, 13, etc.). 

(4.) Prophetic interposition is a very prominent theme 
of record. It fills the vivid foreground of the historical 
picture. Nathan was occupied in the succession of Sol- 
omon (1 Kings i, 15) ; Ahijah was concerned in the re- 
volt (xi, 29-40). Sliemaiah disbanded the troops which 
Kehoboam had mustered (pdi, 21 ). Ahijah predicted the 
ruin of Jeroboam, whose elevation he had promoted (xiv, 
7). Jehu, the prophet, doomed the house of Baasha (xvi, 
1). The reigns of Ahab and Aliaziah are marked by the 
bold, rapid, mysterious movements of Elijah. Under 
Ahab occurs the preffietion of Micaiah (xxii,8). The 
actions and oracles of Elisha form the marvellous topics 
cf narration under several reigns. The agency of Isaiah 
is also recognised (2 Kings xix, 20 ; xx, 16). Besides. 1 , 
Kings xiii presents another instance of prophetic opera- 
tion ; and in xx,35,the oracle of an unknown prophet is 
also rehearsed, llnldah the prophetess was an impor- 
tant personage under the government of Josiah (2 Kings 
xxii, 14). Care is also taken to report the fulfilment of 
striking propheeies, in the usual phrase, “according to 
the word of the Lord” (1 Kings xii, 15 ; xv, 29 ; xvi, 12 ; 
2 Kings xxiii, 15-18 ; ix, 3G ; xxiv, 2). So, too, the old 
Syriae version prefixes, “ Here follows the book of the 
kings who flourished among the ancient people; and in 
this is also exhibited the history of the prophets who 
flourished during their times.” 

(5.) Theocratic influence is recognised both in the de- 


position and succession of kings (1 Kings xiii, 33 ; xv, 4, 
5, 29, 30 : 2 Kings xi, 17, ete.). Compare, on the whole 
of this view, llaveruiek, Einleit . § 168 ; Jalm, Introduct . 
§ 46; Gesenius, Ueber Jes. i, 934. It is thus apparent 
that the object of the author of the Books of Kings was 
to describe the history of the kingdoms, especially in 
connection with the theocratic element. This design 
accounts for what De Wette {Einleit. § 185) terms the 
mythical character of these books. 

As to what has been termed the anti-Israelitish spirit 
of the work (Bertholdt, Einleit. p. 949), we do not per- 
ceive it. Truth required that the kingdom of Israel 
should he described in its real character. Idol-worship 
was connected with its foundation ; raoscholatry was a 
state provision; fidelity obliged the annalist to state that 
all its kings patronized the institutions of Bethel and 
Dan, while eight, at least, of the Jewish sovereigns ad- 
hered to the true religion, and that the majority of its 
lungs perished in insurrection, while those of Judah in 
general were exempted from seditious tumults and as- 
sassination. 

IV. Relation of Kings to Chronicles. — The more obvious 
differences between the books of Kings and of Chroni- 
cles are, 

(1.) In respect of language, by which the former are 
shown to be of earlier date than the latter. 

(2.) Of periods embraced in each work. The Chron- 
icles are much more comprehensive than Kings, con- 
taining genealogical lists from Adam downwards, and a 
full account of the reign of David. The portions of the 
Chronicles synchronistic with Kings are 1 Chron. xxviii- 
2 Chron. xxxvi, 22. 

(3.) In the Kings greater prominence is given to the 
prophetical office ; in Chronicles, to the priestly or Le- 
vitical. In the books of the Kings we have the active 
influence of Nathan in regard to the succession to the 
throne; and the remarkable lives of Elijah and Elisha, 
of whom numerous and extraordinary miracles are re- 
lated, of which scarcely the slightest mention is made 
in Chronicles, although in Kings about fourteen chap- 
ters are taken up with them. Besides these, other 
prophets are mentioned, and their acts and sayings are 
recorded ; as, 1 Kings xiii, the prophet who came to 
Bethel from Judah in the reign of Jeroboam, and his 
predictions; and in 2 Kings xxiii, the fulfilment of them 
in the days of Josiah ; 1 Kings xiii, the old prophet who 
lived at Bethel with his sons. Ahijah the prophet, also, 
in the days of Jeroboam, 1 Kings xiv; Jehu, the son of 
Hanani, 1 Kings xvi; Jonah, in the time of Jeroboam, 
2 Kings xiv, 25 ; and Isaiah in relation to the sickness 
of Ilezckiali, 2 Kings xx. Of these there is either no 
mention, or much slighter in Chronicles, where the 
priestly or Levitical clement is more observable ; as, for 
example, the full account, in 2 Chron. xxix-xxxi, of the 
purification of the Temple by Ilezekiali ; of the services 
and sacrifices then made, and of the names of the Lc- 
vites who took part in it, and the restoration of the 
courses and orders of the priesthood, and the supplies for 
the daily, weekly, and yearly sacrifices; also, the cir- 
cumstantial aceount of the Passover observed by com- 
mand of Josiah, 2 Chron. xxxv, 1-19. In this way we 
may aceount not only for the omission of much that re- 
lates to the prophets, but also for the less remarkable 
prominence given to the history of Israel, and the great- 
er to Judah and Jerusalem; and for the frequent omis- 
sion of details respecting the idolatrous practices of some 
of the kings, as of Solomon, Kehoboam, and Ahaz; and 
the destruction of idolatry by Josiah, showing that the 
books of Chronicles were written in times in which the 
people less needed to be warned against idolatry; to 
which, after the captivity, they had ceased to be so 
prone as before. 

For further information on the relation between Kings 
and Chronicles, see Chkoxicl.es, Books of. 

V. Peculiarities of Diction 1. The words noticed by 

De Wette (Einl. § 185) as indicating their modem date 
are the following: •'HX for nx, 1 Kings xiv, 2. (But 


KIXGS 


04 


KIXGS 


this form is also found in Judg. xvii, 2; Jer. iv, 30; 
Ezek. xxxvi, 13, and not once in the later books.) 
*r*X for ir.x, 2 Kbit’s i, 15. (But this form of P2* is 
found in Lev. xv, IS, 24; Josh, xiv, 12; 2 Sam. xxiv, 
24; Isa. lix, 21; Jer. x, 5; xii, 1; xix, 10; xx, 11; 
xxiii, 9; xxxv, 2; Ezek. xiv, 4; xxvii, 20.) EET for 
EE’P 1 Kings ix, 8. (But Jer. xix, 8; xlix, 17, are 
identical in phrase and orthography.) for E"EP, 

2 Kings xi, 13. (But everywhere else in Kings, e. g. 2 
Kings xi, G, etc., E"I£P, which is also universal in Chron- 
icles. an avowedly later book; and here, as in “p2P!i, 1 
Kings xi, 33, there is every appearance of the “ being a 
clerical error for the copulative 1; see Thenius, /. c.) 
PilD'HE, 1 Kings xx, 14. (But this word occurs in Lam. 
i, 1, and there is every appearance of its being a tech- 
nical word in 1 Kings xx, 14. and therefore as old as the 
reign of Ahab.) PS for 1 Kings iv, 22. (But ‘lb 
is used by Ezek. xiv, 14, and homer seems to have been 
then already obsolete.) Cpn, 1 Kings xxi, 8, 11. (Oc- 
curs in Isaiah and Jeremiah.) 2“, 2 Kings xxv, 8. 
(But as the term evidently came in with the Chal- 
dees, as seen in Bab-shakeli, Kab-saris, Bab-mag, its ap- 
plication to the Chaldee general is no evidence of a 
time later than the person to whom the title is given.) 
Ebw\ 1 Kings viii, Gl, etc. (But there is not a particle 
of evidence that this expression belongs to late Hebrew. 
It is found, among other places, in Isa. xxxviii, 3, a 
passage against the authenticity of which there is also 
not a shadow of proof, except upon the presumption that 
prophetic intimations and supernatural interventions on 
the part of God are impossible.) 2 Kings xviii, 

7. (On what grounds this word is adduced it is impos- 
sible to guess, since it occurs in this sense in Joshua, 
Isaiah, Samuel, and Jeremiah: see Gesenius.) j“PIE2, 
2 Kings xviii, 19. (Isa. xxxvi, 4 ; Eccles. ix, 4.) 
P““r,PP. 2 Kings xviii, 2G. (But why should not a 
Jew. in Ilezckinh’s reign as well as in the time of Nc- 
liemiah, have called his mother-tongue “the Jars' lan- 
guage,” in opposition to the A ravuvan ? There was 
nothing in the Babylonian captivity to give it the name 
if it had it not before, nor is there a single earlier in- 
stance — Isa. xLx, 18 might have furnished one — of any 
name given to the language spoken by all the Israel- 
ites, and which, in later times, was called Hebrew: 
'Efioaitj-i, Prolog. Ecclus. ; Luke xxiii, 38; John v, 2, 
etc.) EEE‘E PS; “ 2 P, 2 Kings xxv, G. (Frequent in 
Jer. iv, 12; xxxix, 5, etc.) Theod. Parker adds PHS 
(see, too, Thenius, Einl. § G), 1 Kings x, 15; xx, 24; 2 
Kings xviii, 24, on the presumption, probably, of its be- 
ing of Persian derivation; but the etymology and ori- 
gin of the word are quite uncertain, and it is repeatedly 
used in Jer. li, as well as Isa. xxxvi, 9. With better 
reason might XP2 have been adduced, 1 Kings xii, S3. 
The expression “PI2PI ^22, i 11 ^ Kings iv, 24, is also a 
difficult one to form an impartial opinion about. It is 
doubtful, as De Wette admits, whether the phrase nec- 
essarily implies its being used by one to the east of the 
Euphrates, because the use varies in Numb, xxxii, 19; 
xxxv, 14: Josh, i, 14 sq. ; v, 1 : xii, 1, 7; xxii, 7; 1 
Chron. xxvi, 30; I)eut. i, 1, 5, etc. It is also conceiva- 
ble that the phrase might be used as a mere geograph- 
ical designation by those who belonged to one of “the 
provinces beyond the river” subject to Babylon; and, at 
the lime of the destruction of Jerusalem, Judaea had 
been such a province for at least 23 years, and probably 
longer. We may safely affirm, therefore, that, on the 
whole, the peculiarities of diction in these books do not 
indicate a time after the captivity, or towardsdlie close 
of it, but, on the. contrary, point pretty distinctly to the 
age of Jeremiah. It may be added that the marked 
and systematic differences between the language of 
Chronicles and that of Kings, taken with the fact that 


all attempts to prove the Chronicles, in the main, later 
than Ezra, have utterly failed, lead to the same conclu- 
sion. (See many examples in Movers, p. 200 sq.) 

2. Other peculiar or rare expressions in these books 
are the proverbial ones: P^pn “p trr' E, found onlv in 
them and in 1 Sam. xxv, 22, 34; “slept with his fathers,” 
“him that dieth in the city the dogs shall eat,” etc.; 

ST-*-? n -j 1 Kings ii, 23, etc.; also PPPp, 1 Kings 
i, 41, 45; elsewhere only in poetry and in tile composi- 
tion of proper names, except Deut. ii, 3G; pVrj, i, 9. 
Also the following isolated terms : E^P2P2, “fowl,” iv, 
23 ; P““N, “ stalls,” v, G ; 2 Chron. ix, 25; EE v, 

13 ; Lx, 15, 21 ; PEE, “ a stone-quarry” (Gesenius), vi, 7 ; 
7:2b, vi, 17; jPP3, 19; E^2£E and PlPpE/' wild cu- 
cumbers,” vi, 18; vii, 24; 2 Kings iv, 39; H“pE,x,28; 
the names of the months, E“2PS. viii, 2; *!7, ??2, vi,37, 
38; >tP2, “to invent,” xii, 33; Nell, vi, 8, in both cases 
joined witli 322; P2222, “an idol,” xv. 13; “2*2 and 
p-E'Eil, followed by “to destroy,” xiv, 10; xvi, 

3; xxi, 21; D^pEP, li joints of the armor,” xxii, 34; 
;PE\ “ a pursuit,” xviii, 27 ; PIPS, “to bend one’s self,” 
xviii, 42; 2 Kings iv, 34, 35; E2Z2, “to gird up,” xviii, 
4G ; PEX. “ a bead-band,” xx, 38, 42 ; p22T, “to suffice,” 
xx, 10 ; I25PI, uncert. signif., xx, 33 ; PlZpTJE !P'1 : 2, “ to 
reign,” xxi, 7 ; P“n‘?E. “a dish,” 2 Kings ii, 20; 222, 
“ to fold up,” ib. 8 ; Pp2, “ a herdsman,” iii, 4 ; Amos i, 
1 ; ““EX, an oil-cup,” iv, 2 ; 5X PPPI, “ to have a caTfc 
for,” 13; PP7, “to sneeze,” 35; “p?p2S, “a bag,” 42; 
IP“n, “a money-bag,” v, 23; PEPP, “a camp” (?), 
vi, 8; rP2, “a feast.” 23; E*PP2, “descending,” 9; 
E]2.“a cab,” 25; E*'2*P “dove’s dung,” ib. ; “22E, 
perhaps “a fly-net.” viii. 15; E“2 (in sense of “ self,” as 
in Chald. and Samar.), ix, 13; ““22, “a heap,” x, 8; 
JPPIP2E, “a vestry,” 22 ; nXPJPE, “a draught-house,” 
27; ">“2, “ Chcrethites,” xi, 4, 19, and 2 Sam. xx, 23 
(kethib); PIEE, “a keeping off,” xi, G; P2E, “an ac- 
quaintance ” xii, G; the form PT 1 , from P“V‘to shoot,” 
xiii. 17 : P“'2“PPP| “22. “ hostages,” xiv, 14; 2 Chron. 

xxv, 24; P^’ESniP P**2. “sick-house.” xv, 5; 2 Chron. 

xxvi, 21 ; 72p, “ before,” xv, 10 ; pEE“P, “ Damascus,” 
xvi, 10 (perhaps only a false reading); P£E“E. “a 
pavement,” xvi, 17; “jE-*E or “E'E^a covered way,’’ 
xvi, 18; XS!P, in Piel “to do secretly,” xvii, 9; IP^E’X, 
with “5 10, only besides Deut. vii, 5, Mic. v, 14 ; XP2, 
i. q. PIP2, xvii, 21 (kethib); E'EPEIE, “Samaritans,” 
29 ; “P’rn:, “ Nehustan,” xviiyl ; PI2EX, “ a pillar,” 1G ; 
JPZPE iP2*2\ “to make peace,” 31; Isa. xxxvi, 1G; 
EPPS, “that which grows up the third year,” xix. 29; 
Isa. xxxvii, 30; PZ2 PP2, “ treasure-house,” xx. 13; 
Isa. xxxix, 2; Pi 2 *22, part of Jerusalem so called, xxi, 
14; Zeph. i, 10; Neh. xi, 9; P“?JE, “signs of the zo- 
diac,” xxiii, 5; “PPE, “a suburb,” xxiii. 11; E“2y, 
“ploughmen,” xxv, 12 (kethib); X2w for P*|w, “ to 
change,” xxv. 9 ; P>Z“X for *!Z“X, 2 Kings vi, 13: IP?*“ZX, 
“ meat,” 1 Kings xix, 8; E“*E?X, “almug trees,” 1 
Kings x. 11, 12: PIPS, “to stretch one's self,” 1 Kings 
xviii, 42 ; 2 Kings iv, 34, 35 : “EX, a “turban” (“ ashes”), 
1 Kings xx. 38,41; P““2P, “floats,” 1 Kings v, 9; 
“chambers,” 1 Kings vi, 5, G, 10; JP22E, “clay,” I 
Kings vii, 4G; “'EE, “debt,” 2 Kings iv, 7; PE, “heavy,” 
1 Kings xx, 43; xxi, 4, 5; P“P2, “chapiter,” only in 
Kings, Chronicles, and Jeremiah; P“PETE, “snuffers,” 
only in Kings, Chronicles, and Jeremiah ; JP2“ZE, “base,” 


KINGS 


95 


KINGS 


only in Kings, Chronicles, Jeremiah, and Ezra. To these 
may be added the architectural terms in 1 Kings vi, vii, 
and the names of foreign idols in 2 Kings xvii. The 
general character of the language is most distinctly that 
of the time before the Babylonian captivity. 

VI. Variations in the Septuagint . — These are very re- 
markable, and consist of transpositions , omissions , and 
some considerable additions, of all which Thenius gives 
some useful notices in his Introduction to the book of 
Kings. 

1. The most important transpositions are the history 
of Shimei’s death, 1 Kings ii, 30-46, which in the Sept. 
(Cod. Vat.) comes after iii, 1, and divers scraps from cli. 
iv, v, and ix, accompanied by one or two remarks of the 
translators. The sections 1 Kings iv, 20-25, 2-6, 26, 21, 
1, are strung together and precede 1 Kings iii, 2-28, but 
many of them are repeated again in their proper places. 
The sections 1 Kings iii, 1, ix, 16, 17, are strung togeth- 
er, and placed between iv, 34 and v, 1. The section 1 
Kings vii, 1-12, is placed after vii, 51. Section viii, 12, 
13, is placed after 53. Section ix, 15-22, is placed after 
x, 22. Section xi, 43, xii, 1, 2, 3, is much transposed 
and confused in Sept, xi, 43, 44, xii, 1-3. Section xiv, 
1-21, is placed in the midst of the long addition to Chron. 
xii mentioned below. Section xxii, 42-50, is placed 
after xvi, 28. Chap, xx and xxi are transposed. Sec- 
tion 2 Kings iii, 1-3, is placed after 2 Kings i, 18. 

2. The omissions are few. Section 1 Kings vi, 11-14, 
is entirely omitted, and 37, 38 are only slightly alluded 
to at the opening of chap. iii. The erroneous clause 1 
Kings xv, 6, is omitted ; and so are the dates of Asa’s 
reign in xvi, 8 and 15 ; and there are a few verbal omis- 
sions of no consequence. 

3. The chief interest lies in the additions, of which 

the principal are the following. The supposed mention 
of a fountain as among Solomon’s works in the Temple 
in the passage after 1 Kings ii, 35; of a paved cause- 
way on Lebanon, iii, 46 ; of Solomon pointing to the 
sun at the dedication of the Temple, before he uttered 
the prayer, “The Lord said he would dwell in the thick 
darkness,” etc., viii, 12, 13 (after 53, Sept.), with a ref- 
erence to the i3i(3\iov rij\ g (pSijg, a passage on which 
Thenius relies as proving that the Alexandrian had ac- 
cess to original documents now lost; the information 
that “doram his brother” perished with Tibni, xvi, 22; 
an additional date “in the twenty-fourth year of Jero- 
boam,” xv, 8 ; numerous verbal additions, as xi, 20, xvii, 
1, etc.; and, lastly, the long passage concerning Jero- 
boam, the son of Nebat, inserted between xii, 24 and 25. 
There are also many glosses of the translator, explana- 
tory, or necessary in consequence of transpositions, as 1 
Kings ii, 35, viii, 1, xi, 43, xvii, 20, xix, 2, etc. Of the 
above, from the recapitulatory character of the passage 
after 1 Kings ii, 35, containing in brief the sum of the 
things detailed in vii, 21-23, it seems far more probable 
that KPHNHN TH2 AVAHE is only a corruption of 
KP1XON TOT AIAAM, there mentioned. The ob- 
senre passage about Lebanon after iii, 46 seems no less 
certainly to represent what in the ITeb. is ix, 18, 19, as 
appears by the triple concurrence of Tadmor, Lebanon, 
and ^vvafTTEvpara, representing The strange 

mention of the sun seems to be introduced by the trans- 
lator to give significance to Solomon’s mention of the 
house which he had built for God, who had said he 
would dwell in the thick darkness; not therefore under 
the unveiled light of the sun ; and the reference to “the 
book of song” can surely mean nothing else than to 
point out that the passage to which Solomon referred 
was Psa. xcvii, 2. Of the other additions, the mention 
of Tibni’s brother Jorarn is the one which has most the 
semblance of an historical fact, or makes the existence 
of any other source of history probable. See, too, 1 
Kings xx, 19 ; 2 Kings xv, 25. 

There remains only the long passage about Jeroboam. 
That tliis account is only an apocryphal version, made 
up of the existing materials in the Hebrew Scriptures, 
after the manner of 1 Esdras, Bel and the Dragon, the 


apocryphal Esther, the Targnms, etc., may be inferred 
on the following grounds. The framework of the story 
is given in the very words of the Hebrew narrative, and 
that very copiously, and the new matter is only worked 
in here and there. Demonstrably, therefore, the Hebrew 
account existed when the Greek one was framed, and 
was the original one. The principal new facts intro- 
duced, the marriage of Jeroboam to the sister of Shi- 
shak’s wife, and his request to be permitted to return, is 
a manifest imitation of the story of Iladad. The mis- 
placement of the story of Abijah’s sickness, and the visit 
of Jeroboam’s wife to Ahijah the Shilonite, makes the 
whole history out of keeping — the disguise of the queen, 
the rebuke of Jeroboam’s idolatry (which is accordingly 
left out from Aliijah’s prophecy, as is the mention at v, 
2 of his having told Jeroboam he should be king), and 
the king’s anxiety about the recovery of his son and 
heir. The embellishments of the story, Jeroboam’s 
chariots, the amplification of Ahijah’s address to Ano, 
the request asked of Pharaoh, the new garment not 
icashed in, water, are precisely such as an embellisher 
would add, as we may see by the apocryphal books above 
cited. Then the fusing down the three Hebrew names, 
nrsna, and njpfn, into one, Yapipci, thus giv- 
ing the same name to the mother of Jeroboam, and to 
the city where she dwelt, shows how comparatively 
modern the story is, and how completely of Greek 
growth. A yet plainer indication is its confounding 
the Shemaiah of I Kings xii, 22 with Sheraaiah the 
Nelielamite of Jer. xxix, 24, 31, and putting Ahijah’s 
prophecy into his mouth ; for, beyond all question, 
’EvXapi (1 Kings xii) is only another form of AiXaplTijg 
(Jer. xxxvi, 24, Sept.). Then, again, the story is self- 
eontradictory ; for, if Jeroboam’s child Abijam was not 
born till.a year or so after Solomon’s death, how could 
“any good thing toward the Lord God of Israel” have 
been found in him before Jeroboam became king? The 
one thing in the story that is more like truth than the 
Hebrew narrative is the age given to Kehoboam, six- 
teen years, which may have been preserved in the IMS. 
which the writer of this romance had before him. The 
calling Jeroboam’s mother yvvt) Tzopvi) instead of yvw) 
X>)p a was probably accidental. 

On the whole, then, it appears that the great varia- 
tions in the Sept, contribute little or nothing to the elu- 
cidation of the history contained in these books, nor 
much even to the text. The Hebrew text and arrange- 
ment is not in the least shaken in its main points, nor 
is there the slightest cloud east on the accuracy of the 
history, or the truthfulness of the prophecies contained 
in it. But these variations illustrate a characteristic 
tendency of the Jewish mind to make interesting por- 
tions of the Scriptures the groundwork of separate re- 
ligious tales, which they altered or added to according 
to their fancy, without any regard to history or chro- 
nology, and in which they exercised a peculiar kind of 
ingenuity in working up the Scripture materials, or in 
inventing circumstances calculated, as they thought, to 
make the main history more probable. The story of 
Zerubbabel’s answer in 1 Esdras about truth, to prepare 
the way for his mission by Darius; of the discovery of 
the imposture of Bel’s priests by Daniel, in Bel and the 
Dragon ; of Mordecai’s dream in the apocryphal Esther, 
and the paragraph in the Talmud inserted to connect 1 
Kings xvi, 34 with xvii, 1 (Smith’s Saci\ Ann. ii, 421), 
are instances of this. The reign of Solomon, and the 
remarkable rise of Jeroboam, were not unlikely to exer- 
cise this propensity of the Hellenistic Jews. It is to 
the existence of such works that the variations in the 
Sept, account of Solomon and Jeroboam may most prob- 
ably be attributed. 

VII. Another feature in the literary condition of our 
books must be noticed, viz., that the compiler, in arran- 
ging his materials, and adopting the very words of the 
documents used by him, has not always been careful to 
avoid the appearance of contradiction. Thus the men- 
tion of the staves of the aide remaining in their plaee 


KIXGS 


90 


KIXGS 


“unto this day” (l Kings viii, 8) does not accord with 
the account of the destruction of the Temple (2 Kings 
xxv, 9). The mention of Elijah as the only prophet of 
the Lord left (1 Kings xviii, 22; xix, 10) has an ap- 
pearance of disagreement with xx, 13,28,35, etc., though 
xviii, 4, xix, 18 supply, it is true, a ready answer. In 
1 Kings xxi, 13 only Naboth is mentioned, while in 2 
Kings ix, 26 his sons are added. The prediction in 1 
Kings xix, 15-17 lias no perfect fulfilment in the fol- 
lowing chapters. 1 Kings xxii, 38 does not seem to be 
a fulfilment of xxi, 19. The declaration in 1 Kings ix, 
22 does not seem in harmony with xi, 28. There are 
also some singular repetitions, as 1 Kings xiv, 21 com- 
pared with 31 ; 2 Kings ix, 29 with viii, 25; xiv, 15, 16, 
with xiii, 12, 13. But it is enough just to have point- 
ed these out, as no real difficulty can he found in them. 

VIII. As regards the soinxes of information, it may 
truly be said that in the books of Kings we have the 
narrative of contemporary writers throughout. It has 
already been observed [see Chronicles] that there was 
a regular series of state annals both for the kingdom of 
Judah and for that of Israel, which embraced the whole 
time comprehended in the books of Kings, or at least to 
the end of the reign of Jelioiakim (2 Kings xxiv, 5). 
These annals are constantly cited by name as “ the Book 
of the Acts of Solomon” (1 Kings xi, 41) ; and, after Sol- 
omon, “ the Book of the Chronicles of the kings of Ju- 
dah, or Israel” (e. g. 1 Kings xiv, 29; xv, 7 ; xvi, 5, 14, 
20 ; 2 Kings x,34 ; xxiv, 5, etc.) ; and it is manifest that 
the author of Kings had them both before him while he 
drew up his history, in which the reigns of the two king- 
doms are harmonized, and these annals constantly ap- 
pealed to. (Similar phraseology is used in Esther x, 2, 
vi, l,to denote the official annals of the Persian empire. 
Public documents are spoken of in the same way in Neh. 
xii,23). But, in addition to these national annals, there 
were also extant, at the time that the books of Kings 
were compiled, separate works of the several prophets 
who had lived in Judah and Israel, and which probably 
bore the same relation to the annals as the historical 
parts of Isaiah and Jeremiah bear to those portions of 
the annals preserved in the books of Kings, i. e. were, in 
some instances at least, fuller and more copious accounts 
of the current events, by the same hands which drew up 
the more concise narrative of the annals, though in oth- 
ers perhaps mere duplicates. Thus the acts of Uzziah, 
written by Isaiah, were very likely identical for sub- 
stance with the history of his reign in the national 
chronicles ; and part of the history of Ilezekial) we know 
was identical in the chronicles and in the prophet. The 
chapter in Jeremiah relating to the destruction of the 
Temple (eh. lii) is identical with that in 2 Kings xxiv, 
xxv. In later times some have supposed that a chap- 
ter in the prophecies of Daniel was used for the national 
chronicles, and appears as Ezra i. (Comp, also 2 Kings 
xvi, 5 with Isa. vii, 1 ; 2 Kings xviii, 8 with Isa. xiv, 
28-32). As an instance of verbal agreement, coupled 
with greater fulness in the prophetic account, see 2 
Kings xx compared with Isa. xxxviii, in which latter 
alone is Ilezekiah’s icriting given. 

These other works, then, as far as the memory of them 
has been preserved to us, were as follows (see Keil’s 
Apolog. Vers.). For the time of David, the book of 
Samuel the seer, the book of Nathan the prophet, and 
the book of Gad the seer (2 Sam. xxi-xxiv with 1 Kings 
i, being probably extracted from Nathan’s book), which 
seem to have been collected — at least that portion of 
them relating to David — into one work called “ the Acts 
of David the king” (1 Chron. xxix, 29). For the time of 
Solomon, “the Book of the Acts of Solomon" (1 Kings 
xi,41), consisting probably of parts of the “ Book of Na- 
than t lie prophet, the prophecy of Ahijah the Shilon- 
ite, and the visions of Iddo the*scer”(2 Chron. ix, 29). 
For the time of Rehoboam, “ the words of Sliemaiah the 
prophet, and of Iddo the seer concerning genealogies” 
(2 Chron. xii, 15). For the time of Abijah, “ the story 
(wi'^'l^) of the prophet Iddo” (2 Chron. xiii, 22). For 


the time of Jehoshaphat,“ the words of Jehu, the son of 
Hanani” (2 Chron. xx,34). For the time of Uzziah, “ the 
writings of 1 saiali the prophet” (2 Chron. xxvi, 22). For 
the time of Ilezekiali, “the vision of Isaiah the prophet, 
the son of Amoz” (2 Chron. xxxii, 32). For the time 
of Manasseli, a book called “ the sayings of the seers,” as 
the A.V., following the Sept.,Vidg., Kimchi, etc., rightly 
renders the passage, in accordance with ver. 18 (2 Chron. 
xxxiii, 19), though others, following the grammar too 
servilely, make Chozai a proper name, because of the 
absence of the article. For the time of Jeroboam II, a 
prophecy of “Jonah, the son of Amittai the prophet, of 
Gath-hepher,” is cited (2 Kings xiv, 25); and it seems 
likely that there were books containing special histories 
of the acts of Elijah and Elisha, seeing that the times 
of these prophets are described with such copiousness. 
Of the latter Geliazi might well have been the author, 
to judge from 2 Kings viii, 4, 5, as Elisha himself might 
have been of the former. Possibly, too, the prophecies 
of Azariah, the son of Oded, in Asa’s reign (2 Chreu. xv, 
1), and of Hanani (2 Chron. xvi, 7) (unless this latter is 
the same as Jehn, son of Hanani, as Oded is put for Az- 
ariah in xv, 8), and Micaiah, the son of Imlali, in Ahab’s 
reign; and Eliezer, the son of Dodavah, in Jeliosha- 
phat’s; and Zecliariali, the son of Jelioiada, in Jeho- 
ash’s ; and Oded, in Pekah’s ; and Zechariah, in Uzziah’s 
reign; of the prophetess lluldali, in Josiali’s, and oth- 
ers, may have been preserved in writing, some or all of 
them. These works, or at least many of them, must 
have been extant at the time when the books of Kings 
were compiled, as they certainly were extant much later 
when the books of Chronicles were put together by 
Ezra. But whether the author used them all, or only 
those duplicate portions of them which were embodied 
in the national chronicles, it is impossible to say. seeing 
he qnotes none of them by name except the acts of Sol- 
omon and the prophecy of Jonah. On the other hand, 
we cannot infer from his silence that these books were 
unused by him, seeing that neither does he quote by 
name the Vision of Isaiah as the chronicler does,, though 
he must, from its recent date, have been familiar with 
it, and seeing that so many parts of his narrative have 
every appearance of being extracted from these books 
of the prophets, and contain narratives which it is not 
likely would have found a place in the chronicles of the 
kings. See I Kings xiv, 4, etc. ; xvi, 1, etc., xi ; 2 Kings 
xvii, etc. 

With regard to the work so often cited in the Chron- 
icles as “ the Book of the Kings of Israel and Judah” (1 
Chron. ix, 1 ; 2 Chron. xvi, 11; xxvii, 7 ; xxviii, 26; 
xxxii, 32; xxxv, 27 ; xxxvi,8), it has been thought by 
some that it was a separate collection containing the 
joint histories of the two kingdoms; by others, that it 
is our books of Kings which answer to this description ; 
but by Eiehhom, that it is the same as the Chronicles 
of the kings of Judah so constantly cited in the books 
of Kings; and this last opinion seems to be the best 
founded. For in 2 Chron. xvi, 1 1, the same book is call- 
ed “the Book of the Kings of Judah and Israel,” which 
in the parallel passage, 1 Kings xv, 23, is called “the 
Book of the Chronicles of the kings of Judah.” So, 
again, 2 Chron. xxvii, 7, comp, with 2 Kings xv, 36; 2 
Chron. xxviii, 26, comp, with 2 Kings xvi, 19 ; 2 Chron. 
xxxii, 32, comp, with 2 Kings xx, 20; 2 Chron. xxxv, 
27, with 2 Kings xxiii, 28; 2 Chron. xxxvi, 8, with 2 
Kings xxiv, 5. Moreover, the book so quoted refers ex- 
clusively to the affairs of Judah; and even in the one 
passage where reference is made to it as “ the Book of 
the Kings of Israel” (2 Chron. xx, 34), it is for the reign 
of Jehoshaphat that it is cited. Obviously, therefore, it 
is the same work which is elsewhere described as the 
Chronicles of Israelancl Judah , and of Judah and Israel . 
Nor is this an unreasonable title to give to these chron- 
icles. Saul, David, Solomon, and in some sense Heze- 
kiah (2 Chron. xxx, 1,5,6), and all his successors, were 
kings of Israel as well as of Judah, and therefore it is 
very conceivable that in Ezras time the chronicles of 


KINGS 


97 


KINGS 


Jmlah should have acquired the name of the Book of 
the Kings of Israel and Judah. Even with regard to a 
portion of Israel in the days of Kehoboam, the chroni- 
cler remarks, apparently as a matter of gratulation, that 
“llehoboam reigned over them” ('2 Chron. x, 17); he 
notices Abijah’s authority in portions of the lsraclitish 
territory (2 Chron. xiii, 18,19; xv, 8, 9); he not un- 
frequcntly speaks of Israel, when the kingdom of Judah 
is the matter in hand (as 2 Chron. xii, 1 ; xxi, 4 ; xxiii, 
2, etc.), and even calls Jehoshaph at k- king of Israel” (2 
Chron. xxi, 2), and distinguishes ‘-Israel and Judah” 
from ‘-Ephraim and Manasseh” (xxx, 1); he notices 
Ilezekiah’s authority from Dan to Beershcba (2 Chron. 
xxx, 5). and Josiah’s destruction of idols throughout all 
the land of Israel (xxxiv. G-9), and his Passover for all 
Israel (xxxv, 17, 18), and seems to parade the title “king 
of Israel" \w connection with David and Solomon (xxxv, 
3, 4), and the relation of the Levites to “ all Israel” (ver. 
3); and therefore it is only in accordance with the feel- 
ing displayed in such passages that the name, ‘-the Book 
of the Kings of Israel and Judah,” should be given to 
the chronicles of the Jewish kingdom. The use of this 
term in speaking of the ‘-kings of Israel and Judah who 
were carried away to Babylon for their transgression” (1 
Chron. ix, 1) would be conclusive if the construction of 
the sentence were certain. But though it is absurd to 
separate the words “and Judah” from Israel, as Bertheau 
does ( Kurzgef \ Exeg . Ilandb .), following the Masoretic 
punctuation, seeing that the "Book of the Kings of Israel 
and Judah" is cited in at least- six other places in Chron- 
icles, still it is possible that Israel and Judah might be 
the antecedent to the pronoun understood before 
It seems, however, much more likely that the antece- 
dent to T1 : X is PT1 il" 1 On the whole, there- 

fore, there is no evidence of the existence in the time 
of the chronicler of a history, since lost, of the two king- 
doms, nor are the books of Kings the work so quoted by 
the chronicler, seeing he often refers to it for “ the rest 
of the acts” of Kings, when he has already given all that 
is contained in our books of Kings. lie refers, there- 
fore, to the chronicles of Judah. 

From the above authentic sources, then, was compiled 
the history in the books under consideration. Judging 
from the facts that we have in 2 Kings xvii, xix, xx, 
the history of llezekiah in the very words of Isaiah, 
xxxvi-xxxix; that, as stated above, we have several 
passages from Jeremiah in duplicate in 2 Kings, and 
the whole of Jer. lii in 2 Kings xxiv. 18, etc., xxv ; that 
so large a portion of the books of Kings is repeated in 
the books of Chronicles, though the writer of Chronicles 
had the original Chronicles also before him, as well as 
from the whole internal character of the narrative, and 
even some of the blemishes referred to under the second 
head — we may conclude with certainty that we have in 
the books of Kings, not only in the main the history 
faithfully preserved to us from the ancient chronicles, 
but most frequently whole passages transferred verba- 
tim into them. Occasionally, no doubt, we have the 
compiler’s own comments, or reflections thrown in, as at 
2 Kings xxi, 10-16; xvii, 10-15; xiii, 23; xvii, 7-41, 
etc. We connect the insertion of the prophecy in 1 
Kings xiii with the fjct^that the compiler himself was 
an eye-witness of the fultilment of it, and can even see 
how the icords ascribed to the old prophet are of the 
aga of the compiler. We can perhaps see his band in 
the frequent repetition, on the review of each reign, of 
the remark, “ The high places were not taken away ; the 
people still sacrificed and burnt incense on the high 
places” (l Kings xxii, 43 ; 2 Kings xii, 3 ; xiv, 4; xv, 4, 
35; comp. 1 Kings iii, 3), and in the repeated observa- 
tion that such and such things, as the staves by which 
the ark was borne, the revolt of the ten tribes, the re- 
bellion of Edom, etc., continue “unto this day,” though 
it may be perhaps doubted in some cases whether these 
words were not in the old chronicle (2 Chron. v, 9). See 
1 Kings viii, 8 ; ix, 13 21; x, 12; xii, 19; 2 Kings ii,22; 
Y.-G 


viii, 22; x, 27 ; xiii, 23; xiv, 7; xvi, G; xvii, 23, 34, 41 ; 
xxiii, 25. It is remarkable, however, that in no instance 
does the use of this phrase lead us to suppose that it 
was penned after the destruction of the Temple : in sev- 
eral of the above instances the phrase necessarily sup- 
poses that the Temple and the kingdom of Judah were 
still standing. If the phrase, then, is the compiler’s, it 
proves him to have written before the Babylonian cap- 
tivity ; if it was a part of the chronicle he was quoting, 
it shows how exactly he transferred its contents to his 
own pages. 

IX. Author and Date. — The authorship and age of 
this historical treatise may admit of several supposi- 
tions. Whatever were the original sources, the books 
are evidently the composition of one writer. The style 
is generally uniform throughout (Dr.Davidson, in Home's 
In trod., new edit., ii, 606 sq.). The same forms of ex- 
pression are used to denote the same thing, e. g. the 
male sex (1 Kings xiv, 10, etc.) ; the death of a king (I 
Kings xi,43.etc.) ; modes of allusion to the law (I Kiugs 
xi, 13); fidelity to Jehovah (I Kings viii, G3. etc. : see 
De Wette, Einleit. § 184, a ; Hiivemick, Einleit. § 171). 
Similar idioms are ever recurring, so as to produce a uni- 
formity of style (Hiivernick, l. c.). See § ii, above. 

1. With regard to the time when the author lived 
and wrote there are the following arguments: 

(I.) The style and diction indicate the later age of 
the Hebrew language, but not the latest. Attempts to 
prove a more modern date than the middle of the cap- 
tivity have signally failed. Nearly all the words which 
De Wette and others have selected (see § v, above) are 
shown to have been in use, either by the prophets who 
flourished before the captivity and at its commence- 
ment, or by still earlier writers: but words and phrases 
abound which were in common use by the writers of 
the concluding period of the kingdom of Judah, who did 
not go into captivity, especially by Isaiah and Jeremiah. 
In this respect there is a manifest difference between 
Kings and Chronicles. Though neither work is free 
from Chaldaic forms, they are rare in Kings, but numer- 
ous in Chronicles. Their occurrence at all in Kings is 
sufficiently accounted for from the contiguity of Judah 
to Syria, and from the frequent intercourse with Assyria 
which commerce and war involved. 

(2.) With the evidence which the language affords, 
the internal evidence of the contents agrees. The his- 
tory is carried down to the captivity in detail ; and, by 
way of supplement, to the reign of Evil-merodaeh, king 
of Babylon. The closing verse implies that the writer 
survived Jehoiacliin, but gives no hint whatever of the 
termination of the captivity, which he surely would 
have done had he written after the return from Babylon. 
We may therefore safely conclude that the work was 
composed before the end of the captivity, but after the 
twenty-sixth year of its continuance. 

2. Calmet ascribes the authorship to Ezra; but there 
are no decided indications of his authorship, and the 
names Zif and Bid (1 Kings vi. 1, 37, 38) were not in use 
after the captivity. The general opinion, however, that 
Jeremiah was the author is adopted by Grotius. Carp- 
zov, and others, and is lately revindicated by Haver- 
nick, as also by Graf (De Uhror. Sam. et Begum composi- 
tione , p. G1 sq.), but is opposed by Keil. Davidson, and 
others. In favor of it are the following strong argu- 
ments: 

(1.) The work is attributed to Jeremiah by ancient 
tradition. There is a reference to Jeremiah as the au- 
thor in the Talmud (Baba Bathra , fol. 15, 1), and with 
this notice the common opinion of the Jews agrees. 

(2.) The style and language of Kings resemble those 
of the acknowledged writings of Jeremiah. In both 
works there is an unusual number of urrat Xeyi/ara; 
and also of words peculiar to each work, though used 
more than once. What is still more to the purpose, 
there are words and forms of words used in both works, 
blit in them only; as. a “cruse” (1 Kings xiv, 


KINGS 


98 


KINGS 


3, and Jer. xix, 1, 10) ; a “husbandman” (2 Kings 
xxv, 12; Jer.fii, 16; and Jer. xxxix, 10) ; »"On ? 

to “bide,” used in Niphal only in Kings (I Kings xxii, 
25; 2 Kings vii, 12) and in Jeremiah (xlix, 10) ; "1^, to 
“blind,” used in the sense of putting out the eyes only 
in 2 Kings xxv, 7, and J er. xxxix, 7, and lii, 1 1, etc. See 
§ v, above. 

(3.) The habit of referring to the Pentateuch, pointed 
out as characteristic of the books of Kings, is equally so 
of Jeremiah; and this habit in both is thought to be 
accounted for on the ground of the discovered copy of 
the law in the days of Josiah, in which Jeremiah took 
great interest, traces of which are discoverable in Jer. 
xi, 3-5 (Dent, xxvii, 26); xxxii, 18-21 (Exod. xx, 6; 
vi, (5) ; xxxiv, 14 (Deut. xv, 12). Idle same general 
spirit of solemnity, the same modes of thought and il- 
lustration, and the same political principles, are thought 
to mark the two works. 

(4.) Some portions of Kings and of Jeremiah are al- 
most identical, particularly 2 Kings xxiv, I8-xxv, and 
Jer. lii. The two passages are so much alike, though 
differing in some respects, as to appear like two narra- 
tions of the same event by the same person, in each of 
which some points are related with more fulness than in 
the other, for some particular purpose. Parts of this 
narrative are also contained in nearly the same words in 
Jer. xxxix, 1— 10 ; xl, 7-xli, 10. 

(5.) The impression produced on the reader is that 
the writer of Kings was not taken away into captivity 
either in the days of Jehoiachin or of Zedekiah, as the 
writer of Chronicles appears to have been ; and this cir- 
cumstance agrees with the supposition that Jeremiah 
was the writer. We know that, after being carried 
away as far as Ram ah with the captives from Jerusa- 
lem, he was set free, and permitted to return to his own 
land with Gedaliah. He was afterwards taken away to 
Tahpanhes, in Egypt, where we obtain the last certain 
view of him. Besides this, many other points of agree- 
ment, more or less striking, present themselves to the 
careful reader — the book of Jeremiah serving more than 
any other part of Scripture to illustrate and explain the 
contemporaneous portions of the Kings, and the events 
recorded in Kings serving as a key to many portions of 
the prophet. In this way a number of undesigned co- 
incidences appear between the supposed and the ac- 
knowledged writings of Jerennah, as the following: 

2 Kings xxv, 1-3, comp, with Jer. xxxviii, 1-9. 

2 Kings xxv, 11, 12, 1S-21, “ Jer. xxxix, 10-14; xl, 1-5. 

2 Kings xxiv, 13, “ Jer. xxvii, 1S-20; xxviii, 3-6. 

2 Kings xxiv, 14, “ Jer. xxiv, 1. 

2 Kings xxi, xxii, xxiii, “ Jer. vii, 15 ; xv, 4 ; xix, 3. 

(6.) The absence of all mention of Jeremiah in the 
history, although he was so prominently active in the 
four or live last reigns, both in the court and among 
the people, is only explicable on the supposition that 
Jeremiah was himself the writer. Had it been the 
work of another, he must, as in Chronicles, have had 
very distinct mention. 

(7.) The events singled out for mention in the con- 
cise narrative are precisely those of which Jeremiah 
had personal knowledge, and in which he took special 
interest. The famine in 2 Kings xxv, 3 was one which 
had nearly cost Jeremiah his life (Jer. xxxviii, 9). The 
capture of the city, the flight and capture of Zedekiah, 
the judgment and punishment of Zedekiah and his sons 
at Kiblali, are related in 2 Kings xxv, 1-7, in almost 
the identical words which we read in Jer. xxxix, 1-7. 
►So are the breaking down and burning of the Temple, 
the king's palace, and the houses of the great men, the 
deportation to Babylon of the fugitives and the surviv- 
ing inhabitants of Jerusalem ami Jmhva. The intimate 
knowledge of what Nebuzar-adan did, both in respect 
to those selected for capital punishment and those car- 
ried away captive, and those poor whom he ‘left in the 
land, displayed by the writer of 2 Kings xxv, 11, 12, 
18-21, is fully explained by Jer. xxxix, 10-14, xl, 1-5. 
where wo read that Jeremiah was actually one of the 


captives who followed Nebuzar-adan as far as Ramah, 
and was very kindly treated by him. The careful enu- 
meration of the pillars and of the sacred vessels of the 
Temple which were plundered by the ChahUeans tallies 
exactly with the prediction of Jeremiah concerning 
them (xxvii, 19-22). The paragraph concerning the ap- 
pointment of Gedaliah as governor of the remnant, and 
his murder by Islimael, and the flight of the Jews into 
Eg\'pt, is merely an abridged account of -what Jeremiah 
tells us more fully (xl-xliii, 7), and are events in which 
personally he was deeply concerned. The writer in 
Kings lias nothing more to tell us concerning the Jew’s 
or Chaldees in the land of Judah, which exactly agrees 
with the hypothesis that he is Jeremiah, -who we know 
was carried down to Egypt with the fugitives. In fact, 
the date of the writing and the position of the writer 
seem as clearly marked by the termination of the narra- 
tive at v, 26, as in the case of the Acts of the Apostles. 
It may be added, though the argument is ofless weight, 
that the annexation of this chapter to the writings of 
Jeremiah so as to form Jer. lii (with the additional 
clause contained in vs. 28-30) i& an evidence of a very 
ancient, if not a contemporary belief, that Jeremiah was 
the author of it. Again, the special mention of Serai ah 
the high-priest, and Zephaniah the second priest, as 
slain by Nebuzar-adan (v, 18), together with three 
other priests, is very significant when taken in connec- 
tion with Jer. xxi. 1, xxix, 25-29, passages which show 
that Zephaniah belonged to the faction which opposed 
the prophet, a faction which was headed by priests and 
false prophets (Jer. xxvi, 7, 8, II, 16). Going back to 
the xxivtli chapter, we find in verse 14 an enumeration 
of the captives taken with Jehoiachin identical with 
that in Jer. xxiv, 1 ; in verse 13 a reference to the ves- 
sels of the Temple precisely similar to that in Jer. xxvii, 
18-20, xxviii, 3, 6, and in verse 3, 4, a reference to the 
idolatries and bloodshed of Manasseh very similar to 
those in Jer. ii, 34, xix, 4-8, etc., a reference which also 
connects chap, xxiv v'ith xxi, 6, 13-16. In verse 2 the 
enumeration of the hostile nations, and the reference to 
the prophets of God, point directly to Jer. xxv, 9, l? 0, 21, 
and the reference to I’haraoh-necho in verse 7 points to 
verse 19, and to xlvi, 1-12. Brief as the narrative is, it 
brings out all the chief points in the political events of 
the time which we know were much in Jeremiah’s 
mind; and yet, which is exceedingly remarkable, Jere- 
miah is never once named (as he is in 2 Chron. xxxvi, 
12, 21), although the maimer of the writer is frequently 
to connect the sufferings of Judah with their sins and 
their neglect of the Word of God (2 Kings xvii, 13 sq. ; 
xxiv, 2, 3, etc.). This leads to another striking coin- 
cidence between that portion of the history which be- 
longs to Jeremiah’s times and the writings of Jeremiah 
himself. De Wette speaks of the superficial character 
of the history of Jeremiah’s times as hostile to the the- 
ory of Jeremiah’s authorship. Now, considering the 
nature of these annals, and their conciseness, this criti- 
cism seems very unfounded as regards the reigns of Jo- 
siah, Jelioahaz, Jehoiachin, and Zedekiah. It must, 
however, be acknowledged that, as regards Jehoiakim’s 
reign, anil especially the latter part of it, and the way 
in which he came by liis death, the narrative is much 
more meagre than one would have expected from a con- 
temporary writer living on the spot. But exactly the 
same paucity of information is found in those otherwise 
copious notices of contemporary events with which Jer- 
emiah’s prophecies are interspersed. Let any one open, 
e. g. Townsend’s A rrangement or Geneste’s Parallel 
Histories, and lie will see at a glance how remarkably 
little light Jeremiah’s narrative or prophecies throw 
upon the latter part of Jehoiakim’s reign. The cause 
of this silence maybe difficult to assign, but, whatever it 
was, whether absence from Jerusalem, possibly on the 
mission described in Jer. xiii, or imprisonment, or any 
other impediment, it operated equally on Jeremiah and 
on the writer of 2 Kings xxiv. When it is borne in 
mind that the writer of 2 Kings was a contemporary 


KINGS 


99 


KING’S BOOK 


writer, and, if not Jeremiah, must have had independent 
means of information, this coincidence will have great 
weight. 

It has been argued on the other side — 

(1.) That the concluding portion of the book of Kings 
could hardly have been written by Jeremiah, unless we 
suppose him to have written it when he was between 
eighty and ninety years old. To this it may be replied 
that the last four verses, relative to Jehoiaehin, are 
equally a supplement, whether added by the author or 
by some later hand. There is nothing impossible in the 
supposition of Jeremiah having survived till the thirty- 
seventh year of Jehoiachin’s captivity, though he would 
have been between eighty and ninety. There is some- 
thing touching in the idea of this gleam of joy having 
reached the prophet in his old age, and of his having 
added these few words to his long-finished history of 
his nation (see Hiivcrnick, Ueber Daniel , p. 14). 

(2.) That the resemblance of style and diction may 
be accounted for on the supposition of Jeremiah’s famil- 
iarity with the ancient records to which the writer of 
Kings had access, while the similarity of 2 Kings xxiv, 
1-18, etc., and Jer. xxxix, might arise from the writer 
of Kings using that portion of Jeremiah’s work. The 
identity of Jer. lii with the same portion of Kings is 
probably owing to its being an altered extract from 
Kings, appended as a supplement to Jeremiah by some 
later hand. Neither of the suppositions, however, se- 
riously militates against the general authorship of Jer- 
emiah as to the book of Kings. See Jeremiah. 

X. Place of these Books in the Canon , and References 
to them in the Neiv Testament . — Their canonical author- 
ity having never been disputed, it is needless to bring 
forward the testimonies to their authenticity which may 
be found in Josephus, Eusebius, Jerome, Augustine, etc., 
or in Bp. Cosin, or any other modern work on the Canon 
of Scripture. See Canon. They are reckoned, as has 
already been noticed, among the Prophets, in the three- 
fold division of the Holy Scriptures ; a position in ac- 
cordance with the supposition that they were compiled 
by Jeremiah, and contain the narratives of the different 
prophets in succession. They are frequently cited by 
our Lord and by the apostles. Thus the allusions to 
Solomon’s glory (Matt. vi,29); to the queen of Sheba’s 
visit to Solomon to hear his wisdom (xii, 42) ; to the 
Temple (Acts vii,47, 48); to the great drought in the 
clays of Elijah, and the widow of Sarepta (Luke iv, 25, 
26); to the cleansing of Naaman the Syrian (ver. 27); 
to the charge of Elisha to Gehazi (2 Kings iv, 29, comp, 
with Luke x,4) ; to the dress of Elijah (Mark i,C, comp, 
with 2 Kings i, 8); to the complaint of Elijah, and God's 
answer to him (Horn. xi,3, 4) ; to the raising of the Shu- 
nammite’s son from the dead (Ileb. xi,35); to the giving 
and withholding of the rain in answer to Elijah’s prayer 
(James v, 17, 18; Rev. xi, G) ; to Jezebel (Rev. ii, 20) — 
are all derived from the books of Kings, and, with the 
statement of Elijah’s presence at the Transfiguration, are 
a striking testimony to their value for the purpose of 
religious teaching, and to their authenticity as a portion 
of the Word of God. 

On the whole, then, in this portion of the history of 
the Israelitish people to which the name of the Books 
of Kings has been given, we have (if we except those 
errors in numbers which are either later additions to 
the original work, or accidental corruptions of the text) 
a most important and accurate account of that people 
during upwards of four hundred years of their national 
existence, delivered for the most part by contemporary 
writers, and guaranteed by the authority of one of the 
most eminent of the Jewish prophets. Considering the 
conciseness of the narrative and the simplicity of the 
style, the amount of knowledge which these books con- 
vey of the characters, conduct, and manners of kings and 
people during so long a period is truly wonderful. The 
insight they give us into the aspect of Judah and Jeru- 
salem, both natural and artificial, into the religious, mil- 
itary, and civil institutions of the people, their arts and 


manufactures, the state of education and learning among 
them, their resources, commerce, exploits, alliances, the 
causes of their decadence, and, finally, of their ruin, is 
most clear, interesting, and instructive. In a few brief 
sentences we acquire more accurate knowledge of the 
affairs of Egypt, Tyre, Syria, Assyria, Babylon, and oth- 
er neighboring nations, than had been preserved to us 
in all the other remains of antiquity up to the recent 
discoveries in hieroglyphical and cuneiform monuments. 
The synchronisms with these, if they create some diffi- 
culties, yet furnish the only real basis for dates of these 
contemporaneous powers; and if we are content to read 
accurate and truthful history, substantially with an ex- 
act though intricate net-work of ehronoiog}, then we 
shall assuredly find it will abundantly repay the most 
laborious study which we can bestow upon it. 

But it is for their deep religious teaching, and for the 
insight which they give us into God’s providential and 
moral government of the world, that these books are 
above all valuable. Books which describe the wisdom 
and the glory of Solomon, and yet record his fall; which 
make us acquainted with the painful ministry of Elijah, 
and his translation into heaven ; and which tell us how 
the most magnificent temple ever built for God’s glory, 
and of which he vouchsafed to take possession by a vis- 
ible symbol of his presence, was consigned to the llames 
and to desolation for the sins of those who worshipped 
in it, read us such lessons concerning both God and man 
as are the best evidence of their divine origin, and make 
them the richest treasure to ever}" Christian man. 

XI. Commentaries. — The following are the exegetical 
helps specially on the two books of Kings, to t lie most 
important of which we prefix an asterisk: Ephraem 
Syrus, Explanatio (in Syriac, in his Opp. iv, 439) ; The- 
odoret, Qneestiones (in Greek, in his Opp. i, edit. Halle, 
1769); Procopius of Gaza, Scholia [including Chron.] 
(from Theodoret, edit. Meursius, Lugd. Bat. 1G20, 4to); 
Eucherius [falsely attributed to him], Commentarii (in 
the Max. Bill. Vet. Patr. vi, 9G5 sq.) ; Bashi [i. e. Rab. 
Sol. Jarclii], Commentarius [Joshua- Kings] (trans. by 
Breitliaupt, Gotha, 1714, 4to) ; Banolas, [Joshua- 

Kings] (with Kimclii’s Commentary, Seira, 1494, folio; 
and in the Rabbinical Bibles); Alselieieli, rVXVC, etc. 
[Joshua-Kings] (Venice, 1G01, fol., and later); Bugen- 
liagen, .1 dnotationes (Basil. 1525, 8vo); Weller, Commen- 
tarius (Francof. 1557, Norib. 15G0, fob) ; Borrhaus, Com- 
mentarius [Joshua-Kings] (Basil. 1557, folio); Sarcer, 
Commentarius (Lips. 1559, 8vo); Martyr, Commentarius 
(Tigur. 1GGG, 1581, Heidelb. 1599, fol.) ; Strigel, Commen- 
tarius [Samuel-Chron.] (Lips. 1583, 1591, fol.); Serarius, 
Commentaria [Joshua -Cliron.] (Mogunt. 1G09, 1G17, 2 
vols. fol.); Leonhardt, Jlyponmemata [Samuel-Chron.] 
(Erfurt, 1G08, 1614, 8vo ; Lips. 1G10, 4to) ; De Mendoza, 
Commentaria [including Sam.] (Lugd. 1G22-1G31,3 vols. 
fob); Sanctius, Commentarii [Sam.-Chron.] (Antwerp, 
1G24, Lugd. 1G25, fob) ; Crommius, Illustrationes [Kutli- 
Chron.] (Lovan. lG3I,4to) ; DeVera, Commentaria [in- 
chub Sam.] (Lima?, 1J35, fob); *Bonfrere, Commentaria 
[Sam.-Chron.] (Tomaci, 1G43, 2 vols. fob ; also with his 
other commentaries, Lugd. 1737); Caussinus, Disserta- 
tiones [inelud. Sam.] (Par. 1G50, fob; Colon! 1G52, 4to) ; 
* Schmidt, A dnotationes (Argent. 1G97, 4 to) ; Calmer, 
Commentate (Par. 1711, 4to) ; A Lapide, Commentarius 
[Joshua-Kings] (Antw. 1718, fob); Brentano and I)e- 
reser, Erkleirung (F. a. 31. 1827, 8vo) ; Tanehur-Jerusa- 
lami, Commentarius [inelud. Sam.] (from the Arabic, by 
Haarbrucker, Lips. 1844, Svo); *Keil, Commentar (Mos- 
kau, 184G, 8vo; tr. Edinb. 1857, 8vo, different from that 
in Keil and Delitzsch’s Commentary) ; *Thenius, Er- 
klarung (in the Kurzgef. Exeg. Jhlhk. Lpz. 1849, Svo); 
Schliisser, Einleitung in die Pitcher tier Konige (Halle. 
1861, Svo). For monographs on particular passages, see 
Danz, 1 Vorterhuch, p. 555. See Commentary. 

King’s Book is the name of a hook published A.D. 
1543, under the sanction of Henry Vll I, entitled A me- 
essary Doctrine and Erudition for any Christian Alan. 


KING’S DALE 


100 


KINGSLEY 


Tlie people called it the King's Kook in contradistinc- 
tion from the work which furnished the basis for the 
King's Book , and was called t he Bishops' Book. This lat- 
ter was an exposition of the Apostles’ Creed, the Seven 
Sacraments, the Ten Commandments, the Pater Noster, 
and the Ave Maria: to these, in the King's Book, was 
subjoined additional matter touching free will, good 
works, justification, predestination, and purgatory. A 
comparison, however, of the two shows that in the 
King's Book there is a falling away from the principles 
of the Reformation. See I nstitution op a Christian 
Max. 

King’s Dale E’mek ham- Me'lek, 

Valley of the King; Sept, to irtCiov t£jv /3«ct iXeiov, ij 
Koi\ag too fiatriXeiog), a place incidentally mentioned 
in two passages of Scripture only. When Abraham was 
returning with the spoil of Sodom, the king of Sodom 
went out to meet him "at the valley of Shaveh, which 
?>• the king's dale" (Gen. xiv, 17); and in the narrative 
of the death of Absalom the incidental remark is insert- 
ed by the historian, “ Now Absalom in his lifetime had 
reared up for himself a pillar which is in the king's dale" 
(2 Sam. xviii, 18). The locality has usually been sup- 
posed to be in the Valley of Jelioshaphat or Kidron, and 
that the well-known monument, now called the tomb 
of Absalom, is the pillar raised by that prince (Benja- 
min of Tudela, in Early True, in Pal. p. 81 ; Raumer, 
Pa! list. p. 303; Barclay, City of the Great King , p. 92). 
The style of the monument, which is of the later Roman 
age, militates against this theory, unless we suppose 
that this structure merely represents the older tradition- 
ary site. See Absalom’s Tomb. The names given to 
the valley, Eniek, Shaveh , prove that a “ plain” or *• broad 
valley” was meant, and not a ravine like the Kidron ; 
but this would tolerably well apply to its broader part 
at the junction with that of llinnom. See Jehosha- 
piiat. Valley of. Others locate the king’s dale at 
Beerslieba, others at Lebanon (Roland, Palccst. p. 357), 
others near the Jordan (Stanley, Jewish Church, i, 44). 
But if we identify Salem with Jerusalem, then doubt- 
less the king’s dale was close to that city; and it seems 
highly probable besides that Absalom should have raised 
his memorial pillar in the vicinity of the capital (Krafft, 
Die Topographie Jerusalems, p. 88). Still others regard 1 
the place as that elsewhere called the “ Valley of Iieph- 
aim,” and now usually designated as the Plain ofPeph- 
aim. This is on the direct route from the north to 
Hebron; a practicable road leads down from it through 
the wilderness to the shore of the Dead Sea; and it is 
so close to Jerusalem that Melchisedcc, from the heights 
of Zion, could both see and hear the joyous meeting of 
the princes of Sodom with the victorious hand of Abra- 
ham, and the reclaimed captives (comp. Kurtz, Ilist. of 
the Old Covenant, i, 218; Wilson, Lands of the Bible , i, 
488 ; Kalisch, On Gen. xiv, 17), See Reimiaim, Valley 
of. The epithet “ King's ,” however, seems rather to 
favor a connection with the “king’s garden” [see Je- 1 
rusalkm], which lay near the Pool of Siloam (2 Kings 
xxv, 4). See Shaveh. 

King’s Evil is the name in England of a disease 
which the people believed their kings bad the power of 
curing by touch. So strong was the popular conviction 
that the ecclesiastical authorities devised a special form 
of religious service to he recited while the king was 
touching the diseased person. It is as follows: 

“The first gospel was exactly the same with that on 
Ascension Day. At the touching of every infirm person, 
tlie*e words were repeated, ‘They shall lay their hands 
on the sick, and they shall recover.’ The second gospel 
began at the first of St. John, and ended at these words, 
‘full of grace and truth.’ At putting the angel (or gold) 
about their necks, ‘That light was the true light which 
lights every man that coineth into the world,’ was re- 
peated, 

Lord have mercy upon us. 

Christ have mercy vpon vs. 

Lord have mercy upon us. 

Our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, 
etc. 

Minister. O Lord, save thy servants. 


Answer. Which put their trust in thee. 

Minister. Send unto them help from above. 

A nswer. And evermore mightily defend them. 

Minister. Help us, O God, our Saviour. 

Answer. And for the glory of thy name’s sake deliver 
ns; he merciful unto us sinners, for thy name’s sake. 

Minister. O Lord, hear our prayer. 

Answer. And let our cry come unto thee. 

THE COLLECT. 

Almighty God, the eternal health of all such as put their 
trust in thee, hear ns, we beseech thee, on the behalf of 
these thy servants, for wboip we call for thy merciful 
help; that they, receiving health, may give thanks uuto 
thee in thy holy Church, Through Jesus Christ onr Lord. 
.1 men. 

The peace of God, etc.”— Hook, Chnreli Dietionary. 
“The evidence which has sometimes been offered for 
supposed miraculous cures of the king’s evil is none at 
all for the miracle, but goes to prove that patients were 
touched, and afterwards recovered. Symptoms of many 
diseases abate spontaneously ; and especially in the case 
of scrofula, a strong excitement of mind is supposed by 
medical men to exert often a reaction in the absorbents. 
The touch of a hanged man’s hand has been held in at 
least equal repute for Scrofula and wens, doubtless for a 
like reason. If Jesus had laid his hands on many sick 
persons, and some of them had recovered within a week, 
iiow different would have been the state of the case! 
(See Palev on tentative miracles and gradual cures.) As 
the reality of a cure by the touch of a royal hand cannot 
be believed without the utmost degree of superstition, 
it is probable that the service was used as a petition for 
the cure, and that the touching the part affected was a 
superstitious act, followed by a cure in those cases in 
which the action of the mind was favorable to such an 
effect. Tints the cure itself would be explicable from 
natural causes.” 

King’s Garden. See Garden. 

King’s House. See Palace. 

King’s Mother. See Queen. 

King’s Mowings. See Mowing. 

King’s Pool. See Pool. 

King’s Primer. See Primer. 

King’s Sepulchre. See Tomb. 

Kingsbury, Cyrus, a noted American missionary 
to the Indians, was born about 1789. lie commenced 
his missionary labors about 1 81 G, and for more than fifty 
years faithfully, quietly, and meekly served his Master 
in making known to those committed to his care the 
unsearchable riches of Christ. Kingsbury died August, 
1870. His influence among the savages was great, and 
few men in any service could be more missed. Among 
the missionaries of this age, no purer name, no lovelier 
character, has appeared than that which belongs to Cy- 
rus Kingsbury. 

Kingsbury, William, a Congregational minister, 
was born in London July 12, 1744, and educated first at 
Christ’s Hospital, London, and for the ministry at the 
educational institution for Congregational ministers at 
Mile End, where he graduated in 1704. lie was ordained 
in 1705, and became pastor of the Independent Church at 
Southampton, a position which he most successfully filled 
for forty-five years. In 1772, in addition to his pastoral 
duties, he established an academy for the education of 
young men. In 1787 he declined a position in Homer- 
ton College. In 1795 he was one of the prime movers 
in founding the London Missionary Society, and was the 
tirst to preside over its deliberations. lie died at Cav- 
ersham Feb. 18, 1818. He published in 1798 An Apol- 
ogyfor Village Preachers , in answer to an attack made 
upon them. Air. Kingsbury was “one of the brightest 
ornaments of the ministerial character that has graced 
the Church of God in modern times — a man of rare and 
exalted worth, possessed of vigor of intellect, sound crit- 
ical knowledge, as well as depth of piety.” — Morison, 
Missionary Path <■ rs. ( 1 1 . C. W.) 

Kingsley, Calvin, D.D., LL.IL, a bishop of the 
Methodist Episcopal Church, was born of Presbyterian 


KINGSLEY 


101 


KINGSLEY 


parentage, at Amesville, Oneida County, N. Y., Sept. 8, 1 
1812. His early advantages were rather moderate, but 
his thirst lor knowledge made him superior to circum- 
stances, and he secured whatever he could by night 
study and the careful improvement of the intervals in 
his working hours. He was converted at the age of 
eighteen, and avowed it at once as bis purpose to enter 
the ministry. By teaching country schools he saved 
enough to partially defray the expenses of a collegiate 
education, and in 1 836 entered Alleghany College, whence 
he was graduated with honor in the year 1811, having 
held already, in his sophomore year, the appointment of 
tutor of mathematics. Immediately after graduation he 
was elected professor of mathematics in the college, aud 
discharged the duties of that position for several years, 
taking upon himself also the work of preaching; he had 
been licensed to preach in 1836. In the year 18-13, when 
Alleghany College was deprived of its assistance from 
Pennsylvania by an enactment withdrawing all appro- 
priation from the high schools of the state, Kingsley, 
then an ordained deacon in the Church, was appointed 
agent “ for the peculiarly arduous and thankless task of 
raising funds for the endowment of his college.” About 
this time, also, the future bishop lirst came prominently 
before the general public. He had early entertained 
strong antislavery predilections, and in 1843 was led to 
open a public discussion with the distinguished preach- 
ers Luther Lee (q. v.) and Elias Smith (q. v.), who had 
formed the “Wesleyan” organization through disaffec- 
tion at the position assumed by the Methodist Episco- 
pal Church on the subject of the institution of slavery. 
In these discussions Kingsley proved himself m every 
respect the equal, if not the superior, of his antago- 
nists — “men by nature able, and by practice trained to 
the highest point of effectiveness by their zeal for truth, 
and laborious study of the whole ground of the contro- 
versy.” From 1844 to 18-15 he was also regular pastor 
in the city of Erie, where a deep religious influence ac- 
companied his ministrations. While here he had a pub- 
lic discussion with a LTniversalist minister, and also pre- 
pared his lectures on Prof. Bush’s work on the Resurrec- 
tion , which were published afterwards under the title 
Kingsley on the Resurrection (1845, and often). Prefer- 
ring work in the pulpit to that in the rostrum, he re- 
signed his place at Alleghany College in 1846, but the 
trustees refused to accept the resignation, and, at the 
most earnest entreaty of many of his friends, he was in- 
duced to continue his college relations, even at a consid- 
erable pecuniary sacritice. Besides, however, discharg- 
ing the duties of his chair, he continued to labor faith- 
fully as a preacher upon the adjacent circuits and sta- 
tions. In 1852 he was elected a delegate from his Con- 
ference to the General Conference, and not only was he 
at the head of his own Conference delegation, but while 
in attendance, though a comparative stranger, received, 
in the election of bishops, some forty votes for this distin- 
guished office. By the next General Conference (1856) 
lie was elected editor of the Western Christian Advocate, 
successor of the celebrated late Dr. Elliott. In this place 
he displayed much editorial ability, and his paper be- 
came a powerful influence in the West. In 1860 he was 
recognised by the General Conference as the leader of 
the antislavery movement, and was chosen chairman of 
the Slavery Committee, and managed the discussion on 
that subject with great taste, lie was at that time re- 
elected editor of The Advocate , and at the breaking out 
of the war brought its whole support to the aid of the 
government. In 1864, the General Conference, then in 
session at Philadelphia, promoted him to the high dis- 
tinction for which lie had been a candidate in 1852, and 
he performed the duties of the position until the sum- 
mer of 1860, when he took an episcopal tour around the 
world, but died on his way homeward at Beirut, Syria, 
April 6, 1870. “As a bishop, he met the highest expec- 
tation of the Church. In the chair his decisions were 
clear and exact. In making the appointments he man- 
ifested great sympathy for the preachers and devotion 


to the interests of the Church. His ministrations were 
able and successful, and during the six years of his epis- 
copal labor he gave himself wholly to the work of his 
great office. As a man, he was simple and unaffected in 
his manners, genial and social in his spirit. His intel- 
lect was strong, keen, and logical, lie used a ready pen, 
and his descriptions were clear, concise, and graphic. 
Ilis sermons were rich in doctrinal truth, and by their 
clear conception and earnest delivery held the attention 
of large congregations. Ilis executive power was of a 
superior order, and eaeli successive year his talents were 
unfolding” ( Conference Minutes, 1870, p. 294). The Rev. 
Dr. Robert Allyn, in his Personal Recollections of Bish- 
op Kingsley ( Central Christian Advocate, June 1, 1870), 
speaks of him as “a man genial, charitable, honest, ear- 
nest, shrewd and far-seeing, patient, careful, logical, and 
bold in defense and in attack. His square form, solid 
lips, and broad shoulders were an indication of the wres- 
tler. and his keen, quick eye.was that of a master of fence. 
While he was one of the most diligent of workers, he 
had just enough of the phlegmatic about his tempera- 
njent to make him the pluckiest of flghters. He always 
looked at a point, and not at half of the horizon, as many 
do when they preach or write. Ilis eagle eye would see 
the mark, no matter how far away, and his steady hand 
could point the spear to hit it exactly. In his sermoniz- 
ing there was no attempt at profundity, or speculation, or 
rhetorical ornamentation, or even logical force; yet it had 
all these so far as they are of any account. It was em- 
phatically as the rain that cometh down from heaven — 
falling because the clouds are too full to hold it longer, 
and never caring on what place it may descend, or what 
it shall refresh. His thoughts were always clear, and his 
words exact and often picturesque. He was entirely 
indifferent to the applause of those to whom he spoke, 
and was so natural — commonly not graceful in all his 
manner, that a careless observer would be sure to be de- 
ceived into thinking him of less weight than he really 
had. Every word lie chose was a word to help convey 
liis meaning, and he never added another for show ; 
hence a few, who looked lor sound rather than sense, 
might undervalue his preaching; but let a congregation 
hear him often, and become accustomed to the flash of 
his eye and the movement of his face as his thoughts 
came leaping from bis heart, and as he attempted to 
clothe them in words, and they could not fail to be fas- 
cinated. He had a magnetic power to keep people 
awake and to instruct them, ami to attach men to him 
which not many possess. 8 aid lie once, ‘ 1 cannot soar 
on the wings of fancy, I can only instruct and convince.’ ” 
“ In a word,” says Dr. Wiley, “ his whole character was 
well rounded and symmetrical as his mind was vigorous- 
ly logical, and his frame robust, compact, and well knit 
together. He filled with ability all places to which the 
Church called him, as pastor, educator, editor, aud bish- 
op.” Bishop Kingsley left in MS. form a series of lec- 
tures he delivered while professor at Meadville, in de- 
fence of the Orthodox doctrine. It is to be hoped that 
they will soon be brought out in book form. They cer- 
tainly would prove a great addition to our literature on 
those subjects. Since his decease his letters of travel 
have been published under the title of Rovrxl the World 
(Cincinnati, 1870, 2 vols. 12mo), prefaced by a memoir 
of the bishop. (J. II. W.) 

Kingsley, James Luce, LL.D., an eminent and 
one of the most successful American educators, horn in 
Scotland, Conn.. Aug. 28, 1778, was a lineal descendant of 
John Kingsley, one of the seven men who in 1636 con- 
stituted the lirst Church in Dorchester, Mass. lie en- 
tered Williams College at the age of seventeen, and at 
the end of the freshman year was transferred to Yale, 
where he graduated in 1799. After teaching in Wind- 
ham and Wethersfield for two years Air. Kingsley was 
appointed tutor in Yale College in 1801, and in 1805 was 
promoted to the professorship of the Hebrew, Greek, and 
Latin languages and of ecclesiastical history, a position 
which he retained till his death in 1852. His studies 


KINGSLEY 


102 


KINSMAN 


were chiefly in language anil history, but he was well 
versed in mathematics, theology, metaphysics, political 
science, anil general literature. The study of the clas- 
sics had disciplined his judgment and retined his taste, 
so that his writings were clear, finished, and forcible to 
the highest degree. As a writer of English, Dr. Dwight 
called him the American Addison; in Latin, Prof.Tliach- 
er says that ‘'Cicero was his model, and he was certainly 
a successful imitator of his style — surprisingly successful, 
when we consider how he was dependent on himself for 
instruction.” Prof. Kingsley was at the same time re- 
markably modest and retiring, the usual accompani- 
ments of true greatness. He very rarely made a pub- 
lic address, although so eminently qualified for the task; 
and the editions of classical authors which lie published 
as text -books, together with the numerous articles which 
he contributed to quarterly and monthly periodicals, 
were commonly anonymous. His Latin compositions 
were numerous, but rarely published. The congratula- 
tory address which lie gave at the inauguration of pres- 
ident Day in 1817, and a similar address at the inaugu- 
ration of president Woolsey in 184G, have not even been 
found among his papers. The memorandum of one of 
his associates attributes to him six such monumental 
tributes, viz. president Dwight, 1817 ; colonel David 
II umphreys, 1818 ; professor Alexander M. Fisher, 1 822 ; 
professor M. 1*. Dutton, 1825; tutor Amos Pctt ingill, 
1832; and Osgood Johnson, 1837. The most elaborate 
of his writings was the address delivered on the two 
hundredth anniversary of the settlement of New Haven 
in 1838. It remains a model of thorough investigation 
and judicious combination. The letters of Prof. Kings- 
ley have been very much admired. With president 
Sparks, Edward Everett, Dr. Palfrey, Air. Savage, and 
other literary gentlemen, he was in constant correspond- 
ence, but more particularly with Dr. J. E. Worcester. In 
the American Quarterly Register for April, 1835, anil Au- 
gust, 1830, will be found his sketch of the History of Yale 
College , which was also printed as a separate pamphlet 
(46 pages 8vo). This is regarded as a chief authority 
in relation to the early history of this celebrated college. 
The productions of Prof. Kingsley found a large place 
in the leading American periodicals; he ranked espe- 
cially prominent among the contributors to the New 
Englander , the Christian Spectator , the Biblical Repos- 
itory , and the North A merican Review. For a complete 
list of his works, see Allibone, Diet . Engl, and .4 m. A nth . 
vol. ii, s. v. See also Thaehcr (Thomas A.\ Commemora- 
tive Discourse on Prof. Kingsley (Oct., 1852). (E. de P.) 

Kingsley, Phineas, a Presbyterian minister, 
horn in Rutland, Yt., March 12, 1788, educated in the 
classics hv his uncle, a graduate of Harvard College, was 
licensed to preach about 1818, and ordained at Highgate, 
Yt., Oct. 12, 1819, where he remained twelve years. He 
was next settled for seven years at Underhill, Yt., and 
for the five years following at Sheldon, Yt. In 1847 he 
removed to Brooklyn, Ohio, and continued preaching to 
the day of his death, July 0, 1803. ‘‘He was highly 
esteemed by his ministerial brethren, not for showy tal- 
ents, but for substantial worth and fidelity.” — Wilson, 
Presb. Ilist. Almanac, 1807. 

Kingsmill, Andrew, an English divine, born at 
Sidmonton, in Hampshire, in 1538, was educated at Cor- 
pus Christi College, Oxford, and removed thence to a 
fellowship of All Souls in 1558. In the year 1503 there 
were only three preachers in the university, of whom 
Kingsmill was one; but after some time, when con- 
formity was pressed, he withdrew from t lie kingdom 
and went to Geneva, but at the end of three years 
moved to Lausanne, where he died in the year 1570, in 
the prime of life, “leaving behind him,” says Neale 
(Iiist. of the Puritans , i, 110 sq.),-“an excellent pattern 
of piety, devotion, and all manner of virtue.” He was 
an admired preacher, anil a scholar of superior attain- 
ments. 1 1 is memory was most remarkable, for it is said 
that be could readily rehearse, in the Greek language, 


all St. Paul’s epistles to the Romans and Galatians, and 
other portions of holy Scripture, memoriter. His works 
are : 1 . 1 dew of Man's Estate (1574, 8vo) : — 2. Godly .1 <1- 
vice touching Marriage (1580, 8vo) : — 3. Treatise for 
such as are troubled in Mind or afflicted in Body 4. 
godly Exhortation to bear patiently all Afflictions for the 
Gospel: — 5. Conference between a learned Christian and 
an afflicted Conscience. (E. de P.) 

Kinkaid, Samuel Porterfield, a Presbyterian 
minister, was born May 24, 1827, in Donegal, Butler 
County, Pa.; was educated at Washington College, Pa., 
where he graduated with honor in 1857 ; studied theol- 
ogy at the Western Theological Seminary, Alleghany, 
I’a.; was licensed in the spring of 1859, and during his 
senior year at the seminary preached at Academia and 
Rockland, Pa. There his labors were so abundantly suc- 
cessful that immediately upon his graduation he was or- 
dained and installed over the united churches of Acade- 
mia, Rockland, and Richland. In addition to his pasto- 
ral duties, lie taught the academy at Freedom, Yenango 
County, Pa. He died March 24, 180G. Kinkaid was 
marked for his great earnestness and diligence, as well 
as for his ardent piety anil ability to present truth with 
directness and searching power. — Wilson, Presb. Hist. 
A lmanac t 1807. 

Kinkead, James, a Presbyterian minister, was bom 
in St. Louis County, Mo., July 0, 1807, licensed to preach 
in 1833, and ordained in 1840. Ilis ministerial life was 
passed entirely in St. Francois and Washington counties, 
Mo. During the civil war he took every opportunity to 
favor the Union cause, and thus became obnoxious to 
the rebels, by whom he was taken from his bed and cru- 
elly murdered on the night of Sept. 2G, 1863. Destitute 
of thorough educational training, he yet excelled in 
quickness of perception, power of reasoning, anil good 
judgment. Not sectarian in views of doctrine and 
Church government, he was always tenaciously firm in 
the support of truth, and watchful against sophistry. — 
Presb. Hist. A Imanac , 18G5. (II. C. Vv.) 

Kinnersley, Ebexezer, a Baptist minister, and an 
eminent scientist, was born in Gloucester, England, in 
1711. In 1714 lie was brought to America. His early 
life was spent in Lower Dublin, near Philadelphia, where 
he pursued his studies under the supervision of his fa- 
ther. lie was ordained for the ministry in 1743. In 
1740 his attention was directed to scientific pursuits and 
discoveries. Afterwards lie became associated with Dr. 
Franklin in some of his most splendid discoveries, and 
delivered scientific lectures in Philadelphia, New York, 
Boston, and Newport. In 1753 he was chosen chief 
master of the English school in connection with the 
academy at Philadelphia, and in 1755 was unanimously 
elected professor of the English language and of oratory 
in the college. Successful in this department, he was 
honored, in 1757, by the trustees with the degree of 
master of arts, and in 1768 was chosen a member of the 
American Philosophical Society, which was then com- 
posed of the most learned and scientific men in the city. 
In 1772 lie resigned the professorship, and visited the 
island of Barbadoes on account of his failing health, 
lie afterwards returned to America, and died July 4, 
1778. Mr. Kinnersley was of dignified personal appear- 
ance, and eminent as a teacher of public speaking. He 
acquired his chief renown not in the ministry, but in his 
scientific pursuits and experiments. — See Sprague, An- 
nals Amer. Pulpit , vi, 45. (J. L. S.) 

Kinnim. Sec Lice; Talmud. 

Kinsman. Of the four Hebrew words thus trans- 
lated in the A. V., three, (Numb, xxvii, 11;“ kins- 

woman,” Lev. xviii, 12,13; elsewhere “ kin,” etc.; and so 
rHX w 1 , “kinswomen,” Lev. xviii, 17), (literally ac- 
quaintance , Ruth ii, 1), and THp (Psa. xxxviii, 12 [ 11] ; 
Job xix, 14, A.V. “ kinsfolk,” literally near , as often), indi- 
cate simple relationship. The remaining one, along 


KINSMAN 


103 


KIPPAH 


with that, implies certain obligations arising out of that 
relationship. The term btf 5, goel', is derived by the 
lexicographers from the verb to redeem . That the 

two are closely connected is certain, but whether the 
meaning of the verb is derived from that of the noun, 
or the converse, may be made matter of question. The 
comparison of the cognate dialects leads to the conclu- 
sion that the primary idea lying at the basis of both is 
that of coming to the help or rescue of one, hence giving 
protection , redeeming , avenging. In this case the of 
the O. T. would, in fundamental concept, answer pretty 
nearly to the 7 rapc'ac\i]Tog or paraclete of the N. T. The 
gold among the Hebrews was the nearest male blood 
relation alive. To him, as such, three rights specially 
belonged, and on him corresponding duties devolved to- 
wards his next of kin. See Kindred. 

1. When an Israelite through poverty sold his inher- 
itance and was unable to redeem it, it devolved upon one 
of his kin to purchase it (Lev. xxv, 25-28 ; Ruth iii ; iv). 
So also, when an Israelite had through proverty sold 
himself into slavery, it devolved upon the next of kin, 
as his goel, to ransom him in the jubilee year (Lev. 
xxv, 47 sq.). See Jubilee, Year of. In allusion to 
this, God is frequently represented as the goel of his 
people, both as he redeems them from temporal bondage 
(Exod. vi, 6 ; Isa. xliii, 1 ; xlviii, 20 ; Jer. 1, 34, etc.) and 
from the bondage of sin and evil (Isa. xli, 14; xliv, G, 22 ; 
xlix,7 ; Psa. ciii,4; Job xix,25, ete.). In some of these 
passages there is an obvious Messianic reference, to 
which the fact that our redemption from sin has been 
effected by one who has become near of kin to us by as- 
suming our nature gives special force (comp.IIeb.ii,14). 
See Redeemer. 

2. When an Israelite who had wronged any one sought 
to make restitution, but found that the party he had 
wronged was dead without leaving a son, it fell to the 
next of kin of the injured party, as his goel, to represent 
him and receive the reparation (Numb, v, G sq.). The 
law provided that in case of his having no one suffi- 
ciently near of kin to act for him in this way, the prop- 
erty restored should go to the priest, as representing Je- 
hovah, the King of Israel — a provision which the Jews 
say indicates that the law has reference to strangers, as 
“no Israelite could be without a redeemer, for if any one 
of his tribe was left he would be his heir” (Maimon. in 
Baba Kama , ix, 11). See Goel. 

3. The most striking office of the goel was that of 
acting as the avenger of blood in case of the murder of 
his next of kin; hence the phrase Dltj the blood- 
avenger. In the heart of man there seems to be a deep- 
rooted feeling that where human life has been destroyed 
by violence the offence can be expiated only by the life 
of the murderer; hence, in all nations where the rights 
of individuals are not administered by a general execu- 
tive acting under the guidance of law, the rule obtains 
that where murder has been committed the right and 
duty of retaliation devolves on the kindred of the mur- 
dered person. Among the Shemitie tribes this took the 
form of a personal obligation resting on the nearest of 
kin — a custom which still prevails among the Arabs 
(Niebuhr, Des. cVA rabie , ch.7). This deep-rooted feel- 
ing and established usage the Mosaic legislation sought 
to plaee under such regulations as would tend to prevent 
the excesses and disorders to which personal retaliation 
is apt to lead, without attempting to preclude the indul- 
gence of it. (Mohammed also sought to bring the prac- 
tice under restraint without forbidding it [see Koran, 
ii, 173-5 ; xvii, 33].) Certain cities of refuge were pro- 
vided, to which the manslayer might endeavor to escape. 
If the goel overtook him before he reached any of these 
eities, he might put him to death ; but if the fugitive 
succeeded in gaining the asylum, he was safe until at 
least an investigation had been instituted as to the cir- 
cumstances of the murder. If on inquiry it was found 
that the party had been guilty of deliberate murder, the 
law delivered him up to the goel, to be put to death by 


him in any way he pleased; but if the murder was acci- 
dental, the manslayer was entitled to the protection of 
the asylum he had reached. See City of Refuge. He 
was safe, however, only within its preeinets, for if the 
goel found him beyond these he was at liberty to kill 
him. Among some of the Oriental nations the right of 
blood-revenge might be satisfied by the payment of a 
sum of money, but this practice, whieh obviously gave 
to the rich an undue advantage over the poor in matters 
of this sort, the law of Moses absolutely prohibits (Numb, 
xxxv, 31). See Blood-revenge. 

From the narrative in Ruth iii and iv it has been con- 
cluded that among the duties of the goel was that of 
marrying the widow of a deceased kinsman, so as to 
raise up seed to the deceased, thus identifying the office 
of the goel with that of the levir, as provided for in Deut. 
xxv, 5-10. See Marriage. But the levirate law ex- 
pressly limits the obligation to a brother, and, according 
to the Jewish commentators, to a full brother by the fa- 
ther’s side (Maimonides, quoted by Otho, Lex. Ilabbin. 
p. 372), and in this relation neither Boaz nor the other 
kinsman stood to Elimelech or his sons. It is further 
evident that the question was one of right rather than 
one of duty, and that the kinsman who waived his right 
incurred no disgrace thereby, such as one who declined 
to fulfil the levirate law incurred. The nearest kinsman 
had the right to redeem the land, and the redemption 
of the land probably involved the marrying of the widow 
of the deceased owner, according to usage and custom ; 
but the law did not enjoin this, nor did the goel who 
declined to avail himself of his right come under any 
penalty or ban. The case of the goel and that of the 
levir would thus be the converse of eaeli other: the 
goel had a right to purchase the land, but in so doing 
came under ail obligation from custom to marry the 
widow of the deceased owner; the levir was bound to 
marry the widow of his deceased brother, which in- 
volved, as a matter of course, the redemption of his 
property if he had sold it (see Selden, De Success, in 
bon. defunct, c. 15; Benary, De Ilebrwomm Leviratu, p. 
19 sq.; Bertheau, Exeget. Ildb. zum A.T. pt. vi, p. 249; 
Michaelis, On the Laics of Moses, ii, 129 sq.). — Kitto, s. v. 
See Levirate Law. 

Kipling, Thomas, an English divine, bom in York- 
shire about the middle of the 18th century, was educa- 
ted at St.John’s College, Cambridge, where he graduated 
as B.A. in 17G8, and became D.D. in 1784. His first 
prominent position was that of deputy regius professor 
of divinity under bishop AVatson, and later he was pro- 
moted to the deanery of Peterborough. In 1792 Kip- 
ling preached the Boyle Lectures, which were not pub- 
lished. In 1793 he brought out at the university press 
a very handsome edition of the famous “ Codex Bezaj” 
of the N. T., with fae-simile types ( Codex Bezcc , Quctcl- 
ratis Uteris, Graco-Latinis, 2 vols. folio), which was im- 
mediately assailed with a virulence amounting to per- 
sonal hostility by the party whieh had espoused the 
cause of the once notorious Freud, who was banished 
the university for Unitarianism, and in whose ease Kip- 
ling had come forward as promoter, or public prosecutor.. 
Dr. Edwards, the leader of the party, charged him with 
ignorance and want of fidelity. But, though his prole- 
gomena do not manifest much accurate scholarship, and 
he commits the serious error of printing the corrections 
instead of the original reading of the text, which he rel- 
egated to the notes at the end, Tregelles ( Introd . to Text. 
Crit. of N. Test.) allows that be “appears to have used 
scrupulous exactitude in performing his task efficiently 
according to the plan whieh he had proposed to him- 
self.” Kipling also published The A r tides of the Church 
of England proved not to be Calvinisticcd (1802, 8vo), 
written in answer to Overton’s True Churchman ascer- 
tained. He died in 1822. See Kitto , Cyclop. Bib. Lit. 
s. v. ; Allibone, Diet. Engl, and A mer. A uthors T \ ol. ii, s. v. ; 
lloefer, Nouv. Biog. Gen. xxvii, 7GG. 

Kippah. See Palm. 


KIPPIS 


104 


KIRCIIMEIEE 


Kippis, Andrew, D.D., F.R.S., F.A.S., an eminent 
English Unitarian divine, was born at Nottingham in 
1725. He studied under I)r. Doddridge at Northamp- 
ton, and in 1746 became minister of a congregation 
at Boston, Lincolnshire. In 1750 he removed to Dor- 
king, and in 1753 became the pastor of a Presbyterian 
congregation of Unitarian tendency at Prince’s Street, 
Westminster, with which society he continued connect- 
ed till his death, which occurred in 1795. The duties 
arising out of this connection, however, did not preclude 
Dr. Kippis from seeking other means of public useful- 
ness. In 1703 he became a tutor in an academy for the 
education of dissenting ministers in London, on a plan 
similar to that on which the academy at Northampton 
had been conducted, lie was also one of the principal 
contributors to the Monthly Review and the Gentleman's 
Mayazine at a time when these were considered the 
leading periodicals of England. There are several pam- 
phlets of his on the claims of the dissenters, and on other 
topics of temporary interest; but the work with which 
his name is most honorably connected is the republica- 
tion of the Biograph ia Britunmca, with a large addition 
of new lives, and a more, extended account of many per- 
sons whose lives are in the former edition of that work. 
The design was too vast to be accomplished by any one 
person, however well assisted. Five large folio volumes 
were printed of the work (1778), and yet it had proceed- 
ed no further than to the name of Fastolf. Part of a 
sixth volume, it is understood, was printed, but it has 
not been given to the world. Many of the new lives 
were written by Dr. Kippis himself, and particularly that 
of captain Cook, which was printed in a separate form 
also. Dr. Ivippis’s was a literary life of great industry, 
lie was the editor of the collected edition of the works 
of Dr. Nathaniel Lardner (q.v.), with a life of that emi- 
nent theological scholar, lie published also the ethical 
and theological lectures of his tutor. Dr. Doddridge, with 
a large collection of references to authors on the various 
topics to which they relate. II is other works of inter- 
est are. Sermon on Luke it, 25 (Lond. 1780, 8vo) : — Ser- 
mon on Psalm cxlir, 15 (London, 1788, 8vo) : — A Vindi- 
cation of Protestant Dissenting Ministers (1773). See 
Bees, Funeral Semi. ; Gent. May. vols. Ixv, lxvi, Ixxiv; 
Darling, Encyclopaedia Bihlioy. s. v.; English Cyclopaedia, 
s. v. 

KippocL See Bittern. 

Kippoz. See Owe. 

Kir (lleb. id., a wall or fortress, as often ; Sept, 
always as an appellative, rtiyoe, ttoXiq, fioSpoc, etc., 
but v. r. Xappdv, Kvpijin), etc.), a people and country 
subject to the Assyrian empire, mentioned in connection 
with Elam (Isa. xxii, 6), to which the conquered Da- 
mascenes were transplanted (2 Kings xvi, 9 ; Amos i, 5), 
and whence the Aramaeans in the cast of Syria at some 
time or other migrated (Amos ix, 7). This is supposed 
by major Kennel to be the same country which still 
bears the name of /wmlistan or A'oordistan (Geoyr. of 
Jferodot . p. 391). There are, however, objections to this 
view which do not apply so strongly to the notion of 
Bosenm idler and others, that it was a tract on the river 
Cyrus (Pliny, Hist. Xat. vi, 10; Ptolemy, v, 12) (Kenoc 
and k rppor, in Zend A'oi'o), which rises in the moun- 
tains between the Euxine and Caspian Seas, and runs 
into the latter after being joined by the Araxes (Biisch- 
ing, Mayaz. x, 420; compare Michaelis, Spicil. ii, 121; 
Suppl. 2191 ; (iesenius, Thesaurus, p. 1210) ; still called 
Kur (Bonomi, Xireveh, p. 47, 71). Uwrjistan. or Grnsia 
(Grusiana), commonly called Georgia, seems also to have 
derived its name from this river Kur, which Hows 
through it. Others compare Curena or Curna of Ptol- 
emy (K ovpi)va or Konpna, vi, 2,10, Ohald. "-“P), a 
city in the south of Media, on tlu* river Mardug (Bochart, 
Phaley, iv, 32) ; Yitringa the city ('urine, also in Media 
(K apivtj, Ptolemy, vi, 2, 15), now called Kereml (Bitter, 
Erdk. ix, 391). Some region in Media is perhaps most 
statable from the fact that Armenia, whose northern 


boundaries are washed by the river Cyrus, was probably 
not a part of Assyria at the time referred to (see Kno- 
bel, Prophet, ii, 108), Keil ( Comment . on Kings, ad locO 
thinks the Modes must be meant, erroneously imagining 
that the inhabitants of Kir arc spoken of in Isaiah as 
good bowmen. The Sept. (Vat. INIS, at 2 Kings), the 
Yulg., and Chald. (at 2 Kings and Amos), and Symrna- 
ehus (at Amos ix), render Cyrene! 

For Kir ofMoah (Isa. xv, 1), sec Ivir-Moar. 

Kiratarjuniya, one of the most celebrated poems 
of Sanscrit literature, the production of Bharavi, depicts 
the conflict of Arjuna with the god Siva in his disguise 
of a kirata, or mountaineer. 

Kirclientag. See Ciiurcii Diet. 

Kircher, Athanasius, an eminent German Jes- 
uit, and quite prominent as a philosopher, was born near 
Fulda, Germany, in ICO I. lie entered the Society of 
desus in 1618, and taught mathematics and metaphys- 
ics in the college at Wurzburg. During the inroads of 
the Swedes he fled before the Protestant powers, and, 
after a short stay in France, went to Borne, and became 
a professor at the Propaganda. He died in 1680. Ilis 
writings, which extend over the different departments 
of the natural sciences, philosophy, philology, history, 
and archaeology, evince great talent, but are often fan- 
ciful in their theories. His principal works of interest 
to us are, (E dipus yEyyptiacits , etc. (Roma?, 1652, etc., 4 
vols. fol.) : — Mundits subterranevs, in xii libros digest us, 
etc. (Amsterdam, 1665, fol.) : — Area X oe, in tres libros 
digesta, etc. (Amst. 1675); — Liber philologicvs de sono 
artifeioso, sire musiea, etc. (in Ugolino’s Thesaurus, 
xxxii, 353) ; — Liber diacriticvs de Musurgia, antiquo- 
moderna (Ugolino, xxxii, 417) : — China, monumentis, 
qua sacris, qua profanis , illustrata (Amst. 1667. fol.) : — 
Turris Babel , sire Arehontologia, etc. (Amst. 1679. fol.) : 
etc. See his Autobiography and Letters (Augsb. 1684) ; 
Wetzer nnd Welte. Kirchen-Lex. vol. vi. s. v. ; Darling, 
Encycloj). Bihlioy. s. v. (J. II. W.) 

Kircher, Konrad, a learned German pbilologian 
of Augsburg, of the 16th century, was a Lutheran pastor 
first at Donauwerth and later at Jaxtdorf, and died about 
1622. He wrote Concord be veteris Testamenti Gracai 
Ebrceis voeibus respondentes (Francf. 1607, 2 vols. 4to; 
greatly enlarged by Abrali. Trommius, Amst. 1718) : — 
l)e usu concord antiornm Gr a corum in Theologia. See 
Simon, Hist. Crit. du 1 r ieux Testament, i, 3, cli. ii , A llyem . 
Hist. Lexikon , iii, 33. 

Kirchhofer, Melchior, a celebrated Swiss eccle- 
siastical writer, was born Jan. 3, 1775, at SchafT hausen, 
and was educated at Marburg. In 1797 he returned to 
Switzerland, and was ordained for the holy ministry. 
His first important position lie secured in 1808 at Stein, 
and this he tilled up to his death, Feb. 13, 1853. lie is 
quite celebrated for bis able efforts in the department 
of Church History, which procured for him in 1840 the 
doctorate of theology from the University of Marburg. 
Among the especially valuable writings of Kirchhofer 
arc his monographs on Ilofmeister (1810), Oswald My- 
conius (1813), Werner Steiner (1818), Bcrthold Haller 
(1828), Wilhelm Farel (1831), and his continuation of 
llottingcrs’ Ecclesiastical History of Switzerland. — Her- 
zog, Real-Encyklopddic, vii, 70S. 

Kirchmayr, Thomas, a German theologian, was 
born at Straubingen, Bavaria, in the early part of the 
16th century; became pastor first at Stadtsulza, in Thu- 
ringia, and later (in 1541) at Kahla. lie died at Wies- 
bach in 1563. Kirchmayr is noted as the author of a 
commentary on 1 John, in which he advocates the pre- 
destination theory in a somewhat peculiar manner. He 
teaches that the chosen ones never lose the influence of 
the holy Spirit, however great their transgression. lie 
was criticised and obliged to quit the pulpit. — Pierer, 
Universal Lexikon , ix, 534. 

Kirchmeier, Johann Christoph, a noted Ger- 
man theologian, was born at Orpli erode, Hesse, Sept. 4, 


KIRCIDIEIER 


105 


KIKJATII-ARBA 


1G74, and was educated at the University of Marburg. I 
He became in 1700 professor of philosophy at Hcrborn, 
in the year following regular professor of theology at 
the same high-school, and in 1702 removed in this ca- 
pacity to Heidelberg. In 1723 he returned to Marburg, 
and was promoted to the highest honors that his alma 
mater could bestow. He died March 15, 1743. Kirch- 
meier was the honor and pride of the German Reformed 
Church in Marburg, and his memory is revered to this 
day. A list of his writings, which are mostly of a con- 
troversial nature and in pamphlet- form, is given by Du- 
ring, Gelehrte Theologen JJtUtschlands d. 18^ w und 1 ( d ttn 
Jahrh. ii, 94 sq. 

Kirchmeier, Johann Siegmund, a German 
theologian of note, was born at Allendorf Jan. 4, 1674, 
and was educated at Marburg and Leyden. In 1703 lie 
became pastor at Sclnvebda. In 1704 he accepted the 
professorship of logic and metaphysics at Marburg Uni- 
versity, and at the same time became pastor of a Re- 
formed church at Marburg. He died April 23, 1749. 
His writings, mainly dissertations, arc enumerated by 
During, Gelehrte Theologen Deutschlands c l. lS' cn a. 19' cn 
Jahrh . ii, 99 sq. 

Kirghis, or Kirghis - Ivaisaki ( Cossacks of the 
Steppes), is the name of a people spread over the im- 
mense territory bounded by the Volga, desert of Obsh- 
tehei (in 55° N. lat.), the Irtish, Chinese Turkestan, Ala- 
Tau Mountains, the Sir-Daria, and Aral, and Caspian 
Seas — a vast tract of land, not unfrcqucntly designated 
as the “Eastern Steppe,” and containing 850,000 Eng- 
lish square miles ; sterile, stony, and streamless, and cov- 
ered with rank herbage live feet high. The Kirghis are 
of Turkish origin, and speak the Uzbek idiom of their 
race. They have from time immemorial been divided 
into three branches, called the Greed, Middle, and Little 
Hordes . The first of these wanders in the south-west 
portion of the Eastern Steppe; the Middle Horde roams 
over the territory between the Ishim, Irtish, Lake Balk- 
hash, and the territory of the Little Horde. The Little 
Horde (now more numerous than the other two togeth- 
er) ranges over the country bounded by tbe Ural, Tobol, 
Siberian Kirghis, and Turkestan. (A small offshoot of 
them has, since 1801, wandered between the A r olga and 
the Ural river, and is under rule of the governor of As- 
trachan.) South of Lake Issikul is a wild mountain 
tribe called the T)iko-Kamennaja, the only tribe which 
calls itself Kirghis. They are called by their neighbors 
Kara or Black Kirghis, and are of Mandshur stock. 
Their collective numbers are estimated at upwards of 
millions of souls, more than half of whom belong to 
the Little Horde. This people is, with the exception 
above mentioned, nomadic, and is ruled by sultans or 
khans. They are restless and predatory, and have well 
earned for themselves the title of the “ Slave-hunters of 
the Steppes,” by seizing upon caravans, appropriating 
the goods, and selling their captives at the great slave- 
markets of Khiva, Bokhara, etc. Their wealth consists 
of cattle, sheep, horses, and camels. They are of the 
Moslem faith, in a somewhat corrupt form, and, like the 
followers of Mohammed, are the sworn enemies of the 
Mongols. “Fired by hereditary hate,” says Dixon ( Rus- 
sia, p. 339 sq.), “these Kirghis bandits look upon every 
man of Mongolian birth and Buddhistic faith as lawful 
spoil. They follow him to his pastures, plunder his tent, 
drive off his herds, and sell him as a slave. But when 
this lawful prey escapes their hands they raid and rob 
on more friendly soil, and many of the captives whom 
they carry to Khiva and Bokhara come from the Per- 
sian valleys of Atrck and Mcshid. Girls from these val- 
leys fetch a higher price, and Persia has not strength 
enough to protect her children from their raids.” Not- 
withstanding the strenuous efforts of Russia to educate 
the Kirghis, there are among them at the present time 
only twelve schools, attended by about 370 children. 
See Chambers, Cyclopaedia, vol. v, s. v. ; Brockliaus, Real- 
Encyklopcidie, vol. viii, s. v. Kirgesen. 


Kir-har'aseth (2 Kings iii, 25), Kir-liar'eseth 
(Isa. xvi, 7). Kir-ha'resh (Isa. xvi, lI),Kir-he'res 
(Jer. xlviii, 31, 3G). See Ktr-Moab. 

Kiriatha'im (Jer. xlviii, 1 , 23 ; Ezek. xxv, 9). See 
Kirjathahu. 

Kiriathia'rius (Kiom-Stapmc v. r. K apiaStpi, Vulg. 
Crearpatros), a corrupt form (1 Esdr. v, 19) for Kirjath - 
a rim (Ezra ii, 25), or Kiujatii-jearim (Neh. vii, 29). 

Kir'ioth (Amos ii. 2). See Kertotii. 

Kir'jath (Josh, x viii, 28). See Kirjatii-jeartm ; 
also the following names, of which this is the first part. 

Kirjatha'i'm (Heb. Kiryatha'yim, ~‘ , r*pp, two cit- 
ies, i. e. double-town ; Sept. K apiaSaip, but KctptaSdfi 
in Numb.; t) 7 toAiq in Gen.; v. r. K aptaStp or Kap<«- 
Sev in Jer. and Ezek.; 7roAi£ 7rcrpa3'a\Aa(7r77« [appar- 
ently mistaking the directive termination for £“>“] 

in Ezek.; Auth.Yers. “Iviriathaim” in Jer. and Ezek.), 
the name of t wo places. 

1. One of the most ancient towns in the country east 
of the Jordan (see Ewald, Gesch. Jsr. i, 308), as it was 
possessed by the gigantic Emim (Gen. xiv, 5), who were 
expelled by the Moabites (compare Deut. ii, 9, 10), and 
these, in their turn, were dispossessed by the Amorites, 
from whom it was taken by the Israelites. Kirjathaim 
was then assigned to Reuben (Numb, xxxii, 37 ; Josb. 
xiii, 19); but during the Assyrian exile the Moabites 
again took possession of this and other towns (Jer. xlviii, 
1,23; Ezek. xxv, 9). Burckhardt ( Travels , p.3G7) found 
ruins, called Kl-Teim, which he conjectures to have been 
Kiria//ia*»i, the last syllable of the name being retained. 
This is somewhat doubtful, as tbe Christian village Ka- 
riatha or Koreiatha (Kapidco, KapidSa') of Eusebius 
and Jerome {Onomast. s. v.) is placed ten miles west of 
Medeba, whereas EI-Teim is but two miles (Seetzen 
places it at half an hour, Reise, i, 408). Michaelis {Ori- 
ent. it. exeg. Bill, iii, 120; Suppl. 2203 sq.) compares the 
modem city Kirjathaim , one day’s journey from Pal- 
myra (AVood, Ruins of Palmyra, p. 34) ; and Busch mg 
( Erdb . xi, 508) adduces Kariathaim (in Pliny, vi, 32, 
Car Hat a), a place in the desert of Arabia; but both 
these identifications arc inadmissible (Iiamesveld, iii, 
1G9). Ritter (Erdkunde, xv, 1185,1186) supposes that 
the Onomeisticon confounds two places of the same name, 
one being the ancient city corresponding to El-Teim, 
north of the wady Zurka, and the other the Christian 
town, represented by the modem Kureyat, south of the 
same wady; but we see no occasion for this, as the lat- 
ter place, the name of which fully agrees, lies at the re- 
quired distance (eleven miles, Seetzen, Reise, ii, 342) 
south-west of Medeba (Porter, Handbook •, p. 300), upon 
the southern slope of Jcbel Attarus (perhaps referred to 
by Eusebius in the expression annexed to his descrip- 
tion, t tti' top Bdpir, on the Baris, using the term in the 
sense of a fortress on a hill-top rather than alluding to 
a position beyond the valley Zurka-Main, which Ritter, 
p. 578, fancifully conceives to be thus indicated from the 
abundance of mandrakes, fiadpac). See Keriotii, 2. 

2. A city of refuge in the tribe of Naphtali (1 Chron. 
vi,7G); elsewhere (Josh. xxi,32) called Kart an (q. v.). 

Kirjath -ar'ba (Hebrew Kiryath'-Arba', r^p 
c % °f A r ^ a » Sept. 7ToX/£ ’ApfSetc, Gen. xxiii, 2 ; 
Judg. xiv, 15; xv, 13, 54; xx, 7 ; KaputSapfivic, Josh, 
xxi, 1 1 ; Judg. i, 10 ; 7r6Ai£ tov 7reeAov, Gen. xxxv, 27 ; 
once with the art. r^Hp, Kin/ath'-ha-Arba' ; 

Septuag. KapmSap/Jo v. r. Kapta-S'ap/h;/:, Neh. xi, 25; 
Auth. A^ers. “ city of Arba,” in Gen. xxxv, 27 ; Josh, xv, 
13; xxi, 11), the original name of Herron, in the moun- 
tains of Judah, so called from its founder, one of the 
Anakim, and inhabited under the same name after the 
exile. 1 lengstenberg, however, thinks that Ilebron was 
the earlier name, and Kirjath-Arba only was imposed by 
the Canaanites {Beitr. iii, 187). Sir John Alandevillo 
(cir. 1322) found it still “called by the Saracens Kari- 
carba, and by the Jews Arbotha" ( Early Travels, p. 161). 


KIRJATII-JEARBI 


10G 


KIRJATII-JEARIM 


It is a Jewish gloss (first mentioned by Jerome) which 
interprets the latter part of the name (“S’HX, arbu, Ileb. 
“four”) as referring to the four great men buried there 
(the saints Adam, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob: so the 
Talmud, see lveil. ad loc. ; or the giants Anak, Ahiman, 
Sheshai, and Tolmai, according to Bochart, (A/«a«,i,l). 

Kir'jath-aTim (Ezra ii, 25), See Kirjatii-Jea- 
rim. 

Kir'jath-ba'al (Ileb. Kiryatk'-Ba'dl,hv^~r ^^ ? 
city o f Baal : Sept. Kapu&fidaX), another name (Josh, 
xv. 00: xviii, 14) for Kirjatii-jeakim (q. v.). See 
also Baalaii. 

Kir'jath-hu'zoth (Ileb. Kiryath'-Ckutsoth',r?*}p 
TXSTl, city of streets ; Sept. woAtig t 7 rctv\eu)v), a city 
of Moab to which Balak took Balaam on his arrival to 
offer a preparatory sacrifice (Numb, xxii, 30). The 
Vulgate understands an extreme city of the territory of 
Moab, as that on the border of Arnon, where the king 
met his prophetic guest (verse 30) ; but the two appear 
to have been different. The city in question was prob- 
ably the capital of the Moabitish king, usually called 
Kir-Moab, and here distinguished from other places of 
a similar name ( Kirjath meaning simply “city”) by an 
epithet indicative of its extent; compare the presence 
of the court and “ high places of Baal,” as well as the 
conspicuous situation of the city (verse 41), correspond- 
ing to that of Kerak. Porter, however (Murray’s Hand- 
book for Pal. p. 299 sq.), inclines to identify the place 
with the Keireyat on Jebel Attarus, and so with Kiri- 
athaim (q. v.). 

Kir'jath-je'arim (Ileb. Kiryath'-Ycdrim'. 

city afforests; Sept. K aptaSiaptip, Josh, xviii, 
14; Judg. xviii, 12; 1 Chron. ii, 50, 52. 2 Chron. i, 4; 
Neh. vii, 29; Jer. xxvi, 20; KipiaSapi/i, 1 Sam. vi, 21 ; 
vii, 1,2; v. r. 1 Chron. ii, 50, 52 ; 2 Chron. i, 4 ; Keh. vii, 
29 ; Jer. xxi, 20 ;. ttoA(£ ’I apeip, Josh, xv, 9, GO ; 1 Chron. 
xiii, 5 [v. r. Tap///] ; rroAftt; ’lapeip. Josh, ix, 17 ; K«- 
piaSiaeio v. r. ttuXiq Tam, 1 Chron. ii, 53 ; KantaSfid- 
a\, Josh, xiii, 15; omits in 1 Chron. xiii, G [or, rather, 
paraphrases the words “ llaalah, which is Kirjath-jea- 
rim,” b) T 7 toA/£ AaeiJJ; Josephus >) rwv K apuiSiapi- 
ptrujv 7ro\/c, Ant. vi, 2, 1 ; with the art. 

Jer. xxvi, 20), in the contracted form KIRJATH-ARIM 
(Ileb. Kiryath'-A rim', FTHp, Ezra ii, 25; Sept. 

K apiaSiaoti p v. r. KeiptaSnciptp'), and simply KIRJATH 
(Ileb. Kiryath', Josh. xviii, 28; Sept. jroXtff Tapt- 

etp), one of the towns of the Gibeonites (Josh.ix, 17). It 
belonged to the tribe of Jiulah (Josh. xv, GO; Judg. xviii, 
12), and lay on the border of Benjamin (Josh, xviii, 15*1 
Chron. ii, 50), to which it was finally assigned (Josh, xviii, 
2-S). It was to this place that the ark was brought from 
Beth-shemesh, after it had been removed from the land 
of the Philistines, and where it remained till removed 
to Jerusalem by David (1 Sam. vii; 1 Chron. xiii). 
This was one of the ancient sites which were again in- 
habited after the exile (Ezra ii, 25; Neh. vii, 29). It 
was also called Kikjatii-baal (Josh, xv, GO ; xviii, 14), 
and Baalaii (Josh, xv, 9). It appears to have lain not 
far from Ileeroth (Ezra ii, 25). “ It is included in the 

genealogies of Judah (1 Chron. ii, 50, 52) as founded by 
or descended from Shobal. the son of Caleb ben-llur, and 
as having in its turn sent out the colonies of the Ithrites, 
Puhites, Shumathites, and Mishraites, and those of Zo- 
rah and Eshtaol. ‘Behind Kirjath-jearim’ the band of 
Danites pitched their camp before their expedition to 
Mount Ephraim and Laish, leaving their name attached 
to the spot for long after (Judg. xviii, 12). See Maiia- 
neii-uax. Hitherto, beyond the early sanctity implied 
in its bearing the name of Baal, there is nothing re- 
markable in Kirjatli-jearim. It was no doubt this rep- 
utation for sanctity which made the people of Beth-she- 
mesh appeal to its inhabitants to relieve them of the 
ark of Jehovah, which was bringing such calamities on 
their untutored inexperience. From their place in the 


valley they looked anxiously for some eminence, which, 
according to the belief of those days, should be the ap- 
propriate seat for so powerful a Deity [see Thomson, 
Land and Book , ii, 539] (1 Sam. vi, 20, 21). In this 
high place — ‘the hill’ (Pl^Ilan) — under the charge of 
Eleazar, son of Abinadab, the ark remained for twenty 
years (vii, 22), during which period the spot became the 
resort of pilgrims from all parts, anxious to offer sacri- 
fices and perform vows to Jehovah (Josephus. Ant. vi, 
2, 1). Sixty-two years after the close of that time Kir- 
jath-jearim lost its sacred treasure, on its removal by 
David to the house of Obed-edom the Gittite (1 Chron. 
xiii, 5, G; 2 Chron. i, 4; 2 Sam. vi, 2, etc.). It is very 
remarkable and suggestive that in the account of this 
transaction the ancient and heathen name Baal is re- 
tained. In fact, in 2 Sam. vi, 2 — probably the original 
statement — the name Baale is used without any expla- 
nation, and to the exclusion of that of Kirjath-jearim. 
In the allusion to this transaction in Psa. cxxxii, G. the 
name is obscurely indicated as the ‘wood’ — yaar, the 
root of Kirjath-^Varim. We also hear of a prophet Uri- 
jah ben-Shemaiah, a native of the place, who enforced 
the warnings of Jeremiah, and was cruelly murdered by 
Jehoiakim (Jer. xxvi, 20, etc.), but of the place we know 
nothing beyond wliat has already been said. A tradi- 
tion is mentioned by Adrichomins ( Descr . T. S. Dan. § 
17), though without stating his authority, that it was 
the native place of ‘ Zechariah, son of Jelioiada, who 
was slain between the altar and the Temple’” (Smith). 
Josephus says it was near Beth-sliemesh (Ant. vi. 1, 4). 
Eusebius and Jerome (Onomast. s. v. BadA, Baal-cara - 
thiarim ) speak of it as being in their day a village nine 
or ten miles from Diospolis (Lvdda), on the road to Je- 
rusalem ; consequently north-west (Ilamesveld, iii, 2GG). 
With this description, and the former of these two dis- 
tances, agrees Procopius (see Relatul, Palcest. p. 503). 
On account of its presumed proximity to Beth-shemesh, 
Williams (Holy City) endeavors to identify Kirjath-jea- 
rim with Deir el- Ilow a, cast of Ain Shems. But this, 
though sufficiently near the latter place, does not an- 
swer to the other conditions. Dr. Robinson thinks it 
possible that the ancient Kirjath-jearim may be recog- 
nised in the present Kuryet el-Enab. The first part of 
the name (Kirjath, Kuryet, signifying city ) is the same 
in both, and is most probably ancient, being found ill 
Arabic proper names only in Syria and Palestine, and 
not very frequent^ even there. The only change has 
been that the ancient “city of forests” has, in modem 
times, become the “city of grapes.” The site is also 
about three hours, or nine Roman miles from Lvdda, on 
the road to Jerusalem, and not very remote from Gibeon, 
from which Kirjath-jearim could not well have been 
distant. So close a correspondence of name and position 
seems to warrant the conclusion in favor of Kuryet el- 
Enab (see Ritter’s Erdkwule , xvi, 108-110). This place is 
that which ecclesiastical tradition has identified with the 
Anathoth of Jeremiah (i, I ; comp. Jerome, ad loc.; also 
Onomcisticon , s. v. ; Josephus, A nt. x, 7, 3), which, howev- 
er, is at Anata. Kuryet el-Enab is now a poor village, 
its principal buildings being an old convent of the Min- 
orites and a Latin church. The latter is now deserted, 
and is used for a stable, but is said to be one of the lar- 
gest and most solidly constructed churches in Palestine 
(Robinson, ii, 109, 334-337). The village is prettily sit- 
uated in a basin, on the north side of a spur jutting out 
from the western Hills. The only well-built houses are 
those belonging to the family of the sheiks Abu-Ghosh, 
who for the last half century have been the terror of 
travellers, but have lately been overtaken with punish- 
ment by the Turkish government. Dr. Robinson re- 
marks that “a pretty direct route from Beth-shemesh 
would pass up on the ‘east of Yeshua and along wady 
Ghurab; but no such road now exists, and probably 
never did. judging from the nature of the country. In 
all probability, the ark was brought up byway of Saris” 
(Researches, new ed., iii, 157). Schwarz, who identities 
Kirjath-jearim with the same site, suggests that the hill 


KIR J ATH-S ANN AH 


107 


KIRKPATRICK 


(which he calls Mount Midan) south-west of the village, 
ami just south of Kuryet es-Saideh, may be the “Mount 
Jearim” spoken of in Josh, xv, 10 (but different from 
Mount Baalah of ver. 11); both placeshaving taken the 
title Jearim from the intervening tract of land, perhaps 
once covered with wood (Palest, p. 1)7). It is the testi- 
mony of a recent traveller (Tobler, Uritte Wanderung, p. 
178) that in the immediate neighborhood, on the ridge 
probably answering to IMount Jearim, there still are 
“real woods, so thick and so solitary, he had seen noth- 
ing like them since he left Germany.” 

Kir'jath - san'nah (Hebrew Kiryath' - S aimak' , 
perh. city of Sannah ; Josh, xv, 49; Sept. 
7 toXkj ypuf.if.iaTu) j'), usually Kirjath-se'pher (Ileb. Kir- 
yaik'-Se'pher , book-city ; Sept. iruXig ypap- 

jiciTiov , Josh, xv, 15, 10; Jiulg. i, 11 ; ttoXiq tCov ypap- 
ficiTUJV , Judg. i, 12; v. r. Kapia3\7£0ep, Judg. i, 11), in 
later times (Josh, xv, 15,49; Judg. i, 11) called Debir 
( q. v.), a Canaanitish royal city (Josh.x, 38), afterwards 
included within the tribe of Judah (Josh, xv, 48; comp. 
Judg. i, 1 1), but assigned to the priests (Josh, xxi, 15 ; 1 
Chron. vi, 58 ; compare Hamesveld, iii, 224). The name 
Debir means a word or oracle , and is applied to that 
most secret and separated part of the Temple, or of the 
most holy place, in which the ark of the covenant was 
placed, and in which responses were given from above 
the cherubim. From this, coupled with the fact that 
Kirjath-sepher means “city of writing,” it has been con- 
jectured that Debir was some particularly sacred place 
or seat of learning among the Canaanites, and a reposi- 
tory of their records. “ It is not, indeed, probable,” as 
professor Bush remarks (note ad loc. Josh.), “ that writ- 
ing and books, in our sense of the words, were very com- 
mon among the Canaanites; but some method of re- 
cording events, and a sort of learning, was doubtless 
cultivated in those regions.” Boehart ( Canaan , ii, 17) 
explains the latter part of the name Kirjath-sannali as 
being a Phoenician term equivalent to the Arabic sunna 
or “ precept,” which would be in keeping with the above 
explanation of the other terms. Gesenius (Thesaur. p. 
962, 1237) thinks it a term expressive of th e palm, and 
Fiirst (Ileb. Lex. s. v.) thinks it denotes the senna plant. 
Debir was taken by Joshua (x, 38) ; but it being after- 
wards retaken by the Canaanites, Caleb, to whom it was 
assigned, gave his daughter Aelisah in marriage to his 
nephew Othniel for his bravery in carrying it by storm 
(Josh, xv, 16). Tt was situated in the mountains of Ju- 
dah (Josh, xv, 49), to the south of Ilebron (Josh, x, 38 ; 
see Keil, Comment, ad loc.), and on a high spot not very 
far from it (Josh, xv, 15), and appears to have been 
strongly fortified (Ewald, Gesch. Isr. ii, 289). These cir- 
cumstances and the associated names (Josh, xv, 48-50) 
appear to indicate a position on the mountains south- 
west of Ilebron, in the vicinity of ed-Dhoheriyeh , which 
has a commanding situation and some ruins (Robinson’s 
Researches, i, 311). 

Kirk, a word meaning circle, in the sense of “assem- 
bly” or “ company the original word being Saxon, and 
supposed by some to have come from the Greek icvpia- 
kov, dominicitm , “ The Lord’s house.” The word Church 
is the same as “ Kirk,” and has the same signification as 
“ congregation” or assembly, which are elsewhere given 
as translations of the original word tKKXifcria. The es- 
tablished religion of Scotland (the Presbyterian) is usu- 
ally called the Kirk of Scotland. See Scotland. 

Kirkland, John Thornton, D.D., LL.D., an em- 
inent American Unitarian divine, was born at Herkimer, 
N. Y., Aug. 17, 1770. llis youthful days were spent at 
Stockbridge, Mass. At the age of thirteen he went to 
Phillips Academy, then under the care of Dr. Eliphalet 
Pearson, and in 1785, with the patronage of the excel- 
lent judge Phillips, he entered 11 arvard University. He 
passed through college with a high reputation for schol- 
arship, especially excelling in the departments of lan- 
guages and metaphysics, and graduated in 1789 with 


distinguished honors. Shortly after he went to Stock- 
bridge, and commenced the study of theology under the 
direction of Dr. Stephen West; but the strict viev. s of 
theology to which he was here introduced were little to 
his taste, and he soon after returned to Cambridge, where 
he found himself in a much more congenial theological 
atmosphere. In November, 1792, while still prosecuting 
his theological studies, lie was appointed tutor of meta- 
physics in Harvard University, and held this office until 
February, 1794, when he was ordained, and installed pas- 
tor of the New South Church, Boston. Here he soon 
drew around him an intelligent and discriminating con- 
gregation, among whom were some of the leading men 
of the times. In 1802 he was honored with the degree 
of doctor of divinity from the College of New Jersey, 
and in 1810 with the degree of doctor of laws from 
Brown University. So high was his professional repu- 
tation at that time, and so commanding the influence 
he had acquired, that in 1810 lie was elected to the pres- 
idency of Harvard University. Dr. Kirkland’s presi- 
dency marked a brilliant epoch in the history of the 
college. Under his administration the course of studies 
was greatly enlarged; the law school was established; 
the medical school reorganized; four different professor- 
ships in the academical department endowed and filled; 
three new buildings erected, and immense additions 
made to the library. In August, 1827, he suffered a 
stroke of paralysis, which led him, in March, 1828, to re- 
sign his office as president; and in April he set out on a 
long journey through the Western and Southern States, 
and afterwards spent three years and a half in visiting 
foreign countries. lie died April 26, 1840. Dr. Kirk- 
land was a person of simple, dignified, and winning man- 
ners; he had great natural dignity; there was an un- 
studied grace in his whole bearing and demeanor, llis 
mind was of an ethical turn ; he was distinguished as 
a moralist, and seemed to possess a thorough, intimate, 
and marvellous knowledge of men. lie was remarka- 
ble, too, for the comprehensiveness of his views and the 
universality of his judgments. He always generalized 
on a large scale, and even his conversation was a suc- 
cession ofaphorisms, maxims, and general remarks. His 
publications consisted of a few occasional Discourses, 
several-contributions to the periodicals of that day, and 
a Memoir of Fisher A mes. See Ware, A mer . Unitarian 
Biog. i, 273 ; Christian Examiner, xxix, 232. (J. L. S.) 

Kirkland, Samuel, a Congregational minister, 
was born Dee. 1, 1741, at Norwich, Conn, lie received 
his degree from the College of New Jersey, 1765, though 
not present himself. In Nov. 1765, lie went on a mis- 
sionary -visit to the Seneca Indians, and returning in 
May, 1766, lie was duly ordained and appointed mission- 
ary by the Connecticut Board of Correspondents of the 
society in Scotland. He settled at Oneida in the midst 
of the Oneida tribe, and labored until the Involution 
suspended his mission. During the war he served as 
chaplain in the army, and was engaged in negotiations 
with the Indians, for which services he was rewarded by 
Congress in 1785. As soon as the war was ended he 
continued his missionary labors among the Indians. In 
1788 the Indians and New York State presented him 
with valuable lands, part of which he improved and oc- 
cupied. During the year 1791 he made a Statement of 
the Numbers and Situation of the Six United Nations of 
Indians in North America, and in the winter conducted 
a delegation of some forty warriors to meet Congress in 
Philadelphia. In 1793 he was instrumental in procuring 
a charter for the Hamilton Oneida Academy, which has 
since become a college. His connection with the socie- 
ty in Scotland was broken off in 1797, for what reason 
he knew not, but he continued his accustomed work un- 
til his death, Feb. 28, 1808. — Sprague, Annals, i, 623. 

Kirkpatrick, Hugh. See Kirkpatrick, James. 

Kirkpatrick, Jacob, D.D., a Presbyterian divine, 
was born near Baskingridge, N. J., August 7, 1785 ; pur- 
sued his classical studies under the direction of the Lev. 


KIRKPATRICK 


108 


KIRMOAB 


Robert Finley, D.D., and graduated at the College of 
New Jersey in 1801. After this he studied law three 
years, but in 1807 he decided definitely in favor of the 
ministry, and resumed his studies tinder John Woodhnll, 
I >.!)., of Freehold, X.J. In August, 1809, he was licensed 
by the New Brunswick Presbytery, and was ordained 
and installed pastor of the United First Church of Ani- 
well. Dingoes, N. J., June 20, 1810, where he continued to 
labor for fifty-six years. He was one of the founders 
of the Hunterdon County Bible Society (1810), and also 
among the earliest and most energetic promoters of the 
temperance reformation in that county, lie died at 
Biugoes, N. J., May 2, 1860. l)r. Kirkpatrick was a man 
of a large and generous heart ; his preaching was full of 
tenderness, pathos, and earnestness ; his Christian char- 
acter unassuming, and adorned with meekness and pie- 
ty. — Wilson, Presb. Historical A Imanac , 1807. (J. L. S.) 

Kirkpatrick, James, a noted minister of the 
Presbyterian Church in Ireland, was the son of Hugh 
Kirkpatrick, a minister in Lurgan, Scotland, from about 
1080 to the Revolution, when he retired to Dairy, Ire- 
land, where he preached until 1091, then removed to Old 
Cumnock, and in 1095 again returned to Scotland, and 
died at Ballymoney in 1712. James was educated at 
Glasgow, entered the ministry, and became one of the 
most promising Irish Presbyterians in the pulpit. In 
1700 he was the preacher of the Second Belfast congre- 
gation. During the opposition of the House of Parlia- 
ment to the Presbyterians, James Kirkpatrick became 
one of the ablest champions of the Presbyterian cause. 
In 1713 he published An Historical Essay upon the Loy- 
alty of Presbyterians in Great Britain and Ireland from 
the Reformation to the present Year (Belfast, 1713, 4to), 
to which neither he nor the printer dared to affix their 
names for fear of persecution, lie died about 1725. — 
Reid and Killen, Hist. Presb. Ch. in Ireland, iii, 91 sq. 

Kirk-Sessions is the name of a petty ecclesias- 
tical jit licatory in Scotland. Each parish, according to 
its extent, is divided into several particular districts, 
every one of which has its own elder and deacons to 
govern it. A Consistory of the ministers, ciders, and 
deacons of a parish form a kirk-session. These meet 
once a week, the minister being their moderator, but 
without a negative voice. It regulates matters rela- 
tive to public worship, elections, catechizing, visitations, 
membership, etc. It judges in matters of less scandal; 
but greater, as adultery, are left to the Presbytery, and 
in all cases an appeal lies from it to the Presbytery. 
The functions of the kirk-session were in former times 
too often inquisitorially exercised; but this is now less 
frequently attempted, and the danger of it is continu- 
ally diminishing through the growth of an enlightened 
public opinion. In former times, also, the kirk-session in 
Scotland often imposed fines, chiefly for offences against 
the seventh commandment; but this practice had no 
recognition in civil nor even in ecclesiastical law, and is 
now wholly relinquished. The kirk-session of the Es- 
tablished Church in each parish is fully recognised in 
Scottish law as having certain rights and duties with 
respect to the poor, hut recent legislation has very much 
deprived it of its former importance in this relation. — 
Buck, s. v. ; Chambers, s. v. 

Kirkton, James, a Scottish divine, who flourished 
in the second half of the 17th century, is noted as the 
author of The secret and true History of the Church of 
Scotland from the Restoration to 1078, etc. (edited by C. 
K. Sharpe, Edinb. 1817, 4to), a work which has been 
highly commended by Sir Walter Scott ( London Quart. 
Heritor, xviii, 502 sq.). Kirkton died in 1099. — Black- 
wood's Magazine , ii, 305 sq. 

Kirkwood, Roijep.t, a Presbyterian minister,* born 
in Paisley, Scotland, May 25, 1793 v was educated in Glas- 
gow College, and studied divinity with Rev. John Dick, 
D.D., at 'I'heological Hall, Glasgow. He was licensed 
in 1828. In response to a pressing call for ministerial 
workers in New York, he went thither and connected 


himself with the Reformed Protestant Dutch Church, 
under the Missionary Society of which he labored un- 
til 1830, when he became pastor at Cortlandville, N. Y. 
lie officiated there and at Auburn and Sami beach, N. 
Y., until 1839, and then served as a domestic missionary 
for seven years in Illinois. For the next eleven years 
he labored as agent for the Bible and Tract Societies. 
In 1857 he transferred his connection from the Reformed 
to the Presbyterian Church, and settled at Yonkers, N. 
Y., devoting the remainder of his life to literary labors. 
He died August 20, i860. In addition to numerous con- 
tributions to the Christian Intelligencer. New York Ob- 
server, and The Presbyterian, lie published Lectures on 
the Millennium (New York, 1855) : — Universalism Ex- 
plained (New York, 185G) : — A Plea for the Bible (New 
York, 1800; a very popular work and extensively sold) : 
— Illustrations of the Offices of Christ (New York, 1802; 
a practical treatise on divine influences); together with 
a selection of sermons. Mr. Kirkwood having enjoyed 
the superior advantages of instruction by the distin- 
guished Dr. Dick, was thoroughly and systematically 
trained in the great evangelical doctrines. Ilis preach- 
ing was characterized by a practical scriptural tone. 
“His only peculiarity of doctrine was his pre-millennial 
views, in which, however, as his work on this subject 
shows, he was moderate, cautious, and never went to the 
extreme of fixing the time and seasons, which the Fa- 
ther hath put in his own power.” — Wilson, Presb. His- 
torical Almanac. 

Kir-Mo'ab (Heb. Kir-Moab', 2 X 13 ~ "1 1 p./o rtress 
of Moab [see Km]; Isa. xv, I; Sept, to tu\oq tj}q 
j\!wa/3f rrooc, Vulg. mums Moab, An th. Vers. “Kir of 
Moab”), usually KIR-HERES (Heb. Kir-che'res, 

Cnn, brick fortress, Jer. xlviii, 31, 36; Sept. Kttpdctc, 
Tulg. murus jictilis ; in pause Isa. xvi, II; 

Sept. 7-fiyoc o IviKaivuiaQ, Vulgate murus cocti lateris, 
Auth.Yers. “ Kir-haresh”)" or KIR-IIARESETII (Heb. 
Kir-Chare'seth , P — id., Isa. xvi, 7; Sept, ot 

KaroiKovvrtg EeS, Vulgate muri cocti lateris; in pause 
“Up? 2 Kings iii. 25; Sept, to rtiyog, Vulgate 
murifetiles, Auth. Vers. “Kir-liaraseth”), one of the two 
strongly fortified cities in the territory of Moab, the 
other being Ar of Moab. Joram, king of Israel, took 
the city, and destroyed it, except the walls (2 Kings iii, 
25); but it appears from the passages here cited that it 
must have been rebuilt before the time of Isaiah, anu 
again ravaged by the. Babylonians. In his prophecy 
(xv, 1), the Chaldee paraphrast has put -XI X2 “3, 
kerakka de-Moab, “ the castle of Moab and the former 
of these words, pronounced in Arabic karak, kerctk, or 
k’rak, is the name it hears in 2 Macc*. xii, 17 (Xapaxa, 
Charaeci), in Steph. Byzant. (Xapatcpufia, Charucmo- 
ba ), in Ptolemy (v, 17, 5, Xapcaciopa, Characonui), in 
Abulfeda (Tab. Syr. p. 89), and in the historians of the 
Crusades. Abulfeda (who places it twelve Arabic miles 
from Ar-Moab) describes Kerak as a small town, with 
a castle on a high hill, and remarks that it is so strong 
that one must deny himself even the wish to take it by 
force (comp. 2 Kings iii. 25). In the time of the Cru- 
sades, and when in possession of the Franks, it was in- 
vested by Saladin ; but, after lying before it a month, 
he was compelled to raise the siege (Bolueddin. Vita 
Saladin. p. 55). The Crusaders had erected here a for- 
tress still known as Kerak, which formed one of the 
centres of operations for the Latins east of the Jordan. 
On the capture of these at length by Saladin after a 
long siege, in A.D. 1188, the dominion of the Franks 
over this territory ceased (Wilken. Kreuzz. iv, 244-247). 
“ It was then the chief city of .4 rttbia Secunda or Petra- 
censis; it is specified as in the Belka , and is distinguish- 
ed from ‘ Moab’ or ‘ Rabhat.’ the ancient Ar-Moab, and 
from the Mans regal is (Schultens, Index Geogr. s. v. Ca- 
racha; see also the remarks of Gcsenius, Jesaia , i, 517, 
and his notes to the German translation of Burekhardt). 
The Crusaders, in error, believed it to be Petra, and that 


KIR-MOAB 


109 


KISHIOX 


name is frequently attached to it in the writings of 
'William of Tyre ami Jacob de Yitry (see quotations in 
Iiobinson, Bib. lies, ii, 167). This error is perpetuated 
in the Greek Church to the present day; and the bishop 
of Petra, whose office, as representative of the patriarch, 
it is to produce the holy tire at Easter in the Church of 
the Sepulchre at Jerusalem (Stanley, S. and P. p. 4G7), 
is in reality bishop of Kerak (Seetzen, Jieisen, ii, 358; 
Burckhardt, p. 387)” (Smith). The first person who 
visited the place in modern times was Seetzen, who 
says, ‘’Near to Kerak the wide plain terminates which 
extends from Kabbah, and is broken only by low and 
detached hills, and the country now becomes mountain- 
ous. Kerak, formerly a city and bishop’s see, lies on the 
top of the hill near the end of a deep valley, and is sur- 
rounded on all sides with lofty mountains. The hill is 
very steep, and in many places the sides are quite per- 
pendicular. The walls round the town are for the 
most part destroyed, and Kerak can at present boast of 
little more than being a small country town. The cas- 
tle, which is uninhabited, and in a state of great decay, 
was formerly one of the strongest in these countries. 
The inhabitants of the town consist of Mohammedans 
and Greek Christians. The present bishop of Kerak 
resides at Jerusalem. From this place one enjoys, by 
looking down the wady Kerak, a tine view of part of 
the Dead Sea, and even Jerusalem may be distinctly 
seen in clear weather. The hill on which Kerak lies is 
composed of limestone and brittle marl, with many beds 
of blue, black, and gray flints. In the neighboring 
rocks there are a number of curious grottoes; in those 
which are under ground wheat is sometimes preserved 
for a period often years” (Zach’s Monatliche Correspond. 
xviii, 431). A fuller account of the place is given by 
Burckhardt ( Travels in Syria, p. 370-387). by whom it 
was next visited ; and another description is furnished 
by Irby and Mangles (7VmW.N-,p.36 1-370). From their 
account it would seem that the caverns noticed by Seet- 
zen were probably the sepulchres of the ancient town. 
We also learn that the Christians of Kerak (which they 
and Burckhardt call Kcrek) are nearly as numerous as 
the Mohammedans, and boast of being stronger and 
braver (see Iiobinson’s Researches, ii, 5GG-57 1). On ac- 
count of the notoriously savage character of its Moham- 
medan inhabitants, Kerak has not often been visited by 
travellers. Lieut. Lynch, of the United States expedi- 
tion to the Dead Sea, penetrated this fastness of banditti, 
having boldly seized the sheik and detained him as a 
hostage for their safety. He describes the town as sit- 
uated upon the brow of a hill 3000 feet above the Dead 
Sea. The houses are a collection of stone huts, built 
without mortar. They are from seven to eight feet 
high; the ground floors about six feet below, and the 
flat terrace mud-roofs mostly about two feet above the 
streets; but in many places there were short cuts from 
street to street across the roofs of the houses. The 
houses, or rather huts, without windows and without 
chimneys, were blackened inside by smoke, and the 
women and children were squalid and filthy. Kerak 
contains a population of about 300 families; these in- 
clude about 1000 Christians, who are kept in subjection 
by the Moslem Arabs. The Moslem inhabitants are 
wild-looking savages, but the Christians have a mild and 
hospitable character. The males mostly wear sheep-skin 
coats, the women dark-colored gowns ; the Christian fe- 
males did not conceal their faces, which were tattooed 
like the South Sea islanders. The entrance to Kerak is 
by a steep and crooked ravine, which is completely com- 
manded at the summit by the castle. This latter, partly 
cut out of and partly built upon the mountain top, pre- 
sents the remains of a magnificent structure, its citadel 
cut off from the town by a deep ditch. It seems to be 
Saracenic, although in various parts it lias both the 
pointed Gothic and the rounded I Ionian arch, the work 
doubtless of the various masters into whose hands it has 
fallen during its eventful history. Its walls are com- 
posed of heavy, well-cut stones, with a steep glacis-wall 


surrounding the whole. It is of immense extent, having 
five gates, seven wells and cisterns, with subterranean 
passages, and seven arched store-houses, one above an- 
other, for purposes of defence (see Lynch’s Narrative, p. 
355-359). Mr. De Saulcy also entered this “den of 
robbers,” as he terms it, and he has added some partic- 
ulars to the above description ( Narrative . i, 302-330, 
390). His account illustrates the character of the in- 
habitants, who have for many years been the terror of 
the vicinity (Porter, Handbook, p. GO ; Schwarz. Pales- 
tine, p. 216). See also Hitter’s Erdkunde , xv, 9IG, 1215. 
A map of the site and a view of part of the keep will be 
found in the Atlas to De Saulcy {La 31 er 3 lorte, etc., 
feuilles 8, 20). See Moab. 

Kirwan. See M urray, Nicholas. 

Kirwan, Walter Blake, an eminent Irish divine, 
and one of the most celebrated and popular preachers of 
the last half of the 18th century, was born at Galway 
about 1754. He was educated at the college of the 
English Jesuits at St.Omer; was ordained priest, and 
was for a time professor of natural and moral philosophy 
at Louvain. Having embraced Protestantism in 1787, 
he became successively minister of St. Peter’s Church, 
Dublin; prebendary of llowth, minister of St. Nicholas 
Without in 1788, and dean of Killala in 1800. lie died 
in 1805. Few preachers of any age have enjoyed such 
popularity as Walter Blake Kirwan. So great was the 
throng to listen to his sermons that it was found neces- 
sary to defend the entrance of the church where he was 
to preach with guards and palisades. He was a man 
of fine feelings, amiable and benevolent, and his irre- 
sistible powers of persuasion were chiefly devoted to the 
preaching of charity sermons. It is said that the col- 
lections taken up after his sermons seldom fell short of 
£ 1000. These addresses have been published under the 
title of Sennons, with a sketch of his life (London, 1814, 
8vo). See Darling, Cyclopcvdia Bibl ioyraph ica, ii, 1735; 
.Allibone, Diet, of English and Amer. Authors, ii. 1038; 
Lond. Quart. Per. xi, 130 sq. ; Lord Brougham, Cant rib. 
to the Edinb . Rev. (Lond. and Glasgow, 185G), i, 104 sq. 
(J.1I.W.) 

Kish (Heb. id., a trap, otherwise a horn ; Sept. 
Kct'c or Ki'c, N. T. Ktg, Autli. Vers. “ Cis,” Acts xiii,21), 
the name of five men. 

1. The second of the two sons of Mahli (grandson of 
Levi) ; his sons married their cousins, heiresses of his 
brother Eleazar (1 Chron. xxiii, 21, 22). One of these 
sons was named Jerahmeel (1 Chron. xxiv, 29). B.C. 
cir. 1G58. 

2. A Benjamite of Jerusalem (i.e. the northern neigh- 
borhood of Jebus), third named of the sons of Jehiel (of 
Gibeon) by Maachah (1 Chron. viii, 30 ; ix, 3G). B.C. 
apparently cir. 1618. 

3. A wealthy and powerful Benjamite, son of Ner (1 
Chron. viii, 33 ; ix, 39), and father of king Saul (1 Sam. 
ix, 3; x, It, 21 ; xiv, 51 ; 1 Chron. ix, 39; xii, 1 ; xxvi, 
28). lie was thus the grandson (1 Sam. ix, 1, “son” 
[q.v.]) of Abiel (q. v.). See Ner. No incident is men- 
tioned respecting him excepting his sending Saul in 
search of the strayed asses (1 Sam. ix, 3), and that he 
was buried in Zelah (2 Sam. xxi, 14). B.C. 1093. In 
Acts xiii, 21 he is called Cis. See Saul. 

4. A Levite of the family of Merari, son of Abdi, and 
one of those who assisted Ilezekiah in restoring the 
true religion (2 Chron. xxix, 12), B.C. 72G. 

5. A Benjamite, the father of Shimci, and great- 
grandfather of Mordecai (Esth. ii, 5). B.C. considera- 
bly ante 598. 

Kish'i (1 Chron. vi, 4 1). See Kusiiaiaii. 

Kish'ion (Heb. Kishyon\ ‘j’P'ljf?, so called from the 
hardness of the soil; Sept. Kanwr, Auth.Yers. “ Kish- 
on” in Josh, xxi, 28), a city of the tribe of Issachar (Josh, 
xix, 20, where it is mentioned between Kabbith and 
Abez), assigned to the Levites of the family of Gerslmm, 
and for a place of refuge (Josh, xxi, 28); elsewhere (1 


KISHON 


110 


KISHON 


Chron. vi, 72) called Kedesii (q. v.). r>e Saulcy found 
ruins called Kashaneh (or Kabshaneli), an hour and a 
half from Kefr-Keima, commanding the 31 erj-es-Serbal, 
north of 31 1. Tabor, which lie is inclined to identify with 
the ancient Kishion (Xarntt. ii, 325, 32G), Schwarz, 
citing from Aston, places it 2^ miles south of Chesulloth 
(lksal) ; but he appears to be misled by the analogy of 
the name of this place with that of t lie brook Kishon 
(Palest, p. KiG), which lias no connection in origin (see 
1 lames veld, iii, 241), 

Ki'shon (lleb. Kishon', ‘pd" 1 )?, winding; Septuag. 
Kiguiv; but in Psa.lxxxiii,9, Kmo-wy v.r. Katrwj', Auth. 
Vers. “ Ivison”), a torrent or winter stream (?rtJ,A.V. 
“river”) of central Palestine, the scene of two of the 
grandest achievements of Israelitish history — the defeat 
of Sisera (Judg. iv, 7, 13; v, 21), and the destruction of 
the prophets of Baal by Elijah (1 Kings xviii,40). It 
formed the boundary between Manasseh and Zebulon 
(Josh, xix, 11). See Jokxeam. Some portion of it is 
also thought to be designated as the “waters of 3Iegid- 
do” (Judg. v, 19). See 3Ikgiddo. The term coupled 
with the Kishon in Judg. v, 21, as a stream of the an- 
cients A. Y. “that ancient river”), has been 

very variously rendered by the old interpreters. 1. It is 
taken as a proper name, and thus apparently that of a 
distinct stream — in some 31 SS. of the Sept. K ctihjpeifi 
(see Barlult’s Hexaphf) ; by Jerome, in the Vulgate, tor- 
rens Cwhtmim ; in the Peshito and Arabic versions, Car- 
min. This view is also taken by Benjamin of Tudela, 
who speaks of the river close to Acre (doubtless mean- 
ing thereby the Bclus) as the C *"2 ITp 7H2. It is pos- 
sible that the term may refer to an ancient tribe of Ke- 
dumiin — wanderers from the Eastern deserts — who had 
in remote antiquity settled on the Kishon or one of its 
tributary wadys. See Kadmonites. 2. As an epithet 
of the Kishon itself: Sept, \ftpdppovg dpxaitov ; Aquila, 
KavcTMi'iov, perhaps intending to imply a scorching wind 
or simoom as accompanying the rising of the waters; 
Symmachus, ah/iojv or aiyiov, perhaps alluding to the 
swift springing of the torrent (aiysg is used for high 
waves by Artemidorus). The Targum, adhering to the 
signilication “ ancient,” expands the sentence — “ the tor- 
rent in which were shown signs and wonders to Israel 
of old and this miraculous torrent a later Jewish tra- 
dition (preserved in the Commentarius in Canticum Deb- 
bone , ascribed to Jerome) would identify with the Bed 
Sea, the scene of the greatest marvels in Israel’s history. 
The rendering of the A.V. is supported by Mendelssohn, 
Gcsenius, Ewald, and other modern scholars. The ref- 
erence is probably to exploits among the aboriginal Ca- 
naanites, as the plain adjoining the stream has always 
been the great battle-ground of Palestine. See Esdua- 
elon. For the Kishon of Josh, xxi, 28, see Kishion. 

By Josephus the Kishon is never named, neither does 
the name occur in the early Itineraries of Antoninus Au- 
gustus, or the Bordeaux Pilgrim. Eusebius and Jerome 
dismiss it in a few words, and note only its origin in 
Tabor (Onomast. Cison), or such part of it as can be seen 
thence (Ay), ad Knstochium. § 13), passing by entirely its 
connection with Carmel. Benjamin of Tudela visited 
Akka and Carmel. lie mentions the river by name as 
“Xaclial Kishon,” but only in the most cursory manner. 
Brocardus (cir. 1500) describes the western portion of 
the stream with a little more fulness, but enlarges most 
on its upper or eastern part, which, with the victory of 
Barak, he places on the east of Tabor and Ilermon, as 
discharging the water of those mountains into the Sea 
of Galilee ( J)escr . Terra* >s'. cap. (1, 7). This lias been 
shown by Dr. Bobinson (Dib. dies, ii, 3(H) to allude to 
the wady el-Bireh, which runs down to the Jordan a 
lew miles above Scythopolis. 

The Khhon is beyond all doubt the river now called 
Aa/ir el-}fokattah (or Mnkattn). which, after travers- 
ing the plain of Acre, enters the bay of the latter name 
at its south-east corner. It has been usual to trace the 


source of this river to 3Ioimt Tabor (as above by Je- 
rome), but Dr. Shaw aflirms that in travelling along the 
south-eastern brow of 3Iount Carmel he had an oppor- 
tunity of seeing the sources of the river Kishon, three 
or four of which lie within less than a furlong of each 
other, and are called lias el-Kislion, or the head of the 
Kishon. These alone, without the lesser contributions 
near the sea, discharge water enough to form a river 
half as large as the Isis. During the rainy season all 
the waters which fall upon the eastern side of Carmel, 
or upon the rising grounds to the southward, empty 
them&lves into it in a number of torrents, at which 
time it overflows its banks, acquires a wonderful rapid- 
ity, and carries all before it. It was doubtless in such a 
season that the host of Sisera was swept away in at- 
tempting to ford it. But such inundations are only oc- 
casional, and of short duration, as is indeed implied in 
the destruction in its waters of the fugitives, who doubt- 
less expected to pass it safely. The course of the stream, 
as estimated from the sources thus indicated, is licit more 
than seven miles. It runs very briskly till within half 
a league of the sea; but when not augmented by rains, 
it never falls into the sea in a full stream, but insensi- 
bly percolates through a bank of sand, which the north 
winds have thrown up at its month. It was in this 
state that Shaw himself found it in the month of April, 
1722. when it was crossed by him. 

Notwithstanding Shaw's contradiction, the assertion 
that the Kishon derives its source from 3Iount Tabor 
has been repeated by modern travellers as confidently 
as by their ancient predecessors (Summer Ramble, i, 
281). Buckingham’s statement, being made with ref- 
erence to the view from 3Iount Tabor itself, deserves at- 
tention. He says that near the foot of the mountain on 
the south-west are “ the springs of the Ain es-Sherrar, 
which send a perceptible stream through the centre of 
the plain of Esdraelon, and form the brook Kishon of 
antiquity.” Further on. the same traveller, on reach- 
ing the hills which divide the plain of Esdraelon from 
that of Acre, saw the pass through which the river 
makes its way from the one plain to the other ( Travels 
in Palestine , i, 1G8, 177). Schwarz also states that the 
sources of the Kishon are at a village called Sheik Ab- 
rik, south-west of Tabor ( Palest . p. 1GG). On further in- 
quiry, and more extensive comparison of observations 
made at different times of the year, it will probably be 
found that the remoter source of the river is really in 
3Iount Tabor, but that the supply from this source is 
cut off in early summer, when it ceases to be maintain- 
ed by rains or contributory torrents; whereas the copi- 
ous supply from the nearer springs at Bas el-Kislion, 
with other springs lower down, keep it up from that 
point as a perennial stream, even during the drought of 
summer. (See Kitto’s Piet. Hist, of Palestine, p. cxci.) 
3Iariti (ii, 112) mentions the case of the English drago- 
man who was drowned, and his horse with him, in the 
attempt to cross this temporary stream from Alt. Tabor, 
in Feb. 17G1. During the battle of 3Iount Tabor, be- 
tween the French and Arabs, April 1G, 1799, many of the 
latter were drowned in their attempt to cross a stream 
coming from Deburieh, which then inundated the plain 
(Burckhardt, Syria, p. 339). 3Ionro, who crossed the 
river early in April (in its lower or perennial part), in 
order to ascend 3Iount Carmel, describes it as traversing 
the plain of Esdraelon. The river, where he crossed it, 
in a boat , was then thirty yards wide. In the plain 
from Solam to Nazareth he crossed “ a considerable 
brook, and afterwards some others, which flow into a 
small lake on the northern side of the plain, and event- 
ually contribute to swell the Kishon” (Ramble, i, 55, 28 1 5. 
Dr. Bobinson says that this account corresponds with 
channels that he observed (Biblical Researches, iii. 2303. 
Brokesch also, in April, 1829, when travelling directly 
from Bamleli to Nazareth, entered the plain of Esdrae- 
lon at or near Lejjun, where he came upon the Kishon, 
flowing in a deep bed through marshy ground; and af- 
ter wandering about for some time to find his way 


KISH OX 


111 


KISHOX 


through the morass, he was at last set right by an Arab, 
who pointed out the proper ford ( lieise ins H. Land , p. 
129). The scriptural account of the overthrow of Sis- 
era’s host manifestly shows that the stream crossed the 
plain, and must have been of considerable size. The 
above arguments, to show that it did so, and still does 
so, are confirmed by Dr. Robinson, who adds that “ not 
improbably, in ancient times, when the country was 
perhaps more wooded, there may have been permanent 
streams throughout the whole plain.” The transaction 
of the prophet Elijah, who, after his sacrifice on Carmel, 
commanded the priests of Baal to be slain at the* river 
Kishon, requires no explanation, seeing that it took 
place at the perennial lower stream. This also explains, 
what has sometimes been asked, whence, in that time 
of drought, the water was obtained with which the 
prophet inundated his altar and sacrifice. 

The Kishon is, in fact, the drain by which the waters 
of the plain of Esdraelon, and of the mountains which 
inclose that plain, namely, Carmel and the Samaria 
range on the south, the mountain of Galilee on the 
north, and Gilboa, ‘‘Little Ilermon” (so called), and 
Tabor on the east, find their way to the Mediterranean. 
Its course is in a direction nearly due north-west along 
the lower part of the plain nearest the foot of the Sama- 
ritan hills, and close beneath the very cliffs of Carmel, 
breaking through the hills which separate the plain of 
Esdraelon from the maritime plain of Acre, by a very 
narrow pass, beneath the eminence of Harothieh or Ilar- 
ti, which is believed by some still to retain a trace of the 
name of Haroslieth of the Gentiles. It has two princi- 
pal feeders: the first from Dcburich (Daberath), on 
Mount Tabor, the north-east angle of the plain; and, 
secondly, from Jelbun (Gilboa) on the south-east. It is 
also fed by the copious spring of Lejjnn, the stream from 
which is probably the “waters of Megiddo” (Porter, 
Handbook , p. 385). The highest source of the Kishon 
on the south-east is the large fountain of Jenin, the an- 
cient En-gannim, the water from which, increased by a 
number of the streamlets from the surrounding hills, 
flows westward across the plain through a deep channel 
during the winter months; but in summer this channel, 
like the northern one, is perfectly dry (Van de Archie, 
Travels , i, 3G2). The two channels unite at a point a 
few miles north of the site of Megiddo. The channel of 
the united stream is here deep and miry, the ground for 
some distance on each side is low and marshy, and the 
fords during winter are always difficult, and often, after 
heavy rain, impassable; yet in summer, even here, the 
whole plain and the river bed are dry and hard (Robin- 
son, ii, 3154). These facts strikingly illustrate the nar- 
rative of the defeat of Sisera. The battle was fought 
on the south bank of the Kishon, at Megiddo (Judg. iv, 
13; v, 19). While the battle raged a violent storm of 
wind and rain came on (Judg. v, 4, 20 ; comp. Josephus, 
Ant. v, 5, 4). In a short time the hard plain was turn- 
ed into a marsh, and the dry river-bed into a foaming 
torrent. The Canaanites were driven back on the river 


by the fiery attack of Barak and the fury of the storm ; 
for “ the earth trembled, the heavens dropped . . . the 
stars in their courses fought against Sisera.” The war- 
horses and chariots dashing madly through the marshy 
ground made it much worse; and the soldiers, in trying 
to cross the swollen torrent, were swept away. 

But, like most of the so-called “rivers” of Palestine, 
the perennial stream forms but a small part of the Ki- 
shon. During the greater part of the year (as above 
noted) its upper portion is dry, and the. stream confined 
to a few miles next the sea. The sources of this peren- 
nial portion proceed from the roots of Carmel — the “vast 
fountains called Sa’adiyeli, about three miles east of 
Chaifa” (Thomson, Land and Hook , ii, 140), and those, 
apparently still more copious, described by Shaw (Rob- 
inson, ii, 365), as bursting forth from beneath the east- 
j ern brow of Carmel, and discharging of themselves “a 
river half as big as the Isis.” It enters the sea at the 
lower part of the bay of Akka, about two miles east of 
Chaifa, “in a deep, tortuous bed, between banks of 
loamy soil some fifteen feet high, and fifteen to twenty 
yards apart” (Porter, Handbook , p. 383). Between the 
mouth and the town the shore is lined by an extensive 
grove of date-palms, one of the finest in Palestine (Van 
de Velde, i, 289). The part of the Kishon at which 
the prophets of Baal were slaughtered by Elijah was 
loubtless close below the spot on Carmel where the sac- 
rifice had taken place. This spot is now fixed with all 
but certainty as at the extreme east end of the moun- 
tain, to which the name is still attached of El-Mahraka, 
“ the burning.” See Carmel. Nowhere does the Ki- 
shon run so close to the mountain as just beneath this 
spot (Van de Velde, i, 324). It is about 1000 feet above 
the river, and a precipitous ravine leads directly down, 
by which the victims were perhaps hurried from the 
sacred precincts of the altar of Jehovah to their doom 
in the torrent bed below, at the foot of the mound, 
which from this circumstance may be called tell Kusis, 
the hill of the priests. "Whether the Kishon contained 
any water at this time we are not told; that required 
for Elijah’s sacrifice was in all probability obtained from 
' the spring on the mountain side below the plateau of 
El-Maliraka. At the mouth of the river are banks of 
fine sand, which any unusual swell in the river converts 
into dangerous quicksands (Van dc Velde, i, 289). 

The modem name Nahr d-Mukatta some have 
thought means “the river of slaughter,” in allusion to 
the slaughter of the prophets of Baal on its banks; but 
the name may also signify “river of the ford,” from an- 
other meaning of the same root (compare Robinson, ii, 
365) ; the latter is the interpretation given of the name 
by the people of the country. — Kitto; Smith. See fur- 
ther in Hamesveld, i, 522 sq.; Schwarz, Palestine , p. 49; 
Hackett, Illustra . p. 321-323: Ritter, Krdk. xvi, 704; 
Maundrell, Early Travels, p.430; Pucocke, Last, II, i, 55; 
G. Robinson, Palest, i, 203 (Par. 1835); Thomson, Land 
and Hook, i, 492 ; Stanley, Sinai and Pal. p. 317 ; Wilson, 
Lands of Bible, ii, 8G ; Tristram, Land of Israel , p. 95,494* 



Mouth of the Kishon. 


KISIISIIU 


112 


KISS 


Kishshu. See Cucl-jibei:. 

Kisher, Johann Justus, a Germ an theologian, was 
bom at Bodinghausen in 1GG0, and was educated at the 
universities of Jena and Giessen. In 1G94 he became 
professor of philosophy at Pinteln University, and the 
year following professor of theology. He died March 
2f>, 1714. For a list of his writings, mainly disserta- 
tions, see During. (Jelehrte Theologeu Deutschlands des 
18 y,t und lit'** Jahrh. ii, 102. 

Ki'son (rsa. lxxxiii, 9). See Kisnox. 

Hiss (p‘,23, nushah Gr. $i\Lo, to love , and deriva- 
tives). Originally the act of kissing had a symbolical 
character, as a natural species of language, expressive 
of tender affection and respect. It appears from the 
case of Laban and Jacob (Gen. xxix, 10) that this 
method of salutation was even then established and rec- 
ognised as a matter of course. In Gen. xxvii, 2G, 27, a 
kiss is a sign of affection between a parent and child; 
in Cant, viii, 1, between a lover and his bride. It was 
also, as with some modern nations, a token of friendship 
and regard bestowed when friends or relations met or 
separated (Tobit vii, G; x, 12; Luke vii, 45; xv, 20; 
Acts xx, 37 ; Matt, xxvi, 48; 2 Sam. xx, 9) ; the same 
custom is still usual in the East (Tischendorf, Ileise, i, 
2.55). The Church of Ephesus wept sore at Paul’s de- 
parture, and fell on his neck and kissed him. When 
Orpah quitted Naomi and Path (Ruth i, 14), after the 
three had lifted up their voice and wept, she ‘Mussed 
her mother-in-law, but Puth clave unto her.” 

It was usual to kiss the mouth (Gcn.xxxiii,4; Exod. 
iv, 27 ; xviii.7; 1 Sam. xx, 41; I*rov. xxiv, 2G). Kiss- 
ing the lips by way of affectionate salutation was not 
only permitted, but customary among near relatives of 
both sexes, both in patriarchal and in later times (Gen. 
xxix, 11; Cant, viii, 1). Between individuals of the 
same sex, and in a limited degree between those of dif- 
ferent sexes, the kiss on the cheek as a mark of respect 
or an act of salutation has at all time's been customary 
in tlie East, and can hardly be said to be extinct even 
in Europe. Mention is made of it (1) between parents 
and children (Gen. xxvii, 2t», 27 ; xxxi, 28, 55 ; xlviii, 
10; 1, 1 ; Exod. xviii, 7 ; Until i, 9, 14; 2 Sam. xiv, 33 ; 

1 Kings xix, 20; Luke xv, 20 ; Tobit vii, 0 ; x, 12) ; (2) 
between brothers, or near male relatives or intimate 
friends (Gen. xxix, 13 ; xxxiii, 4 ; xlv, 15 : Exod. iv, 27 ; 
1 Sam. xx, 41); (3) the same mode of salutation be- 
tween persons not related, but of equal rank, whether 
friendly or deceitful, is mentioned (2 Sam. xx, 9; Psa. 
lxxv, 10; Prov. xxvii, G; Luke vii, 45 [1st clause]; xxii, 
48 ; Acts xx, 37) ; ( I ) as a mark of real or affected con- 
descension (2 Sam. xv, 5; xix, 39); (5) respect from an 
inferior (Luke vii, 38, 45, and perhaps viii, 44). In 
other cases the kiss is imprinted on the beard (see Ar- 
vieux, iii, 182) ; sometimes on the hair of the head (see 
])'< trville. Ad Chariton, viii, 4), which was then taken 
hold of by the hand (2 Sam. xx, 9). Among the Arabs 
the women and children kiss the beards of their hus- 
bands or fathers. The superior returns the salute l»v a 
kiss on the forehead. Kissing the hand of another ap- 
pears to he a modern practice. In Egypt an inferior 
kisses the hand of a superior, generally on the back, but 
sometimes, as a special favor, on the palm also. To tes- 
tify abject submission, and in asking favors, the feet are 
often kissed instead of the hand (Luke vii, 38). “The 
son kisses the hand of his father, the wife that of her 
husband, the slave, and often the free servant, that of 
the master. The slaves and servants of a grandee kiss 
their lord’s sleeve, or t lie skirt of his clothing” (Lane, 
Mod. Kg. ii. 9; compare Arvieux. Trar. p. 151 : Bnrck- 
liardt, Trar. i. 3G9 ; Niebuhr, 1 \nj. i, 329 ; ii, 93; Layard, 
j Yin. i. 171 ; Wellsted, .1 rabid, i. 311 ; Malcolm, Xjcctches 
of Persia, p. 271). Friends saluting each other join the 
right hand, then each kisses his own hand, find puts it 
to his lips and forehead, or breast ; after a long absence 
they embrace each other, kissing fir>t on the right side 
of the face or neck, and then on t lie left, or on both sides 


of the beard (Lane, ii, 9, 10 ; comp. Irby and Mangles, p. 

1 1G ; Chardin, 1 ' oyage , iii, 421 ; Burckhardt, Notes, i, 3G9 ; 
Bussell, Aleppo, i, 240). The passage of Job xxxi, 27, 
“Or my mouth hath kissed my hand,” is not in point 
(see Menken, Dissert, in p. 1., Lipsue, 1711- Doughtad, 
Anuleet. i, 211 ; Ivieseling, in the Nov. Miscell. Lips, ix, 
595; Biittiger, Kunstniythol. i, 52), and refers to idola- 
trous usages (see L. Weger, De osc. manus idolatrica, 
Uegiom. 1G98), namely, the adoration of the heavenly 
bodies (comp. Cicero, Yer. iv, 43 ; Gesenius, Comment, on 
Isa. xlix, 23). See Adoration. It was the custom to 
throw kisses towards the images of the gods, and to- 
wards the sun and moon (1 Kings xix, 18; lies, xiii, 2; 
comp. Minuo. Felix, ii, 5; Tacit. / list, iii, 24, 3 ; Lucian, 
De Balt. c. 17 ; Pliny, I list . Nat. xxviii, 5\ The kiss- 
ing of princes was a token of homage (Psa. ii, 12 ; 1 Sam. 
x, 1 ; Xenophon, Cgrop. vii, 5, 32). So probably in Gen. 
xli, 40, “Upon thy mouth shall all my people kiss,” 
where the Autli. Vers, interpets, “According to thy word 
shall all my people be ruled” (see Gesenius, Thesaur « 
Iltb. p. 923). We may compare the Mohammedan cus- 
tom of kissing the Kaaba at Mecca (Burckliardt, Trav. 
i, 250, 298, 323; Crichton, A rabia. ii, 215). Xenophon 
says (Agesil. v, 4) that it was a national custom with 
the Persians to kiss whomsoever they honored; and a 
curious passage to this effect may be found in the Cyrc- 
pcedia (i,4, 27). Kissing the feet of princes was a token 
of subjection and obedience, which was sometimes car- 
ried so far that the print of the foot received the kiss, 
so as to give the impression that the very dust had be- 
come sacred by the royal tread, or that the subject was 
not worthy to salute even the prince’s foot, but was con- 
tent to kiss the earth itself near or on which he trod 
(Isa. xlix, 33; Micah vii, 17 ; Psa. lxxii, 9; comp. Gen. 
xli, 40; ] Sam. xxiv, 8; Matt, xxviii, 9 ; see Dion Cass, 
lix, 27 ; Seneca, De Benef. ii, 12). Similar usages pre- 
vail among the Orientals to the present day (see Wil- 
kinson, Ane. Kg. ii, 203; Layard, Ninev. i, 274; llarmer, 
Obs. i, 33G; Niebuhr, Travels, i, 414; comp. Assemani, 
Bibl. Or. i, 377 ; Otho, Lex. Dab. p. 233 ; Barhcbr. Citron. 
p. 148, 189, 5G9). The Pabbins, in the meddlesome, 
scrupulous, and falsely delicate spirit which animated 
much of what they wrote, did not permit more than 
three kinds of kisses — the kiss of Teverence, of reception, 
and of dismissal ( Breshith Dabba on Gen. xxix. 11). 

The peculiar tendency of the Christian religion to 
encourage honor towards all men, as men, to foster and 
develop the softer affections, and, in the trying condi- 
tion of the early Church, to make its members intimate- 
ly known one to another, and unite them in the closest 
bonds, led to the observance of kissing as an accompani- 
ment of that social worship which took its origin in the 
very cradle of our religion. (See Coteler, A d const it ut. 
A post, ii, 57 ; Fesscl, A dvers, sacr. p. 283.) lienee the 
exhortation, “ Salute each other with a holy kiss” (Pom. 
xvi, 1G; see also I Cor. xvi,20; 2 Cor. xiii. 12; 1 Thess. 
v, 2G; iu 1 Pet. v, 14 it is termed “a kiss of charity”). 
“ It might, perhaps, be understood among the members 
of the Church that the kiss was to he exchanged be- 
tween persons of the same sex only, though no direc- 
tion to this effect is found in the apostolic epistles, and 
it is known that in process of time the heathen took oc- 
casion from the practice to reproach the Christians for 
looseness of* manners. On this account care was taken 
(as appears from the Apostolical Constitutions') to main- 
tain in respect to it the distinction of sexes; but the 
practice itself was kept up for centuries, especially in 
connection with the celebration of the Supper. It was 
regarded as the special token of perlect reconciliation 
and concord among the members of the Church, and 
was called simply the peace (tiftyin)), or the hiss of peace 
(osculum pacis). It was exchanged in the Eastern 
Church before, but in the Western after the consecra- 
tion prayer. Ultimately, however, it was discontinued 
as a badge of Christian fellowship, or a part of any 
Christian solemnity” (Fairbairn). (See A post. Const it. 
ii, 57; viii, 11 ; .lust. Mart. Ajtol. i. G5? Palmer, On Lit . 


KISSOS 


113 


KITE 


ii, 102, and note from Du Cange; Bingham, Christ. An- 
tiq. b. xii, c. iv, § 5, vol. iv, 40; b. ii,c. xi, § 10, vol. i, 1(5 1 ; 
b. ii, c. xix, § 17, vol. i, 272; b. iv, e. vi, § 14. vol. i, 526; 
b. xxii, c. iii, § 6, vol. vii, 316 ; see also Cod. Just. V. Tit. 

iii, 16, de Don. ante Nnpt.; Braude, Pop. Ant iq. ii, 87). 
The peculiar circumstances have now vanished which 
gave propriety and emphasis to such an expression of 
brotherly love and Christian friendship. (See Wemyss, 
Claris Symbolica, s. v.) The kiss of peace still forms 
part of one of the rites of the Romish Church. It is 
given immediately before the communion ; the clergy- 
man who celebrates mass kissing the altar, and em- 
bracing the deacon, saying, “ Pax tibi, frater, et ecclesiie 
sanctie Dei ;” the deacon does the same to the subdea- 
con, saying, “ Pax tecum the latter then salutes the 
others. 

Kissing the foot or toe has been required by the popes 
as a sign of respect from the secular power since the 8th 
century. The first who received this honor was pope 
Constantine I. It was paid him by the emperor Jus- 
tinian II, on his entry into Constantinople in 710. Val- 
entine I, about 827, required every one to kiss his foot, 
and from that time this mark of reverence appears to 
have been expected by all popes. When the ceremony 
takes place, the pope wears a slipper with a cross, which 
is kissed. In more recent times, Protestants have not 
been required to kiss the pope’s foot, but merely to bend 
the knee slightly. See Adoration. 

On the subject of this article generally, consult Em- 
merich, De Osadis ap. Yd. in discessn (Meining. 1783); 
Heckel, De 0 sad is (Lipsia?, 1680); Pfanner, De O sculls 
Christianor. Veter., in his Ohs. Suer, ii, 131-201 ; Kem- 
pius, De Osculis (Francof. 1680); Jac. Uerrenschmidius, 
Osculoyia (Viteb. 1630); M idler, De Osculo St met o (Jena, 
1674); Boberg, De Osculis flebr.; Lomeier, Diss. yenud. 
p. 328; also in Ugolini,77?estf?o\ vol.xx ; Gbtz, De Osculo 
(Jena, 1670); Lange, Friedenknss d. alien Christen (Leipz. 
1747) : compare Fabrieins, Bibliogr. antiquar. p. 1016 sq.; 
and other monographs cited by Yolbeding, Index, p. 55, 
147. See Salutation. 

Kissos. See Ivy. 

Kistemaker, Johann Hyacinth, a celebrated Ro- 
man Catholic theologian, was born August 15,1754, at 
Nordhorn, in Ilanover, and was educated at the Univer- 
sity of Munster. He was ordained priest Dec. 22, 1777, 
but filled the rostrum instead of the pulpit, and became 
quite celebrated for his attainments as a linguist. In 
1786 he was elected professor of philology at his alma 
mater, and in 1705 was transferred to the chair of Bib- 
lical exegesis. lie died March 2, 1834. Of his numer- 
ous works we have room here only for the titles of 
those most important in theology, which are, Commen - 
tat in de nova exegesi preecipue Veteris Testamenti ex col- 
latis seriptoribns Greeds et Romanis script a (Munster, 
1806) : — Exeget. Abhandlung iiber Matt, xvi, 18, 10, an 1 
xix, 3-12, oder iiber den Primat Petri and das Eheband: 
— Exegesis eritica in Psalmos Ixrii , et cix, et excursus 
in Daniel iii de furnace ignis (1800 ) : — Weissagnng Jesu 
vom Gericht iiber Judcia und die Welt , etc. (1816): — 
Canticum eanticoruni illustration ex Ilierographia Ori- 
entuUum (1818): — Weissagnng vom Immanuel (1824); 
and especially Biblia sacra YulgaUe editionis juxta ex- 
emplar Vaticamnn (1824,3 vols.), dedicated to pope Leo 
XU ; and his translation of the New Testament (1825), 
which is largely circulated among the Roman Catholics 
of Germany. See Bamberger. Das gelchrie Deutschland. 
Appendix, vols. xvi ii andxxiii; Wetzer und \Velte,A7r- 
clien-Lexikon , vol. vi, s. v. ; xii, 671 sq. (J. II. W.) 

Kite (PPX, ay y aid, so called from its clamorous cry; 
Sept. hcTtv v. r. ikTiroc,Vulg.r»ftwr; but in Job. xxviii, 
7, ymlq Auth. Version “vulture”), an unclean and keen- 
sighted bird of prey (Lev. xi, 14; Dent, xiv, 13). The 
version of Pseudo-Jonathan has the black vulture ; the 
Venetian Greek /coXo/or, or jackdaw; Kimehi NTX3, or 
magpie; Saadias and Abel walid the male horned owl — 
most of which arc evidently mere conjectures, with lit- 
V.-II 


tie regard to the context, which classes the bird in 
question with other species of the falcon tribe. See 
Glede. The allusion in Job alone affords a clew to its 
identification. The deep mines ill the recesses of the 
mountains from which the labor of man extracts the 
treasures of the earth are there described as “a track 
which the bird of prey hath not known, nor hath the 
eye of the ayyah looked upon it.” Boehart ( Ilieroz . ii, 
193 sq., 779), regarding the etymology of the word, con- 
nected it with the Arabic ul-yvyu , a kind of hawk, so 
called from its cry yaga, described by Damir as a small 
bird with a short tail, used in hunting, and remarkable 
for its great courage, the swiftness of its flight, and the 
keenness of its vision, which is made the subject of 
praise in an Arabic stanza quoted by Damir. The Eng- 
lish designate it as the merlin, the Falco cesalon of Lin- 
na 2 us, which is the same as the Greek aioaAwv and 
Latin cesulo. This smallest of British hawks is from ten 



to twelve inches long; the male with blue-gray back 
and wings, body rufous; the female dark brown back 
and wings, with brownish-white body (see Penny Cyclop. 
s. v. Merlin). Gesenius, however (Thesaur. p. 39), is in- 
clined to regard the Hebrew term as a general denomi- 
nation of the hawk genus, on account of the addition 
after its kind . See IIawk. “ The Talmud goes 
so far as to assert that the four Hebrew" words rendered 
in the A.Y. 1 vnlture,’ ‘ glede,’ and ‘ kite/ denote one and 
the same bird ( Levy sol i n, Zoologie des Talmuds, § 196). 
Seetzen (i, 310) mentions a species of falcon used in Syria 
for hunting gazelles and hares, and a smaller kind for 
hunting hares in the desert. Russell (Aleppo, ii, 196) 
enumerates seven different kinds employed by the na- 
tives for the same purpose. Robertson ( Claris Penta- 
teuch i) derives ayyah from the Ileb. !"PX, an obsolete 
root, which he connects with an Arabic word, the pri- 



Red Kite. 


KITIILISII 


114 


KITTO 


mary meaning of which, according to Schultens, is ‘to 
turn.’ If this derivation be the true one, it is not im- 
probable that ‘ kite’ is the correct rendering. The hab- 
it which birds of this genus have of ‘sailing in circles, 
with the rudder-like tail by its inclination governing 
the curve,’ as Yarroll says, accords with the Arabic deri- 
vation” (Smith). Wood ( Bible Animals, p. 358) inclines 
to adopt Tristram’s identification of the ayyah with the 
red kite (M ileus regaits ), which is scattered all over Pal- 
estine, feeding chiefly on the smaller birds, mice, reptiles, 
and fish, its piercing sight and soaring habits pecul- 
iarly suit the passage in Job. See Vulture. 

Kitll'lish (Ileb. Kithlish ', prob. for bro 

a man's wall; Sept. XaSaXttg v. r. K«3\w<; and 
Ithrayioc, Vulg. Cethlis ), a town in the valley or plain 
(Shephelah) of Judah, mentioned between Lahmam and 
Gederoth (Josh, xv, 40) ; evidently situated in the 
south-western group, possibly at the “mound and some 
foundations called Jclatneh ” (Robinson, Researches, ii, 
386), on wady el-IIerov, between Gaza and Lacliish 
(Vail de Velde, Map), A writer in Fairbairn’s Diction - 
art/, s. v., proposes the ruined site el-Jilas given by 
Smith (in Robinson’s Res. iii, Appendix, p. 1 19) in this 
vicinity; but this is not laid down on any map, if, in- 
deed, it be not the same place as the above. The deri- 
vation proposed by the same writer for the name Kith- 
lish, from rnr, to crush , and a lion , as if it were 

the haunt of that animal, is fanciful, and unwarranted 
by any allusion of the kind in the text; the form, more- 
over, would then have been D“6ri3. 

Kit'ron (Ileb. Kitron', knotty, otherwise 

curtailed , or castle; Sept. Kfrpwu v. r. fvsfynur, and 
even Xtj3oidv), a city of Zebnlon from which the Israel- 
ites were long unable to expel the native Canaanites 
(Judg. i, 30). It is very possibly the same elsewhere 
called Kattath (Josh, xix, 15), notwithstanding the 
objection of Keil ( Comment . on Josh, ad loc.) that this 
and all the other names are needed as distinct cities in 
order to make up the number twelve there specified; for 
even thus the number will be incomplete, without either 
supposing the text corrupt or borrowing from those enu- 
merated in the preceding verses (doubtless the true so- 
lution), in either of which cases these three names, so 
nearly identical (Kattah, Kartah, Kitron), may be as- 
signed to one place. Schwarz ( Palest . p. 173), on Tal- 
mudical grounds, apparently incorrectly, identifies it 
with Sepphoris (q. v.)\ 

Kit'tim (Gen. x, 4; 2 Chron. i, 7). See Cnrrmr. 

Kittle, Andrew N., a minister of the Reformed 
(Dutch) Church, was born at Kinderhook, N. Y., in 1785, 
graduated at Union College in 1K)4, studied theology 
under Drs. Froeligh and Livingston, and entered tiie 
ministry in 1800. Until 1846 he was successively pas- 
tor of the churches of Red Hook Landing and St. John’s, 
Linlithgo, Upper Red Hook, and Stuyvesant. Early 
consecrated to the Lord, lie was an able, vigorous, and 
indefatigable minister of Jesus Christ. Though he was 
of good record as a theologian and a general scholar, 
possessed of strong common sense, and fond of reading, 
liis retiring disposition kept him aloof from the agita- 
ting controversies and public excitements of the times. 
Aspiring only to he a preacher and pastor, lie dwelt 
among his people until the infirmities of age constrained 
him to give up the active ministry. He died in 1804. 
Kittle was a man of fine features and noble, form, a dig- 
nified Christian gentleman, and a true man of God. — 
Corwin, Manual of R<J\ Church, p. I ‘20. (W. J. R. T.) 

Kitto, Joiix, one of the most eminent Biblical schol- 
ars of this age, was born at Plymouth, England, Nov. 4, 
1804. To humble birth was addedj m his twelfth year, 
the affliction of a total loss of his sense of hearing; but 
neither poverty nor bodily dcfe< t were sufficient to deter 
the ambitious and energetic youth from the acquisition 
of knowledge. Every effort that could possibly be put 


forth lo secure books was made; to pay for a few books 
from a circulating library, he groped for old iron and 
ropes in Sutton Pool, and with the few pennies obtained 
by this irksome task be supplied himself with the ele- 
ments of an education. The destitution of his parents 
obliged them at last to place John in the “workhouse” 
at Plymouth, where lie was admitted Nov. 15, 1819, and 
taught the shoemaker’s trade. In this place his pow- 
erful will soon asserted his position against older and 
stronger boys, and here he began in 1820 a diary which 
is still preserved, and large excerpts from which have 
been printed in his Life. It contains many self-portraits, 
physical and mental, and shows the awakening of his 
mind to literary tastes and ambition. In his trade, 
however, he was often so dull and dispirited that he 
called himself “John the Comfortless,” and twice had 
thoughts of bringing his life to a premature end. In 
1821 he was hired out to a shoemaker, but his awk- 
wardness and tendency to books greatly irritated his 
master, and John was submitted to such harsh treat- 
ment that he was readmitted to the workhouse about 
six months later. In the year following he finally 
brought out some essays in Nettleton’s Plymouth Jour- 
nal, and also wrote some imaginary correspondence. 
These efforts attracted attention, and he was by the in- 
terposition of several gentlemen removed to Exeter to 
become a dentist. In 1825 he published a volume of 
Essays and Letters, which, though it afforded him hut a 
small pecuniary' remuneration, secured him many friends, 
made him quite generally known, and finally resulted 
in a complete change of basis for life. Instead of per- 
fecting himself in the art of dentistry, lie accepted an 
offer to enter the Missionary College at Islington, where 
he was to be taught the art of printing with a view to 
service in some foreign missionary institution. In June, 
1827, he was sent out to Malta; but, bis health declin- 
ing, he returned to England in 1829. Shortly after this 
his iormor employer, Mr. Groves, the dentist, desired a 
tutor for his children, to accompany him on a tour East, 
and selected Kitto for the position. lie was now af- 
forded a sight of a large part of Europe and Asia, and 
acquired that familiarity with the scenery and customs 
of the East which was afterwards of such signal service 
in the department of literature to which he became de- 
voted. In turn he visited St. Petersburg, Astrachan, 
the Calmucks, Tatars, the Caucasus, Armenia, Persia, 
and Bagdad, and by way of Trebizond and Constanti- 
nople returned to England in 1833. Through the influ- 
ence of friends he gained attention by a series of papers 
in the Penny Magazine (one of these under the sugges- 
tive title “The Deaf Traveller”), and bv other literary 
efforts. 

In 1835 Kitto finally entered upon the preparation 
of that class of works which have so justly secured him 
a prominent place in the field of letters. In this year 
Mr. Charles Knight, then the editor of the Penny Mag- 
azine , suggested to Kitto the preparation of a “Picto- 
rial Bible.” All that Kitto needed was the suggestion. 
He not only eagerly embraced the proposal, but earnest- 
ly entreated to be allowed to undertake the responsibil- 
ity of the entire work. The expiration of scarcely more 
than two years saw the Pictorial Pible finished (new 
edit. 1847, 4 vols. 8vo), and shortly after (in 1838) ho 
embodied a great portion of his experience in Persia in 
two small volumes, Uncle Oliver's Travels. Next fol- 
lowed (1839-40) a Pictorial History of Palestine and the 
liohj Land. From 1811 to 1813 he found employment 
in preparing the letter-press for the Gallery of Scripture 
Engravings , in 3 vols. In 1843 he wrote a History of 
Palestine (published by A. and C. Black, of Edinburgh), 
and Thoughts among Flowers (published hv the Relig- 
ious Tract Society). Iii 1845 he prepared The Pictorial 
Sunday Pooh, and commenced the work which, in its 
latest form (3d edition), still constitutes one of the best 
works of the kind in any language, the Cyclopaedia of 
Biblical Literature . See Dictionaries, Biblical. 
Though the work already accomplished (up to 1848) 


KLAIBER 


115 


KLEE 


would have sufficed for the lifetime of almost any man, 
Kitto labored on iudcfatigably, and not only brought out 
contributions of great value, but originated and edited 
the Journal of Sact'ed Literature , a quarterly, which, bv 
its masterly productions, has made English scholarship 
famous even among the all-knowing Teutons. He con- 
tinued the editorship of the Journal until 1853. His 
last and most popular work was the Daily Bible Jllus- 
t rations, completed in eight volumes. During its prog- 
ress his health gave way, and he retired to Cannstadt, 
near Stuttgard, in Germany, where he died, Nov. 25, 
1854. Dr. Kitto’s services to the cause of Scripture 
learning were great in his own sphere. lie revived and 
freshened the study of Eastern manners, and his orig- 
ination of his Cyclopaedia marks an epoch in the Bibli- 
cal literature of England. Our own work is not unfre- 
quently dependent upon the labors of this extraordinary 
character. Ilis life itself, with his physical defect and 
early privations, was a marvel of self-education and he- 
roic perseverance. The University of Giessen in 1844 
honored him with the doctorate of divinity, though he 
was a layman. An interesting autobiography is con- 
tained in his Lost Senses. See Kitto, Cyclop . Bill. Lit . 
vol. ii, s. v. ; Enylish Cyclop . s. v. ; Allibone, Diet. Engl, 
and A m. A uth. s. v. ; Memoirs of John Kitto , D.D. , com- 
piled chietlv from his letters and journals, by J. E. Hy- 
land, M. A.; with a Critical Estimate of Dr. Kitto' s Life 
and Writings, by Prof. Eadic, D.D. (Edinb. and London, 
185G, 8vo) ; Eadie, John, Life of Kitto (Edinb. 1857, 
8vo) ; Land. A thenmum, 1857, June 27 ; North Brit . Rev. 
Eeb. 1847 ; Lit tell, Living Age, lii, 445 sq. (J. II. W.) 

Klaiber, Christian Benjamin, a German theolo- 
gian, was born Sept. 15, 1795, in Wiirtemberg, and was 
educated at the University of Tubingen, where lie be- 
came a professor of theology in 1823. Later he removed 
to Stetten, in Rcmstlial, as pastor, and died in 183(3. He 
published Studien der \ V Hr item bergischen Geistlichkeit . 

Klarenbach, Adolf, a noted martyr of the Refor- 
mation, was born at the close of the 15th century, near 
the city of Leunep, in the duchy of Berg, and eagerly pur- 
sued his studies first at Minister, then at Cologne, under 
two instructors who afterwards became his inquisitors, 
lie became master of a school at Munster in 1520, and 
sought to impart his new views of faith to his pupils. 
On this account he was driven successively from Mun- 
ster, Wesel, Budcrich, and Osnabruek, followed some- 
times hv tiiose who had come under his instruction. 
He became at last a preacher in his native region, bold- 
ly fulfilling his mission, notwithstanding the anxious re- 
monstrances of his parents and the threats of the mag- 
istrates, and on finally leaving Lennep he addressed to 
the authorities of the city a defence from Scripture of 
his decidedly Lutheran position, declaring that, should 
they even take his life, “ they could not take from him 
Christ, his everlasting life.” At Cologne, in the spring 
of 1528, he undertook the defence of an old friend and 
colaborer, Klopreiss, and was himself thereupon impris- 
oned with his friend. He was heard before the civil, 
and later before the ecclesiastical court, in presence of 
his two former instructors, Arnold von Zongern and Jo- 
hann von Venradt. Theodore Fabricius, who had him- 
self suffered much in Cologne in behalf of the evangel- 
ical doctrine, made great efforts for Klarenbach’s release. 
He succeeded in delivering Klopreiss, and there came 
an imperial requisition from Speier upon the city of Co- 
logne to show cause why Klarenbach was detained. 
The city disregarded the subsequent judgment of the 
imperial court in the prisoner’s favor, and said “it knew 
no supreme court, but only a dungeon court.” Into the 
archbishop’s dungeon Klarenbach was now thrown with 
others, especially Peter Flysteden. On the 4th of March, 
1529, Klarenbach, exhorted to firmness and bravery by 
his friend Peter, was taken from the dungeon for final 
judgment before the inquisitors. The grand inquisitor, 
Kollin, solemnly admonished him to a definite retrac- 
tion. No free address, notwithstanding the clamors of 
the spectators for it, was permitted him. After the ex- 


ample of Paul he appealed to the emperor, but the ap- 
peal was oidy set down as another strong evidence of 
heresy; sentence of death was pronouuced on the 19th 
of March, and the city council determined upon its exe- 
cution. Farther attempts were made during the subse- 
quent months of his imprisonment to turn the martyr 
from his faith. “It will cost you your neck,” it was 
said. “ Here it is,” replied lie, bending his neck ; *• this 
you can have, but not your will with me.” In the au- 
tumn a destructive pestilence visited Cologne, and the 
priests declared it a judgment of heaven upon heresy 
and the sin of forbearance with heretics. The 27th of 
September had come. Through an air-hole of the dun- 
geon, the prisoners were asked if they still stood by their 
opinions. “As long as God will,” replied Klarenbach. 
Efforts of his relatives at persuasion, and of the monks 
who accompanied them, were unavailing. Both the pris- 
oners went forth courageously. Minute events in the 
passage of the procession, the contending sentiments 
which it awakened in the spectators, and the whole dra- 
matic power of the scene, are depicted in a publication 
of that day entitled A lie Acta Adolphi Klarenbach — 
written professedly by an eye and ear witness. The 
prophecy uttered by Klarenbach on his way to the stake 
lias met its fulfilment: “Oh Cologne, Cologne, how thou 
dost persecute the Word of God! a cloud is in the sky 
which will yet bring down a rain of righteousness.” — 
Herzog. Real-Encyklopadie, vol. xix, s. v. (E. B. O.) 

Klaus, Brother. See Flue, Nicholas of. 

Klauser, Salomon, a German theologian, was born 
at Zurich, Switzerland, in 1745; entered the ministry in 
17(38, and was called to a pastorate in his native place 
in 1784, where he died April 14, 1796. Klauser has left 
us only a few of his sermons, but these all evince supe- 
rior scholarship. A selection of them was printed in 
1798, and was accompanied with an introduction by Dr. 
II. A. Niemeycr. A list of those printed is given by 
Doriug, Gelehrte Theol. Dcutschlands , vol. ii, s, v. 

Klausing, Anton Ernst, a German theologian of 
some note, was born at Ilervordcn, in Westphalia, April 
11, 1729, and educated at the University of Leipzig. He 
travelled for three years in Holland, Italy, and England, 
and on his return taught at Leipzig, lie died July 6, 
1803. Ivlausing was thoroughly conversant with sev- 
eral modern languages, and besides translations of the 
Sermons of Sterne , King’s Usages in, the Greek Church 
of Russia, a collection of the latest works on the History 
of the Jesuits in Portugal, etc., he published several val- 
uable theological works. The most important of his 
original productions are, perhaps, Commentatio super loco 
Pauli ad Rom . ix, 23, 24 (Hake, 1754, 4to) Hist or he 
controversiee recent issinm inter Pontijicein Romanum ct 
rempublicam Genuensem, etc. (Lips. 1765, 4to). See Do- 
ling, Gelehrte Theol. Deutschl. ii, JOG sq. 

Klebitz (Klebitus), Wilhelm, a German theolo- 
gian of the Reformation period, and favorably inclined 
to the reformatory movement, flourished at Frey burg 
about 1560. Nothing further is known of his personal 
history, lie wrote De buccella intincta , quam comedit 
Judas, Matt, xxvi, contained in the Crit. Sac. vol. vi ; 
and, in the bitter controversy which he waged with Hes- 
husius (q. v.), Victoriam veritatis ac ruinam Papatus 
Saxonici contra Tilemannum Ileshusium de S.Synaxi. 

Klee, Heinrich, one of the most distinguished Ger- 
man Roman Catholic theologians of modern times, was 
horn at Miinstermaifeld, near Coblentz, April 20, 1800. 
In 1809 he entered the Seminctrium puerorum of May- 
ence, and in 1817 the great theological school under Lie- 
bermann. At the early age of nineteen he became a 
professor in the minor theological school, a situation 
which he held for some ten years, and, in connection 
with pastor Schmitz, greatly developed the sciences of 
philology and pedagogics. He was ordained priest in 
1823, became professor of Biblical exegesis and Church 
history in the theological seminary in 1825, and a few 
years after professor of philosophy. In 1825 he attained 


KLEFEKEI 


116 


KLEPTOMANIA 


the degree of D.D. at Wurzburg by his able dissertation 
l)e chiliasmo pri/norum sceculorum. In 1827 he wrote a 
treatise on A uricular Confession, and in 1829 a commen- 
tary on the Gospel of St.John, lie acquired at the 
same time great popularity at Mayenee as a preach- 
er. So great, indeed, was his renown, that several high- 
schools endeavored to secure him, but he dually accept- 
ed a call to Bonn University. Here he gave great sat- 
isfaction to the strict Roman Catholic party, but had a 
long and severe controversy with Hermes (q. v.) and 
t he Ilermesians, who were then protected by the arch- 
bishop. Klee taught the popular doctrine that faith 
was the basis of theology; llermes, on the other hand, 
inclined more to accept philosophy as its basis. With 
Klee, who evidently endeavored to infuse into the the- 
ological system of Romanism a philosophical method, 
objective reason, revelation, Christianity, the 1 toman 
Catholic Church, all having the same origin, must nat- 
urally constitute part of an indivisible whole, which it 
remained only for subjective reason to prove by the tes- 
timony of history, and to arrange in obedience to faith. 
Thus, with him, the definition of religion was chiefly ob- 
jective: “Religion is a union between Cod, as truth, 
and man, as recognising him,” etc.; “Religion is real- 
ized by revelation on the part of God, and by faith on 
the part of man;” “The Church is Christianity in its 
present state and activity;” “The Church, in its nature, 
is such as Christ has made it;” “The inward and out- 
ward life of the Church is established and preserved by 
the hierarchy;” “It is the most perfect divine-human 
polity;” “Christ established the primacy in order to 
preserve the unity of the hierarchy.” lie argued against 
Hermes that the Roman Catholic doctrine of faith has 
for the theologian and thinker the same authoritative 
evidence as the empiric law's of nature for the student 
of natural philosophy. This is losing sight of the fact 
that nature is the result of necessary laws, and a pure 
action of God, while Church tradition is but the result 
of historical freedom, which we find full of defects, and 
has therefore to be judged on the ground of its origin 
and of its continued validity. In his theory Klee was a 
Kantian, but in practice he was an ardent Roman Cath- 
olic apologist. It may even be questioned whether the 
strong traditionalistic faith of Klee and his school, which 
permits only a historical demonstration of the truth of 
revelation, lias rendered any great and lasting service to 
Roman Catholic theology. Klee’s system coincides with 
the final development of abstract Protestant, supranat- 
uralism, inasmuch as he makes the truth of the whole 
system of revelation to depend upon historical proofs. 
Nevertheless his system is much more dangerous than 
Hermes’s, for while the latter identified philosophical 
certainty with confidence of faith, Klee identified phi- 
losophy with ecclesiastical Christianity itself. 1 Ie gave 
permanent form to these doctrines in System der K at hoi. 
Dogmatik (Bonn, 1831). When Clement August became 
archbishop, Klee’s system prevailed; he was appointed 
examinator, anti his lectures on dogmatics, which had 
always been well attended, were crowded. The exile 
of the archbishop, however, changed his position, and he 
accepted a call to Munich in 1830. He died there July 
28, 1841. Besides the above mentioned works he wrote 
Commentar fiber d. A pastels Cantos Sendschreiben a. d. 
Homer (Mentz, 1830) : — Encykl. d. Theoloyh (ibid. 1832) : 
— Aushyuny d. liriefes u.d. Hcbrder (ibid. 1833) : — Die 
Ehe (ibid. 1833) : — 1). Kuthol. Doymatik (ibid. 1834-35, 3 
vols. ; 3d od. 1844) : — Doymenyeseh ic/ite (ibid. 1835-37, 2 
vols.). Ills Cnuolriss d. Kuthol. Moral was published 
after his death (in 1843) by Ilimioben. See, besides the 
authorities cited in the article Hermes, Herzog, Real- 
Encyklopddie , vii, 71 1 ; Wctzer und Welte, Kirchen-Lex. 
vi, 213 stj.; Migue, Conclusions, p. 1239. 

Klefeker, Bernhard, a German preacher of dis- 
tinction, was born at Hamburg Jan. 12, 1700, and was 
educated at Leipzig University, which he entered in 
1779, and where, under the instruction of that eminent 
German pulpit orator Zollikoffcr, he laid the foundation 


for his future excellency as a preacher. In May, 1791, 
he was called as regular preacher to Osnabriick, and, 
after a stay of five years, removed thence to his native 
city to assume the pastorate of St. James’s Church. 
Here he labored with great acceptance and success until 
his death, June 10, 1825. Though Klefeker aimed to be 
eminently successful in the pulpit, his literary efforts 
betoken a mind of rare activity, lie published, besides 
several works on practical religion and his Sermons, a 
homiletical magazine ( ffomiletisches Ideenmayozin, I 809- 
19, 8 vols. 8vo) : — Praktische Yorlesungcn ft, das A. Test. 
(1811-12, 3 vols. 8vo). See Ddring, Deutsche Kanzel- 
redner, p. 1 58 sq. 

Klein, Friedrich August, a German theolo- 
gian, was born at Friedriehshaidc, near Ronnebnrg, Nov. 
7, 1793; entered the University of Jena in 1811, and 
became a minister at Jena in 1819; but only two years 
later he was suddenly taken ill, and died Feb. 12, 1823, 
having a year before his death received the honorable 
appointment of professor of theology at the university. 
Klein published in 1817 Vert mute Brief e u.Christenthum 
u. Protestant ismus, and in 1817 began with Sclirbter the 
publication of the theological journal Fur Christenthnm 
und Gottcsyeluh rtheit. Of his other publications the fol- 
lowing deserve our notice: Beredsamkeit des Geistlichen 
(1818, 8vo): — GrundUnien des Reliywsismns (1819, small 
8vo) : — Doymatik d. evangel, protest. Kirche (1822, 8vo). 
•See I)o ring, Gelchrte Theoloyen Dtutschlands, ii, 108 sq. 
(J.H.W.) 

Klein, Georg Michael, a German Roman Cath- 
olic priest, was born at Alizheim in 1777, and was edu- 
cated at the high-school in Wurzburg, lie was or- 
dained priest in 1800, but, securing the friendship of the 
celebrated German philosopher Sehelling, Klein there- 
after devoted himself zealously to the study of meta- 
physics. He became professor at Wurzburg in 1804, 
and in 1808 removed to Bamberg in the same capacity. 
In 1815 he went to Regensburg University as professor 
of philosophy, but in the year following he returned 
again to Wurzburg. lie died in 1819. II is works are, 
Beit rage. zttm Stadium der Philosophie des All (Wiirzb. 
1805, 8vi>): — Yerstandeslehre (1810) : — Yersnch d. Ethik 
als Wissensvhaft zu begriinden (Rudolfst. 1811, 8vo) : — 
Darstelluny der phi/osophischen Religions - u. Sittenlehre 
(Wiirzb. 1818, 8vo) — by far his ablest work. — Kuthol, 
Rea l - Encyklop. xi, 850. 

Kleinknecht, Conrad Daniel, a German theo- 
logian, was born at Leipheim Aug. 22, 1091, and was 
educated at the University of Jena. Bv advice of the 
celebrated Orientalist and theologian Buddeus, in whom 
Kleinknecht found a warm friend, lie accepted a posi- 
tion as teacher in the Orphanage of llalle, which he 
held until 1719. In 1725 he became pastor at Pfuhl, in 
1731 at Leipheim, and died July 1 1, 1753. lie was es- 
pecinlly active in behalf of missions, and sought to in- 
terest the state authorities for them. For a list of his 
writings, see Ddring, Gclthrie Theol. Deutschlunds, ii, 
1 1 5 sq. 

Klemm, Joiiann Christian, a German theologian, 
born at Stuttgard Oct. 22, 1088, was the son of Johann 
Conrad Klemm, who, at the time of his death in 1717, 
was professor of theology at Tubingen. Young Klemm 
was educated at the universities of Stuttgard ami Tu- 
bingen, and secured the degree of A.M. in 1707. Short- 
ly after lie began to lecture at the university, in 1717 
lie became professor extraordinary of philosophy, in 
1725 of theology, and the year following of the Oriental 
languages. The degree of D.D. was bestowed upon 
him in 1730. He was promoted to a full or regular pro- 
fessorship in 1730. He died Oct. 1, 1754. A list of his 
works is given by Ddring, Gelehrte Theoloyen Deutsch- 
land.*, ii, 118 sq. See also Allyemeines Ilist. Lex. s. v. ; 
Pierer, Universal-Lex ikon, s. v. 

Kleptomania (kX^tio, to steal, and yaida, mad- 
ness'), a form of partial mental derangement which is 
manifested by a propensity to steal and hoard articles 


KLEPTOMANIA 


117 


KLEPTOMANIA 


that can be surreptitiously appropriated. The propen- 
sity to acquire becomes, in such cases, so irresistible, and 
the will so impotent, that the appropriation is generally 
regarded as involuntary, and the perpetrator, therefore, 
irresponsible; blit, in order to constitute a case of moral 
irresponsibility, it should undoubtedly be insisted on 
that to the phenomena of moral there should always be 
superadded those of intellectual disorder, the assumption 
being that so long as the intellect is nnperverted the 
person will be found to possess a consciousness of the 
nature of the criminal act in relation to law. The plea 
of insanity in the agent should not be admitted where 
it is evident that the subject is perfectly aware of the 
tendency of his or her actions; the simple moral inabil- 
ity to resist this temptation is only in the same predica- 
ment with that of every unquestioned candidate for the 
penitentiary or gallows. A state which may seem to 
deserve the name of moral insanity, as exhibiting a per- 
version of the moral sentiments, tendencies, and percep- 
tions, with a loss, to a great extent, of self-control, is 
often prominent in the early stages of mental disease, 
and before the intellect is palpably affected. Up to this 
point the patient should undoubtedly be held personally 
responsible for his or her conduct in a criminal sense. 
When certain delusions, when delirium or incoherency 
supervene, the case then, without question, may be set 
down as that of insanity, which would absolve the pa- 
tient from responsibility. The question here suggests 
itself as to the place which morbid impulses ought to 
have— how nearly are they allied to insanity, and how 
far can they be urged as extenuating, or even excusing 
misdemeanors or crimes? This strange thraldom to a 
morbid prompting not unfrequentlv has its outlet in 
crimes of the deepest dye. When lord Byron was sail- 
ing from Greece to Constantinople, lie was observed to 
stand over the sleeping body of an Albanian with a 
poniard in his hand, and after a while to turn away 
muttering, “ I should like to know how a man feels who 
has committed a murder !” There can be no doubt that 
lord Byron, urged by a morbid impulse, was on the very 
eve of knowing what he desired to know. But one of 
the most singular instances of morbid impulses in con- 
nection with material things is related in the case of a 
young man who, in visiting a large manufacturing estab- 
lishment, stood opposite a large hammer, and watched 
with great interest its perfectly regular strokes. At first 
it was beating immense lumps of crimson metal into 
thin black sheets, but the supply becoming exhausted, 
at last it only descended on the polished anvil. Still 
the young man gazed intently on its motion ; then he 
followed its strokes with a corresponding motion of his 
head; then his left arm moved to the same tune; and, 
finally, lie deliberately placed his fist on the anvil, and 
in a second it was crushed to a jelly. The only expla- 
nation he could afford was that he felt an impulse to do 
it ; that he knew he should be disabled ; that he saw all 
the consequences in a misty kind of manner, but that he 
still felt a power within above sense and reason — a mor- 
bid impulse, in fact, to which he succumbed, and by 
which lie lost a good right hand. This incident sug- 
gests many things besides proving the peculiar nature 
and power of morbid impulses — such, for instance, as a 
law of S3*mpathy on a scale hitherto undreamt of, as 
well as a musical tone pervading all things. An illus- 
trious physician has lately left on record the opinion that 
“ one of the chief causes of the terrible scenes which ac- 
companied the final suppression of the Communist out- 
break was a contagious mental alienation. The minds 
of the Parisians were gradually unhinged by the priva- 
tions of the siege. The revolt of the 18th of March gave 
the last blow to brains which were already shaken, and 
at length the greater part of the population went raving 
mad. Women are, under such circumstances, fiercer and 
more reckless than men. This is because their nervous 
system is more fully developed ; their brain is weaker, 
and their sensibilities are more acute than those of the 
stronger sex; and they are consequently far more dan- 


gerous in such paroxysms. None of them knew exactly 
what they were fighting for; they were possessed by 
one of the various forms of mania — that which impelled 
the French Jansenists of the latter half of the 18th 
century to torture themselves with a strange delight in 
pain of the acutest kind. The men who threw them- 
selves on the bayonets of the soldiers in a paroxysm 
of passion were a few moments afterwards utterly pros- 
trate and begging for mercy. They were no more cow- 
ards in the last state than they were heroes in the first — 
they were simply madmen.” In recurring to the “ Reign 
of Terror” of the first French Revolution, Lewis Cass has 
this profound reflection : “ In surveying the French na- 
tional character of the present day” (this was written in 
1840), “it is difficult to recognise those traits of cruelty 
which were so shockingly developed during the Revolu- 
tion. A monomania must have prevailed, hurrying the 
nation into acts inconsistent with its general feeling, and 
marking that time of political effervescence as an ex- 
traordinary period in human history.” The general term 
wiOHOinania implies that the individual is deranged only 
on one subject, or in reference to one object, or in one 
particular train of thought or faculty of thinking, and 
that his intellect, judgment, and emotions are otherwise 
sound, at least when not exercised on the subject of his 
derangement. This, however, is not strictly true. In 
almost all cases of so-called monomania there are other 
morbid indications besides the salient one — morbid dis- 
likes or suspicions, morbid vanity or irritability. Mono- 
mania seems to arise in the failure of the faculties round 
a given centre of thought, in a paralysis of power along 
a given line of mental direction, unaccompanied by any 
parallel paralysis of interest, so that the patient busies 
himself involuntarily on a subject on which he has lost 
the power of bringing his faculties properly to bear. It 
is the attempt of weakened faculties to work upon an 
overstrained nervous string, so that all mental power 
disappears just where the wish to apply it is greatest. 
Now these morbid centres of partial imbecility are, 
cceteris paribus, more likely to spring up in minds below 
the average in general power than in those above them, 
though the centre of the disease itself will often be on 
the noblest or most sensitive part of the mind. These 
peculiarities are nearly always distinctly marked in 
monomania, particularly in that form of it which is 
called kleptomania. It is usually exhibited by persons 
who have no motive to steal, and is frequently satisfied 
by purloining articles of no value. A baronet of large 
fortune stole, while on the Continent, pieces of old iron 
and of broken crockery, and in such quantities that tons 
of these collections were presented to the custom-house 
officers. In the second volume of the Medical Critic the 
case of a female is detailed who could not resist the im- 
pulse of appropriating everything within her reach. In 
searching this woman on one occasion there were found 
15 bags upon her person, in which there were 1 182 arti- 
cles, mostly worthless, viz., 104 bits of paper, 82 sewing- 
needles, 18 old gloves, 12 moulds for wax leaves, 19 but- 
tons, GO feathers, 8 parcels of dried fish, 135 bits of rib- 
bons, 9 bottles, G1 lozenges, and a variety of other arti- 
cles, the refuse of the place, to which she had at various 
times taken a fancy. Another case reported by high 
medical authority is that of a rich but eccentric gentle- 
man living in an old manor-house in Lincolnshire, Eng- 
land. lie was a good business man, and managed his 
estate with care and prudence, auditing his steward’s 
yearly accounts with the skill of an expert. His neigh- 
bors were all kindly disposed towards him, and he was 
charitably disposed towards the poor. Even the ser- 
vants who saw him every day, although they confessed 
that he was “certainly very peculiar at times,” never 
once dreamed of impugning his intellect, lie was in- 
sane in one direction only, and one might have passed a 
lifetime with him without discovering it. lie would be 
seized by a sudden determination to travel, and on such 
occasions he would travel in state, with a retinue of 
servants. After a fortnight’s or perhaps a month’s ab- 


KLEPTOMANIA 


118 


KLEPTOMANIA 


sence, lie would return home. Invariably, on the morn- 
ing of the next day after his return, towels, which had 
been taken from an open portmanteau, were found scat- 
tered about the room. After breakfast, his custom was 
to retire to the library and write the addresses of all the 
hotel-keepers at whose houses he had slept during his 
absence on so many slips of writing-paper, with direc- 
tions to his servants to inclose to each address the num- 
ber of towels specified upon each piece of paper, and to 
copy such other writing as they might find there, and 
send this in a letter, with the towels, to the hotel-keeper. 
This gentleman was one of the unhappy race of klepto- 
maniacs, whose particular mania impelled him to pur- 
loin towels. He subsequently gave to a friend a history 
of his case, and said he was goaded to these journeyings 
and pilferings by an irresistible impulse, which he insist- 
ed was the result of demoniacal possession. lie was never 
impelled, however, a second time on the same journey; 
so that, while no hotel-keeper would be likely to suspect, 
during his visit, a gentleman of his rank and style as one 
who would steal his towels, it never transpired publicly, 
so far as is known, that he was a thief, although his 
own consciousness of the fact embittered his existence. 
Sometimes, in the case of this form of monomania, there 
exists, in the mind of the sufferer, the delusion that what 
he steals is his own property, or has been stolen from 
him, and that he merely reclaims Ids own. Sometimes 
he imagines that God orders him to steal. The case is 
recorded of a Scotch clergyman, distinguished for his 
learning, piety, and charity ; he stole Bibles with a spe- 
cial view to the glory of God by the propagation of the 
Gospel. His manse was a little “missionary society of 
stolen Bibles,” and he was as much in earnest in the con- 
vention of souls by the contraband process as the most 
enthusiastic foreign missionary could be in his calling. 
He was at last detected in wholesale Bible-stealing. It 
was farther discovered that he had organized a wide 
missionary district, anti left a Bible or a Testament at 
every cottage where it. was needed along the route. 
The most touching fact in the story is that he was ar- 
rested while on his knees by the bedside of a dying old 
man, with a stolen Bible lying wide open before him on 
the bed. “What made you steal the Bible, Mr. B.?” 
asked the sheriff. with pious horror on his face. “God 
made me steal them, good man,” was the reply ; “ he 
was weary of seeing his poor people perish of Gospel- 
hunger because the rich Bible Society could not afford 
to feed them without the baubees, and so God set me to 
steal for them and save them.” lie could not be per- 
suaded that he had done wrong. The delusion of the 
clergyman, who was a very poor man, naturally suggest- 
ed insanity. But he was perfectly sane upon all other 
points, and it is doubtful whether he would have received 
the benefit of his malady— whether, indeed, it would 
have been admitted as a malady at all— if a learned and 
philosophical physician in a neighboring town had not 
positively sworn that he was the ‘•victim of moral 
mania.” There is this peculiarity sometimes in the 
case of kleptomaniacs, that their purloining is confined 
to single articles. The case is reported of a lady who 
could not resist the temptation to steal silk stockings. 
Another lady would steal gloves whenever the opportu- 
nity was afforded. A boy was arrested some months 
since in Brooklyn for stealing slippers from the feet of 
ladies while walking in the street. His friends came 
forward and testified that he had been in the habit of 
stealing slippers, and was never known to have stolen 
anything else, all bis life. A letter-carrier in Harlem, 
N.Y., was detected in abstracting letters and concealing 
them under a rock, which he had practiced for more 
than a year. They were most carefully hoarded in his 
place of concealment, and were found unopened. It was 
proven in His case, we believe, that he had a mania for 
stealing letters without any appareift motive, as lie never 
made any use of them except to hoard them. 

The cases quoted are sufficient to prove that the form 
of moral insanity to winch the name of kleptomania has 


been given really exists. From these, as well as many 
other instances which will readily occur to the reader, 
it will be seen that there can be little difficulty for a 
skilful physician, after a short examination, in distin- 
guishing between a real victim of this disease and an 
ordinary thief. And this, as well as every other true 
form of insanity, we presume, frees every one, whether 
previously bad or good, from moral responsibility in this 
particular regard. When the actual condition exists, 
no matter what the conduct may have been which pre- 
ceded and conduced to it, the earthly account of the 
subject has already been closed, and the deeds that fol- 
low, we are sure, will be mercifully judged of by him 
who knows whereof his poor frail creatures are made, 
and remembers that they are but dust. (E. de P.) 

It is proper to add to the above remarks, which are 
evidently just in their conclusion, some considerations 
setting the question of moral responsibility in such cases 
in a fuller light. 

1. The distinction is well made in the beginning of 
the article that some intellectual defect must be proven 
in order to constitute real insanity in any case. It is 
not enough that a perversion of the moral faculties ex- 
ists, for that is the quintessence of guilt ; and on this 
ground he who should most effectually obliterate his 
own conscience would thereby the most completely ex- 
cuse himself in whatever crime he might thus render 
himself capable of committing. The mere fact that the 
persons laboring under kleptomania are frequently not 
conscious of any wrong-doing on their own part is not 
of itself an adequate plea in their justification. 

2. The actual presence of mental imbecility in these 
peculiar cases is proved by the fact of the absurd man- 
ner in which the subjects of the disease steal. In the 
first place, they do not commit theft for their own bene- 
fit ; they do not appropriate the articles taken to their 
own use, nor do they have any occasion for them. The 
moral motive , i. e. gain, is evidently absent, and their 
conduct is at once understood, when the circumstances 
become known, as very different from ordinary cases of 
shop-lifting. In the second place, there is usually a 
pettiness, oftentimes an absolute puerility in the acts 
committed, that marks the person as for the time “non 
compos mentis.” The articles purloined are frequently 
worthless in themselves, and always relatively so. The 
conduct of the individual so strongly resembles that 
harmless and unmeaning gathering of sticks and straws 
which is one of the most common signs of lunacy, that 
every one informed with the case spontaneously sets it 
down in the same category. In t lie third place, the im- 
pulse to lliese acts comes on in sudden fits, quite at vari- 
ance with the usual course of the individual’s conduct. 
A general good character is always held to he one of the 
strongest evidences against the probability of a partic- 
idar offence; in these eases, the isolated nature of the 
acts, their sporadic occurrence, the peculiar line in which 
they take place, all go to show the abnormal condition 
of the mind at the time. The mere violence of the im- 
pulse to commit them, it is true, is not a valid excuse; 
for it is hard even for the subject himself to be sure 
that this is really irresistible ; but th e front ie character 
of it, as he experiences it. and as it appears to others, is 
a legitimate proof of its insanity. In short, the utter 
and marked want of congruity between the behavior of 
the person under these circumstances and ordinary ra- 
tional life stamps the act as that of a special mania, un- 
accountable to the individual himself in his lucid mo- 
ments. The foregoing criterion, we may remark, will 
serve to distinguish genuine cases of irresponsible klep- 
tomania from deliberate and culpable thievishness, 
whether habitual or occasional. 

3. The question whether this may he a congenital ten- 
dency wc cannot here "digress to consider, except so far 
as to remark that this, if proved in the affirmative, 
would not really affect the main issue of moral responsi- 
bility; for human depravity is all confessedly inherited, 
but we do not, on that account, hold any one free from 


KLESCHIUS 


119 


KLEY 


the obligation to restrain its manifestation, and, by using 
the helps within his reach, even ultimately eradicating 
it. In like manner we pass by the interesting cognate 
subject of the peculiar passion for intoxicating drinks 
experienced by the habitual inebriate, and its violent — 
seemingly overwhelming — tendency to return on the 
slightest stimulus, even after years of reform ; merely 
observing that here, whether in instances of inherited 
or accpiired appetite, the disease — for it undoubtedly is 
such— is a compound one, i. e. both of the body and the 
mind, the latter only— as being the controlling element 
— being the subject of moral consideration; and that the 
responsibility in these cases is at most simply shifted to 
total abstinence henceforth from the deadly seducer. 
This last thought, however, may essentially apply to 
kleptomania likewise ; for just as it is the fn'st drop that 
brings back the drunkard’s fatal appetite, so perhaps it 
was the indulgence in the first petty theft that devel- 
oped the uncontrollable passion for purloining. In this 
light the subject has a grave lesson for all fallen human- 
ity, inasmuch as each son of man bears within his bosom 
the germ of every hydra sin, which perchance needs 
but one fecundative act to cause it to spring forth into 
virulent life. 

Kleschius, Daniel, a German theologian, born at 
Iglau, in Moravia, in the early part of the 17th century, 
was educated at the universities of Strasburg and Wit- 
tenberg, and then preached for a number of years in 
Ilungaria and Croatia. In 1G73 he went to Jena, taught 
there for a time, and then removed to Wei sscnfels, where 
he became a professor at the gymnasium. Kleschius 
was a very peculiar character. He made many predic- 
tions, among others that the year 1700 would bring the 
final judgment day. He lived, however, beyond the 
time appointed, lie died about 1701. See Allgemeines 
Ilist. Lex . vol. iii, s. v. 

Klesel. See Kiilesl. 

Klette, Johann Georg, a German Lutheran divine, 
was born at Badeberg, in Meissen, October 12, 1G50, and 
studied theology at Leipzig and Wittenberg. He was 
made professor of theology and metaphysics at Zerbst 
in 1GS4. In 1G9G he became pastor in that place, and 
died Dec. 28, IG97. 

Kleuker, Johann Friedrich, one of the most em- 
inent modern German theologians, was born at Osterode 
Oct. 21, 1749. He studied history, philosophy, and the- 
ology at the University of Gottingen. In 1773 he be- 
came a private tutor in Biickeburg, and there made the 
acquaintance of Herder, through whose influence he was 
appointed prorector of the gymnasium of Lemgo, and, in 
1778 rector of the gymnasium of OSnabruck. Herder 
also induced and encouraged him to write on the theo- 
logical questions of the day. In acknowledgment of his 
literary activity and profound learning, he was made 
D.D. by the University of Helmstadt in 1791. In 1798 
he was appointed fourth ordinary professor of theology 
at Kiel, which position he filled with great success, lec- 
turing on the exegesis of the O. and N. Test., Christian 
apologetics, Christian antiquities, ancient Church his- 
tory, the doctrine of Christ and of the apostles, symbol- 
ics, and Christian science, of which, in 1800, he publish- 
ed a Gntndriss or Encyklopiidie d. Theologie in 2 vols., 
for the use of his numerous pupils. The last few years 
of his life were spent in retirement after he had vainly 
tried to oppose the progress of scientific rationalism. 
Kleuker, says Ilagenbach (see below), “was one of the 
few men who, in doctrine and writings, stood in avowed 
opposition to the prevailing theological spirit of his 
times, of which he said that ‘it had so poisoned the 
whole atmosphere that men hardly dared to speak of 
Christ as anything more than a passing shadow.’” lie 
was not even satisfied with Herder, who, as he held, 
made too many concessions to the new style of doctrine 
and thinking. Yet his simple, evangelical faith, his 
humble piety, and his active interest in all that was 
grand and good, sec ured him the intimate friendship of 


that class of men, while his profound learning, especial- 
ly in Oriental and in classical antiquities, procured him 
the respect and consideration of all scholars. In judg- 
ing a theologian, his influence on his associates and on 
the age in which he lived, it does not suffice to examine 
simply his writings; as much, if not more, can be deter- 
mined of his character by the testimony of his life and 
death. With pleasure, then, do we point to the dying 
testimony of tins celebrated German theologian. His 
biographer (see below) says of his last moments : “ I had 
the fortune to be present when Kleuker died, for I must 
call it a good fortune to see a true Christian die as calm- 
ly as he did. As I came in, the approach of death was 
clearly indicated by his cold hands, almost motionless 
pulse, and difficult breathing. A kind of prophetic spir- 
it appeared to come over him when he once more warn- 
ed against the errors of his contemporaries by proclaim- 
ing the great truths that he had so often taught. After 
saying, ‘ It is plainly recorded in all passages of the Old 
and New Testament that there is only one true Saviour, 
and by them all the error of our day which looks to self- 
redemption for salvation is refuted,’ he sweetly fell back 
into the corner of the sofa, bowed his head, and, without 
experiencing the least convulsive struggle with death, 
fell asleep, and passed away into the better world,” May 
23, 1827. Kleuker’s activity as a writer was wonderful. 
He wrote first a Latin programme, entitled Genius e 
script is antiquitatis monument is hauriendus (1775), which 
was followed in quick succession by Zend-Avesta nach 
A nquetil du Perron (177G-1777, 3 parts): — Anhang 
z. Zend-Avesta (1781-1783, 2 vols.) : — Zend-Avesta im 
Kleinen (1789 ): — Menschlicher Ycrsuch ii.d.Sohn Gottes 
Ji. d. Mensclien , in d. Zeit ude catsser d. Zeit (177G) : — Ge- 
danken Pascals (1777 ) Uebersetzung U. Erkldrung d. 
Schriften Salerno's u.d.Salomonischen Denkudirdigkeiten ; 
Uebersetzung der ) Verke Plato's (1778-1797, G vols.): — 
Johannes , Pet mis , und Paulus als Christologen betrachtet 
(1785): — a prize essay, entitled Ueber d.Xatur u.d.Ui’- 
sprung d.Emanutionslehre b. d.Kabbalisten (1785) : — II oil- 
wells merkiciirdige historische Nachrichten v.Indostan u . 
Bengalen , etc. (from the English, 1778) : — Abhandlungen 
ii. d. Gesch .. etc.. A siens, von Sir William Jones (from the 
English, 1795-1797, 4 vols .): — Einige Belehrungen iiber 
Toler anz i Vermin ft, OJJenbarung , Wandcrung d. Israelites 
du/'chs 7'othe Meer und Avferstehung Cln'isti ron d. Tod- 
ten (1778 ) : — Xeue Priifung v. Erkldrung d. rorziigl ichsten 
Beweise f d. 1 Varheit n. d. gbtt lichen Urspning d.Chris- 
tenthums ic. d. OJfenbcmtng uberhaupt (3 parts, 1788): — 
A usfiihrliche Untersuchung d. Griinde f.d. Aechtheit und 
G luubicih'digkeit d. schriftlichen Urkunden cl. Christen s- 
thums (5 vols.) : — Quintus Septimins Flore ns Tertullia- 
nus's Veiiheidigung d. christlichen Seiche gegen d. Heiden' 
mit erliiutemden Anmerkungen (from the Latin, 1798): — 
Brief e an eine cliristliche Fi'eundin iiber d. Herder' sche 
Schrifl v. Gottes Sohn (1802) : — Ueb.d.Ja u.Xein d.bib - 
lisch-christliehen u. d.Vernunftheolog . (1819 ) : — Biblische 
Sgmpathien od. erlduternde Bemerkitngen u. Betrachtun- 
gen ii. d. Bad elite d. Evangelisten v.Jesu Lehren v. Thate.i 
1820) : — Ueb. d. alten und neuen Pi'otestantismus (1823). 
See II. P. Sexto, Expositio Sermcmis Jesu.Joh. I'. 39 et 
super ejus sententici de nexu inter scriptorum Mosaico- 
rum argumentum et doctrinam sucim noimulla (Ilelmst. 
1792,Svo); Xotiz und Karakteristik d.iztlebenden theolo- 
gischen Scliriftsteller Deutschlands (1797, p. 10S sq.) ; 
Xeue Kielische gelehi'te Zeitung (2 Jahrg. 1798), p. 282- 
286 ; J. O. Tliiess, Gelelirtengesch. d. Universiiat zu Kiel , i 
375-447 ; Bat jen, J. E. Kleuker u. Brief e seiner Freunde 
(Gottingen, 1842); Ilagenbach, Ch. Hist. ISth, and 19 th’ 
Cent, ii, 190 sq. ; Herzog, Real-Eneykl.xW, 742. (J. II.W.) 

Kley, Eduard, a Jewish preacher and educator of 
note, born June 10, 1789, at Bemstadt, in Silesia, was 
prominently connected with the reformatory movements 
in the synagogue at the opening of the 19tli century. 
He was a teacher and preacher at Berlin when, in 1818, 
the Progressive Jews of Hamburg called him to the su- 
perintendency of their schools, and later to the duties of 
a pastorate. Kley was the first Jew who preached in a 


KLING 


120 


KLOPSTOCK 


temple (the name for the houses of worship of Reformed ] 
Jews), and who used a German liturgy and introduced j 
an organ. ay 9, 1840, he resigned his pastoral office, 
but the superintendence of the Jewish schools he held j 
until 1848, when his advanced age obliged him to fore- 
go all active labors. Ilis admirers presented him with 
a large fund for his support, but he declined to use it for 
himself, and founded the “ Eduard Kley Stiftung” for 
the support and assistance of old teachers not suffi^ent- 
ly provided for by the state. He died Oct. 4, 1867. Ilis 
sermons, which are generally acknowledged to be of su- 
perior order, were published at Hamburg in 1826-27, 
1844, 8 vo. He also published two volumes of homilies: 
Predict Skizzen , or Beitraye zu einer Idinftigen llomiletik 
(Leipz. 1856, 2 vols. 8vo), and Die deatsche Synagogue 
oder Ordnung des Gottesdienstes (Berlin, 1817-18,2 vols. 
8vo) : — '*>"1 rvn?, Katechismus d. Mosaischen Religions- 
lehre (lierl. 1814; 3d ed. Leipz 1839 and 1850). Kley is 
often and justly called the Schleiermacher of the Jewish 
pulpit of Germany in our age. See Jost, Geseh. d. Ju- 
denthums u. s. Sekten, iii, 336 ; Kayserling (Dr. 31.), Bib- 
liothek Jiid. Kanztlredncr (Berl. 1870, 8vo), i, 47 sq. ; II- 
lustrirtes M omit she ft f d . gesammten Jut. d. J udenth urns, ii, 
419 sq. ; Jonas, Lebensskizze r. Iferni Dr. E. Kley (1 Iam- 
burg, 1859, 1 2mo) ; FUrst, Bib. J ud. s. v. (J. 1 1. W.) 

Kling, Christian Friedrich, a German theologian, 
was born at Altdorf, in Wurtemberg, Nov. 4, 1800, and 
was educated at the University of Tubingen, where he 
became “ repetent” in 1824. Two years later he entered 
the ministry, and settled at Waiblingen until 1832, when 
he removed to 3Iarburg as professor of theology. In 
1840 he was appointed to and accepted a like position 
at Bonn University, which he held until 1847 ; then be- 
came preacher at Ebersbach, in Wtirtemberg; later dea- 
con at 3Iarbaeh, and died in 1861. Kling was a ready 
writer, and contributed largely to the different German 
periodicals; he was one of the ablest assistants on the 
Theologische Studien und Kritiken. lie edited J. F. von 
Flatt’s Vorlesmigen iiber die Pastoral Brief e (1831), and 
contributed a Commentary to the Corinthians to Lange’s 
Bibelicerk (translated by Daniel W. Boor, D.I)., Scrib- 
ner’s edit. New York, 1871, royal 8vo). 

Klinge, Zaciiaeias Laurentius, a Swedish theo- 
logian who flourished about the middle of the 1/ til cen- 
tury, was first professor of theology at Dorpat, then 
preacher at the Swedish court, and later pastor at Stock- 
holm and bishop of Gothenburg. He died Sept. 3, 1671. 
lie wrote Theatrum Biblicum , etc. See A llgemeines Hist. 
Lex ikon, iii, 38. 

Klingler, Antonies, a German Reformed theolo- 
gian, was born at Zurich, Switzerland, Aug. 2, 1649 ; was 
educated at several of the most celebrated German uni- 
versities ; and became doctor theologize in 1677, and pro- 
fessor at the gymnasium at Hanau in the same year. 
In 1680 he was offered a professorship at the University 
of Groningen, but he declined this honor in favor of a 
pastorate in his native place. He died there in August, 
1713. Klingler published several theological works, of 
which his best is Bella Jehovce. See A llgemeines Hist. 
Lexikon , iii, 38. 

Klopstock, Friedrich Gottlieb, an eminent 
German poet, one of the forerunners of the great Ger- 
man poetic renaissance of the 18th century — “the Ger- 
man 31ilton,” as he is frequently styled — was born at 
Quedlinburg, Saxony, July 2, 1724. lie received his 
early education at the school of his native place, and 
when sixteen years of age was admitted to the Gymna- 
sium at Naumburg, where he became acquainted with 
the style of the classical authors of his country. While 
here his private hours were devoted to compositions 
both in prose and verse, particularly to the writing of 
pastorals, which were in great vogue among the Ger- 
mans, and it is said that even at that early period he 
had decided to write a poem of greater length than any 
that had hitherto been attempted by his countrymen, 
and one that should do honor to German literature, 


which was at this time rather at low ebb. France was 
in the avantguard of political influence, and everything 
French was considered worthy of imitation : but French 
influence was most completely manifest in the social life 
of the Germans, particularly in their literature, and, as 
a late writer in the Westminster Review ((Jet. 1871, p. 
212) has it, “at no time, perhaps, was it more difficult to 
form and express original views in Germany.” Klop- 
stock had acquired the English language, and in his 
readings of English works his eye had fallen upon the 
immortal production of 3Iilton. Trained from his youth 
to a religious life, and destined for the ministry, he nat- 
urally decided to present his nation with a like work 
that should stand by the side of the English production. 
If no more, he was determined that the German mind 
should turn towards English literatnre, and drink at its 
fountains, rather than be any longer subjected to that 
cold, correct, and unimaginative spirit which had hith- 
erto tyrannized over their thoughts and habits. Bod- 
mer, the great leader of the so-called “ Swiss school” of 
German literature, and others of the Swiss school, were 
already furnishing his countrymen with able translations 
of English poets; among other works, he translated 31 il- 
ton’s Paradise Lost. In 1745 Klopstock went to the 
University of Jena to study theology, but, amid the pur- 
suit of studios in divinity, his attention at even" conven- 
ient moment was occupied with the great work which 
he had projected. During his residence at that insti- 
tution he composed the first three cantos in prose; but 
after his removal to Leipzig (in 1746), having made 
trial of hexameters in imitation of the melodious strains 
of Ilomer and Virgil, and being pleased with the success 
of the experiment, he resolved to execute the whole 
poem in that measure. Finally, in 1748, the first three 
cantos of his Messiah were published in the Bremer 
Beitraye , a journal which had been started by men de- 
termined, like Klopstock, to break loose from that shal- 
low despotism which, under the leadership of the pe- 
dantic Gottsched, had so long hung over them. The 
fame of Klopstock, whom the year previous such men 
as Gellert, Kabener, Ilageelom, and Gleim had pointed 
out as the man likely and competent to inaugurate a 
new era in German poetry, now spread far and wide; 
for that poem enjoyed an extraordinary popularity 
among all who could appreciate the attractions of ele- 
gant diction and high devotional feeling. It was the 
subject of admiration in every circle — even in the pid- 
pit it attracted notice, and was often quoted with ap- 
plause. It gratified its pious author by its subser- 
viency to the purposes of practical religion, for many 
portions of it were set to sacred music, and sung at the 
family worship of the Germans, and many of its finest 
passages were introduced to give point and liveliness to 
the pages of religious and devotional works of that day. 
It raised the name of Klopstock to the highest pinnacle 
of renown, insomuch that all classes of his countrymen, 
even the peasantry, learned to understand and love him 
as a sacred poet. Ilis fame was spread even to foreign 
countries — for in 1750, when, on the invitation of some 
friends, he went to spend some time in German Switz- 
erland (at Zurich), in the enjoyment of its wild and ro- 
mantic scenery, he was received with a degree of re- 
spect almost bordering on veneration. While in that 
country his mind seems to have taken a patriotic ten- 
dency : the ancient Hermann (tlie Anninius of Tacitus) 
became his favorite hero, whose deeds he afterwards cel- 
ebrated in some dramatic works. In Denmark the min- 
ister Bernstorff had become acquainted with the three 
cantos of the Messiah, and Klopstock was offered a pen- 
sion of 8400 by the Danish king on condition of coming 
to Copenhagen, and there finishing his poem. lie set 
out in 1751, travelled through Brunswick and Hamburg, 
and at the latter place formed an intimacy with 31arga- 
retlia 3Ioller, daughter of a respectable merchant. At 
Copenhagen he was received by Bernstorff with the 
greatest respect, and introduced to the king, Frederick 
V, whom he accompanied on his travels. In 1754 he 


IvLOPSTOCK 


121 


IvLOPSTOCK 


went to Hamburg, which was at this time a sort of lit- 
erary capital of Germany, and more particularly of its 
northern half, as Weimar became some years later of the 
southern half. Not ouly could Klopstoek claim it as his 
residence, but it also contained for some time the great 
Lessing, who, by the way, was no mean defendant of 
Klopstoek in the attacks made against the latter by 
Gottsclied and his school; Herder occasionally visited 
the llanse city, and a number of lesser lights, such as 
Voss, Claudius, Reimerus, the Stolbergs, etc., gathered 
there about the two chief luminaries. “ Klopstoek,” 
says Mrs. Winkworth ( Christian Singers of Germany, p. 
32G sq.), speaking of his residence at Hamburg, ‘‘enjoy- 
ed a sort of reverence not unlike that paid to Dr. John- 
son in England, but in some respects more flattering, as 
he was a man of whom it was much easier to make a 
popular, and especially a ladies’ hero.” Here the Messiah 
was at last finished in 1773, having thus occupied twen- 
ty-seven years in preparation. A complete edition of his 
odes and tyries was brought out, and here he devoted the 
autumn of his long life to the study and purification of 
the German language and its grammar. lie had always 
been a passionate lover of his country, but this did not 
prevent him from taking the keenest interest in the Amer- 
ican War of Independence, and the opening of the French 
Revolution, lie was among those who hailed the ear- 
lier years of the latter with eager sympathy, and the 
hope of a coming brighter aera for humanity, and who 
afterwards underwent the bitterness of profound disap- 
pointment. The National Assembly had marked their 
recognition of his friendship for the French people by 
according him the rights of a French citizen, but when 
the terrible massacres of 1793 took place he sent back 
to them his diploma. In Hamburg he married his ‘‘be- 
loved” Margaretha, with whom, however, he enjoyed 
only a short union; she died in childbed in 1758. In 
1771 he was honored with the appointment of Danish 
ambassador to Hamburg, and flourished at this place 
the remainder of his days, dividing his time between 
his public duties and the pursuits of literature. In 1792 
Klopstoek married for the second time, choosing the 
Frau von Winthern, an old love of his, who had mean- 
while become a widow, and who survived him. lie died 
in 1803, and was buried (March 22) by Hamburg with 
royal honors, a distinction which in Germany is gener- 
ally accorded only to royal personages. 

His work of next importance to the J fessiah is a 
drama, above alluded to, entitled Hermann's Schlacht 
(the Battle of Arminius), the subject of which is the 
defeat of the Roman general Varus by the ancient Ger- 
mans. It is scarcely so much a drama as a lyric poem 
in a dramatic form. It was composed in 17G4. Ilis 
other dramas are of a similar character, and were writ- 
ten evidently with intent to arouse German patriotism 
from its lethargy, and to breathe into the German heart 
the air of freedom. But the Messiah alone is of special 
interest to our readers, and we therefore give a particu- 
lar description of it. 

Ivlopstock’s Messiah is a poem in twenty cantos, 
written in hexameters, except where certain choral 
songs occur in unrliymed lyrical measure. “The action 
opens after the triumphal entry into Jerusalem, when 
the Messiah withdraws from the people, and, alone on 
the Mount of Olives, renews his solemn vow to the Al- 
mighty Father to undertake the work of redemption ; it 
closes when that work is completed, and he sits down at 
the right hand of God. Around t he central figure of 
the God-man are grouped an infinite variety of specta- 
tors and actors : angels and seraphs, among whom Elva 
and Gabriel are especially appointed to attend on the 
divine sufferer; evil spirits who conspire against him, 
but one of whom, Abbadouna, repents and at last ob- 
tains mercy ; Adam and Eve, and the patriarchs, who 
watch with profound interest and gratitude the repara- 
tion of the fall; and the inhabitants of another world, 
like in nature to man, but nufallen, who are permitted 
to know what is taking place among their sinful kin- 


dred. Even the Father himself is introduced as speak- 
ing, and the scene is sometimes laid in the highest 
heaven. The earthly actors are the mother and disci- 
ples of Jesus, the Jews, and the Romans, who lead him 
to death, and a number of those who have come in con- 
tact with him in his ministrations, among whom the 
most clearly drawn are two female figures, both named 
Cidli : one, the wife of Gedor, is a reminiscence of Meta, 
and her death is an exact transcript of Meta’s death-bed ; 
the other is the daughter of Jairus, between whom and 
Semida, the youth of Nain, there exists a pure but ar- 
dent attachment, which at last finds satisfaction in 
heaven. The immense number of personages thus in- 
troduced produces a confused impression ; everything is 
described by one or another of them, and talked over at 
length; scarcely anything actually takes place before 
the reader; there is an absence of local coloring and of 
character, and very few of the actors have any distinct 
individuality at all; while the effort to keep the whole 
tone of the poem at the highest possible pitch of inten- 
sity and awe gives rise to an overstrained inflation of 
both thought and style, which beeomes in the long run 
inexpressibly fatiguing. Yet Klopstoek’s poem has made 
for itself and for him a place in the literature of his 
country which does not depend on the number of read- 
ers it now attracts. Its subject is linked by a thousand 
invisible fibres to the whole Christian thought of centu- 
ries past, while its spirit of mercy, forgiveness, and tol- 
erance — in a word, of redemption — is essentially char- 
acteristic of the later developments of Christianity. To 
treat such a theme worthily at all — to embody it in a 
form which, however full of defects, yet possesses a cer- 
tain dignity and real genius — marks its author as a 
great poet, if not one of the greatest, and gives him a 
place historically even higher, perhaps, than he has a 
right to command as an artist.” The poem certainly 
abounds in passages of the most beautiful and splendid 
poetry. An exuberant imagination everywhere scat- 
ters its wealth, and Klopstoek has been said by one 
critic to be “as superior to Pindar in richness and deep 
feeling as the spiritual world he paints transcends in in- 
trinsic magnificence the scenes celebrated by the Gre- 
cian bard;” and by another critic, “now to rival the 
tenderness of David, now to soar in the loftiest flights 
like Isaiah. The purity and pathos of its religious sen- 
timents are equal to the excellence of its poetry. But 
all good and candid judges will allow that, though ex- 
hibiting a sublimity and beauty of no common order, it 
has failed to accomplish the confident expectations of 
j the Germans, that it would eclipse the Paradise Lost of 
Milton.” For, notwithstanding its grandeur, it is ex- 
ceedingly tedious to read ; and even at the time of K lop- 
stock’s greatest popularity this seems to have been felt, 
for Lessing observes, in an epigram, that everybody 
praises Klopstoek, but few read him. His odes are val- 
ued by his own countrymen more than his epic, and 
some are truly sublime; but the construction of the lan- 
guage is so singular, and the connection of the thoughts 
so often non-apparent, that these odes are reckoned 
among the most difficult in the language. Both in his 
Messiah and his odes he is dignified and sublime, but 
his rhapsodical manuer contrasts strangely with the 
pedantry which is always apparent. Goethe, in his 
conversations with Eckermann, expressed his opinion 
that German literature was greatly indebted to Klop- 
stock, who was in advance of his times, but that the 
t imes had since advanced beyond Klopstoek. The young 
Hardenberg (who wrote under the name of “ Novalis”) 
has happily said that Klopstock’s works always resemble 
translations from some unknown poet, done by a clever 
but nnpoetical philologist. As for the theological as- 
pect of his poem of the Messiah, Klopstoek fell into the 
almost inevitable fault, in treating this subject poetical- 
ly, of dividing the kingdom of heaven between the Fa- 
ther and the Son (ditheism), and even opposing them 
to each other, as when he makes Christ say to God, “I, 
who am God as well as thou, swear to thee by myself 


KLUGE 


122 


KNAPP 


that I will redeem mankind.” (Comp. Hurst’s Hagen- 
bacl), Church History of the 18//* and 19//* Centuries , i, 
219; ii, 277 sq.) 

The Messiah was first published in fragments, and then 
as a whole (Alton a, 1780; 7th ed. Lpz.1817) : it has been 
translated into Latin, English, French, Polish, Dutch, 
and Swedish. Klopstoek also wrote the following 
shorter poems: Oden u. Eleyien (ITamh. 1771, 2 vols. ; 6th 
ed. Lpz. 1827 : trans. into English by IV. Nind, 1847) : — 
Geistliche Lieder (Kopenli. 1758-09, 2 vols.) ; besides dra- 
mas under the following titles: Adam's Tod (lvopenh. 
1757; 4th ed. 1773) : — tialomo (Magdeb. 1704) : — David 
(Hamburg, 1772) ; etc. Ilis complete works have been 
published under the title Klopstoek* s sdmmtliche Werke 
(Lpzg. 1798-1817, 12 vols.; 1822-24, 12 vols; 1823-29, 
18 vols.; 1839, 9 vols.; 1839, 1 vol. ; Kopenli. 1844, 10 
vols., with 3 supplements. See Cramer, Klopstoek, er v. 
iiber ihn (Dessau, 1780, 5 vols. 8vo); Mme. de Stael, De 
VAUemayne ; Klamer-Sehm id t, Klopstoek it. s. Freunde 
(Halberstadt, 1810) ; 11. During, Klopstock's Leben (Wei- 
mar, 1825); English Cyclop, s. v. ; Ilerzog, Real-Ency- 
klop. vol. vii, s. v. ; Kurtz, Literaturyesch. vol. ii (see In- 
dex in vol. iii); and especially the valuable work of 
Koberstein, Grundriss d. Gesch. der deutschen Liter at ur, 
iii, 200 sq., 2884 sq., etc. ; Lobell, Entwickeluny d. deut- 
schen Pocsie v. Klopstoek bis Goethe (Braunsclnv. 1850), 
vol. i ; Gervinus, Gesch. d. deutschen Dichtung (Leipzig, 
1844, 5 vols. 8vo, 2d ed.), iv, 115 sq. ; British and For- 
eign Quarterly Review, Jan. 1843. (J. II. W.) 

Kluge, David, a German theologian, was born at 
Tilsit, Prussia, April 14, 1018, and, upon the urgent, re- 
quest of his father, studied theology, although his own 
inclinations were in favor of medicine. In 1041 he be- 
gan to lecture at the University of Rostock, where he 
had pursued his theological studies for several years, in 
addition to his course at Konigsberg University. Later 
he travelled abroad, and visited the liigh-schools of 
Sweden and the Netherlands. He began to preach in 
1044 at Marienwerder; removed in 1040 to Saalfeld. and 
in 1057 to Elbingen, in 1000 to Wissmar, and in 1005 to 
Hamburg. He died there April 14, 1088. For a list of 
his works, see Jocher, Gelehrt. Lex. ii, 2118 sq. 

Kluge, Johann Daniel, a German theologian, 
was born at Weissenfels June 0, 1701, and educated at 
the Universities of Leipzig and Wittenberg, lie was 
made a professor at the gymnasium in Dortmund in 
1730; in 1735 he removed to Weissenfels as preacher 
and superintendent of the churches, and in 1745 accept- 
ed a call as court preacher to Zerbst, where he died July 
5, 17G8. Klnge was well acquainted with dogmatics and 
the exegesis of the N. T., as is evinced by his writings 
in those departments. He contributed largely to peri- 
odicals, anil published in book form Concilium synt ay- 
mat is confessiomnn Eccles. Luther (llamb. 1728, 4to) : — 
Commentatio de Mart. Chemnitii auctoritate commentitice 
honorum operum in adit justifeatioms present ice f 'also 
preetexta (ibid. 1734, 4to): — Commentatio in locum (Tim. 
iii, 2) (Dortm. 1747, 4to) ; — Ecloyee in pericopas epistol - 
iccts (ibid. 1748, 4to). etc. See During, Gelehrte Theolo- 
ycn Dcutschlands , ii, 131 sq. 

Klupfel, Emanuel Christoph, a German theo- 
logian, was born Jan. 29, 1712, at Hattenhofen, in Wiir- 
temberg, and educated at Tubingen. In 1741 he became 
pastor at Geneva of a German Lutheran church, and in 
1745 he became the instructor and travelling preacher 
of t he king of Saxony, and resided for some time at 
Paris. On his return to Saxony he was promoted, and 
finally, in 1752, became one of the highest dignitaries in 
the Church of Saxony. He died Nov. 21, 1770. Al- 
though a superior scholar and a ready writer, Kliipfel 
lias left us only two small contributions to theological 
literature: L)issert. de nominibus, Hebrcvis appellativis 
Alcph preeformativo (Tubingen, 1733, 4to): — Bedenken 
iiber die Fretye ; ob die Ehe mit dcs Bruders Witt we er- 
laubt sei (Gotha. 1752, 8vo). — Doring, Gelehrte Theoloy. 
Dcutschlands, ii, 123 sq. 


Klupfel, Engelbert, a German Roman Catholic 
theologian of note, was born at Wipfelda, between Wurz- 
burg and Schweinfurt, Jan. 18, 1733. He received his 
early education in the school of Wurzburg, and in 1750 
joined the Augustinian Hermits of that city. In 1751, 
however, he renounced his vows at Obemdorf, and went 
to study philosophy at Freiburg. Next ho removed to 
Erfurt, and was finally ordained priest at Constance in 
1756. In 1758 he became professor of philosophy at 
Miinnerstadt, and in 1703 at Obemdorf; afterwards pro- 
fessor of theology at Mentz, and finally at Constance. 
The Austrian court wishing to replace the Jesuits by the 
Augustinians, he was made professor of the University 
of Freiburg, in Breisgan, in 1708. The Jesuits, however, 
tried to revenge themselves, and Kltipfel’s Theses de statu 
naturae puree impossibili were attacked by professor Wald- 
ner as tending to Jansenism. But Klupfel was sustained 
by the court. After the expulsion of the Jesuits he un- 
dertook the publication of that gigantic task, Kora bib- 
liotheca ecclesiastic i (Freib. 7 vols. 8vo, 1775-1790, after 
the plan of Ernesti’s Bibliotheca Critica), an effort which 
was highly commended by his contemporaries, and even 
brought him a recognition from Maria Theresa in her 
own handwriting, with the proffer of assistance, if need- 
ed, to complete the work. The Roman Catholic popula- 
tion, nevertheless, were opposed to him, and when, in a 
discourse at the jubilee of 1770, he attacked the system 
of indulgences, he was called by them “Martin Luther,” 
and “ the enemy of indulgences.” He was involved in a 
controversy also with the Protestants by his recension of 
Semler’s Jnstitutio ad Christ ianam doctrinum liberaliter 
discendam. Ilis principal work is his Institutiones theo- 
logies doymaticee (1789), which has been used as a text- 
book in many universities, but was quite transformed by 
Ziegler, lie resigned his professorship in 1805, and died 
J uly 8, 1 8 1 1 . K1 iipfel was a man of very varied scholar- 
ship, and, being blessed with a long life and good health, 
he furnished the world, besides the extraordinary works 
already mentioned, as a result of his study of the Church 
fathers, a treatise entitled Tertulliend mens de indissolu- 
bilitate matrimonii in infdelitate contracts , conjuye alter- 
utro ad felem Christi converso (in the first vol. of Rieg- 
ger’s Oblectennenta Hist or he et Juris ecclesiastici [1770]) : 
— Yindidee raticinii Jesaice vii, 14 de Immanuele (1779, 
4to), etc. See De vita et script is Conradi Celtis opus 
posthumum Engelberti Kluepftlii (pub. by J. C. Ruef and 
C. Zell, Friburgi, 1827); J. L. Ilug, Eloyium Kluepfelii 
Friburyi; Ilerzog, Recd-Encyklop. vii, 701 ; also Dbring, 
Gelehrte Theol. Dcutschlands, ii, 120 sq. (where, by mis- 
take, he is treated as Kliipfel, Johann Andreas). (J. 
II. W.) 

Knapp, Albert, a German theologian, and one of 
the ablest workers in the Wiirtemberg Church of the 
I9th century, peculiarly distinguished for his poetical 
gifts and inliuenee in establishing a school of religious 
poetry, was born in Tubingen July 25, 1798. His child- 
hood was passed in the village of Alpirsbach, under the 
old 11th-century Benedictine cloister, and he enjoyed the 
careful instruction of Handel, afterward pastor at Stamm- 
heim. Night and day he dreamed poetry. Ilis univer- 
sity studies, upon which he entered in 1816, were rather 
poetic than theological; the authorities did not restrain 
his choice, and for that he always expressed his grati- 
tude. In 1820 he was established vicar near Stnttgard, 
and here, through intercourse with the pious "Wilhelm 
Ilofaeker (q. v.), he received that deep religious impres- 
sion which ever after characterized his work. In 1831 
he became deacon at Kirchheim, where, at the instance 
of a friend, he began the publication of the Christ oterpe, 
an annual which contained religious selections from va- 
rious eminent authors, was popular, and often sought as 
a Christmas gift in families, but ceased with the year 
1853, In 1830 he was made pastor at Stut tgard, and la- 
bored there with great zeal for the cause of his Master, 
exercising a large influence until his death, June 18, 
1864. The prayer expressed in one of his best hymns 
was answered: “Grant me one thing here below — thy 


KNAPP 


123 


KNAPP 


Spirit and thy peace, and the honor in ray grave of hav- 
ing known thy love.” 

Albert Knapp is chiefly known by his religious poems, 
and as the best of these may be pointed out his Christ - 
Hr he Gedichte (in 2 vols. Stuttg. 1829’, 3d ed. Basle, 1843), 
Ilerbstbluthen (1859), and Christoterpe, already referred 
to. To the hymnology of the Church Knapp render- 
ed special service in preserving, in the revision of the 
Church hymn-book, many forgotten treasures. His Lit- 
derschatz , generally acknowledged to be one of the most 
valuable collections of Christian hymns of all ages, was 
first published in 1837 (2d ed. 1850, 2 vols. Svo), and the 
Evanyelische Gesangbuch in 1855. II is avowed principle 
of modernizing obsolete forms in the old hymns was 
sharply assailed, and he himself restored at a later day 
some of the original expressions. As a preacher the 
manifold richness of his thought and delicacy of diction 
was his attraction. He did not sutler himself to appear 
the poet in his sermons, never having once so used a 
poem of his own, nor even having appointed one of his 
own hymns to be sung, yet no one could listen to him 
without acknowledging a rare union of extensive learn- 
ing with original genius. His singular merit as a hymn- 
maker remains, notwithstanding a haste of composition 
and lightness of tone in some of his poems, and although 
the subjective individuality of the author, according to 
the spirit of the times, often characterizes his weightier 
pieces, yet his individuality is one of simple faith. 
In theology he was fully evangelical in his doctrine of 
salvation, which he defended not in mere polemic, but in 
heart-devotion against all opposers. See his preface to 
the Christoierpe of 184G for a statement of his belief. He 
grounded all defence of doctrine upon the necessities and 
joyful faith of spiritual experience, and severely con- 
demned a merely external method and the zeal of argu- 
mentative orthodoxy. He had no sympathy with sects 
as such. Knapp’s biographical contributions in the 
Christoterpe are of great interest and beauty; we name 
that on his own “ Childhood Days” in the issue of 1849, 
on Ludwig Hofacker (1848), Iledinger (1836), Steinliofer 
(1837), Jacob Baldo (L848), Jeremias Flatt (1852). The 
writer’s poetic humor and narrative power, joined with 
love for his theme, make these sketches perfect art- 
works. I)r. Friederich 'Wilhelm Krummacher, in his 
autobiography (translated by Easton, Edinb. 1869, 8vo, 
p. 203, 201), pays the following tribute to the high poet- 
ical talents of onr subject : “That in Albert Knapp there 
was a true poetic inborn genius no one will seriously 
deny, and yet he is not generally mentioned in our re- 
cent histories of literature as ranked among the ‘Suabian 
poets,’ although, without doubt, he would have been 
named among them, and in the very foremost rank, had 
he consecrated his harp to the spirit of the world instead 
of seeking all his inspiration from the Spirit of God; but 
worldly fame, to which the way and the door stood wide 
open for him, he gladly cast at his feet, and recognised 
it as his calling, as it indeed was the impulse of his 
heart, to sing the praises of the heavenly Prince of Peace, 
through whom lie knew he was redeemed and ordained 
‘ to the inheritance of the saints in light.’ Instead of 
worldly fame, there was destined for him, so long as a 
Church of Christ shall remain on earth, the glorious re- 
ward of God, that his Eines wiinseh ich mir vor allem 
Andern, his An dein Bluten and Erhleichen , his Abend 
ist es, Herr, die Stunde, and many others of his hymns, 
will never cease to be sung in it. We bless him in the 
name of many thousands to whom the melodies of his 
liarp, breathing peace and joy, have lightened their steps 
on the way to the city of God, and we hope that the 
people of Stnttgard may long refresh themselves at the 
‘ streams of living water’ which, according to the word 
of the Lord, yet flow for them to this hour from the life 
and labors of their highly-gifted pastor.” See Herzog, 
Reed- Encyklop. xix, s. v. 

Knapp, Georg Christian, an eminent Germau 
Protestant theologian, was born at Glaucha, near Halle, 
in 1753. He entered the university of that city in 1770, 


and afterwards also spent a semester at the University 
of Gottingen. He began lecturing on philosophy in 
1775, was appointed professor extraordinary in 1777, and 
regular professor in 1782. In 1785 lie became director 
of Franke’s celebrated orphan asylum and educational 
institute, previously presided over by his father, which 
he managed for forty jears in conjunction with Nie- 
meyer. In the division of labor he had charge of the 
orphan asylum, the Latin school, and the Biblical and 
missionary departments, which, notwithstanding deli- 
cate health, he conducted in a manner that gained him 
the esteem of all. lie died Oct. 14, 1825. Naturally in- 
clined to mysticism, which in latter years caused liis 
writings and teaching to assume a supematuralistic 
form, he did not succeed, notwithstanding the popular- 
ity of his lectures, in forming a school of his own in the 
midst of the nationalistic tendencies of his colleagues. 
Constitutional timidity also impaired much of his influ- 
ence, as he shrank from all personal arguments either 
with the students or with the other professors. Dr. F. 
W. Krummacher has described him as “ the last descend- 
ant of the old theological school of Halle,” and assures 
us that he “was well able, from intellectual ability and 
scientific attainment, to have waged a successful war 
against the then reigning Rationalism, and to have toss- 
ed from their airy saddles its champions among liis col- 
leagues who were intoxicated with triumph,” but that 
“his excessive gentleness and modesty, bordering even 
on timidity, led him carefully to avoid everything like 
direct polemics.” (Compare, for a fuller description of 
his character, etc., F. W. Krummachcr’s A utobioyruphy , 
translated by the Kev.M. G. Easton [Edinb. 1869, 8vo],p. 
55 sq.). His principal works are, Psalmen iibersetzt and 
mit Anmerkunyen (1778; 3d ed. 1789) : — a very careful- 
ly edited and useful edition of the Greek Testament, A o- 
vum Testamentum Greece recoynovit atqne insiynioris lec - 
tionuni varietatis et argumentorum notitiam subjunxit 
(Ilallo, 1797, 4to ; the last ed. in 1829, 2 vols. 8vo; also X. 
Y. 1808): — Scj'ipta rtirii argnmenti maximam partem 
exeyeticci atqne historiea (Halle, 1805, Svo; a second and 
enlarged edition in 1823,2 vols. Svo) ; — the following 
dissertations — Ad vatidnium Jacobi (1774); I)e versione 
Alexandrine i in emendenda lectione exempli Ilebraici caute 
adhibenda (Halle, 1773, 1776). After his death K. Thilo 
published his Vorlesnnyen iiber d. Glaubcnslehre (1836, 2 
parts, which were translated by Dr. Leonard Woods un- 
der the title Lectures on Christian Theoloyy [Andover, 
1831-39, 2 vols. 8vo, and often since], and have been ex- 
tensively used, especially in this country) ; and Guerike 
his Bibl. Glaubenslehre z. praktischen Gebrauch (1840). 
Knapp also wrote Traktat ii.d. F rage : 1 1 r as soil ich thun , 
dass ich seliy werde ? (1806) : — Anleituny z. einem yottse- 
liyen Leben (181 1). Some valuable biographical sketch- 
es which he contributed to the paper entitled Franke’s 
Stiftungen , were republished under the title Leben und 
Karaite r einiyer gelehrtcn u.f rommen Manner, d.voriyen 
Jahrh. (1829). See Niemeyer. Epieedien cum A ndenken 
auf Knapp (1825) ; K. Thilo, in the preface to Knapp’s 
Vorlesungen ii.d. Glaubenslehre ; Herzog, Real-Encyklop. 
vii, 763 ; Wetzer und Welte, K irchen-Lex iko n , s. v. ; Du- 
ring, Gclehi'te Theol. Beutschlands, s. v. (J. II. W.) 

Knapp, Johann Georg, father of Georg Chris- 
tian, was himself a theologian of some note. He was 
born at Oehringen Dec. 27, 1705, of pious parents, and 
went to the University of Adtdorf to study theology, 
lie removed to Jena iu 1723 to continue his preparatory 
studies for the ministerial office, and completed them at 
Halle, where, in 1728, he was appointed instructor at the 
royal paxlagogium. In 1732 he became pastor to the 
Prussian military school at Berlin, but remained there 
only one year, and then returned to Halle to fill an ad- 
junct professorship in theology at t lie university. He 
was made ordinary or regular professor in 1739. After 
the decease of the celebrated Franke lie was placed over 
the orphan asylum, and held this position until his death, 
July 30, 1771. Knapp took a particular interest in the 
cause of missions, and published Neuere Gtsch. d. evan- 


KXATCHnULL 


124 


KNEELING 


gel. Jfissionsamtedten zur Bekeh rurg d. Hidden in Ostindien I 
(Halle, 1770, Svo), and other reports of missions, lie 
.also published several valuable dissertations, for a list of 
which, see During, Gelelirte Thtolog. Deutschlands, ii, 144. 
(J. 11. W.) 

Knatchbull, Sir Norton, a learned English baro- 
net. born in Kent in 1001, was a man of considerable 
erudition, and devoted himself with some success to the 
study of the Biblical writings, fu 1G59 he gave to the 
world A uiniadcersiones in Libros Novi Test am., which 
speedily went through a considerable number of editions 
(a translation of it, prepared by himself or under his su- 
perintendence, appeared at Cambridge in 1093), and was 
reprinted both at Amsterdam and Frankfort, at which 
latter place it formed part of the supplement to N.Gurt- 
ler’s edition of Walton’s Polyglot, 1095-1701. He died 
in 1084. “ KnatehbulTs remarks are sensible, and show 
very fair learning-, but they are entirely wanting in 
depth, and we cannot read them without wonder at the 
small amount of knowledge which procured for their au- 
thor such a wide-spread reputation” (Kit to, Bibl. Cyclop. 
vol. ii, s. v.). l)r. Campbell calls Knatchbull “ a learned 
man, but a hardy critic.” 

Knauer, Joseph, a German Roman Catholic prelate 
of note, was born at Rothflossel, near Mittelwalde, in the 
duchy of Glatz, Dec. 1, 1704, and was educated at Bres- 
lau University. He was ordained priest March 7. 1789, 
and became at once chaplain to the dean of Mittelwalde. 
In 1794 he was appointed priest at Alpendorf, and rose 
gradually to distinction in his Church until in 1841 (Au- 
gust 27) he was honored with the appointment of arch- 
bishop of Breslau. He died May 16, 1844. — Kathol.Peal- 
Enqjklopiidie, xi, 852. 

Knead (’l^b, lush\ to prepare dough by working it 
with the hands; a task usually performed bv women 
(Gen. xviii, 0; l Sam. xxviii, 24; 2 Sam. xiii, 8; Jer. 
vii, 18) ; once spoken of a male baker (Hos. vii,4). See 
Dough. 

KNEADING - TROUGH (r“Sr*2, mishe'reth, so 
called from th a f ermentation of the dough), the vessel in 
which the materials of the bread, after being mixed and 
leavened, is left to swell (Exod. viii,3, xii,34, rendered 
“store” in Dent, xxviii, 5, 17); probably like the wooden 
bowl used by the modern Arabs for the same purpose. 
On the monuments of Egypt we find the various pro- 
cesses of making bread represented with great minute- 
ness. Men wore chiefly occupied in it, as with ns at the 
present day. Their grain was ground in hand-mills, or 
pounded in mortars, and then kneaded into dough, which 
was sometimes done by the hand, in a large circular 
bowl, or in a trough with the feet (Wilkinson, A »c. Eg. 
i, 174-G). See Bake. The process of making bread in 
Egypt is now generally performed in villages by wom- 
en, among whom proficiency in that art is looked upon 
as a sort of accomplishment. Except in large towns, 
each family bakes its own bread, which is usually made 
into small cakes and eaten new, the climate not admit- 
ting of its being kept long without turning sour. When 
the dough is sufficiently kneaded, it is made up into a 
round flat cake, generally about a span in width, and a 
finger's breadth in thickness. See Cake. A lire of 
straw and dung is then kindled on the floor or hearth, 
which, when sufficiently heated, is removed, and the 
dough being placed on it, and covered with hot embers, 
i? thus soon baked. Sometimes a circle of small stones 
is placed upon the hearth after it has been heated, into 
which some paste is poured, and covered with hot em- 
bers: this produces a kind of biscuit. See Oven. “The 
modern Oriental kneading-trough*, in which the dough 
i s prepared, have no resemblance to ours in size or shape. 
As one person does not bake bread for many families, as 
in our towns, and as one family docs not bake bread suf- 
ficient for many days, as in our villages, but every fam- 
ily bakes for the day only the quantity of bread which 
it requires, but a comparatively small quantity of dough 
is prepared. This is done in small wooden bowls, and 


that those of the ancient Hebrews were of the same de- 
scription as those now in use appears from their being 
able to carry them, together with the dough, wrap pod 
up in their cloaks, upon their shoulders without diffi- 
culty. The Bedouin Arabs, indeed, use for this purpose 
a leather, which can be drawn up into a bag by a run- 
ning cord along the border, and in which they prepare 
and often carry their dough. This might equally, and 
in some respects better answer the described conditions; 
but, being especially adapted to the use of a liomadc and 
tent-dwelling people, it is more likely that the Israel- 
ites, who were not such at the time of the Exode, then 
used the wooden bowls for their ‘kneading- troughs’ 
(Exod. viii, 3 ; xii, 34; Deut. xxviii, 5, 7). It is clear, 
from the history of the departure from Egypt, that the 
flour had first been made into a dough by water only, in 
which state it had been kept some little time before it 
was leavened; for when the Israelites were unexpected- 
ly (as to the moment) compelled in all haste to with- 
draw, it was found that, although the dough had been 
prepared in the kneading-trough, it was still unleavened 
(Exod. xii, 34 ; compare Hos. vii, 4) ; and it was in com- 
memoration of this circumstance that they and their 
descendants in all ages were enjoined to eat only un- 
leavened bread at the feast of the Passover” (Kitto). 
See Bread. 

Knee (ITeb. and Chald. 'Tp2, be'rek,' Gr. yaw; Psa. 
cix,24; in Dan.v, 6, the Chald. term is 
The Hebrew word, as a verb, signifies to bend the knee 
(2 Citron, vi, 13), also to bless, to pronounce or give a 
blessing, because the person blessed kneels. See Bless- 
ing. In this sense it refers to the benediction of dying 
parents (Gen. xxvii, 4, 7, 10, 19), of the priest to the peo- 
ple ( Levit. ix, 22, 23), of a prophet (Numb, xxiv, 1 ; Deut. 
xxxiii, 1). It also signifies to salute, which is connect- 
ed with blessing (2 Kings iv, 29). In relation to God, 
to praise, to thank him (Deut. viii, 10; Psa. xvi, 7). 

The expression is also, m another form, used in refer- 
ence to camels, as to make them bend the knee in order 
to take rest: “And he made his camels to kneel down 
without the city” (Gen. xxiv, 1 1). See Camel. 

To bow the knee is to perform an act of worship (1 
Kings xix, 18), and in this sense it is used in the Hcb. 
in Isa. lxvi, 3 ; “ He that worships idols” is, literally, “He 
that bows the knee” to them. See Worship. 

That kneeling was the posture of prayer we learn from 
2 Giron, vi, 13 ; Dan. vi, 10 ; Luke xxii, 41 ; Acts vii, 60 ; 
Eph. 3, 14. See Prayer. 

Knees are sometimes put symbolically for persons, as 
in Job iv, 4; Ilcb. xii, 12 (Wemyss). See Kneel. 

For the peculiar term in Gen. xii, 43 (see Reineccius, 
De nomine Tj Weissenf. 1720), see Am: ecu. 

Kneel (“ j2,to bend the knee [q. v.], yovv7rsriw) f 
the act of reverence and worship (Psa. xcv, 0; Dan. vi, 
10 ; Acts ix, 40 ; xxi, 5). See Attitude. 

Kneelers. See Genuklectentes ; Catechu- 
mens. 

Kneeling, the act of bending the knee in devotion- 
al exercises, is a practice of great antiquity. Reference 
to it is made in all parts of the Scriptures, both of the 
O.-T. and N.-T. writings, as in Isaac's blessing on .Jacob 
(Gen. xxvii, 29), compared with his brother’s subsequent 
conduct (xlii, 0), and with an edict of Pharaoh, “Bow 
the knee*’ (xii, 43), and again in the second command- 
ment (Exod. xx, 5). Then we find David exclaiming, 
“ Let us worship and bow down, let us kneel before the 
Lord our maker” (Psa. xcv, G); “We will go into his 
tabernacle, and fall low on our knees before bis footstool” 
(cxxxii,7). Solomon “kneeled on bis knees” before the 
altar of the Lord, with his hands spread up to heaven (l 
Kings viii, 51) ; Ezra fell upon his knees, and spread out 
his hands unto God, and made his confession (Ezra ix, 
5-15); Daniel “kneeled upon his knees throe times a 
day,” and prayed “as he did aforetime” (Dan. vi, 10) ; 
the holy martyr Stephen “kneeled down, and cried with 


KNEELING 


125 


KNEPH 


a loud voice,” praying for his murderers (Acts vii, 60) ; 
Peter likewise “kneeled down and prayed” (Acts ix,40); 
Paul also (Acts xx, 36; xxi, 5). That the posture was 
a customary one may be inferred from the conduct of 
the mail beseeching Christ to heal his son (Matt, xvii, 
14), and of the rich young man (Mark x, 17), as also of 
the leper (Mark i,40); yea, we have even the example 
of Christ himself, who, according to Luke (xxii, 14), 
“kneeled down” when he prayed. That the practice 
was general among the early Christians is plain from 
the Shepherd of Hernias, from Eusebius’s History (ii, 33), 
and from numberless other authorities, and especially 
from the solemn proclamation made by the deacon to 
the people in all the liturgies, “Flectamus genua” (Let 
us bend our knees), whereupon the people knelt till, at 
the close of the prayer, they received a corresponding 
summons, “Levate” (Arise), and from the fact that prayer 
itself was termed ic\faiQ y ovcirior, bending the hues . 

In the days of Irenauis, and for some time after, four 
postures were in use among Christians, namely, stand- 
ing (for which see reason below), prostration (as a sign 
of deep and extraordinary humiliation), bowing, and 
kneeling. The posture of sitting during the time of 
public prayer, of modem days, seems to have been un- 
known to the early Christians. Kneeling at public de- 
votions was the common practice during the six work- 
ing days, and was understood by the early Church to 
denote humility of mind before God, and “as a symbol 
of our fall by sin.” A standing posture in worship (ex- 
plained as being emblematic of Christ’s resurrection from 
the dead, and the forgiveness of sins, and also as being a 
sign of the Christian’s hope and expectation of heaven) 
was assumed by the early Christian worshippers (ex- 
cept penitents) on Sundays and during the fifty days 
between Easter and Whitsuntide, “as a symbol of the 
resurrection, whereby, through the grace of Christ, we 
rise again from our fall.” Cassian says of the Egyptian 
churches that from Saturday night to Sunday night, 
and all the days of Pentecost, they neither knelt nor fast- 
ed. The Apostolical Constitutions order that Christians 
should pray three times oil the Lord’s day, standing, in 
honor of him who rose the third day from the dead, and 
in the writings of Chrysostom we meet with frequent 
allusions to the same practice, especially in the oft-re- 
peated form by which the deacon called upon the people 
to pray. “Let us stand upright with reverence and de- 
cency.” Tertullian says, “ We count it unlawful to fast, 
or to worship kneeling, on the Lord’s day, and we enjoy 
the same immunity from Easter to Pentecost.” This 
practice was confirmed by the Council of Nice, for the 
sake of uniformity, and it is from this circumstance, 
probably, that the Ethiopic and Muscovitish churches 
adopted the attitude of standing generally, a custom 
which they continue to this day. From Cyril’s writ- 
ings it would appear that also at the celebration of the 
Eucharist a standing attitude was assumed by the early 
Christians. lie says “it was with silence and downcast 
eyes, bowing themselves in the posture of worship and 
adoration.” The exact period when kneeling at the 
Lord's Supper became general cannot be ascertained, but 
it has prevailed lor many centuries, and it is now gener- 
ally, though not altogether, practiced as the proper pos- 
ture for communicants. 

In ordination, also, a kneeling posture was early prac- 
ticed. Dionysius says, “The person to be ordained 
kneeled before the bishop at the altar, and he, laying his 
hand upon his head, did consecrate him with a holy 
prayer, and then signed him with the sign of the cross, 
after which the bishop and the clergy present gave him 
the kiss of peace.” It'would appear, however, that bish- 
ops elect did uot relish much the humiliating posture of 
kneeling at their ordinatiou, for Theodoret informs us 
that “it was a customary rite to bring the person about 
to be ordained bishop to the holy table, and make him 
kneel upon his knees by force." But this, no doubt, was 
a significant mode of showing with what reluctance men 
should undertake so important, so weighty a charge as 


that of bishop in the Church of Jesus Christ. Indeed, 
so solemn and onerous were its responsibilities esteemed, 
that we read of several who absconded as soon as they 
understood that the popular voice had chosen them to 
till this honorable post ; and many of them, when cap- 
tured, were brought by force to the holy altar, and there, 
against their will and inclination, were ordained by the 
imposition of hands, being held down on their knees by 
the officers of the church. See Election of Clergy. 

In the Roman Catholic Church the act of kneeling be- 
longs to the highest form of worship. It is especially 
practiced in the performance of monastic devotions and 
in acts of penance. It is also frequently employed dur- 
ing the mass, and in the presence of the consecrated ele- 
ments when reserved for subsequent communion. In 
acts of penance this Church has carried the practice to 
great excess, subjecting the penitent to sufferings which 
remind us of the legend told of St. James, that he con- 
tracted a hardness on his knees equal to that of camels 
because he was so generally on his knees. “ Instances,” 
says Eadie, “are innumerable, and ever reenrring in the 
Romish Church, of delicate women being obliged to 
walk on rough pavemeuts, for hours in succession, on 
their bare knees, until at length nature, worn out by the 
injurious and demoralizing exercise, compels them to 
desist. To encourage the penitent and devout in acts 
of this nature, the most wonderful talcs are related of 
the good resulting from self- mortification and entire 
submission to the stern discipline of the Church.” See 
the article Genuflexion. 

In the Anglican Church the rubric prescribes the 
kneeling posture in many parts of the service, and this, 
as well as the practice of bowing the head at the name of 
Jesus, was the subject of much controversy with the Pu- 
ritans. A like controversy was in 1838 provoked in Ba- 
varia by a ministerial decree obliging Protestants to join 
Romanists in this ceremony when required of them, and 
ended only with its repeal in 1844 (for details on this 
point, see the Roman Catholic version in Wetzer und 
AVelte, Kirchen Lex. vi. 236 ; the Protestant side in Her- 
zog, Real-Encyklopadu , s. v. Baiern). See Eadie, Kccles. 
Diet. s. v. ; Farrar, Eccles . Diet. s. v. ; Ilook, Church Diet. 
s.v.; Riddle. Christian Antiquities, 391 sq., 631 sq. ; Cole- 
man, Christian Antiquities (see Index). 

Kneph or Knuphis, also known under the name 
of Nu3i <r Nef, in Egyp- 
tian mythology is the old- 
est designation of deity, 
and signifies either spirit or 
water , perhaps in allusion 
to the Spirit of God, who 
“in the beginning moved 
upon the face of the wa- 
ters.” Greatly distorted by 
the priests, the legend is in 
brief that from his mouth 
came the egg which gave 
existence to all things tem- 
poral ; hence the egg is 
his symbol ; likewise the 
snake, which assumes the r 

shape of a ring, to indicate ~ 

Ills eternal existence. His n gure of Kueph. 
representation is frequent- 
ly found on Egyptian monuments, sometimes with a 
snake holding an egg between its head and tail. The 
Egyptians of Thebes knew only this one god to he im- 
mortal ; all others they supposed to be more or less sub- 
ject. to temporal changes. 

In the later idolatry Ivneph was the special god of 
Upper Egypt, where he was represented in human 
shape, with the head of a ram; still regarded as tho 
creator of other gods, he was figured at Elephantine 
sitting at a potter's wheel fashioning the limbs of Osiris, 
while the god of the Nile is pouring water on the clay. 
“The idea," says Trevor (.-I we. Egypt , p. 131), “seems 
to be the same as in Job (x, 8, 9; Rom. ix, 23) : 1 1 lime 



KXIBB 


126 


KNIFE 


bands have made me and fashioned me together round 
about. Bememher, 1 beseech thee, that, thou hast made 
me as the clay.’ ’’ (Comp. Herodotus, ii, 4 1 .) See Yoll- 
mcr, I Yorterb. d. Mythol. p. 10GG. See Egypt. (J. H. 
W.) 

Kmbb, William, a Baptist missionary to Jamaica, 
was born at Kettering, in Northamptonshire, England, 
about 1800. lie sailed as a missionary to Kingston, 
Jamaica, in 1824; in 1828 removed to the Kidgelami 
Mission, in the north-western part of the island, and 
subsequently became pastor of the mission church at 
I'almouth. lie exercised a very important part in 
bringing about the Emancipation Act of 1833, by which 
slavery was abolished in the island, and afterwards so 
exposed the apprenticeship system established by the 
same act as to secure the complete emancipation of ap- 
prentices in the island. In 1838 lie erected a normal 
school at Kettering, in Trelawncy, for training native 
and other schoolmistresses for both Jamaica and Africa, 
and in 1842 he visited England to promote the estab- 
lishment of a theological seminary in connection with 
the native mission to Africa. lie died at Kettering 
July 15, 1845. See English Cyclop, s. v. (J. L. S.) 

Knife is the representative in the Auth. Version of 
several Ileb. terms: (che'reb, from its laying waste), 

a sharp instrument, e. g. for circumcising (Josh, v, 2, 3) ; 
a razor (Ezek. v, 1); a graving-tool or chisel (Exod. xx, 
25) ; an axe (Ezek. xxvi, 9) ; poet, of the curved tusks 
of the hippopotamus (Job xl, 19); elsewhere usually a 
“sword.” {maake'leth, so called from its use 

in eating ), a large knife for slaughtering and cutting up 
food (Gen. xxii, 6, 10: Judg. xix, 29; Frov. xxx, 14). 

(sakkin% so called from separating parts to the 
view), a knife for any purpose, perhaps a table-knife 
(Frov. xxiii, 2). (machalaph* , so called from 

gliding through the llesli), a butcher's knife for slaugh- 
tering the victims in sacrifice (Ezra i, 9). See Sword. 



“The probable form of the knives of the Hebrews 
will be best gathered from a comparison of those of 
other ancient nations, both Eastern and Western, which 
have come down to us. No. 1 represents the Foman 
culter , used in sacrificing, which may be compared with 
No. 2, an Egyptian sacrificial knife. Nos. 3, 4, and 5 
are also Egyptian knives, of which the most remarka- 
ble, No. 3, is from the Louvre collection ; the others are 
from the Monumenti lleali of Bosellini. Nos. G-9 are 
Iio man, from Bartlielemy. In No. 7 we have probably 
the form of the pruning-hook of the Jews (rn'ST'S, Isa. 
xviii, 5), though some rather assimilate this to the 
sickle (Si.*2). It was probably with some such instru- 
ment as No. 9 that the priests of -Baal cut thepiselves” 
(Kitto). Sec Armor. The knife used by the fisher- 
man for splitting his fish (q. v.) was of a circular form, 
with a handle, as likewise that used by the currier for 
cutting leather (q. v.)» only larger ami heavier. In the 



British Museum various specimens of ancient Egyptian 
knives may be seen. There are some small knives, the 
blades of bronze, the handles composed of agate or hem- 
atite. There is likewise a species of bronze knife with 
lunated blade; also the blade of a knife composed of 
steatite, inscribed on one side with hieroglyphics. There 
is also an iron knife of a late period and peculiar con- 
struction: it consists of a broad cutting-blade, moving 
on a pivot at the end, and working in a groove by means 
of a handle. The following summary comparison of the 
Biblical instruments of cutlery with those used at vari- 
ous times in the East, as to materials and application, is 
chiefly from Smith’s Dictionary of the Bible , s. v. 



Various Forms of ancient Knives. 


1. The knives of the Egyptians, and of other nations 
in early times, were probably only of hard stone, and 
the use of the flint or stone knife was sometimes re- 
tained for sacred purposes after the introduction of iron 
and steel (Flinv, llist; Xat. xxxv, 12, § 1G5). Herodo- 
tus (ii, 8G) mentions knives both of iron and of stone in 
different stages of the same process of embalming (see 
Wilkinson, A nc. Egypt, ii, 1 G3). The same may perhaps 
be said, to some extent, of the Hebrews (compare Exod. 
iv, 25). 



KNIGHT 



Ancient Egyptian Flint Knives (from the Berlin Museum), 
No. 1 for general purposes; No. 2 probably for incisions 
in embalming. 

2. In their meals the Jews, like other Orientals, made 
little use of knives, but they were required for slaughter- 
ing animals either for food or sacrifice, as well as for cut- 
ting up the carcase (Lev. vii,33, 34; viii, 15,20,25; ix, 
13; Numb, xviii, 18 ; 1 Sam.ix.24; Ezek. xxiv, 4 ; Ezra 
i, 9 ; Matt, xxvi, 23 ; Russell, Aleppo, i, 172 ; \\ ilkinson, 
i, 169 ; 31 ishna, Tamid, i v, 3 ). See Eating. 




Ancient Egyptian Slaughtering-knives. No. 1 is cutting 
up an ibex. No. 2 is sharpening a knife on a steel at- 
tached to his apron. Over them is the hieroglyph for 
the act. 

Asiatics usually carry about with them a knife or 
dagger, often with a highly-ornamented handle, which 
may be used when required for eating purposes (Jiulg. 
iii, 21 ; Lavard, Nin. ii, 342. 299 ; Wilkinson, i, 358, 360; 
Chardin, Voyage, iv, 18; Niebuhr, Voyage, i, 340, pi. 71). 
Sec Gikulk. 



Ancient Assyrian Knives (from the British 3Insenm). 

Two of them have a hook at the handle, as if for sus- 
pending in the girdle. For another form used by sol- 
diers, see Buoket. 

3. Smaller knives were in use for paring fruit (Jo- 
sephus, Ant. xvii, 7 ; War. i, 33, 7) and for sharpening 
pens (Jer. xxxvi, 23). See Penknife. 

4. The razor was often used for Nazaritish purposes, 
for which a special chamber was reserved in the Temple 
(Numb, vi, 5, 9, 19 ; Ezek. v, 1 ; Isa. vii, 20 ; Jer. xxxvi, 
23; Acts xviii, 18; xxi, 24; Mislinn, MidcK ii, 5). See 
llAZOU. 

5. The pruning-hooks of Isa. xviii, 5 were probably 
curved knives. See Pruning-iiook. 

G. The lancets of the priests of Baal were doubtless 
pointed knives (1 Kings xviii, 28). See Lancet. 

Kniglit, James (1), D.D., an English divine, who 
flourished in the early part of the 18tli century, was vi- 


127 KNIGHTHOOD 

car of St. Sepulchre’s, London. Nothing further is known 
to us of his personal history. He wrote in Defence of 
the Doctrine of the Trinity two treatises (1714-15), which 
are highly commended by Dr.Waterland (Moyer’s Lec- 
tures). Kniglit also published live separate Sermons 
(1719-36), and eight sermons delivered at lady Moyer’s 
Lecture in 1720-21 (1721, 8vo). — Allibone, Did. of Eng- 
lish and American A it t hors, vol. ii, s. v. 

Knight, James (2), a Congregational minister, was 
born at Halifax, Yorkshire, England, duly 19, 17G9, and 
was educated for the ministry at Homerton College, 
where he is said to have made rapid attainments in Bib- 
lical science. Upon his graduation he was called to the 
Church in Colli erskeuts, Southwark, where he was or- 
dained in 1791. In 1833 he resigned his pastorate there, 
after a faithful and successful service. He was one of 
the founders of the Loudon Missionary Society. Mr. 
Knight’s sermons, some of which have been published, 
were celebrated for their sacred unction, and their thor- 
ough and searching appeals to the conscience. His em- 
inent piety was both the strength and ornament of his 
character. lie knew how not only to discuss a subject 
with logical precision, but also to infuse into it the spir- 
it of vital evangelical piety. See Morison, Missionary 
Fathers. 

X£night, Joel Abraham, a Methodist minister, 
was born at Hull, Yorkshire, England, April 23, 1754; was 
| ordained at Spatields Chapel, London, March 9, 1783, 
where he was also appointed master of the charity 
school and assistant preacher. In 1788 he preached at 
Bentonville Chapel, and in 1789 became pastor of the 
Tabernacle and Tottenham Court chapels, London, a po- 
sition whieh he occupied until his death, April 22, 1808. 
Mr. Knight was a zealous worker in the formation and 
proceedings of the London Missionary Society in 1/95. 
His sermons, some of which were published in London 
in 1788-9, were always richly imbued with the distin- 
guishing doctrines of evangelical Christianity, but they 
especially taught that “the cordial reception of the doc- 
trine of salvation by grace must necessarily produce 
obedience to the law of God.” In speech he was inva- 
riably chaste, and in manner affectionate and pathetic. 
— 31 orison, Missionarg Fathers . (H. C. \Y.) 

Knight, Samuel, D.D., an English divine of note, 
was born in London in 1G75, and was educated at St. 
Paul’s School and at Trinity College, Cambridge. lie 
first became chaplain to Edward, earl of Oxford, and was 
by him presented to the rectory of Borough-green, in 
Cambridgeshire, in 1707; was made prebendary of Ely 
and rector of Blnntesham v (Huntingdonshire) in 1714; 
became chaplain to George II in 1730, and was promoted 
to the archdeaconry of Berks in 1735. lie died Dec. 16, 
1746. Between the years 1721 and 1738 he published 
several of his Sermons . lie also wrote Life oj Dr. John 
Coles , Dean of St. Paul's (London, 1724, 8vo; new edit. 
Oxford, 1 823,8 vo) t —Life of Erasmus (Cambridge, 1726, 
8vo ). — General IHog. Diet, viii, 46 sq. ; Allibone, Diet, oj 
Engl, and A mer. A uthors, vol. ii, s. v. 

Knighthood, the condition, honor, and rank of a 
kniglit, also the service due from a knight, and the ten- 
ure of laud by such service. In a secondary sense, the 
word is employed to denote the class of knights — the 
aggregate body of any particular knightly association ; 
the institution itself, .and the spirit of the institution. 
In these remoter meanings it becomes identical with 
Chivalry, and it is in this point of view that it will 
principally be considered here. The term is one ot 
various significance, and rs, therefore, apt for ambigu- 
ities; it is one whose applications were of gradual de- 
velopment, and which is, accordingly, of diverse histor- 
ical import. Its explanation is thus necessarily intri- 
cate and multifarious, and care is requisite to avoid 
confounding different things, or different phases of the 
same thing, under the single common name. Neglect 
of this precaution has occasioned much of the extrava- 


KNIGHTHOOD 


128 


KNIGHTHOOD 


cjance and complexity which are noticeable in specula- 
tions on this subject. 

A knight under the feudal system — miles in the La- 
tinity of feudal jurisprudence— was one holding land by 
military service (sercilium military ), with horse, and 
shield, and lance, and armor cap-a-pie (Blackstone, CW- 
mentaries, ii, G2~3). Knighthood in this application cor- 
responds closely with the French designation chevalerie , 
and its consideration is inextricably intertwined with 
that of chivalry. 

The characteristics of knighthood have undergone 
many modifications in the lapse o flung centuries. The 
lord mayor of London is knighted for the presentation 
of an address to the sovereign, and Michael Faraday is 
deservedly made an officer of the Legion of Honor for 
chemical and other scientific discoveries; but in the 
main conception and strict usage of the term knight- 
hood, liege service in war is implied. 

“A knight ther was, aud that a worthy man, 

That from the tyme that he ferst bigau 
To ryden out, he lovede chyvalrye, 

Trontbc and honour, 1‘redom aud curtesye. 

Ful worth i was he in his lordcs werre, 

And thcrto had he riden, noman ferre, 

As wel iu Cristendom as in hetheuesse, 

And ever honoured for his worthinesse.” 

The character of knighthood, however, as distinguish- 
ed from the mere tenure of land by knight-service, was 
entirely personal, and hence it is conferred and attaches 
only for life, and is not descendible by inheritance, it 
cannot be assumed by one’s own act, but must be be- 
stowed by another of knightly or of superior rank. The 
knight’s estate was held by knight-service, or chivalry, 
and the heir at full age was entitled and could be com- 
pelled to receive knighthood. Compulsory writs for the 
latter purpose were frequently issued from the proper 
courts. But, until the dignity was conferred, the as- 
pirant was no knight. Many entitled to claim the dig- 
nity declined to do so, though holding land by knightly 
tenure, because unable to bear the expenses incident to 
the rank. lienee arose the old adage: “ Bon escuyer 
vault mievlx qne pauvre chevalier .” But. the reality or 
the obligation of personal military service was always 
entailed by knighthood. 

I. Origin of Knighthood or Chivalry. — Under the im- 
pulse of the same uncritical spirit which referred the 
descent of the Britons to Brutus and wanderers from 
Troy, the origin of knighthood has been traced back to 
the judges of Israel or to the heroes of the Iliad. More 
modest inquirers have been content to go no further 
back than to Constantine’s supposed ‘‘Order of the 
Golden Angel” (313), or to the equally imaginary Ethi- 
opian ‘‘Order of St. Anthony,” and the anchorites of 
the African deserts. Others, more modest still, ascend 
only to ‘* King Arthur and the Knights of the Bound 
Table,” or to Charles Martel and the ‘‘Order of the 
Gennet,” or to ‘* Charlemagne and his Paladins.” In 
all such genealogies there is much fantasy, confusion, 
and retrospective legend. The incidents of war must 
in all ages present some general resemblances. There 
must always have been leaders and followers, brothers 
in arms, and associations of warriors — u vise re fortes ante 
Ayamemnona." Such tendencies in human nature as 
prompted these military unions might furnish the im- 
pulse to subsequent institutions, but to ascribe the ori- 
gin of the institutions themselves to the first recorded 
manifestation of these tendencies is to renounce all his- 
torical discrimination. When the origin of knighthood 
is investigated, what is desired is the discovery of the 
existence of a definite institution, with precise and dis- 
tinctive characteristics, animated by a peculiar spirit, 
which gave its coloring to society for many generations, 
and which still exercises a potent inthieiiee over life and 
manners. What is contemplated is “a military insti- 
tution, prompted by enthusiastic benevolence, sanctioned 
by religion, and combined with religious ceremonies, the 
purpose of which was to protect the weak from the op- 
pression of the powerful, and to defend the right against 


the wrong” (James, History of Chivalry , chap. i). The 
only important omissions in this definition are the obli- 
gation of u honneur aux dames,” knightly truth, and the 
thorough interpenetration of Christian profession, if 
rarely of Christian practice. 

The germ of knighthood, bnt only the germ, may un- 
questionably be found in the ancient usages of the Teu- 
tonic tribes and in the Teutonic comitatus. which co- 
alesced with Human customs and with the suggestions 
of the times in shaping feudalism. The very name of 
knight — cniht, cnicht , boy, servant, military follower — 
would indicate such a derivation. “Arma sumere non 
ante cuiquam moris quam ci vitas suffecturum proba- 
verit. Turn in ipso concilio principum aliquis, vel pa- 
ter, vel propinqui, scuto frameaque juvenem ornant. 
Hoc apnd illos toga, liic pnblicus juventas honos ; ante 
hoc donms pars videntur, mox reipublica?. . . . Ceteris 
robustioribus et jam pridem probat is adgregantur; nec 
rubor inter eomites aspici” (Tacitus, Germ. c. xiii : comp, 
c. xiv). To this same source must be ascribed in part, 
but only in part, the chivalrous deference for women : 
“in esse quin etiam sanctum aliquid et pmvidum per- 
tant; nec aut consilia earum aspernantur ant responsa 
neglegunt” {ibid, c. viii). The intensification and spir- 
itualization of this deference are due to Christianity. 

Ethnical temperaments, ethnical tendencies, and eth- 
nical usages are seldom entirely eradicated. They con- 
tinue under many transmutations and disguises; lurk 
under new forms, animate new institutions, and enter 
into strange and often undetected combinations. With 
this explanation, knighthood may be, in some measure, 
referred to the rude warriors of the forests of Germany, 
who are described in the satirical romance of Tacitus in 
terms more appropriate to the Indians of North Ameri- 
ca than to any populations which really occupied the 
provinces of the crumbling empire of Borne. The act- 
ual historical origin of knighthood, though very ob- 
scure, may be safely assigned to a much later age, and 
to other more potent intluences than those which flowed 
from the Bhinc, and the Elbe, and the shores of the 
Baltic. 

Without recurring to the details of the feudal system 
[see Fief], it may be stated that feudal services (ser- 
rilia) were strictly limited, and prescribed military 
service for a fixed time and of a fixed amount. Cir- 
cumstances might occur which would demand longer, 
less restricted, and less formally organized warfare. 
Such circumstances did occur in the ninth, tenth, and 
eleventh centuries. During the Norman ravages of 
France, on the disruption of the Carlovingiau empire and 
the decay of the Carlovingian dynasty, universal anar- 
chy, misery, and outrage covered the land. The perils 
from the barbarous enemy were scarcely greater than 
those from violent and rapacious barons, aud from law- 
less and lordless plunderers. The multiplied horrors of 
the dismal period were aggravated by general destitu- 
tion, by famine, by plague, and by disastrous prodigies on 
the earth and in the heavens. The bonds of authority 
were snapped; the regular organization of the feudal 
society was rent and suspended; immediate protection 
and prompt redress, without too nice distinction of rank 
and subordination, were demanded on all sides. Those 
who had the power, the heart, and the will, found abun- 
dant work for active bauds to do in the dt fence of wom- 
en and children, of the old and infirm, of unarmed mer- 
chants and pilgrims, of priests and monks; and rode 
through the country endeavoring to repress disorder, if 
unable to establish order. The condition of things was 
even worse than such as might now provoke Lynch law 
or instigate vigilance committees. Of course, the vigi- 
lance committees of the closing millennium assumed the 
mould of the time iij which their services were rendered. 
Accordingly, the avengers of iniquity were guided by 
an earnest, though usually rude and blundering sense of 
Christian obligation in their generous warfare. It thus 
became the avowed duty of the true knight to serve 
women, to protect the feeble, to minister to the wound- 


KNIGHTHOOD 


129 


KNIGHTHOOD 


ed, to comfort the wretched, to repress or punish wrong, 
and in all honor to uphold and to do the right. 

“ lie had abroad in armes wonne muchell fame, 

And file! far landes with glorie of his might ; 

Plaine, faithful, true, and enimy of shame, 

And ever lov’d to fight for ladies right; 

But in vaine-glorious frayes he litle did delight.” 

While these calamitous generations writhed through 
their long agony in France, the progress of the Iloly 
Warfare in Spain against the Saracens invited and en- 
riched the princes, nobles, and adventurers who fought for 
the Cross against the Crescent. Religious fervor was thus 
intimately conjoined with martial prowess. But, both 
in France and Spain, and, in less degree, in other coun- 
tries, similar necessities concurred in the production of 
like phenomena. In all cases there was a relaxation 
of the direct connection of military achievement with 
landed estates and feudal subordination. High moral 
qualities and Christian zeal were required of the land- 
less or lonely knight, or were annexed as requirements 
to complete the character of the accomplished feudal 
vassal. Thus the true knight came to be distinguished 
from the knight by feudal tenure; though the feudal 
knight might possess, and was expected to possess, 
knightly characteristics in addition to his feudal do- 
main and its attendant obligations. 

Doubtless in France and Spain, and elsewhere, chiv- 
alrous emprise was encouraged, if not originated by the 
Church, the sole moral authority of those days, which 
was anxious for peace, earnest for order, vowed to the 
maintenance of right, and eager to subordinate to spir- 
itual ride and guidance the military ardor and the tem- 
poral power of the time. 

All these influences and 'all these tendencies, of va- 
rious age and origin, converged and commingled, with 
augmented energy in each, in the Crusades. These ro- 
mantic and persistent enterprises may have been under- 
taken and prolonged by the instigation and for the in- 
terest of the Papacy, but they were none the less the 
outburst of popular enthusiasm, and of a popular en- 
thusiasm which gave form and active reality to an in- 
stinctive perception of urgent policy. Whole nations 
are not impelled for centuries to arduous and perilous 
undertakings by any extrinsic force ; the enduring im- 
pulse by which they are set and kept in motion must 
be a living power in their own bosoms, “bequeathed by 
bleeding sire to son.” Looking back from the safe van- 
tangc ground, which has been secured only within two 
hundred years, it is difficult to appreciate justly the 
alarming dangers to which Christianity and Christian 
nations were exposed from Moslem aggression at the 
commencement of the second millennium of our rera. 
The apprehension was not dispelled entirely till the 
victory of John Sobieski under the walls of Vienna 
(1683). It is equally difficult to estimate now the effect 
of a wild, warlike fanaticism against Saracens and Pa- 
gans in implanting the recently acquired and imper- 
fectly received creed in turbulent spirits, and perhaps 
still more difficult to recognise the service rendered by 
the Holy Wars in diffusing and deepening the sentiment 
of a common faith, a common interest, a common civil- 
ization throughout Western Europe — a Christendom, or 
dominion of Christ. 

All of these feelings were quickened by the Crusades, 
and were both exalted and rendered, in some sort, self- 
conscious by them. It must be remembered that the 
Crusades did not begin with Peter the Hermit and the 
Council of Clermont, but that t lie crusading spirit had 
been previously manifested and cherished in Spain, in 
Sicily, and in Northern Africa. This spirit onlv re- 
ceived its full development and definite purpose by be- 
ing directed to the recovery of Jerusalem. Through 
distant Asiatic expeditions the desultory and unregu- 
lated adventure for the maintenance of Christian belief 
and Christian security was generalized, organized, dis- 
ciplined, and refined. The disorderly violence of mar- 
tial barons was withdrawn from domestic discords, and 
V.— I 


guided to a great European aim. War was in some 
degree sanctified ; it was ennobled, at least in the con- 
ception of the warrior, by being employed for the de- 
fence and maintenance of the faith. A strange but not 
unfruitful union was thus effected between devotion 
and military prowess. There is no question here of 
the use which was made of this combination for the 
extension of ecclesiastical domination. All that is con- 
templated is the consequence of this union in the pro- 
duction of chivalry and of the knightly character — a 
magnificent and previously unimagined ideal, however 
i far human Wees, and passions, and frailties may have 
prevented the perfect realization of that ideal. Is Chris- 
tianity to be condemned in these late ages because so 
few of those who profess its behests reach their per- 
formance, and because so many fail to add the Christian 
graces to the plainer merits of Christian belief and mor- 
als ? The vision of the Holy Grail may visit this sor- 
rowful earth, but it is not on earth that it can be won 
even by Sir Galahad. 

Another influence must be admitted to have exercised 
a beneficial effect on the formation of knighthood. This 
is the contact and comparison with the intellectual and 
social culture of the degenerate Greeks, and with the 
elegance and courtesy of the Saracens. This influence 
must have commenced early, for Bohemond, and Tail- 
ored, and Raymond of Toulouse, and Godfrey of Bouil- 
lon, and Robert of Normandy carried with them to 'the 
Holy Land in the First Crusade much of that courtly 
bearing and generous sentiment which did not become 
generally disseminated through the Christian West, or 
through the nobility at home, till the Second and Third 
Crusades. These qualities may have been directly and 
indirectly communicated by the Saracens in Spain, Sic- 
ily, and Southern France. 

Old institutions of the German forest life ; the effects 
of feudal organization and of feudal society ; the neces- 
sities of a ravaged, ruined, and distracted country ; the 
operation of religions zeal, and even of general religious 
fanaticism ; the action of the priesthood, and collision 
with cultivated Greeks and brilliant Saracens, all con- 
tributed to the formation of the type of a Christian 
soldier — a true knight, a preux chevalier , sans taehe et 
sans reproche. The judgment is accordingly correct 
which regards the a?ra of the Crusades, when the regn- 
lar and permanent Orders were instituted, as the true 
period of the formation of that ideal of knighthood 
which is one of the most precious bequests for which, 
modern times are indebted to the Middle Ages. Un- 
doubtedly there was a previous growth of the same 
kind, but the growth did not proceed to mature and 
perfect fruitage until all agencies were efficaciously 
combined on the sacred soil of Palestine. 

It is a cause of great embarrassment in endeavoring 
to ascertain the characteristics and origin of any insti- 
tution which has widely prevailed in obscure ages, that 
such institutions only gradually assume the complete 
form which is their familiar shape, that many concur- 
rent streams flow in at different periods and add their 
contributions, and that the darkness of the foregone 
time affords every opportunity and every temptation to 
throw back into the past those characteristics which 
only belong to the institution in its final development. 
The same confusion which presented Virgil as a necro- 
mancer to mediaeval fancy, and made Theseus a feudal 
duke of Athens in the imagination of Chaucer and 
Shakespeare, and exhibited Dan Hector and Sir Alex- 
ander to the admiring regards of baronial circles in the 
thirteenth century, pushed back the distinctions of 
knighthood to periods in which the genus of chivalry 
existed only in a loose and disconnected form. By 
this glamour the Arthurian cycle and the Carlovingian 
myths were fashioned, and the inventions and ideas of 
the twelfth century were provided with a historical ex- 
istence in the sixth and eighth. After knighthood be- 
came an established institution, it prevailed so widely 
and so generally that it seemed to be a necessary part 


KXIGIITIIOOD 


130 


KNIGHTHOOD 


of social order. Saladin is said to have sought and re- 
ceived the accolade from a Christian captive, and the 
Byzantine emperor Manuel Comncnus held jousts and 
tourneys on the plains of Antioch (A ’icet. Chomat. iii,3; 
comp. Joann. Cantacuzcnus, 1, 4*2). 

II. Nature of Knighthood. — A knight was a soldier 
(miles), usually, but not necessarily, of gentle blood — a 
soldier who fought on horseback ( caballarius , chevalier, 
Caballero') with panoply complete — 

“From top to toe no place appeared bare, 

That deadly dint of steele endanger may.” 

In the feudal hierarchy he was the holder of a knight’s 
fee, but, as chivalry was developed, he might be “lord 
of his presence and no land beside.” The quality was 
thus distinguished from the estate, and, although pen- 
alties were imposed for conferring the character on any 
one not of knightly blood and of knightly havings, yet 
the honor, once bestowed, was indelible except by degra- 
dation for unworthy conduct. This point was decided 
in an English court of law by lord Coke, and the deci- 
sion was more recently confirmed by lord Kenyon in the 
case of “Sir John Gallini,” a ballet-master. Knight- 
hood thus came to designate personal character and 
station, in contradistinction to political rank. The im- 
poverished warrior, like “ Walter the Penniless,” or Ber- 
trand du Guesclin, or the Chevalier Bayard, might be 
the, pearl of knights, and might sit down with princes; 
the powerful and wealthy baron might be wholly des- 
titute of knightly estimation. 

It was a precious service that was rendered to morals 
and civility when lofty virtues were thus broadly dis- 
criminated from territorial possessions and worldly rank. 
It was a noble model of personal purity and elevation 
which was presented for imitation to a warlike and 
stormy age. The knightly character, and the obliga- 
tions imposed by that character, are strikingly delinea- 
ted in the instructions of Alphonso Y of Portugal to his 
son and heir, when he knighted him after the conquest 
of Arzilla (1471), in the presence of his slain Count de 
Itlarialva. “ First, to instruct you,” said the king, “what 
the nature of knighthood is, know, my son, that it con- 
sists in a close confederacy or union of power and virtue, 
to establish peace among men, whenever ambition, av- 
arice, or tyranny troubles states or injures particulars; 
for knights are bound to employ their swords on these 
occasions, in order to dethrone tyrants and put good 
men in their place. But they are likewise obliged to 
keep fidelity to their sovereign, as well as to obey their 
chiefs in war, and to give them salutary counsels. It 
is also the duty of a knight to be frank and liberal, and 
to think nothing his own but his horse and arms, which 
he ought to keep for the sake of acquiring honor with 
them, by using them in defence of his religion and coun- 
try, and of those who are unable to defend themselves; 
for, as the priesthood was instituted for divine service, 
so was chivalry for the maintenance of religion and 
justice. A knight ought to be the husband of widows, 
the father of orphans, the protector of the poor, and the 
prop of those who have no other support; and they who 
do not act thus are unworthy to bear that name. These, 
my son, are the obligations which the order of knight- 
hood will lay upon you.” Striking the infant thrice on 
the helmet with his sword, Alphonso added, “May God 
make you as good a knight as this whose body you sec 
before you, pierced in several places for the service of 
God and of his sovereign” (cited by lord Lyttelton, Hist, 
of lien. II. iii, 150, 1G0. See also L)igby, Mores Catlioli- 
ci , bk. ix, chap, x; .lames, Hint, of Chiralrg, chap. i). 

This lofty exemplar may have been rarely approached 
in the ages of chivalry. The Black Prince was guilty 
of sanguinary atrocities. The passions of men were 
brutal and untamed; temptations were great and fre- 
quent; but continual failures would not furnish strange 
instances of the disproportion between conception and 
performance. Much, however, was achieved bv the con- 
stant contemplation of excellence, even though it was 
unattained, and by the repeated efforts after each de- 


clension to aspire to the perfection so often abandoned. 
Much, too, was gained by the partial and occasional ac- 
complishment of the high duties prescribed. Even 
more, perhaps, was slowly secured by the bitter shame 
and repentance which ever revived, and thus perpetu- 
ated, the desire and the image of better things. “ Altius 
ibunt qui ad sumraa nituntur.” 

Much corruption undoubtedly flowed from the con- 
junction of chivalry with the Provencal courts of love, 
which -were of mingled Greek and Saracenic descent. 
They contributed much to the obscuration and debase- 
ment of the wise ideal, but they contributed fully as 
much to the refinement and polish of the intercourse 
between the sexes. They added literary and intellect- 
ual culture to martial bearing; they toned down the 
rough, blunt manner of the battle-field to the elegant 
and respectful courtesies of the boudoir. They exacted 
from “ the dauntless in war” that he should be equally 
gentle in peace and “ faithful in love.” Thus gallantry 
was mellowed and softened into civility, which was the 
antithesis of military brnsquerie , as in the abbe Talley- 
rand’s celebrated witticism. Hence sprung that thor- 
oughly modem and Christian product, “ the gentleman 
of the olden time,” of which Sir Harry Lee of Ditehlcy 
may be taken as a specimen. If fearful licentiousness 
accompanied these amiable graces in Provence, Langue- 
doc, Aquitaine, and other sunny southern lands, at any 
rate vice w*as stripped of its brutality and coarseness, 
and lost its brazen shamelessness and virulent conta- 
gion. But, though truth and fidelity to his “fairc la- 
dye” w r ere always demanded of the knight, the sensual- 
ism of the countries of romance was only accidentally 
connected with knightly conduct, and never formed any 
part of its nature. Moreover, though it be true that 
“The evil that men do lives after them, 

The good is oft interred with their bones,” 

the converse is equally true; and modern generations 
unquestionably owe much of those rarely -attained per- 
fections which are now most admired to the fragrant 
nastiness and ornate prurience of the Cours d' Amour 
and Jeux Flora ur. 

In the splendid Arthurian cycle — a brighter realm 
of romance than all the legends of Homer and the 
Ilomeruke — the heroes and heroines are sadly stained 
and spotted with moral blurs and blotches, and even 
with gross crimes. Sir Lancelot, “ first of knights,” 
bears an ineradicable brand ; but still is scarce 

“Less than archangel ruined, aud the excess 
Of glory obscured.” 

The birth and the marriage of king Arthur are equally 
foul; and the champions and dames that encircled him 
are all tainted, except Sir Galahad — “among the faitli- 
ess, faithful only he.” But, despite the endless detail 
of weakness, of ruth, and of sin, the central idea comes 
forth, like the sun emerging from a bank of clouds — the 
noblest dream of human fantasy, the highest evidence 
of ethereal aspirations from the midst of vicious indul- 
gences and multiplied contaminations. This type is 
true knighthood. AVhat knighthood was has been al- 
ready" partly explained ; what it is in the Arthurian ro- 
mances is shown by Arthur’s latest bard : 

“Iu that fair Order of the Table Round, 

A glorious company, the flower of men, 

To serve as model tor the mighty world. 

And be the fair beginning of a time. 

I made them lay their hands iu miue, aud swear 
To reverence the king, as if he were 
Their conscience, and their conscience as the king; 
To break the heathen, and uphold the Christ; 

To ride abroad redressing human wrongs; 

To speak no slander, no, nor listen to it ; 

To lead sweet lives in purest chastity; 

To love one maiden only", cleave to her, 

And worship her by years of noble deeds, 

Until they won her; for indeed I knew 
Of no more subtle" master under heaven 
Than is the maiden passion for a maid, 

Not only to keep down the base in mau, 

But teach high thoughts, and amiable words, 

And courtliness, and the desire of fame, 

Aud love of truth, aud all that makes a man.” 


KNIGHTHOOD 


131 


KNIGHTHOOD 


III. Classes and Degrees of Knighthood. — Knighthood terizes unlettered times. There was, however, such a 
may be loosely distributed into six classes: 1. Feudal general resemblance in the form and spirit of the cere- 
knighthood; 2. Simple knighthood; 3. Regular knight- monial that a general description of the procedure may 
hood, or the knighthood of the spiritual orders, like the be readily given. It is only necessary to understand 
Knights of Malta; 4. Ilonorarv knighthood, as of the that some of the incidents were at times omitted, and 


Garter; 5. Titular knighthood, as in England and many 
other countries, constituting a dignity of lesser nobility; 
G. Social, or fantastic knighthood, as the Templars in 
Freemasonry, the Knights of Pythias, etc. The lirst of 
these classes furnishes the foundation and origin of all 
the rest, but needs no further notice than has been al- 
ready given. The last is foreign to the present pur- 
pose. The fifth may be excluded, as it is political rather 
than chivalrous. Simple, regular, and honorary knight- 
hood require further, but brief consideration. 

Each of these classes exhibits the same general con- 
stitution, though the third is only an imitation, and a 
preposterous prolongation of the first with the forms of 
the second. In each there arc usually three degrees. 
In actual chivalry, these were the page, the squire, and 
the knight. The young son of a knight, or of a noble 
who was also a knight, was placed at the age of seven 
years in the service and charge of another knight, se- 
lected on account of family connection, friendship, or 
personal renown. The education of the young in the 
ages of chivalry was secured by attendance on their 
elders in the field, in hunting, at the table, and in the 
concerns of domestic life (see Correspondence of Simon 
de Mont fort and bishop Grosseteste , and the Treatises on 
Manners in The Babees' Boke\ The page, or varlet, or 
valet ( vassaletus , rarletus , r a let us) was taught to ride, 
to run, to leap, to shoot with the bow, to hawk, to play 
on the lute. He was taught obedience and attention to 
his superiors, and was supposed to be kept in the ob- 
servance of religion and morals. lie attended his patron 
in war, but armed only with a short dagger. II is per- 
son was safe in the melee, for it was dastardly to assail 
a page. In the intervals of serious occupation he re- 
ceived guests and ministered to their comforts, and 
waited on the chatelaine and the other ladies of the 
household, receiving instruction in legend, and poesy, 
and song; in manners, and in the formalities of love. 
The character of the instruction in the last easy science 
may perhaps be conjectured from the tenor of the lessons 
composed for his daughters by the knight De la Tour 
Landrv in 1371. 

At the age of fourteen the young valet — the term is 
often extended to the second stage — received a sword, 
consecrated by religious benedictions, in exchange for 
his dagger, and entered on the degree of squire ( escuyer , 
scutifer , armiger). His exercises were now mainly di- 
rected to the pursuits of war. lie was trained to vault 
on horseback without touching the stirrup. He was 
taught the manege , and the whole art of “noble horse- 
manship.” lie carried the knight’s lance, or shield, or 
helmet, or groomed his horse, or led his destrier. lie 
attended him in the tourney and in the battle. He was 
not a regular combatant in the fight, but he rescued, or 
defended, or remounted his principal. He cultivated 
courtsisie, prosecuted his pleasant studies in the art of 
love, began to wear ladies’ favors, sought to become 
debonnair — that is, neither shv, nor haughty, nor awk- 
ward; and diligently imitated the procedure and im- 
bibed the spirit of his senior. 

At full age — though the honor was often postponed, 
and sometimes accelerated — the squire was advanced to 
the complete knightly dignity, which was bestowed 
with milch solemnity, ceremonial, and religious inter- 
vention. These accompaniments were, of course, dis- 
pensed with when the promotion was conferred on the 
battle-field. Usually, however, the reception of knight- 
hood was ordered at some high festival, and was sur- 
rounded with imposing and onerous rites. 

IV. Institution of a Knight. — Various procedures were 
adopted in different countries, in different orders, and at 
different times. They were all symbolic, in accordance 
with that love of symbol and allegory which charac- 


that others were frequently modified. 

The most elaborate of all investitures appears to have 
been the old procedure of the Order of the Hath, as de- 
scribed in a manuscript in Freud, first published by Ed- 
uardus Bissieus, and cited textually by Du Cange (s. v. 
Miles). The novice was intrusted to the charge of 
select squires. His beard was shaven and his hair 
was shorn. In the evening, prudent and distinguished 
knights were sent to instruct him in his obligations. 
Minstrels and squires came singing and dancing to con- 
duct him to the bath that had been prepared. He was 
stripped naked and put into the bath, lie then re- 
ceived further instructions. When he issued from the 
bath, he was put to bed to dry off. When dry, he was 
taken up and clad warmly, with a red garment over the 
rest, having sleeves and a cowl like a hermit’s. The 
knights led him to the chapel, the attendant squires 
singing and dancing again. lie remained at his vigils 
and prayers all night. At break of day he confessed 
and received mass, after which he was put to bed. After 
he had rested, the knights and squires reappeared, and 
clothed him. lie was then conducted on horseback, 
with song and dance, to the great hall. Ilis spurs were 
fastened on by the two noblest knights present, who 
crossed and kissed him when they had discharged their 
office. His sword, suspended from a baldric ( cingulum ), 
was buckled on by another knight. The king, or of- 
ficiating knight, then struck him thrice on the check 
(i alopa , a slap), or on the neck or helmet, with the flat 
of his sword (accollare, adobare, adoptaro : see these 
titles in Du Cange, and that author’s Dissertation xxii 
sur Joinville), and kissed him. The spurred and belted 
knight was now led back to the chapel, when he knelt, 
and, laying his hand on the altar, swore to uphold lloly 
Church through life. Guizot enumerates twenty-six 
engagements in a knightly oath. The postulant, with 
his attendant knights, next proceeded to hold high fes- 
tival, but the young knight was not allowed to eat, to 
drink, or to move, or to look about him, while the rest 
were feasting. After further ceremonial, he mounted 
his horse, assumed his arms, and exhibited feats of war- 
like dexterity for the entertainment and admiration of 
the assembled ladies. 

This is an abridged, if not a brief account of knight- 
ly investiture. These minute and tedious formalities, 
which arc travestied by Don Quixote, belong only to 
times of peace, and subsequent to the establishment of 
the regular orders. 

V. The Regular Orders grew out of the necessities of 
the Holy War in Spain and in Palestine. The knights, 
like priests, were vowed to celibacy, and were designed 
to be ecclesiastical soldiers. They were to protect pil- 
grims, to feed the hungry, to entertain the poor, to 
shield the weak, to nurse the sick and the wounded, to 
assert the faith, to defend the Christian land, and to do 
zealously all duties of charity, devotion, and war. The 
most noted of these Orders were — 

(I.) The Knights of the Ilohj Sepulchre, instituted by 
Godfrey de Bouillon in 1099 to guard the sepulchre of 
Christ. They were distinguished by a golden cross, 
cantoned with four crosses of the same, pendent from a 
black ribbon. They languished and expired after the 
fall of the Latin kingdom of Jerusalem. 

(II.) Knights of St.John of Jerusalem, or Knights Hos- 
pitallers, afterwards successively Knights of Rhodes (q. 
v.) and Knights of Malta (q. v.). They were founded 
about 1048 by some Neapolitan merchants, and organ- 
ized in 1104. In peace they wore the black robe oi the 
Augnstinian fraternity, with a cross of white cloth ; in 
war they exchanged the black robe for a white gown. 
On the expulsion of the Christians from Palestine they 
passed over to Cyprus, where they remained till their 


132 


KNILL 


KNIGHTHOOD 


conquest of Rhodes, 1308. Driven out of Rhodes by 
the 'furies, 1522, they received Malta from the emperor 
Charles V, 1530. The order expired with the surrender 
of the island to Napoleon in 1708. See Hospitallers. 

(III.) The Knights of the Temple , or lieil Cross Knights , 
founded in 1118 bv two French Crusaders, lingo de Pa- 
ganis and Godfrey Aide mar (or of St.Omcr), and organ- 
ized in 1128. Their rules were drawn up for them by 
Bernard of Clairvaux. Their badge was a red cross em- 
broidered on a white cloak ; their emblem, two knights 
on one horse, to indicate their vow of poverty. They 
soon, however, acquired immense wealth, and were ac- 
cused of horrid vices and crimes; but Ashmole remarks 
that many sober men judge that their wealth was their 
greatest crime. After sharp persecutions and iniqui- 
tous trials, they were suppressed with savage cruelty in 
France by Philippe le Bel, 1310, and soon after in other 
countries. They were charged with the possession of 
40,000 lordships in Europe. See Templars. 

(IV.) The Knights of Mary, or the Teutonic Order, 
established for the support of poor pilgrims of all na- 
tions by wealthy German knights, organized in 1190 by 
the survivors of the army of Frederick Barbarossa. 
Their distinctive garb was a white mantle, having on 
the front a black cross with a white potence. Before 
the loss of Palestine, the Teutonic knights, under their 
grand-master Hermann von Salza, had directed their ef- 
forts and arms against the Prussians, Lithuanians, and 
heathen tribes of north-eastern Europe. By the secu- 
larization of Prussia, in 1525, under their grand-master 
Albert of Brandenburg, the order was broken up, -was 
deprived of its most valuable possessions, and passed out 
of notice. Sec Teutonic Knights. 

(V.) The Knights of San Salvador, founded by Al- 
phonso V of Aragon in 1118. Extinguished, and its com- 
manderies added to the crown, by Charles II, 1C65. 

(VI.) The Knights of Santiago de la Fspada, in Spain, 
refer their origin to 837, but received their definite con- 
stitution in 1170. 

(YU.) The Knights of Alcantara, 1158, and, 

(VIII.) The Knights of Calatrava, 1199, were insti- 
tuted to guard the western and southern portions of 
Spain against the Moors. The grand-mastership of 
both was ultimately assumed by the crown of Spain. 

The regular orders of knighthood were designed to 
promote Christian virtues and Christian conduct, and 
to employ chivalrous energies for the maintenance and 
extension of Christianity, and the protection of Chris- 
tendom against Saracens and Pagans. These functions 
they unquestionably discharged in their better age, and 
while such services were essentially necessary. With 
merit came favor, and power, and wealth, and arro- 
gance, and negligence, and idleness, and luxury, and 
other vices. It is the old and oft-repeated story of en- 
ergy declining into corruption. But they had afforded 
Europe time and security to develop, knit together, 
and confirm its civilization and its strength. When 
they were extinguished by secular greed for their pos- 
sessions, their aptitude had disappeared. “ Othello’s 
occupation was gone’’ when “villainous saltpetre” had 
totally changed the organization of armies and the con- 
duct of battles. It was chiefly during this period of 
confusion that sovereigns and princes, desirous of pre- 
serving the amusements, exercises, attachments, loyalty, 
splendors, and honors of knighthood — perhaps, also, of 
perpetuating its spirit — instituted princely in imitation 
of the regular orders. The enumeration and descrip- 
tion of the multitude of such associations would afford 
little additional illustration of knighthood. It must suf- 
fice to name a few of these imitative establishments. 

VI. Honorary Knighthood . — Of this there were the 


following orders : _ i ns ti„„»a 

The Order of the White Elephant of Denmark..' 1190. 

“ the White Eagle of Poland 1325. 

“ the Garter 1343. 

“ the Bath 1399. 

“ the Golden Fleece 1430. 

“ the Thistle. 1540. 


Iirstitated 

The Order of Saint Esprit 157s. 

“ Saint Louis 1G93. 

“ Saint Andrew and Saint Catharine 1G9S. 

“ the Black Eagle ot' Prussia 1705. 

“ Saint George (for Russia) 17G9. 

“ Saint Patrick 17S3. 

“ the Legion of Honor 1802. 

“ the Iron Crown (for Italy) 1805. 


There is no necessity, and would be little propriety in 
noticing titular and social, or fantastic knighthood here. 

In 1790, Burke lamented that “the age of chivalry 
ivas gone.” Its expiring gleams gilded the stark forms 
of Bayard at the Scsia and of Sir Philip Sidney at Zut- 
phen. Ail institution which, even after a long decline, 
could breed such characters as these, had obviously ren- 
dered an enduring sendee to humanity. The age of 
chivalry may be gone, and the forms of chivalry may 
be relegated to the domain of Romance, but its spirit 
lives on, offering examples which the young still wel- 
come in their dreamy and joyous days, and which the 
mature and the old still contemplate with fond and rev- 
erential regard. The ideal remains — purified by time, 
freed from the frailities and alloys of its former embodi- 
ment — and aids in fashioning modem sentiment to the 
conception and admiration of the Christian gentleman. 
Disregarding the vices which connected themselves with 
chivalry, but which were not of its essence, knighthood 
merits the commendation invariably bestowed upon it 
by discerning historians. It aimed to achieve — as far as 
the circumstances of its actual manifestation permitted; 
it did achieve, in thought, if rarely in act — what the oath 
of the new-made knight bound him to pursue as his ride 
of action through life. Its influences are transmitted to 
the passing generation, which has itself witnessed shin- 
ing illustrations of their abiding efficacy. 

VII. Literature. — Mills, History of Chivalry (London, 
1825) ; James, History of Chivalry and the Crusades (Lon- 
don, 1830), are well known to general readers. Familiar 
also are the notices in Blackst one’s Commentaries, bk. ii, 
chap, v; Robertson, History of Charles F, Introduction; 
Hallam, Middle Ages, and Guizot, Hist, de la Civilisation 
en France, ii Cours, chap. vi. The more important and 
authoritative works on the subject are less known, and 
some of them are inaccessible to students in this coun- 
try. Among them may be specified, Lord Lyttelton, 
Life and History of llenry 11 (London. 1777, f> vols. 8vo ; 
tedious, but full of information); K. H. Digby, The Broad- 
stone of Honor (London, 1845-8, 3 vols. 12mo), and Mores 
CathoUci, or The Ages of Faith (London, 1844-7. 3 vols. 
8vo) ; Dugdale, Dissertation upon Knighthood in The 
Antiquities of Wai'iriclshire (London, 1G5G, folio); Sel- 
den, Titles of Honor (1G14, 4to) ; Segar, Honor, Military 
and Civill (1G02, folio); S pel m an , Dissert at io de M Hite ; 
Upton, De Studio MUitari, etc. (Londini, 1G54, folio); 
Clarke, History of Knighthood; Sir II. N. Nicolas’s He- 
raldic IFwfo? ; Du Cange, Gloss. Med. et Df. Latin, title 
Miles, Adobare, Alopa, Armiger, Calcar, Cingulum, Val- 
etus, etc., and Dissertations sur Joinrille ; Muratori, A n- 
tiq. Ttalicee ; Mineus, Origines Kquestrium sire Militari- 
wn Ordinnm ; bavin. Theatre d'Honnenr et de Cher a- 
lerie ; Menestrier, De la Chevakrie ancienne et mode me ; 
Vulson de la Colombiere, Le Vrai Theatre eVHonnevr it 
de la Cheralerie ; De la Curne de St. Palaye, Memoins 
svrl'ancienne Cheralerie (Paris, 1759-1780); Ampere, De 
la Cheralerie ; Perrot, Collection Ilistoi'ique des Ordres de 
Cheralerie (Paris, 183G) ; Gonrdon de Genouillac, Dic- 
tionnaire llistoriqne des Ordres de Cheralerie (Paris, 
1853); Reibisch, Geschichte des Rittcrwesens (Stuttgard, 
1812). A very copious account of the regular and nat- 
ural Orders of Honorary Knighthood — extending to 137 
associations, but not including the Order of the Victoria 
Cross and other recent orders — may be found in the En- 
cyclopaedia Londinensis. (G. F. II.) 

Knill, Richard, an English missionary of the In- 
dependents, was bom of humble parentage, at Braim- 
ton. April 14, 1787. In 181 G he proceeded as a mis- 
sionary to India under the London Society, where he 
continued until 1819, and then returned to England. 


KNIPPERDOLLIXG 


133 


KNOBEL 


Shortly after his arrival he went to St. Petersburg, Rus- 
sia, to take charge of an English congregation in that 
city, over whieh he presided many years. Subsequent- 
ly he was appointed travelling agent for the London 
Missionary Society, and for eight consecutive years la- 
bored to awaken the Christian mind to the duty of 
sending the Gospel to the heathen, a work for whieh he 
was peculiarly qualified. In 1842 he became minister 
of a congregation in Wotton- under- Edge, and finally 
received a unanimous i mutation to the pastorate of 
Queen -Street Chapel, Chester, where he finished his 
eminently useful career in 1857. II is style of preaeliing 
was simple, graphic, chaste, and full of unction, with a 
fund of illustration that rendered it always effective. 
See Life of Rev. Richard Knill, by the late Rev. Angell 
James and Charles M. Birred (Loud. 2d ed. 1859, 12mo; 
N.Y. I8G0, 16mo). 

Knipperdolling, Bernard, one of the leaders of 
the Anabaptists of Munster, was born, probably in that 
city, towards the close of the 15th century. His at- 
tachment to Lutheran principles caused him to be ex- 
iled from Munster, and in his travels he connected him- 
self with the Anabaptists in Sweden. Returning to 
Miinster, he became the leader of the religious enthu- 
siasts there, together with Rothmann, Matthiesen, and 
Boekhold, and. creating disturbances, he was imprisoned 
by order of the bishop of Miinster. Imprisonment by 
no means dampened his ardor, and no sooner had he 
been released than he placed himself at the head of his 
partisans, and actually succeeded in becoming master of 
the city. Taken and imprisoned again, he was released 
by his friends, and soon acquired such reputation that 
the Anabaptists elected him in 1534 burgomaster of 
Minister. The same rabble whieh had succeeded in 
electing him to the principal office of the city now as- 
sumed control over him, and, making common cause 
with the fanatical Boekhold, better known as John of 
Leyden, and with Matthiesen, they immediately filled 
all public offices with their adherents, and proclaimed 
equality of estates, community of goods, and polygamy. 
All who showed the least signs of opposition were sum- 
marily dealt with; but so severe became Knipperdol- 
ling, who had subsequently been elected stadtholder, 
and had appointed John of Leyden king of Miinster, 
that lie was arrested by order of the “ king” and impris- 
oned. The Roman Catholic party finally gained the 
upper hand in 153G, when Knipperdolling was taken, 
condemned to have his body torn with red-hot pincers, 
and to be afterwards put to the sword, whieh sentence 
was executed Jan. 23, 153G. He persisted to the last 
in his opinions, and refused to become reconciled to the 
Roman Catholic Church. His body was exhibited in 
an iron cage (which still remains) suspended from the 
belfry of St. Lambert’s Church, Miinster. See Catrou, 
Hist, des Anabaptistes, vol. ii; Mencken, Scriptorcs Rev. 
Germ, iii, 1534 sq. ; Ilamelraann, Hist. Eccles . renati 
Evang. in Urbe Monast. Opp. ; Conr. Ileresbaehie, Hist, 
factionis Monaster iensis, edit. Bouterwek (Elberf. 18GG, 
8vo). See Anabaptists. (J. II. W.) 

Knipstro (also Ivniepstroh or Knipstrow. Latin 
Knfstrovius), John, a German reformer, was bom at 
Sandow, near Lovelberg, Silesia, May 1, 1497. Educa- 
ted among the Franciscans, he was sent by the abbot of 
liis convent to finish his studies at the University of 
Frankfort-on-the-Oder. Here he was a witness of the 
famous “Actus disputationis” in whieh John Tetzel 
attempted to overthrow Luther’s theses against indul- 
gences. Knipstro, who had read the theses, answered 
Tetzel so conclusively that the latter withdrew from the 
contest. Knipstro was then sent to the convent of Pv- 
ritz, in Pomerania, in the hope that quiet and rest would 
calm his revolutionary ardor; but he improved his time 
in reading the Bible and Luther’s works, and finally 
brought the whole convent to share in his views. The 
town heard of this, and Knipstro was invited by the cit- 
izens to preach to them, which he did with such success 


that the whole town soon became Protestant, but the 
bishop interfered in favor of Roman Catholicism, and 
Knipstro was obliged in 1522 to flee to Stettin, where 
he married. In 1524 he went to Stargard, and thence 
to Stralsund, where his eloquence proved fatal to the 
Roman Catholic party, and where, in 1525, he was ap- 
pointed superintendent of eeelesiastieal affairs, lie 
took part as such in the General Synod of Pomerania 
in 1535, and was then appointed the first general super- 
intendent of the Church in Wolgast. In 1539 he was 
made professor at the University of Greifswald, Pome- 
rania, and in 1547 became its rector. A controversy 
with Frever, a professor in the same institution, gave 
him such annoyance that he withdrew to Wolgast, and 
devoted the remainder of his fife to teaching and to 
Church administration. lie died at the last-named 
place Oet. 4, 155G. II is works are: Vom rechten Ge - 
brauch d. Kirchen- Giiter (Stralsund, 1533): — Bedenken 
wider d. Interim , etc. (Stralsund, 1 548) : — Epistolci ud I). 
Melanchthonem , qua Consensus Ecclesice Pomeranictt ad 
suspiciendam Aug. Confessionem repetitionem declaratur 
(1552) : — Widerlegung d. Bekenntniss A tidr. Osiandri v. </. 
Rechtfe rtigu ng ( 1 555 ?) : — Form a repetendi catech ism i 
(1555?). See Mayer, Vita Knipstrovii; Jiinieke, Ge- 
lehrtes Pommcrland ; II. Schmid, Einteitung z. Branden- 
burg Kirchen Gesch.; J. II. Balthasar, Sammlung eini- 
ger Pommerschen Kirchen- Hist, gchbrigen Schriften , i, 
93; ii, 317 sq. ; Zeller, Universal Lexikon, s. v. ; Hoefer, 
Nouv. Biog. Generate, xxvii, 89G; Ilerzog, Real-Encg - 
klopddie, vii, 7G5. (J. N. P.) 

Knittel, Franz Anton, a German theologian of 
note, was born at Salzdahlum, April 3, 1721, and was 
successively archdiaeonus, general superintendent, and 
consistorialrath at Wolfenbiittel. lie died April 13, 
1792. lie is celebrated as the discoverer (in the library 
at Wolfenbiittel) of a MS., a fragment of Ulfila’s Gothic 
version of the Epistle to the Romans. It is a palimp- 
sest, the newer surface being occupied with the Origines 
and some letters of Isidorus Ilispalensis. The portions 
of the Gothic version of the Epistle to the Romans con- 
tained in it are xi, 33-36; xii, 1-5, 17-21 ; xiii, 1-5: xiv, 
9-20; xv, 3-13. These Knittel printed (in all probabil- 
ity in 1702 or 17G3) in a volume entitled Ulphihe 1 >?- 
sio Gothica nonnullontm capitum Ep. ad Rom. vene- 
randim antiquitatis monumentuni . . . e Latina codicis 
cujusd. MSti rescript i . . . ana cum variis variie litter a- 
turce monimentis hue usque inedit is , etc. The text is 
printed on one side of the page in Gothic letters, under 
each word is Knittel’s reading of it in italics, and under 
that a Latin translation of each. On the other side 
there is a Latin version found in the Codex, under that 
the reading in the Vulgate, and under that the Greek 
text. There are also twelve plates, containing admira- 
bly-executed fae-similes of different eodiees; and among 
the notes is found an extract of considerable length from 
Otfried’s Gospel Harmony. The volume contains also 
two fragments from ancient Greek codices of the N. T. 
in the Wolfenbiittel library, and a copious critical com- 
mentary by Knittel, and is altogether a splendid one ; 
but, as Knitters knowledge of Gothic was rather imper- 
fect, its literary merits are not quite equal to its sump- 
tuous appearance. Knittel deserves, however, the praise 
of great laborioiisness, as is evinced by his collection of 
a vast amount of curious matter not elsewhere to be 
found. The book is very rarely to be met with at pres- 
ent; at least copies containing all the plates. — lvitto. 
Diet, Bibl. Lit. vol. ii, s. v. ; During, Gclehrten Theol. 
Deutschlunds , vol. ii, s. v. See Gothic Version. 

Knobel, Karl August, a German theologian, high- 
ly distinguished as an exegetical scholar in the Old 
Testament and as arehreologist, was born Aug. 7, 1807, 
near Sorau, Silesia. In this town he studied under as- 
sociate principal Seliarbe, who inspired Knobel with a 
zeal for learning, and also befriended him with money 
to pursue his university course at Breslau after his fa- 
ther’s death, David Schultz, to whose children he be- 


KXOBELSDORFF 


134 


KN OP 


came tutor, exerted a special influence in determining j 
his choice of teaching as a profession, and in fixing the ! 
unfailing rationalistic tendency of his mind. lie began | 
lecturing in 1831, and his freshness, power, and genuine 
worth at once drew and ever attracted to him numerous 
hearers. In 1835 he was made extraordinary professor, 
and in 1837 he received from Breslau the degree of doc- 
tor in theology, chiefly in recognition of his exceeding- 
ly valuable work on Hebrew Prophecy (Prophetismus cl. 
Ilebrder, Breslau, 1837, 2 vols. 8vo). The fame of this 
work brought him at once the offer of a professorship 
in Gottingen, in Ewald’s place, and of one in Giessen, 
which latter lie accepted. Thenceforth his attention 
was confined to the study of the Old Testament; but 
his cold, critical, rationalistic spirit avails but little to a 
right appreciation of the theological import or even po- 
etical beauty of the Scriptures. His publications during 
his twenty-four years’ labor at Giessen (nearly all exe- 
getical) bear the same defect of insight, with the dis- 
play of great learning. The Commentary on the Prophet 
Isaiah appeared in the Kurzgef exeyet. Ilandb. z . .1. T. 
in 1843 (2d ed. 1854, 3d ed. 18G1) ; on Genesis in 1852 (2d 
ed. 18G0); Exodus and Leviticus , 1S57; Numbers , Deu- 
teronomy, and Joshua, 1SGL These commentaries are 
characterized by special sobriety and thoughtfulness, 
healthy linguistic and historical views, with compre- 
hensive knowledge of Oriental antiquity. In the first- 
mentioned feature they have the advantage of Ilitzig. 
Knobcl is independent, and gives positive views on 
many points which he was obliged earnestly to defend, 
lie was in conflict with Ewald, as also specially in ref- 
erence to the origin of the Pentateuch with Iliipfeld, 
Tueh, Bertheau, and Stachlin. He is deserving of 
credit for his ingenuity in bringing out the “Composi- 
sition theory” concerning the production of the Penta- 
teuch. Knobel died, after long and severe suffering, 
from a cancer in the stomach, May 25, 18G3. In addi- 
tion to the works already mentioned, Knobcl published 
Commentar iiber Koheleth (Lpz. 183G, Svo) ; and I ’olker- 
tafel tier Genesis (1850, Svo), a very learned work, and 
frequently cited in the exegetical department of this Cy- 
clopcedia. See Herzog, Real-Encyklopddie , vol. xix, s. v. 
(E. B. O.) 

KnobelsdorfF, Eustaciiius of, a German Eoman 
Catholic theologian, was born of noble parentage in 1511), 
at lleilsberg, Prussia; was educated at the universities 
of Eranklbrt-on-the-Oder, Leipzig, Wittenberg, and Par- 
is, and upon the completion of his studies took orders 
in the Church. During a visit of the bishop and car- 
dinal of Wormeland to Borne, Knobclsdorff administered 
the duties of the episcopal office, and in 15G3, upon the 
return of the bishop, was appointed dean-cathedral. He 
died in 1571. llis writings are of but little account, 
bee Ally cm. Hist. Lex. iii. 41. 

Knock (jS^jCant. v, 2; “beat,” Judg. xix, 22; 
ffpoiw, Matt, vii, 7 ; Rev. iii, 20, etc.). “ Though Orien- 
tals are very jealous of their privacy, they never knock 
when about to enter your room, but walk in without 
warning or ceremony. It is nearly impossible to teach 
an Arab servant to knock at your door. They give 
warning at the outer gate or entrance either by calling 
or knocking. To stand and call is a very common and 
respectful mode. Thus Moses commanded the holder 
of a pledge to stand without, and call to the owner to 
come forth (Dent, xxiv, 10). This was to avoid the vio- 
lent intrusion of cruel creditors. Peter stood knocking 
at the outer door (Acts xii, 13, 1G), and so did the three 
men sent to Joppa by Cornelius (Acts x, 17, 18). The 
idea is that the guard over your privacy is to be placed 
at the entrance to your premises” (Thomson, Land and 
Book, i, 192 sq.). bee House. 

Knollis, Francis, a distinguished English states- 
man, was born at Grays, Oxfordshire, about lfioO. lie 
studied at the University of ( )xford. Admitted at court, 
he showed great zeal for the Deformation, and when 
queen Mary ascended the throne he was obliged to retire 


to the Continent. At Elizabeth’s accession lie returned, 
became privy counsellor, treasurer of the queen’s house- 
hold, and knight of the Garter. He was one of the judges 
of Mary Stuart, lie died in 159G. Knollis wrote a trea- 
tise on the Usurpation of papal Bishops (1G08, Svo). 
See Turner, History of the Reign of Edward J Y, M ary, 
and Elizabeth ; Bose, New General Biographical Diction- 
ary ; Iloefcr, Noav. Bioy. Gen. xxvii, 915. (J. N. P.) 

Knollys, Hansard, an eminent English Baptist 
minister, was born in Chalkwell, Lincolnshire, in 1598. 
lie was educated at the University of Cambridge, and 
after his graduation was ordained as a deacon, and then 
as a presbyter of the Church of England, and was pre- 
sented by the bishop of Lincoln with the living at Hum- 
berstone. About 1G32, beginning to doubt the lawful- 
ness of conformity to the Church of England, lie resign- 
ed his living, but continued to preach several years lon- 
ger. In 1G3G he was arrested for preaching t^ie Gos- 
pel, and thrown into prison ; but his keeper, being con- 
science-stricken, connived at his eseape, and he came 
over to America early in 1G38. lie arrived at Boston, 
Mass., a persecuted fugitive, in a state of utter destitu- 
tion, and was obliged to work daily at manual labor for 
his subsistence. At first he met with a eold reception 
in Boston, which was then in a ferment on the question 
of Antinomianism, and suspicious of all ncw-comers; 
but, being invited to preach in Dover, N. H., he went 
thither, and in 1G38 founded the first church in that 
place, lie returned to England in 1G41, where he spent 
the next fifty years of his life, during that most agitated 
i period of English history, and died Sept. 19, 1G91. Mr. 
Knollys was an able minister, a most accomplished 
teacher of youth, a bold pioneer of religious liberty, a 
mail of large public spirit, and pre-eminently great in 
the purity of his character. He published a little work 
on the Rudiments of Hebrew Grammar (1G48, 12mo); 
also Flaming Fire in Zion (1G4G, 4to) ; and his Autobi- 
ography in 1G72, which was brought down to his death 
by Wm. Kitfin (1G92, Svo; 1813. 12mo). See Sprague, 
A nnals of th e A merican Pulpit, vi, 1 . ( J. L. S.) 

Knop, that is, Knob (Anglo-Saxon cncep\ a word 
employed in the A. V. to translate two terms, of the real 
meaning of which all that we can say with certainty is 
that they refer to some architectural or ornamental ob- 
ject, ami that they have nothing in common. 

1. Kaphtor' (“IT 53 or ’"^53) occurs in the descrip- 
tion of the candlestick of the sacred tent (Exod. xxv, 
31-3G, and xxxvii. 17-22, the two passages being iden- 
tical). The knops are here distinguished from the shaft, 
branches, bowls, and flowers of the candlestick; but the 
knop and the flower go together, and seem intended to 
imitate the produce of an almond-tree. In another part 
of the work they appear to form a boss, from which the 
branches are to spring out from the main stem. In 
Amos ix, 1 the same word is rendered, with doubtful ac- 
curacy, “lintel.” The same rendering is used in Zepli. 
ii, 14, where the reference is to some part of the palace 
of Nineveh, to be exposed when the wooden upper story 
— the “ cedar work” — was destroyed. The Hebrew word 
seems to contain the sense of “ covering” and “ crown- 
ing” (Gescmits, Thes. lleb. p. 709). Josephus's descrip- 
tion {Ant. iii, G, 7) names both balls ( ocpaipia ) and pome- 
granates ( jjoicTKoi ), either of which may be the kaphtor. 
The Targum agrees with the latter, the Sept, (n cpaipcorii- 
pff) with the former. Sec Lintel. — Smith. All these 
circumstances point to a signification corresponding es- 
sentially to that of crown ; and in the ease of the sacred 
candelabrum, (he term seems to point to a sharp orna- 
mental swell placed (like a horizontal button) immedi- 
ately beneath the cups that surmounted each arm and 
section of the shaft. See Tabernacle. 

2. The second term, pckaim' (C , 3p5), is found only 
in 1 Kings vi, 18, and vii, 24. It refers in the former to 
carvings executed in the cedar wainscot of the interior 
of the Temple, and, as in the preceding word, is associ- 
ated with flowers. In the latter ease it denotes an or- 


KNORR 


135 


KNOW 


nament cast round the great reservoir or “sea” of Solo- 
mon’s Temple below the brim : there was a double row 
of them, ten to a cubit, or about two inches from centre 
to centre. The word no doubt signifies some globular 
thing resembling a small gourd (being only the inasc. 
of tiie fern, term so rendered in 2 Kings iv, 39) or an 
egg, though as to the character of the ornament we are 
quite in t he dark. The following wood-cut of a portion 
of a richly ornamented door-step or slab from Kouyun- 
jik probably represents something approximating to the 
“ knop and the flower” of Solomon’s Temple. But as the 
building from which this is taken was the work of a 
king at least as late as the son^>f Esar-haddon, contem- 
porary with the latter part of the reign of Manasseh, it 
is only natural to suppose that the character of the or- 
nament would have undergone considerable modification 
from what it was in the time of Solomon. — Smith. 



Ornamental Border of a Slab from Kouyunjik. 


Mr. Paine suggests ( Temple of Solomon, p. 41) that the 
difference in gender (above noted) of the terms for the 
gourds (or cucumbers , as he renders) is accounted for by 
the circumstance that these ornaments were artificial 
(hence in the masc.), while the real fruit is fem. lie 
thinks that on the laver they were arranged in vine- 
form, ten in each of the two rows, like a netting (ib. p. 
50). See Sea, Brazen. 

Knorr, Georg Christian von, a German divine, 
was born at Oettingen in 1691, ami was educated at Jena 
from 1708 to 1712. His dissertation for the master’s de- 
gree was an attack on Leibnitz, and created quite a sen- 
sation at the time; it was entitled Doctrinal orthodoxee 
de origine malt contra recentiorum quoi'undam hypothe- 
ses modesta assert io (Jena 1 , 1712, 4to). In 1710 he be- 
came conrector, and a few months later rector over the 
schools at Oettingen ; and in 1720 was called to Blanken- 
burg, as librarian to the duke of Brunswick. Some time 
after this he joined the Uomanists. He died in 1702. 
There are no works of special merit from the pen of 
Knorr except the dissertation already mentioned. — Do- 
ring, Gelehrte Theol. Deutschlands , vol. ii, s. v. 

Knorr von Rosenroth, Abraham, a Lutheran 
divine, descended from a noble family noted in the an- 
nals of the history of Silesia, flourished in the 17th cen- 
tury as pastor at Alt Rauden, in the duchy of Wolilau, 
and was the father of Christian and Caspar, both also 
noted Lutheran pastors. 

The former of these two sons, namely, Christian, was 
born July 15, 1G31, and was educated at the high-schools 
in Wittenberg and Leipzig. He was then sent abroad, 
and visited Holland, France, and England in turn, and 
on his return devoted himself at Sulzbach to the study 
of the Oriental languages, especially the Hebrew, of 
which he had acquired the rudiments while abroad. He 
took up the writings of the Cabalists, and even attempt- 
ed to prove the authenticity of the N.-T. Scriptures by 
this Jewish philosophical system, in his Kabbala denu - 
data , sire doctrina Hebrccorum transcendentalis (part i, 
Sulzbach, 1077-8, 4to; pt. ii, F. ad M. 1084, 4to: a third 
part was supplied by Pagendorm). His other writings, 
all of this eccentric nature, do not deserve mention here, 
as they have lost all value as literary contributions. 
See, for details, Allgem . Hist. Lex . iii. 42; Griitz, Geseh. 
d. Juden , x, 295 sq. ( J. H. W.) 

Knorr von Rosenroth, Christian. See Knorr 
von Rosenroth, Abraiiam. 

Knott, Edward, an English Jesuit, whose true 
name was Matthias Wilson, and memorable for his con- 
troversy with Chillingworth, which called forth the fa- 


mous book called The Religion of Protestants, was bom 
at Pegsworth,near Morpeth, in Northumberland, in 1580. 
lie was entered among the Jesuits in 1000, being al- 
ready in priests’ orders ; and is represented in the Bibli- 
otheca Patrum Societatis Jesu as a man of low stature, 
but of great abilities. lie taught divinity a long time 
in the English college at Rome, and was a rigid observ- 
er of that discipline himself which he as rigidly exacted 
from others. lie was then appointed sub-provincial of 
the province of England ; and, after he had exercised 
that employment out of the kingdom, he was twice sent 
thither to perform the functions of his office. He was 
present, as provincial, at the general assembly of the or- 
ders of the Jesuits held at Rome in 1G40, and was elect- 
ed one of the definitors. He died at London January 
4, 1G55-G. Knott was a great controversialist, and wrote 
largely, displaying in all his works great acuteness and 
learning. 11 is first book was a little work entitled Char- 
ity Mistaken (Lond. 1G30), with the “want whereof Cath- 
olics are unjustly charged, for affirming, as they do with 
grief, that Protestancv, unrepented, destroys salvation,” 
which was answered by Dr* Potter, provost of Queen’s 
College, Oxford (in lG33),by a piece entitled Want of 
Charity justly charged on all such Romanists as dare , 
without truth or modesty , affirm that Protestancy destroy- 
ed Salvation. To this Knott replied, under the title 
Mercy and Truth, or Charity maintained by Catholics (in 
1G34), which occasioned Chillingworth to publish The 
Religion of Pi'otestants. See Chillingworth. Knott 
came to the defence in 1G38, in a pamphlet entitled 
Christianity Maintained, and later in a work under the 
title of Infidelity Unmasked, etc. (Ghent, lG52,4to). At 
this time, however, Chillingworth had been dead nine 
years, and in behalf of the noted deceased a reply was 
made by Thomas Smith, fellow of Christ’s College, Cam- 
bridge (in 1G53), in the preface to an English transla- 
tion of Daille’s Apology for the Reformed Churches. See 
Gen. Biog. Diet, viii, 49 sq. ; Wood, A theme Oxon.; De 
Maizeanx, Life of Chillingworth. (J. II. W.) 

Knott, John W., a Presbyterian minister, was born 
near Blairsville,AVestmoreland County, Pa., Oct. 7, 1812. 
He was educated at Jefferson College, Pa., and studied 
theology at Western and Princeton theological semina- 
ries. After graduation he preached at Gilgal, Pa., for 
about a” year, when he removed to Ohio, and was in- 
stalled over the churches of Leesville and Ontario ; there 
he continued three years, and then for four years served 
as pastor of the churches at Ilayesville and Jerome- 
ville. He was next called to the churches of Keene and 
Jefferson, where he officiated for seven years. During 
the remainder of his life, with intervals of relaxation 
on account of ill health, he preached at Eden, Caroline, 
Waynesburg, Nevada, and Sandusky, Ohio, lie died at 
Shelby, Ohio, Sept. 3, I8G4. Air. Knott made many sac- 
rifices of personal advancement and comfort to further 
the cause of religion, lie was a man of unbounded 
faith in the Bible, from which he drew all his theology 
and philosophy. The burden of his preaching was Je- 
sus Christ and him crucified. He believed, “when he 
had proven his position from the Bible, he had estab- 
lished it immovably.” See Wilson, Presb. Historical 
Almanac, I8G5. 

Know (properly yivwoKio) is a term used in a 
variety of senses in the Scriptures. It signifies partic- 
ularly to understand (Ruth iii, 11), to approve of and 
delight in (Psa. i, G; Rom. viii, 29), to cherish (John x, 
27), to experience (Eph. iii, 19). In Job vii, 10 it is 
used of an inanimate object: ‘-lie shall return no more 
to his house, neither shall his place know him any more.” 
By a euphemism it. frequently denotes sexual connection 
(Gen. iv, 1 ; Matt, i, 25). The other scriptural applica- 
tions of the word are mostly obvious, as follows: (1.) It 
imports to have acquired information respecting a sub- 
ject. (2.) It implies discernment, judgment. discretion; 
the power of discrimination. It may he partial ; we see 
but in part, we know but in part (1 Cor. xiii, 9). (3.) 


KNOWLEDGE 


136 


KNOWLEDGE 


It frequently signifies to have ascertained by experi- 
ment (Gen. xxii, 12). (4.) It implies discovery, detec- 

tion ; by the law is the knowledge of sin (Horn, iii, 20). 

Natural knowledge is acquired by the senses, by 
sight, hearing, feeling, etc.; by reflection; by the prop- 
er use of our reasoning powers ; by natural genius; dex- 
terity improved by assiduity and cultivation into great 
skill. So of husbandry (Isa. xxviii, 3G), of art and ele- 
gance (Gxod. xxxv, 31), in the instance of Bezaleel. 
Spiritual knowledge is the gift of God, but may be im- 
proved by study, consideration, etc. See Knowledge. 

Particular Phrases . — The priests’ lips should keep 
knowledge QIal. ii, 7); not keep it to themselves, but 
keep it in store for ethers ; to communicate knowledge 
is the way to preserve it. Knowledge is spoken of as 
an emblematical person, as riches, and treasures, as ex- 
cellency, and as the gift of God (Prov. i, 29; viii, 10, 
etc.). See Wisdom. “ Knowledge pufleth up, but char- 
ity edifieth” (1 Cor. viii, 1) ; i. e. the knowledge of spec- 
ulative and useless things, which tend only to gratify 
curiosity and vanity, which contribute neither to our 
own salvation nor to our neighbor’s, neither to the pub- 
lic good nor to God’s glory ; such knowledge is much 
more dangerous than profitable. The true science is 
that of salvation; the best employment of our knowl- 
edge is in sanctifying ourselves, in glorifying God, and 
in edifying our neighbor: this is the only sound knowl- 
edge (Prov. i, 7). 

God is the source and fountain of knowledge (1 Sam. 
ii, 3 ; 2 Chron. i, 10 ; James i, 5). He knows all things, 
at all times, and in all places. See Omniscience. Je- 
sus Christ is possessed of universal knowledge ; knows 
the heart of man, and whatever appertains to his medi- 
atorial kingdom (John ii, 24, 25; xvi, 30; Col. ii, 3). 
Men know progressively, and ought to follow on to 
know the Lord (Hos. vi, 3) ; what we know not now we 
may know hereafter (John xiii, 7). Holy angels know 
in a manner much superior to man, and occasionally re- 
veal part of their knowledge to him. Unholy angels 
know many things of which man is ignorant. The 
great discretion of life and of godliness is to discern 
what is desirable to be known, and what is best un- 
known ; lest the knowledge of “good lost and evil got,” 
as in the case of our first parents, should prove the lam- 
entable source of innumerable evils (Gen. ii, 9; iii, 7). 

Knowledge of God is indispensable, self-knowledge is 
important, knowledge of others is desirable; to be too 
knowing in worldly matters is often accessory to sinful 
knowledge ; the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ is 
a mean of escaping the pollutions which are in the 
world (John xvii, 3). Workers of iniquity have no 
knowledge, no proper conviction of the divine presence 
(Psa. xiv, 4). Some men are brutish in their knowl- 
edge (Jcr. Ii, 17); e. g. he who knows that a wooden 
image is but a shapely-formed stump of a tree, yet wor- 
ships it; he boasts of his deity, which, in fact, is an in- 
stance of his want of discernment, degrading even to 
brutality (Isa. xlv. 20). Some are wicked in their 
knowledge, “knowing the depths of Satan, as they 
speak” (Lev. ii, 20). — Calmet. See Gnosticism. 

Knowledge. By this, according to Sir William 
Hamilton/ 4 is understood the mere possession of truths,” 
and the possession of those truths about which our fac- 
ulties have been previously employed, rather than any 
separate power of the understanding by which truth is 
perceived. “ I know no authority,” says Dr. Beid, “ be- 
sides that of Mr. Locke, for calling knowledge a faculty, 
any more than for calling opinion a faculty.” Knowl- 
edge is of two kinds, viz. historical or empirical , and 
philosophical , or scientific or rational . Historical is the 
knowledge that the thing is, philosophical is t lie knowl- 
edge why or how it is. The first is called historical, 
because in this knowledge we know only the fact — only 
that that phenomenon is; for history is properly only 
the narration of a consecutive series of phenomena in 
time, or the description of a co-existent series of phe- 
nomena in space; the second philosophical, to imply 


that there is a way of knowing things more completely 
than they arc known through simple experiences me- 
chanically accumulated in memory or heaped up in cy- 
clopedias. It seeks for wide and deep truths, as dis- 
tinguished from the multitudinous detailed truths which 
the surface of things and actions presents, and therefore 
a knowledge of the highest degree of generality. “ The 
truth of philosophy,” says Herbert Spencer, “bears the 
same relation to the highest scientific truths that each 
of these bears to lower scientific truths. As each widest 
generalization of science comprehends and consolidates 
the narrower generalizations of its own division, so the 
generalizations of pliildtophy comprehend and consoli- 
j date the widest generalizations of science. It is there- 
fore a knowledge the extreme opposite in kind to that 
which experience first accumulates. It is the final 
product of that process which begins with a mere colli- 
gation of crude observations, goes on establishing prop- 
ositions that are broader and more separated from par- 
ticular cases, and ends in universal propositions. Or, 
to bring the definition to its simplest and clearest form, 
knowledge of the lowest kind is ununifiecl knowledge ; 
science is partially unified knowledge; philosophy is 
completely unified knowledge.” 

This term, however, is associated with the greatest 
problems and controversies of philosophy, all of which 
are involved in the discussion of what is meant by 
knowledge. The different problems, therefore, of the 
philosophy of mind will be found discussed under those 
names that severally suggest them. — Watts, On the 
■Mind; Dr. John Edwards, Uncertainty, Deficiency , and 
Corruption of Human Knoicledye ; Beid, Intellectual Pow- 
ers of Man ; Stennett, Sermon on Acts xxvi, 24, 25: 
Upham, Intellectual Philosophy ; Douglas, On the Ad- 
vancement of Society; Bobert Hall, 1 Fonts ; A mcr. Li- 
brary of Useful Knoicledye. See Faitii and Beason ; 
Idealism; Judgment; Moral Philosophy; Belig- 
ious Philosophy. (E. de P.) 

Knowledge of God. By this is not meant a mere 
knowledge of his existence, for the devils believe that 
| God is; they tremble as they believe it, and they hate 
the God before whom they tremble, it cannot be a 
mere partial acquaintance with the character of God, 
because we cannot for a moment doubt that the Jews 
were partially acquainted with God’s character, and yet 
our Lord said to them, “Ye neither know me nor my 
Father.” Neither can it be a dry, uninfiuential, notioned 
knowledge of God, however accurate in its outline that 
knowledge may be. The knowledge of God includes 
far more than this. It implies a real, personal, experi- 
mental, sanctifying acquaintance with him. It espe- 
cially regards him as a reconciled God in Christ — that 
is, the reconciliation of all his perfections in the way of 
his mercy, unfolding them as the basis for the soul's 
confidence; that he is righteously and holily merciful, 
pardoning sin at the expense of no other perfection, but 
in the full and perfect harmony of all his perfections. 
Without this knowledge, all our advances in other 
branches of knowledge are but vain and unprofitable. 
All other knowledge is useful, entertaining ; this alone is 
needful , This may do without other knowledge, but no 
other knowledge will do without this. If you teach 
men the elements of education, you put into their 
hands a powerful weapon either for good or for evil, ac- 
cording to the direction that may he given to it. If 
you put into their hands the elements of sound relig- 
ious knowledge, you give their minds a right and safe 
exercise, while the knowledge will keep them from the 
abuse of the tremendous power von put into their hands. 
See Charnock, I ForA-s, ii, 331 ; Saurin, Sermons, i, serai, 1 ; 
Gill, Body of Divinity, iii, 12 (8vo); 44 llot son. Sermons, 
serin. 113; Watts. HorAv, i, serm. 45; Hall, Sermon on 
the A d vantages of Knowledge to the lower Classes; Fos- 
ter, Essay on Popular Ignorance ; Dwight, Theology; 
Martensen, Dogmatics. See Know. (E. de P.) 

Knowledge, Divine. See Omniscience. 


KNOWLER 


137 


KXO X 


Knowler, Wileiam, LL.D., an English divine, 
was born in May, 1G99, and was educated at St. John’s 
College, Cambridge. He was first chaplain to the first 
marquis of Rockingham, and was by him presented with 
the rectory of Irthlingborrow, and afterwards with Bod- 
clington, both in Northamptonshire, lie died, in all 
probability, in 1773. Dr. Knowler published an Eng- 
lish translation of Chrysostom’s Commentary on St. Paul's 
Epistle to the Galatians , with an account both of Chry- 
sostom and of Jerome. — New Gen. Bioyr. Diet, viii, 53; 
Allibone, Diet. Engl, and Am. A uthors , vol. ii, s. v. 

Knowles, James Davis, a Baptist minister, 
was born in Providence, R. I., July, 1793. lie learned 
the printing business, and in 1819 became co-editor of 
the Rhode Island American. Having joined the Bap- 
tist Church in March, 1820, he was in the fall following 
licensed to preach. Shortly after he entered the soph- 
omore class of Columbian College, Washington, D. C., 
graduated in 1824, and was immediately appointed one 
of the tutors of the college, which position he held until 
called as pastor to the Second Baptist Church of Boston, 
where he was ordained Dec. 28, 1825. In 1832 impaired 
health obliged him to resign his pastoral charge, and he 
became professor of pastoral duties and sacred rhetoric 
in the Newton Theological Institution, acting at the 
same time for over two years as editor of the Christian 
Revieu \ a Baptist quarterly. lie died May 9, 1 838. Mr. 
Knowles published a number of occasional Sermons, Ad- 
dresses , etc.; Memoir of Mrs. Ann U. Judson , late Mis- 
sionary to Bur mah (1829); and Memoir o f Roger Wil- 
liams , the Founder of the State of Rhode Island (Boston, 
1834).— Sprague, .1 mads, vi, 707 ; Appleton, Xew Amer- 
ican Cyclopaedia, x, 192. 

Knowles, Janies Sheridan, the celebrated 
modern dramatist of England, in later years a minister 
in the Baptist Church, was born at Cork, Ireland, in 
1784, and early distinguished himself as a dramatic 
writer. About 1845 he began to entertain religious 
scruples about his connection with the stage, was finally 
converted, and in 1852 joined the Baptist Church and 
entered the ministry. He died Dec. 1, 18G2, at Tor- 
quay, in Devonshire. Several of his sermons have been 
published, but they do not so grcatW merit our notice as 
his exposition of the Protestant view on the Lord’s Sup- 
per, which he defended in The Idol demolished by its own 
Priest (Bond. 1851, 12mo), an answer to cardinal Wise- 
man’s lectures on transubstantiation. He also wrote 
The Rock of Rome, or the Arch Heresy (London, 1849, 
1850, 1851). His dramatic works have been collected 
and published in 3 vols. sm. 8vo, in 1843 and since. See 
Allibone, Diet. Engl, and A m. A uthors , vol. ii, s. v. ; Xorth 
Arner. Review , xl, 141 sq. ; Chambers, Cyclop, s. v. (J. 
H.W.) 

Knowles, J ohn, a Congregational minister, was 
born in Lincolnshire, England, and educated at Magda- 
len College, Cambridge. In 1G25 he was chosen fellow 
of Katharine Hall, and while employed in his duties as 
a teacher, upon the invitation of the mayor and aider- 
men of Colchester, became their lecturer. In conse- 
quence of his opposition to archbishop Laud, his license 
was revoked in 1G39, and he immediately removed to 
New England, and was ordained co-pastor at Water- 
town, Mass., Dec. 19. In October, 1G49, he departed to 
Virginia, in response to a call fur ministerial aid in that 
destitute region. In a few months, however, he return- 
ed to Watertown, whence he returned to England in 
1G50, where he soon became preacher in the cathedral 
at Bristol. From fhis place he was ejected at the Res- 
toration, and in 1GG2 was prevented from public minis- 
trations by the Act of Uniformity. Ey permission of 
king Charles in 1G72, he became colleague of the Rev. 
Ihomas Kentish at St. Katharine’s. London, where he 
preached till near the close of his life, April 10, 1G85. 
It is said of him that sometimes, while preaching, his 
very earnestness and zeal so exhausted him that he 
fainted and fell. M r. Knowles is represented as having 


been 11 a godly man and a prime scholar.” — Sprague, A n- 
nals of the A merican Pulpit. 

Knowles, Thomas, D.D., an English divine of 
great learning and talents, was bom at Ely in 1723; 
studied at Pembroke Hall, Cambridge, of which he was 
chosen fellow, and was afterwards, for over thirty years, 
lecturer of St. Mary’s, in Bury St. Edmund’s. lie be- 
came successively prebendary of Ely, rector of Ickworth 
and Chedburgh, and, finally, vicar of Winston, Suffolk. 
He died in 1802. His principal works are, The Passion 
of our Lord Jesus Christ (Lond. 1780, 12mo ; a new cd., 
with additions, by the Rev. II. Hasted, London, 1830, 
12mo) : — Twelve Sermons on the A ttributes (Camb. 1750, 
8vo) : — Answer to Bp. Clayton's Essay on Spirit (Lond. 
1753, 8vo): — Primitive Christianity (1789, 8vo). He 
also wrote several pamphlets on religious subjects. See 
Gent. Magazine , vol. lxxii ; Chalmers, Gen. Biog. Diet. ; 
Allibone, Diet. Engl, and Am. Authors , vol. ii, s. v. 

Knowlton, Gideon A., a Methodist Episcopal 
minister, was born in East Iladdam, Conn., entered the 
itinerancy in Central New York in 1800, was mostly em- 
ployed in what was the old Genesee Conference, sta- 
tioned at Albany in 1804, at Saratoga in 1805, and died 
at Whi testy) wn, N. Y., Aug. 15, 1810. He was deeply 
pious, a “plain, practical, and useful preacher.” and of 
great and exemplary faithfulness in the work of his 
Master. — Minutes of Conferences , i. 195. 

Knowue Men, or just-fastmen, a name for per- 
sons who, in the reign of Henry VII, suffered martyr- 
dom at the instigation of John Longland, bishop of Lin- 
coln, either for reading the Scriptures or treatises of 
Scripture in English, or for hearing the same read. See 
Hardwick, Hist, of the Reformation, p. 180, note 3 ; Fox, 
Book of Martyrs (Lond. 1583), p. 820-37 ; Burnet, Hist, 
of the Reformation (London, 1G81), i, 27 sq. 

Knox, John (1), the Reformer of Scotland. 

I. Early Life. — He was born in Gifford, a village in 
East Lothian, in 1505, of respectable parents, members 
of the Romish Church, who were able to give their son 
a liberal education. After spending some time at the 
grammar-school of Haddington, he was sent by his fa- 
ther, in 1521, to the University of Glasgow. Here he 
studied under Mayor, a famous professor of philosophy 
and theology. A disciple, by the way, of Gerson and Pe- 
ter d’Ailly, he advocated the supremacy of general coun- 
cils over the popes, and, carrying this view into politics, 
held also that the king’s authority is derived from the 
people— a doctrine which he inculcated in his pupils 
(Knox as well as Buchanan), and which fully explains the 
democratic tendencies of the Scottish reformer. Soon 
after taking the degree of 31. A., Knox became an assist- 
ant professor, and rivalled his master in the subtleties 
of the dialectic art. He obtained clerical orders even 
before he reached the age fixed by the canons, and about 
1530 went to St. Andrew’s, and began to teach there. A 
veil of obscurity hangs over his life for several of the fol- 
lowing years. It is supposed, however, that the study 
of the fathers, especially Jerome and Augustine, shook 
his attachment to the Romish Church as early as 1535, 
but he did not become an avowed Protestant until 1542 
— a fact which shows that he did not act from hasty or 
turbulent impulses, but with prudence and deliberation. 
His reproof of existing corruptions compelled him to re- 
tire from St. Andrew’s to the south of Scotland, and he 
was degraded from his orders as a heretic. He now be- 
came a tutor to the sons of two noble families, and oc- 
casionally preached to the people in the neighborhood. 
During this period he became a frequent companion of 
the reformer and martyr Geo. Wish art, to whose instruc- 
tions he was greatly indebted. When Wish art was ap- 
prehended, Knox would fain have clung to him and 
shared his fate, but his friend refused, saying, (i Nay, re- 
turn to your bairns, and God bless you ; one is suffi- 
cient for a sacrifice.” Wish art was burnt at the stake, 
under cardinal Beaton’s orders, in 3Iarcli, 1546, and with- 
in two months afterwards the cardinal was put to death 


KNOX 


133 


KNOX 


in liis own castle of St. Andrew’s by a hand of nobles and 
others who held the castle as a stronghold of the re- 
forming interest. Knox, who was daily in danger of 
his life from Heaton’s successor, determined to go to 
Germany to pursue his studies, but was induced by the 
parents of his pupils to give up his purpose and take 
refuge in the castle, which he did with many other 
Protestants in Easter, 1517. Here for the first time he 
entered upon the public ministry of the Gospel, and he 
distinguished himself both as a powerful preacher and 
a fearless opponent of the papacy. But this did not 
continue long. • 

II. His Exile . — The arrival of a French fleet enabled 
the regent of Scotland to invest the castle by sea and by 
land, and on the last day of July the garrison was com- 
pelled to surrender, which they did upon honorable terms. 
But instead of being simply expatriated according to 
the engagement, they were taken to France, where the 
principal gentlemen were held as prisoners, and Knox 
and others were made galley-slaves. The following 
winter the galleys lay on the Loire, hut the next sum- 
mer they cruised on the east coast of Scotland, often in 
sight of the steeple of St. Andrew’s. Knox’s constancy 
continued unshaken under all toils and trials, which 
were greatly increased at one time by disease, until in 
Feb. 1540, after nineteen months of bondage, he was re- 
leased through the personal interposition of Edward VI 
of England with the king of France. He immediately 
repaired to England, where he was warmly welcomed 
by Cranmer and the council. He was stationed in the 
north at Berwick, and afterwards at Newcastle, where 
lie labored indcfatigably, preaching often every day in 
the week, notwithstanding many bodily infirmities. He 
enjoyed the confidence of the English reformers, was 
made one of king Edward’s chaplains, was consulted in 
the revision of t lie Prayer-book, and also of the Articles 
of Religion, and was offered the bishopric of Rochester, 
but declined it from scruples as to the divine authority 
of the office. After five years of great and faithful ac- 
tivity, at the end of which he married a Miss Bowes, of 
Berwick, the accession of Mary to the throne put an end 
to his usefulness and endangered his life. Ilis own de- 
sire was to remain and meet the issue, for, as he said, 
‘‘never could lie die in a more honest quarrel,” but the 
tears and importunity of friends prevailed on him to flv. 
Accordingly, in January, 1554, he took ship to Dieppe, 
where he spent his first leisure in writing suitable ad- 
vices to those whom he could no longer reach by his 
voice. Afterwards he travelled in France and Switzer- 
land. visiting particular churches and conferring with 
the learned. At Geneva he studied Hebrew, and form- 
ed with the celebrated Calvin an intimate friendship, 
which ended only with Calvin’s death. By Calvin’s 
influence he was induced to take charge of the Church 
of English exiles at Frankforl-on-the-Main, but un- 
happy disputes about the service-hook led to his with- 
drawal after less than six months’ service, in March, 
1555. lie immediately turned his steps to Geneva, 
where he took charge of an English congregation. But 
in the same year he made a flying visit to ►Scotland, 
during which he preached incessantly, and labored night 
and day. Among the many distinguished converts he 
made at this time figured three young lords, who after- 
wards played no unimportant part in the affairs of their 
country: Archibald Horn, later earl of Argyle; James 
Stuart, natural brother of Mary, and later earl of Mur- 
ray, and regent during the minority of James VI ; and 
John Erskine, who, under the title of carl of Marr, also 
acted as regent. His influence rendered the reformers 
more decided in their course, and lie instituted in 155G 
the first of those religious bonds or covenants which are 
so marked a feature in Scottisli ecclesiastical history. 
But he judged that the time was uot ripe for a general 
movement, and accordingly returned to Switzerland. 
After his departure lie was cited to appear before an as- 
sembly of tlie Romish clergy, and in bis absence was 
condemned to be burnt as a heretic, and the sentence 


was executed upon his effigy. In Geneva he spent near- 
ly three years, the happiest and most tranquil of his life. 
He counted it ‘‘the most perfect school of Christ that 
ever was in the earth since the days of the apostles.” 
He was surrounded by his family, and lived in the great- 
est harmony with his colleague, Goodman, and the small 
flock under his charge. During his stay he took part 
in the preparation of what is called the Geneva Bible. 
lie also wrote a number of letters and appeals which 
were forwarded to ►Scotland, and had great influence in 
guiding the counsels of the friends of the Reformation. 
His most singular treatise was a volume entitled The 
First Blast of the Trumpet against the monstrous Rtgi- 
ment of Women. Although undoubtedly honest in his 
opinions, it is certain that he was led to them by bis ab- 
horrence of Bloody Mary, who was then wearying Eng- 
land by her cruelties. But it was an unfortunate pub- 
lication, for it subjected him to the resentment of two 
queens, during whose reign it was his lot to live; the 
one his native princess, Mary, queen of Scots, and the 
other Elizabeth, exercising a sway in Scotland scarcely 
inferior to that of any of its own sovereigns. Although 
his residence at Geneva was so agreeable in many ways, 
yet duty to Scotland was always uppermost in bis mind, 
and when a summons came from the leading Protestants 
there for his return, he yielded at once. 

III. His Life-work in Scotland. — The inducement for 
him to return was the concession of liberty of worship 
promised by the queen regent, but upon bis arrival 
at Leith in May, 1559, he found that she load thrown 
off all disguises (she had just stipulated to assist the 
Guises in their plans against Elizabeth), and was deter- 
mined to suppress the Reformation by force. Not only 
did she refuse the demands of the Protestants, but even 
summoned a number of the preachers for trial at Stir- 
ling. But Knox was not disheartened. He wrote to 
his sister, “ Satan rageth to the uttermost, and I am 
come, I praise my God, even in the brunt, of the battle.” 
The regent, alarmed at the attitude of the Protestants, 
promised to put a stop to the trial, and induced the ac- 
cused to stay away, and then outlawed them for not ap- 
pearing. The news of this outrage eamc to Perth on 
the day when Knox preached against the idolatry of 
the mass and of image worship. At the conclusion of 
the service, an encounter between a boy and a priest who 
was preparing to celebrate mass led to a terrible riot. 
The altar, the images, and all the ornaments of t lie 
church were torn down and trampled under foot ; nor did 
the “rascall multitude,” as Knox called them, stop till 
the 1 louses of the Gray and Black Friars and the Car- 
thusian Monastery were laid in ruins. Treating this 
tumult as a designed rebellion, the regent advanced upon 
Perth with a large force, but finding the Protestants pre- 
pared to resist, made an accommodation. Henceforth 
t lie latter came to be distinguished as the Congregation, 
and their leaders as the lords of the Congregation. Ru- 
der the advice of Knox, they reformed the worship 
wherever their power extended, and the iconodasm of 
Perth was repeated at St. Andrew’s and many other parts 
of the kingdom, not, however, by a riotous proceeding, 
but by the harmonious action of the authorities and the 
people. The briefest and best defence of this course is 
the reformer’s pithy saying, that “the rookeries were 
demolished that the rooks might not return.” The con- 
test between the two parties went on for a year, during 
part of which Knox prosecuted a flaming evangelism in 
the southern and eastern counties, while at other times 
he acted as chief agent in securing foreign help for his 
oppressed countrymen. In this occurred the only seri- 
ous blot on his fair fame. lie wrote to the English 
governor of Berwick that England might send troops to 
their aid, and then, to escape reproach from France, 
might disown, them as rebels. The rebuke which he 
received from Sir James Croft was well deserved. The 
civil war was at length terminated hv the entrance of 
an English army, which invested Edinburgh, and by the 
death of the queen regent. These events led to a truce, 


KNOX 139 KNOX 


and the calling of a free Parliament to settle religious 
differences. 

This body met in August, 1560, and, carrying out what 
was undoubtedly the wish of the greater part of the 
people, established the Reformed religion, and interdict- 
ed bv law any performance of Roman Catholic worship. 
In all this Knox was not only an active agent, but the 
agent above all others. The Confession of Faith and 
the First llook of Discipline both bear the impress of his 
mind. Thus a great step was taken, from which there 
never afterwards was any serious recession. Knox did 
not attain all that he desired, especially in respect to the 
provision, for the support of the Church and of educa- 
tion throughout the country. Still he accomplished a 
radical work, of which all that followed was only the 
expansion and consolidation. The arrival in the next 
year (1561) of the youthful queen Mary, who had high 
notions of prerogative, as well as an ardent attachment 
to Komanism, occasioned new dilhculties, in which Knox, 
as minister in the metropolis, was actively engaged. lie 
had prolonged interviews with her, in which she exert- 
ed all her wiles to win him to her side, but in vain, lie 
was always uncompromising, and once drove her into 
tears, for which he has often been censured ; but his own 
statement to Mary at the time was that he took no de- 
light in any one’s distress, that he could hardly bear to 
see his own boys weep when corrected for their faults, 
but that, since lie had only discharged his duty, he was 
constrained, though unwillingly, to sustain her majesty’s 
tears rather than hurt his conscience and betray the 
commonwealth through his silence. Meanwhile his ac- 
tivity in the pulpit was unabated. In the Church of 
St. Giles, where sometimes as many as three thousand 
hearers were gathered, he preached twice on Sundays, 
and thrice gn other days of the week. To these were 
added other services in the surrounding country. The 
effect of these prodigious labors was immense, as we 
learn from what the English ambassador wrote to Cecil : 
“ Where your honor exhortetli us to stoutness, I assure 
you the voice of one man is able in an hour to put more 
life in us than six hundred trumpets continually blus- 
tering in our ears.” The vehemence, however, of his 
public discourses offended some of bis friends, and bis 
unyielding opposition to the court led to his alienation 
from the more moderate party who tried to govern the 
country in the queen’s name; so that from 1563 to 1565 
he retired into comparative privacy, but he continued 
his labors in the pulpit and in the assembly of the kirk. 
The rapid scries of events which followed Mary’s mar- 
riage with Darnley in July, 1565, the murder of Iiizzio 
in the next year, the murder of Darnley in 1567, and 
the queen’s marriage with Both well, brought Knox again 
to the front. Mary was compelled to abdicate in favor 
of her son, and Murray, Aug. 1567, became regent. Fur- 
ther reforms were effected by the Parliament of 1567. 
The sovereign was bound to be a ITotestant, and some 
better provision was made for the support of the clergy. 
Knox and Murray were in complete accord, and the af- 
fairs of religion seemed so settled that the former deem- 
ed his work done, and thought of retiring to Geneva to 
end his days in peace. But in 1570 Murray was as- 
sassinated. Knox shared in the general grief, and this 
event, with the confusions that followed, led to a stroke 
of apoplexy, which affected his speech considerably, lie 
recovered in part, and was able to resume preaching, 
but misunderstandings sprang up between him and the 
nobles, and even some of his brethren in the General 
Assembly, llis life having been threatened, he, in 1571, 
by the advice of his friends, who feared bloodshed, re- 
tired to St. Andrew’s, where he preached with all his for- 
mer vigor, although unable to walk to the pulpit with- 
out assistance. In the latter part of 1572 he was re- 
called to Edinburgh, and came back to die, “ weary of 
• the world,” and “ thirsting to depart.” One of his last 
public services was an indignant denunciation of the in- 
human massacre of St. Bartholomew’s. On the 24tli of 
November he quietly fell asleep, not so much oppressed 


with years as worn out by bis incessant and extraordi- 
nary labors of body and mind. In an interview with 
the session of his Church a few days before, he solemnly 
protested the sincerity of his course. Many had com- 
plained of liis severity, but God knew that his mind was 
void of hatred to those against whom lie had thundered 
the severest judgments, and his only object was to gain 
them to the Lord. He had never made merchandise of 
God’s word, nor studied to please men, nor indulged his 
own or others’ private passions, but had faithfully used 
whatever talent was given to him for the edification of 
the Church. 

IV. Ilis Character . — Knox was a man of small stat- 
ure, and of a weakly habit of body, but he had a vigor- 
ous miiul and an unconquerable will. Firmness and 
decision characterized his entire course. Ilis piety was 
deep and fervent, and the zeal which consumed him 
never knew abatement. Yet it was not unintelligent, 
lie was well educated for his time, and always endeav- 
ored to increase his knowledge, even in middle life seiz- 
ing his first opportunity to learn Hebrew. An inward 
conviction of eternal realities inspired him with a bold 
and fervid eloquence which often held thousands of his 
countrymen as if under a spell. In dealing with men, 
lie was shrewd and penetrating to the last degree. No 
outward show or conventional pretence deceived him. 
Whether he encountered queens, nobles, or peasants, lie 
went straight to the heart of things, and insisted upon 
absolute reality. Ilis mind was not of a reflective or 
speculative cast, and liis writings, which are not few, 
have at this day mainly an antiquarian interest. His 
earnestness was all in a practical direction, as, indeed, 
his life was one long conflict from his flight horn St. 
Andrew’s in 1542 until his return thither in 1571. His 
language was such as became his thought — simple, 
homely, and direct. “ lie had learned,” as he once said 
in the pulpit, “plainly and boldly to call wickedness by 
its own terms, a flg a fig, and a spade a spade.” Nor 
did be ever quail. Nothing daunted him; liis spirit 
rose high in the midst of danger. The day his body 
was laid in the grave, the regent Morton said truly, 
“ There lies he who never feared the face of man.” Just 
such a man was needed for the work to which Provi- 
dence called him. To lay the axe to the root of the 
tree and warn a generation of vipers requires one stern 
as Elijah, vehement as John the Baptist. It has been 
asked if the work would not have been done better bad 
the spirit of love and moderation, as well as of power, 
presided over it; the answer is that, considering the 
character of the times and the people, in that case per- 
haps the thing would not have been done at all. But 
it was done, thoroughly done, and more effectually than 
in any other country in Europe. The First Book of 
Discipline required a school in every parish, a college in 
every “notable town,” and three universities in the 
kingdom. The burst of Carlyle ( Essay on Sir Walter 
Scott ) is well deserved: “Honor to all the brave and 
true; everlasting honor to brave old Knox, one of the 
truest of the true! That, in the moment while lie and 
his cause, amid civil broils, in convulsion and confusion, 
were still but struggling for life, he sent the schoolmas- 
ter forth into all corners, and said, ‘ Let the people bo 
taught;’ this is but one, and, indeed, an inevitable and 
comparatively inconsiderable item in his great message 
to men. His message in its true compass was, Let men 
know that they are men ; created by God, responsible 
to God; who work in any meanest moment of time 
what will last through eternity. This great message 
Knox did deliver with a man’s voice and strength, and 
found a people to believe him .... The Scotch na- 
tional character originates in many circumstances ; first 
of all, iii t lie Saxon stuff there was to work on; but 
next, and beyond all else except that, in the Presbyte- 
rian Gospel of John Knox.” 

Says Cunningham ( Church Hist, of Scotland [Edinb. 
1859, *2 vols. Svo], i, 407 sq.), “ Knox was not perfect, as 
no man is. He was coarse, fierce, dictatorial ; but he had 


KXOX 


140 


KNUTZEX 


great redeeming qualities — qualities which are seldom 
found in sue!) stormy, changeful periods as that in which 
lie lived, lie was consistent, sincere, unselfish. From 
first to last he pursued the same straight, unswerving 
course, turning neither to the right hand nor to the left; 
firm amid continual vicissitudes; and if he could have 
burned and disembowelled unhappy Papists, he would 
have done it with the fullest conviction that he was do- 
ing God sendee, lie hated l'opcry with a perfect ha- 
tred ; and regarding Mary and her mother as its chief 
personations in the land, he followed them through life 
with a rancor which was all the more deadly because it 
was rooted in religion. He was, perhaps, fond of power 
and popularity, but he gained them by no mean compli- 
ances. On a question of principle he would quarrel with 
the highest, and, having quarreled, he would not hesi- 
tate to vilify them to their face. Mis hands were clean 
of bribes. He did not grow rich by the spoils of the 
Reformation. He was content to live and die the min- 
ister of St. Giles’s. Is not such a one, rough and bear- 
ish though he be, more to be venerated than the supple, 
time-serving Churchmen who were the tools of the Eng- 
lish Reformation? Does he not stand out in pleasing 
relief from the grasping barons with whom he was as- 
sociated, who hated monks because they coveted their 
corn-fields, and afterwards disgraced the religion they 
professed by their feuds, their conspiracies, and cold- 
blooded assassinations ?” But perhaps the greatest trib- 
ute that has ever been paid to the memory of John 
Knox has of late been penned by Froude (7 list, of Eng- 
land, x, 457 sq.). Frequently the charge of fanaticism 
has been laid at the door of the great Scottish reformer; 
this Froude unhesitatingly refutes, and assures ns that 
it was only against Popery, the system that enslaves 
both the Church and the State, that he fought. “ He 
was no narrow fanatic who, in a world in which God’s 
grace was equally visible in a thousand creeds, could see 
truth and goodness nowhere but in bis own formula. 
He was a large, noble, generous man, with a shrewd 
perception of actual fact, who found himself face to face 
with a system of hideous iniquity. He believed him- 
self a prophet, with a direct, commission from heaven to 
overthrow it, and his return to Scotland became the sig- 
nal, therefore, for the renewal of the struggle.” 

V. lForfo and Literatui'e. — Besides the Geneva Bible 
and occasional pamphlets, John Knox wrote, History of 
the Reformation of Religion within the Realm of Scot- 
land from 1422 to I5G7 (Loud. 1044, folio; Edinb. 1732, 
folio), llis 1 Vorks have been collected and edited by 
Duv. Laing (Edinb. 1 s 16, 8vo). See 3PCrie, Life of 
John Knox (Edinb. 1814, and often since); Ch. Nic- 
meyer, Knox Leben (Lpz. 1824, 8vo); T. Braudes, Life 
of John Knox (London, 1803) ; llctherington, llist. of 
Ch. of Scotland ; Burton, Hist, of Scotland, particularly 
ch. xxxviii; Tytlcr, I list, of Scotland, vols. vi and vii; 
Hardwick, Hist, of the Reformation, p. 142 sq. ; Russell, 
Ch. in Scotland; llallam, Const. Hist. Engl, i, 140, note, 
171, 280; iii, 210; Froude, Hist, of Engl. vols. ir, v, vi, 
vii, ix, and x. and his Studies on great Subjects, series i 
and ii ; Edinb. Rev. xcv, 236 sq. ; Westminster Rev. xli, 37 
sq. ; London Qu. Rev. ix, 418 sep ; Ixxxv, 148 sq. ; Meth. 
(pi. Rev. ii, 325 sq. ; Edinb. Rev. July, 1853. (TAV. C.) 

Knox, John (2), D.D., an American divine of the 
Reformed (Dutch) Church, was horn in 1700 near Gct- 
tysbiirgh. Pa., graduated at Dickinson College in 1811, 
studied theology under Dr. John 31. Mason in New 
York, was licensed to preach by the Associate Reformed 
Presbytery of Philadelphia in 1815, became pastor of 
the Collegiate Reformed Dutch Church, New York, in 
1816, and remained there until his death in 1858. This 
brief chronological record covers the life and ministry 
of one of the most eminent and useful of American pas- 
tors. Without the. rare gift of popular eloquence, lie 
was remarkable for clearness of thought and purity of 
diction, for comprehensive and instructive discourses, 
and fur practical usefulness. The best designation of 
bis character is that of its completeness, lie was a ju- 


dicious counsellor, a safe guide, a devout believer, and 
a model pastor, hi the ecclesiastical assemblies of the 
Church lie was often a conspicuous leader. In the 
American Tract Society, with which he was for many 
years closely identified as a member of its executive 
committee, he did much to shape the policy and direct 
the publications of that grand catholic institution, lie 
was active in many other public charities of the coun- 
try. Dr. Knox published a number of occasioned ser- 
mons, among which, those on “ Parental Responsibility” 
and on “ Parental Solicitude” arc worthy of particular 
notice. He was also the author of several useful tracts 
and addresses, and was a frequent contributor to the re- 
ligious newspapers, lie was, in respect of piety, a very 
Barnabas, “a son of consolation,” “full of faith and of 
the lloty Ghost.” — Memorial Sermon, by Dr. Thomas 
De Witt ; Sprague, A nnals, vol. ix. (W. J. R. T.) 

Knox, Vicesimus, D.D., a distinguished English 
writer and divine, born at Newington Green, Middlesex, 
Dec. 8, 1752, was a son of the Rev. Vicesimus Knox, 
LLB., fellow of St. John’s College, Oxford, and head 
master of Merchant Taylors’ School, London. Young 
Vicesimus Knox was also educated .at St.John’s College, 
Oxford, and in 1778 was elected master of Tunbridge 
School, Kent, where he remained some thirty-three 
years, and was then succeeded by his eldest son. He 
was also rector of Rumwcll and Ramsden Grays, in Es- 
sex, and minister of the cliapelry of Sliipbourne, in 
Kent. In the latter part of his life he resided in Lon- 
don. lie was much admired as a preacher, and fre- 
quently gave his aid in behalf of public charities by de- 
livering a sermon. lie died while on a visit to his son 
at Tunbridge, Sept. 6, 1821. Dr. Knox’s chief theolog- 
ical works were: 1. Essays , Moral and Literary (Lond. 
1777, 12mo, anonymously ; republished in 1778, with 
additional essays, in 2 vols. 12mo: many additions have 
been since published) : — 2. Liberal Education, or a prac- 
tical Ti'eutise on the Methods of acquiring useful and po- 
lite Learning (1781, 8vo; enlarged in 1785 to 2 vols. 
8vo) : this work was chiefly intended to point out the 
defects of the system of education in the English uni- 
versities, and is said to have had some effect in produ- 
cing a reformation: — 3. Sermons intended to promote 
Faith, Hope , and Charity (1702, 8vo): — 4. Christian 
Philosophy , or an Attempt to display the Evidence and 
Excellence of Revealed Religion (1795, 2 vols. 12mo) : — 
5. Considerations on the Nature and Efficacy of the 
Lord's Supper (1709, 12mo). He also published occa- 
sional sermons and pamphlets. Dr. Knox’s writings 
were once much esteemed, llis style has considerable 
neatness and elegance, but he has little originality or 
power of thought, and his popularity has for some years 
been gradually decreasing. They have been reprinted 
under the style lForfe (Lond. 1824, 7 vols. 8vo). — Engl. 
Cyclop, s. v.; Allibone, Diet, of English and American 
A uthors , vol. ii, s. v. 

Knutzen, Martin, a German writer and philoso- 
pher of the Leibnitz-Wolfian school, was born in Kbnigs- 
j berg. Prussia, in 1713, and held a professorship of phi- 
losophy in the university of his native place. He died 
there in 1751. llis most important work is Yon der im - 
materiellen Natur d. Seele (Frankfort, 1744, Svo). See 
Krug, Philosoph. Worterb. ii, G27. 

Knutzen, Matthias, a noted German atheist, 
was born at Oldcnsworth, in Schleswig-Holstein, in the 
early part of the 17th century, and was educated at 
Konigshcrg and Jena Universities, lie was the founder 
of the Conscicntiarians , advocating the doctrine that 
j reason and conscience are sufficient to guide all men ; 
besides conscience, he asserted there is no other God, no 
other religion, no other lawful magistracy. He gave 
the substance of his system in a short letter (preserved 
in the edition of Micnvlii syntagma historic ecclesiasti- 
cs [1699]), dated from Rome, the contents of which 
may be reduced to the following heads : “First, there is 
neither a God nor a devil ; secondly, magistrates are not 


KOA 


141 


KOEBERGEI 


to be valued, churches are to be despised, and priests 
rejeeted ; thirdly, instead of magistrates and priests, we 
have learning and reason, which, joined with conscience, 
teaeli us to live honestly, to hurt no man, and to give 
every one his due; fourthly, matrimony does not differ 
from fornication; fifthly, there is but one life, which is 
this, after which there are neither rewards nor punish- 
ments; the holy Scripture is inconsistent with itself.” 
Knutzen boasted of numerous followers in the principal 
cities of Europe; and, as lie prided himself in having 
found adherents to his doctrine at Jena, Prof. John Mu- 
sieus attacked and refuted him, mainly to dispel the im- 
pression which Knutzen had sought to make that Jena 
was likely to become a convert to his views, lie died 
about 1G78, or later. See Bayle, Hist. Diet. s. v. ; Gen. 
Biog. Diet. s. v.; Rossel, in Stud, und Krit. 1844; Ilall, 
Encyklop. vol. lxvi. (J. 1I.W.) 

Ko'a (lleb. id. 2 ’ip, Sept. 'Yyoue v. r. KoAS', Koude, 
Aovc ; Yulg. principes'), a word that occurs but onee, in 
the prophetic denunciations of punishment to the Jewish 
people from the various nations whose idolatries they 
had adopted : “The Babylonians and all the Chaldteans, 
Pckod, and Slioa, and Koa, and all the Assyrians with 
them : all of them desirable young men, captains and 
riders, great lords and renowned; all of them riding upon 
horses” (Ezek. xxiii, 23). The Sept., Symmacluis, The- 
odotion, Targums, Peshito, and Engl. Vers., followed by 
many interpreters, regard it as a proper name of some 
province or place in the Babylonian empire : but none 
such has been found, and the evident paronomasia with 
the preceding term in the same verse suggests a sym- 
bolical signification as an appellative, which appears to 
be furnished by the kindred Arabic kua , the designation 
of a lie-camel or stallion for breeding (a figure in keep- 
ing with the allusions in the context to gross lewdness, 
as a type of idolatry), and hence tropically a prince or 
noble. This is the sense defended by J. D. Michaelis 
(Suppl. 2175), after Jerome and the lleb. interpreters, 
and adopted by Gesenius ( Thesaur . lleb. p. 1207). See 
Siioa; Pekod. 

Koach. See Chameleon. 

Kobavius, Andreas, a noted Jesuit, was born at 
Cirkwitz in 1594, and died at Trieste Feb. 22, 1G44. Of 
his personal history nothing further seems to be known. 
He wrote Vita B.Johannis fundatons fratrum miseri - 
cordite. — Allgem. Histor. Lex. iii, 43. 

Kobler, John, an early Methodist Episcopal minis- 
ter, was born in Culpepper Co.,Va., Aug. 29, 17G8; was 
converted in 1787 ; entered the itinerancy in 1789; vol- 
unteered as missionary to the North-western Territory, 
and for eighteen years labored with great success in that 
vast and varied field. In 1809 his health obliged him 
to locate, but he labored as his strength permitted till 
his death. In 1839 the Baltimore Conference, unsolicit- 
ed, placed his name on its list as a superannuate. The 
remainder of his life was spent with great usefulness at 
Fredericksburg, Va., where he died July 2G, 1843, full of 
years and honored labors. — Minutes of Con f. iii, 4G5. 

Kobudai’si, a celebrated Buddhist pilgrim of Ja- 
pan, was born in the year 774. In early youth he be- 
gan studying the Chinese and Japanese writers, and. in 
order to have more time to indulge in his studies, he 
embraced religious life at the age of twenty. Having 
become high-priest, he accompanied a Japanese ambas- 
sador to China in 804, to study more thoroughly the 
doctrines of Chakia. A learned Indian named Azari 
gave him the information he desired, and presented him 
with the books he had himself collected in his pilgrim- 
ages. Another hermit of northern Hindustan gave him 
also a work he had translated from the Sanscrit, and 
several MSS. on religious subjects. With these lvobu- 
daisi returned to Japan in 80G, where, by his preaching 
and miracles, he succeeded in converting the religious 
emperor of Japan, who embraced Indian Buddhism, and 
was baptized according to the rite of Chakia. Encour- 


aged by his success, Kobuda’isi published a number of 
ascetic works, and a treatise in which he exposed the 
fundamental dogmas of Buddhism. According to Ko- 
buda'isi, the four scourges of humanity are hell, women, 
bad men, and war. There is no end to the number of 
miracles he is said to have wrought, or to the number 
of pagodas he caused to be built. He also caused the 
foundation of three chairs of theology for the interpre- 
tation of the sacred writings. He died in 835. See Tit- 
Sing, Biblioth'eque Japonaise ; Abel Remusat, Nouveaux 
Melanges Asiatiques; Hoefer, A oar. Biog. Gener. xxvii, 
935. (J.N.P.) 

Koburg. See Saxony. 

Koch, Henry, a pioneer minister of the German Re- 
formed Church in Western Pennsylvania, was born in 
Northampton Co., Pa., in 1795; pursued his theological 
studies with Rev. Dr. Becker, of Baltimore, Md.; was 
licensed and ordained in 1819, and settled in what is now 
Clarion Co., Pa. He died August 7, 1845. lie laid the 
foundations of numerous congregations. Five charges 
have grown up on his field, which constitute the heart 
of what is now Clarion Classis. His memory is blessed. 

Koch, John Henry, a German Methodist minis- 
ter, was born of Lutheran parentage in Wollmar, elec- 
torate of Hessen, Germany, Feb. 14,1807, and emigrated 
in 1834 to this country. At New Orleans, La., he was 
attacked with yellow fever, and resolved on his sick-bed 
to serve God with his whole heart, lie removed after- 
wards to Cincinnati, where brother Nuelson invited him 
to attend the meetings of German Methodists, and*Uiere, 
under the preaching of father Schmueker and Dr. Wil- 
liam Nast, he was awakened and converted. He was 
licensed to preach in 1841, and in 1845 joined the Ken- 
tucky Conference. He was successively appointed to 
the following charges: West Union, Pomeroy, Captina, 
in Ohio ; Wheeling, W. Va. ; Portsmouth, Madison, New 
Albany, Mount Vernon, Ind. ; Louisville, Ky. ; Madison 
Street, LawrencebnrghjBatesville, Poland and Greeneas- 
tle, La Fayette and Bradford. His health failing, he re- 
tired from the effective service, but re-entered the ac- 
tive work three years later, and served two years at 
Madison and one year at Charlestown, Ind., where he 
died Oct. 1, 1871. “ Brother Koch was an earnest Chris- 
tian and a faithful itinerant. Many were converted un- 
tler his ministry, and great is his reward in heaven.” — 
Minutes of Conferences , 1871, p. 227. 

Kochanowski, John, a Polish nobleman and dis- 
tinguished poet, who was born in 1532, and died in 1584, 
deserves our notice for his translation of the Psalms into 
Polish verse, which he performed in so masterly a man- 
ner that he was surnamed the “ Pindar of Poland.” See 
Bentkowski, History of Polish Literature (see Index). 

Kochberg, Johannes, a German theologian and 
descendant of a noble family, flourished in the early part 
of the second half of the 14th century. He was in high 
position at the eon vent St. Michael, at Jena, about 13GG. 
— A llgem. Histor. Lex. iii, 43. 

Kocher, Johann CiiniSTorir, D.D., a German the- 
ologian, was born at Lobenstein April 23, 1G99. lie was 
successively rector of the gymnasium at Osnabriick, su- 
perintendent at Brunswick, and professor of theology at 
Jena, and died there Sept. 21, 1772. He published a 
continuation of Wolfs Curtc Philologicce , under the title 
Analecta Philologica et Excgetica in Quatuor Evangelia 
(Altenburg, 17GG, 4to). “It supplies,” says Orme, “ some 
of the desiderata of Wolfs work, and brings down the 
account of the sentiments of the modern writers on the 
Gospels to the period of its publication” ( Biblioth . Bib. p. 
27G). For a list of all his works, see During, Gelehrte 
Theol. Deutschlands, ii, 147 sq. 

Kodashim. See Talmud. 

Koeberger, Wenceslaus, a noted Flemish painter 
and architect, was born in Antwerp about 1550; studied 
in his native city, and later at Borne ; and died either 
in 1610 or in 1G34. He selected ehiefly religious sub- 


KOFFLEI 


142 


KOIIEN 


jects, and among his best paintings are “ tlic Martyrdom ! the tables of show-bread, tlic golden altar, etc. (Numb, 
of Saint Sebastian,” and “ Christ taken from the Cross iv) ; but they were not to touch them or look upon 


and supported by Angels.” See Descamps, I T ies des Pein- 
ires Flamands , etc, 


them “lest they die.” These were all previously eov- 
I ered by the priests, the sons of Aaron. In the reign of 


Koffler, John, 


a Roman Catholic missionary to I Hezekiah the Kohathites are mentioned first (2 Chron. 


Cochin China. We have no details of his life until af- 
ter he departed for that country in 1740. He remained 


xxix, 1*2), as they are also 1 Chron. xv, 5-7, 11, when 
Uriel their chief assisted, with 120 of his brethren, in 


there fourteen years, ami, being made physician to the bringing up the ark to Jerusalem in the time of David. 


king, availed himself of this position to further his mis- 
sionary purposes. The persecution of the Christians in 
China led, however, to similar measures in Cochin Chi- 
na, and, with the exception of Koffler, whom the king 
prized highly on account of his medical knowledge, all 
the missionaries were arrested and shipped to Macao 
Aug. 27, 1750. The same fate also overtook Koffler in 
1755. Arriving at Macao, lie was arrested, and sent 
with his colleagues to Portugal, where they were im- 
prisoned as having encroached upon the monopoly 
granted to the Portuguese government by the Iloly See, 
and which it claimed gave that nation the exclusive 
right of evangelizing the East Indies. Koffler was 
finally released through the intervention of the empress 
Maria Theresa in 1765, and was sent on a mission to 
Transylvania, where he labored until his death in 1780. 
While in prison he wrote a memoir of his travels, which 
was published by Eekart, and reprinted by De Murr, 
under the title, Joannis Koffler historica Cochincliinm J 
Descriptio in epitome redcieta ab J. F. Eekart, edente De 
Murr (1805, 8vo). See Migne, Biop. Chretienne ft A n- 
tieliretienne ; De Monteron et Esteve, Mission de la Co- 
chinchine et du Tonkin , 1858. — Iloefer, Four. Biop, Gen. 
xxvii, 28. (J.N.P.) 

Kcgler, Ignaz, a Jesuit German missionary to Chi- 
na, was born at Landsberg, Bavaria, in 1G80, entered 
the order of Jesuits in 1G96, prepared for missionary 
work in 1715, and departed the year following for Chi- 
na, where he enjoyed the favor of the emperor in a re- 
markable degree. Kogler was master of the sciences, 
and especially in astronomy displayed superior acquisi- 
tion. He died in Pekin in 1746. — Hoefer, Xonv. Biopr. I 
Generate , xxvii, 959. 

Ko'hath (Ileb. Kohath', assembly , Numb, iii, 

19, 29; iv, 2, 4, 15; vii, 9; xvi. 1 ; oftener Kehath', 

Gen. xlvi, 11; Exod. vi, 1G, 18; Numb, iii, 17, 27 ; xxvi, 
57, 58; Josh, xxi, 5, 20, 2G; 1 Chron. vi, 1, 2, 1G, 18, 22, 
88, G1,GG, 70; xv, 5; xxiii, G, 12; Sept. KaoS 1 , but kd3 
in Gen. xlvi, 11), the second son of Levi, and father of 
Amrain, Izh a r, Hebron, and Uzziel (Gen. xlvi, 1 1 ; Numb, 
iii, 19. etc.). B.C. 1873. The descendants of Kohath 
formed one of the three great divisions of the Levitical 
tribe. This division contained the priestly family which 
was descended from Aaron, the son of Amram. In the 
service of the tabernacle, as settled in the wilderness, 
they had the distinguished charge of bearing the ark 
and the sacred vessels (Exod. vi, 1G; Numb, iv, 4-G). See 
Kohathite. 

Ko'hathite (collective Kohathi', Numb, 

iii, 27, 80; iv, 18,34,37; x,2l , xxvi, 57; 2 Chron. xxxiv, 
12; or " i rnp, Kehathi ', Josh, xxi, 4, 10; 1 Chron. vi, 
33,54; ix, 32 ; 2 Chron. xx, 19 ; xxix, 12; Sept. 

Auth. Vers. “ Kohathites”), the descendants of Koiiatii, 
the second of the three sons of Levi (Gersbon, Kohath. 


It is also remarkable that in this last list of those whom 
David calls “chief of the fathers of the Levites,” and 
couples with “Zadok and Abiathar the priests,” of six 
who are mentioned by name four are descendants of 
Kohath, viz., besides Uric], Shemaiah, the son of Elza- 
phan, with 200 of his brethren*, Eliel, the soil of He- 
bron, with 80 of liis brethren ; and Amminadab, the son 
of Uzziel, with 112 of his brethren. For it appears from 
Exod. vi, 18-22, comp, with 1 Chron. xxiii, 12, and xxvi, 
23-32, that there were four families of sons of Kohath — 
Amramites, Izharites, Hebronites, and Uzzielites; and 
of the above names Elzaphan and Amminadab were 
both Uzzielites (Exod. vi, 22), and Eliel a Ilebronite. 
The verses already cited from 1 Chron. xxvi ; Numb, iii, 
19, 27; 1 Chron. xxiii, 12, also disclose the wealth and 
importance of the Kohathites, and the important offiees 
tilled by them as keepers of the dedicated treasures, as 
judges, officers, and rulers, both secular and sacred. In 
2 Chron. xx, 19 they appear as singers, with the Kor- 
hites. 

The number of the sons of Kohath between the ages 
of thirty and fifty, at the first census in the wilderness, 
was 2750, and the whole number of males from a month 
old was 8G00 (Numb, iii, 28; iv, 8G). Their number is 
not given at the second numbering (Numb. xxvi. 57), 
but the whole number of Levites had increased by 1300, 
viz. from 22,000 to 23,300 (Numb, iii, 39; xxvi,*G2). 
The place of the sons of Kohath in marching and en- 
campment was south of the tabernacle (Numb. iii. 29), 
which was also the situation of the Reubenites. Samuel 
was a Kohathite, and so of course were bis descendants, 
Ileman the singer and the third division of the singers 
which was under him. See IIeman; Asaph; Jedu- 
tiiux. The inheritance of those sons of Kohath who 
were not priests lay in the half tribe of Manasseh, in 
Ephraim (1 Chron. vi, 61-70), and in Dan (Josh, xxi, 5, 
20-2G). Of the personal history of Kohath we know 
nothing, except that he came down to Egypt with Levi 
and Jacob (Gen. xlvi, 11), that his sister was Jochcbed 
(Exod. vi, 20), and that he lived to the age of 133 years 
(Exod. vi, 18). He lived about eighty or ninety years 
in Egypt during Joseph’s lifetime, and about thirty 
I more after his death. He may have been some twenty 
years younger than Joseph his uncle. A full table of 
the descendants of Kohath may be seen in Rurrington’s 
Genealopies, Tab. X, No. 1. — Smith. See Levite. 

Koheletli. See Ecclesiastes. 

Koiien, Naphthali, a great Cabalistic rabbi, “a 
man whose life was full of incidents which would give 
a biography of him the air of a romance,” was horn 
at Ostrow, in the Ukraine, Poland, about 1GG0. While 
yet a youth he was carried off by some Cossacks into 
the wilds of Poland, and for several years there follow- 
ed the employments of a hunter and a shepherd. He 
learned to excel in horsemanship and archery, in which 


Merari), from whom the three principal divisions of the he took great delight all his after life. At length he 
Levites derived their origin and their name (Gen. xlvi, I succeeded in making his escape from the Tartars, and 


11 ; Exod. vi, 1G, 18 ; Numb, iii, 17 ; 2 Chron. xxxiv. 12, 
e tc.). Kohath was the father of Amram, and he of Mo- 
ses and Aaron. From him, therefore, were descended 
all the priests; and hence those of the Kohathites who 
were not priests were of the highest rank of the Levites, 
though not the sons of Levi's first-born. Korah. the. son 
of lzhar, was a Kohathite, and hence, perhaps, his im- 
patience of the superiority of bis relatives, MoSes and 
Aaron. In the journeyiugs of the tabernacle the sons 
of Kohath had charge of the most holy portions of the 
vessels, to carry them by staves, as the vail, the ark, 


travelled in Poland. Here new impulses stirred with- 
in him, and his naturally vigorous mental powers were 
roused to earnest efforts after learning. He made rapid 
progress in the study of the Talmud and Cabala, was 
ordained rabbi, and subsequently elected chief rabbi at 
Posen. He studied the Cabala profoundly, and was at 
once admired and feared for his supposed ability to com- 
mand the intervention of the supernatural powers. But 
in 1711, while he was in charge of the Hebrew congre- 
gations at Frankfort -on-the-Maine, where, as in Poland, 
he enjoyed for a time a high reputatiou as an expound- 


KOHEN 


143 


KOHLREIF 


cr of the law and a Cabalistic hierophant, there occurred 
a frightful conflagration, in which all the .Jewish quar- 
ter was burned to ashes. In this woful calamity Kohen, 
as a potent Cabalist, was called upon by the distracted 
people to bring into exercise those supernatural re- 
sources which lie professed to command, in order to 
stay the progress of the liery flood. lie was weak 
enough to make the trial. Of eourse he utterly failed. 
This exposure, combined with the circumstance that the 
fire had first broken out in his own house, turned the 
popular feeling of the Jews against him, and Rabbi 
Naphthali Kohen was once more obliged “to grasp the 
wandering staff,” and begin the world anew. He now 
bent his steps towards the place of his birth, and ended 
his days in connection with the synagogue at Ostrow. 
Kohen was quite a poet, and wrote several hymns and 
anthems which have become the common property of 
the synagogue and the Jewish people. Many curious 
notices of him may be found in the Jiidisehe Merkwiir- 
digkeiten of Johann Jacob Sclnult. See Gratz, Gesch.d . 
Juden , x, 3 18 sq. ; see also Etheridge, Int rod. to Hebrew 
Literature , p. 445 sq. (J. II. \V.) 

Kohen, Nehemiah, a noted Jewish fanatic, who 
flourished in Poland iirthe second half of the 17th cen- 
tury, and pretended to be a prophet or precursor of the 
Messiah, was a rival of the celebrated Sabbathai Zewi, 
who claimed about the same time to be the veritable 
Messiah so long looked for by his people. Invited by 
Sabbathai to visit him, Nehemiah quieklv set out for 
Abvdos, and was immediately upon arrival admitted to 
an audience which lasted some three days. The rival- 
ry which, on account of their peculiar profession, natu- 
rally existed between the two pretenders, made each fear 
for his life from the other, and, as Sabbathai had actually 
hired several base fellows to assassinate Nehemiah, the 
latter fled to Adrianople. lie there embraced Moham- 
medanism, and revealed to the Turkish government the 
plottings of Sabbathai, and this course ultimately led 
to the accession of this pretended Messiah likewise to 
the fold of the prophet of Islam. See Gratz, Gesch. d. 
Juden , x, 24 1 sq. See Sabbathai. 

Kolien-Zedek, ben-Josepii, a noted Jewish rabbi, 
and head of the school at Pumbaditha, flourished from 
317 to 936. lie was one of the ablest presidents of this 
Jewish high-sehool, and labored earnestly, and for some 
time with considerable show of sueeess, to make it the 
first and best authority of Rabbinic learning. Sura 
Academy was several times worsted in the struggle, and 
Kohen -Zedek well-nigh sueeeeded in abolishing the 
exiliarehate which Sura possessed, but in 925 he was 
finally led to acknowledge David ben-Sakkai as exili- 
arch, and in turn secured Sura’s confirmation of his ga- 
onate at Pumbaditha. Kohen-Zedek died in 936. See 
Griitz, Gesch. d. Juden, v, 296 sq. 

Kohl, Johann Petek, a learned German, was born 
at Kiel March 10, 1698. In 1725 he was called to St. 
Petersburg to teach belles-lettres and eeelesiastical his- 
tory. Three years after he left that city because he be- 
came passionately in love with Elizabeth, daughter of 
Peter the Great, a passion which caused him to commit 
many extravagances. He retired first to Hamburg, af- 
terwards to Altona, where he passed the remainder of 
his life in study. He bequeathed his fine library, which 
contained some rare manuscripts, to the library of the 
gymnasium at Altona. He died October 9, 1778. 1 1 is 

works are, Theologize gentilis Cimbricrv pnrioris specimen 
(Kiel, 1723, 8vo): — Ecelesia Grzeca Lutherizans, sire ex- 
ercitatio de consensu ct dissensu oricntalis Grcecce speciatim 
Pussicce et occidentalis Luthermm ecclesice in dogmatibus 
(Llibeck, 1723, 8vo) : — Introductio in historiam et rem lit- 
erariam Slavorum in primis saeram , sire historia crit- 
ica versionum Slavonicarum maxime insignium, nimirum 
codicis saeri et Ephremi Syri; aecedunt duo sermones 
Ephremi,nondum editi,de S. Ccena Jidei Lutherance testes 
(Altona, 1729, 8vo). The conclusions of these two ser- 
mons ol saint Ephrem by Kohl have been refuted by Le 


Brun and Renaudot t also by an unknown person, who 
has published Antirufhicon, seu confutatio annotationum 
Kohlii ad >$'. Ephremi Sermones (Rome, 1840, 8vo) : — 
Delicice Epistoliccv,sire epistolarum argumenti non minus 
raritate quam orationis cultu insignium fasciculus, Ma- 
joragii,Grcevri,Bartholini , Schefferi uliorumque rirorum , 
cum prufutione de vita scriptisque Majoragii (Leipzig, 
1731, 8vo) : — De Epistolis a Jo. HeveUo partim, partim 
ad ipsuin scriptis adhuc ineditis — dissertations placed in 
the supplement of the Leipzig .4 eta Eruditorum, ix, 359. 
Kohl also intended to publish several works on the ec- 
clesiastical history of the Slavic nations, but the MSS. 
of only a few have been found. — Hoofer, Xouv. Eiog. Ge- 
nerate, xxvii, 30. 

Kohler, Christian and Jerome, two brothers 
who distinguished themselves among the enthusiasts of 
Berne in the middle of the 18th century, were natives 
of Briigglen. Ignorant and poor, Christian became a 
mechanic and Jerome a wagoner, and the3 r appear to 
have led very irregular lives until 1745, when they were 
converted in a revival then taking place in the country. 
They soon claimed to have dreams and visions in which 
Christ and other persons appeared to them, and they 
went about preaching and exhorting. They may at 
first have been sineere, but appear afterwards to have 
made popular eredulity a means of gain. They claimed 
to be the two witnesses spoken of in the book of Reve- 
lation, and made many followers. Among other things, 
they predicted the end of the world for Christmas, 1748, 
and afterwards renewed their prediction for later pe- 
riods. They pretended to be able to redeem souls out 
of purgatory, and thus swindled a great many persons. 
Finally, a price was set on their heads. On Oet. 8, 1752, 
Jerome was caught; he was brought to Berne, judged, 
and executed, Jan. 16, 1753. II is brother, in the mean 
time, was made prisoner at Neueburg, but of his subse- 
quent fate there is no record. Their principal disciple 
in Yiel, John Sahli, was condemned to death for contu- 
macy March 19, 1753; but their other followers were 
not much disturbed, and the sect died out slowly. See 
K vburg, Das cntdeckte Geheininiss d. Bosheit in cl. Briig- 
gler-Sekte (Zitr. 1753); Originalakten im Berner Staats- 
archir. ; Simler, Sammlung z. Kirchengesch. pt. i, p. 249 ; 
Meister, llelretische Scenen d. neuern Schwdrmerei u.In- 
toleranz (Zurich, 17851, p. 161; Sehlegel, Kirchengesch. 
d. 18 Jahrh. (pt. ii, Ileilbronn, 1788); Tillier, Gesch. cl. 
eidgcnossischen Ereistaates Bern (Berne, 1839), vol. v; 
Hagenbaeh, D. evangel. Protestant ism us in s. geschichtl. 
Enticickclung , iii, 193 sq. ; Wetzer und Welte, Kirchen - 
Lexikon, vi, 239. 

Kohler, Johann Bernhard, a German philo- 
sophical writer, was born at Liibeck Feb. 10, 1742, and 
was educated in the celebrated universities of Germany, 
France, and Holland. In 1781 he was appointed pro- 
fessor of the Greek and Oriental languages at the Uni- 
versity of Konigsberg. He died April 3, 1802, at Basle, 
Switzerland. Those of his works of special interest to 
us are, De Dote apvd reteres Ilcbrcvos nubentium (LUb. 
1757): — Observationes in Sacrum Codice?n,ex scriptori- 
bus ptrofanis (Gbtt. 1759) : — Obserr. in /Sacrum Codicem, 
maxime ex scriptoribus Greeds ct Arabicis (Lpzg. 1763 ; 
Leyd. 1765) : — Emcndationes in Dionis Chrysostomi Ora- 
tiones Parsicas (Gbtt. 1770, 4to). — Hoofer, Xouv. Biogr. 
Gencr. xxviii, 4; Neue Allgem. deutsche Biblioth. lxxii, 
339. 

Kohlreif, Gottfried, a German theologian, born 
at Strelitz Oet. 1 1, 1674, was the son of INI. C. Kohlreif, 
a noted preaeher at the court of the duke of Strelitz. 
Gottfried was educated at the University of Rostock, 
where he entered in 1692. Shortly after the opening 
of the University at Halle he went thither to attend 
lectures on philosophy, but returned, after a short stay 
at that place, and at Leipzig, Wittcmberg. and Berlin, 
to Rostock (1695). About 1699 he went to Hamburg, 
and resided there until 1701, when he beeame pastor of 
i a church at New Brandenburg; later lie removed to 


KOINONIA 


144 


IvOLLOCK 


Ratzeburg, where he died, August 13, 1750. Kohlreif 
wrote largely in the different departments of theological 
science, hut he has earned special credit by his contri- 
butions to Biblical chronology. II is most important 
works are, Chronologia Sacra (Hamburg, 1724, 8vo) : — 
Ch ronolofjia Uphratkon (hub. and Lpzg. 1732, 8vo) : — 
Gesch.d. Philister u. Moabiter (Katzeb. 1738, 8vo). A 
complete list of his writings is given by During, Ge - 
Ichrte Theol. Deutschlands, ii, 1G3 sq. 

Koinonia ( Koivunna ), the Greek word for commun- 
ion . was one of the names by which the early Church 
referred to the Lord’s Supper. See liiddle, Christian 
A ntiquities, p. 542 sq. See Communion. 

Kokabim. See Talmud. 

Koken, Joiiann Karl, a German theologian, was 
born at Ilildesheim June 9, 1711, and was educated at 
the universities of llelmstitdt and Gottingen. In 1740 
he accepted a call to Martin's Church, Ilildesheim, and 
in 175G became superintendent of the Ilildesheim church- 
es, In 1757 the theological faculty of Kinteln conferred 
on Koken the doctorate of theology. lie died March 
15, 1773. Besides a number of small but valuable con- 
tributions to practical religious literature, he wrote Vor - 
trefflichkeit d. christl. Religion (JUldesh. 1761, 4to; 1762, 
4to) : — Kern der Sittenlehre Jesuu. seiner A pastel (Brern. 
17GG-72, G vols. Svo). See During, Gelehrte Theologen 
Deutschlands , ii, 1G8 sq. 

Kolai'all (lleb. Kolayah l"PPp, voice of Jehovah ), 
the name of two men. 

1. (Sept. KooXeaq v. r. KuiXiag or Kw\ia£ ; Vnlg. Co- 
lias.') The father of Ahab, which latter was one of the 
false and immoral prophets severely denounced by Jer- 
emiah (Jer. xxix, 21). B.C. ante 594. 

2. (Sept. KwXau, Vulg. Colaja .) Son of Maasciah 
and father of Pedaiah, a Benjamite, and ancestor of Sal- 
lu, which last led back a party from Babylon (Neh. xi, 
7). B.C. much ante 53G. 

Kollar, J an, one of the most conspicuous Slavic 
poets and preachers, was born July 29, 1793, at Mosch- 
owze, in the north-west of Hungary, studied at Presburg 
and Jena, and in 1819 became pastor of a Protestant 
congregation at resth. lie wrote many poems of great 
literary value, and was one of the earliest and most zeal- 
ous advocates of Panslavism. In 1831 he published a 
volume of his sermons, Kazne (Pesth, 1831, 8 vo), which 
were found so eloquent that they were at once translated 
into several of the modern languages. The revolution 
in Hungary compelled him to abandon his country. He 
withdrew to Vienna, where he was made professor of 
archaeology in 1849, and died there Jan. 29, 1852. See 
For. Quart. Rev. April, 1828 ; Jungmann, Gesch. d. Bohm - 
ischen Litteratur; Chambers, Cyclop, s. v. 

Kolle, John, a German Methodist minister, was 
born at I >iUenhausen,Wnrtemberg, Germany, on the 19th 
of July, 1823 ; came to the United States Aug. 25, 1852 ; 
became acquainted with some intelligent and pious 
members of the Methodist Episcopal Church, and soon 
was led to a knowledge of his sins, and was enabled to 
realize by faith that Jesus was his Saviour. In 1857 he 
was licensed to preach, and in the spring of 1858 was 
sent to Cape Girardeau, and joined the Southern Illinois 
Conference. In 18G1 he was ordained a deacon, and 
sent to Benton Street, St. Louis, where he labored two 
years with great acceptability. In 1863 he was ordain- 
ed an elder, and sent to St. Charles, where he again la- 
bored successfully for two years. 1 1 is next appoint- 
ments were Manchester Mission, one year, and Union 
Mission, three years. After this he was sent to Boone- 
ville and Manito Mission, where lie labored till his course 
was finished on the 18th of March, 1870. “As a preach- 
er, Kolle was faithful and punctual. lie was a diligent 
student, and acquired a considerable amount of theolog- 
ical knowledge. In his preaching he was original and 
practical, and it was easy to perceive that he loved the 
souls of those to whom he ministered. 1 1 is motto was 


‘ Holiness to the Lord,’ and that in an especial sense, 
as he considered it to be his calling to bear the vessels 
of the Lord.” He contributed largely to the Christliche 
Apoloyete, the German organ of the M. E. Church. — 
Conference Minutes, 1871. 

Kollenbusch (also Collenbusch), Samuel, M.D., 
an eminent German pietist, and the founder of a theo- 
logical school, was born of pious parents in the town of 
Barmen (Rhenish Prussia), Sept. 1, 1724. lie hesitated 
long between theology and medicine, but finally decided 
for the latter, and studied at Duisburg and Strasburg. 
Through all his studies, however, he did not forget to 
attend to his spiritual improvement, and attained great 
Christian self-control and perfection. While studying 
at Strasburg he began to inquire into mysticism and 
alchemy, which were then considered as having a close 
connection with each other. Upon the completion of 
his university studies he began the practice of medicine 
at Duisburg, but in 1784 retired to Barmen, and there 
spent the remainder of his life, partly in the practice of 
medicine, partly in disseminating his peculiar religious 
views. He died Sept. 1, 1803. Dr. Kollenbusch can, in 
many respects, be considered entitled to a place between 
the mystic separatist Tersteegen (q. v.), born twenty- 
seven years before him, and Jung-Stilling (q. v.), sixteen 
years younger. Like the latter, he first inclined to Leib- 
nitz and Wolfs philosophical system, then became a 
Bengelian, though without approving all BengcTs views. 
He attached especial importance to the visions of Doro- 
theo Wuppermann, of Wiehlinghansen, a patient of his 
attacked with hysterics. Among the results of Dr. Kol- 
lenbusch’s practical activity are to be named the Bar- 
men Missionary Society, and the Barmen Mission estab- 
lishment. He wrote Erklarung biblischer Wahrheiten 
(Elberf. 1807) : — Goldene A epfel in silbernen Schalcn (Bar- 
men, 1854). See T. W. Krug, Die Lehre d.Dr.K., etc. 
(Elberfeld, 184G) ; same, Kritische Gesch. d. protest. -r dig. 
Schwarmerei, etc. (Elberfeld, 1851) ; Banr. Die Drcicinig - 
keitslehre , p. G55 sq.; Ilase, Dogmatik , p. 344 sq. ; Ila- 
genbach, Hist, of Doctrines, ii, § 300. 

Kollock, Henry, D.D., a Presbyterian minister, 
was born Dec. 14, 1778, at New Providence, Essex Coun- 
ty, N. J., and graduated at New Jersey College in 1794. 
Having devoted himself to study for the three succes- 
sive years, he was appointed tutor in his alma mater. 
In this position he distinguished himself for his skill in 
debate, passing his leisure hours in the study of theol- 
ogy. In 1800 he was licensed, and preached for five 
months at Princeton, where he also delivered a series of 
discourses on the life and character of St. Peter, which 
were remarkable for their brilliancy and attraction. On 
leaving Princeton he took charge of the Church at Eliz- 
abethtown, and was a zealous promoter of missions to 
the destitute regions in Morris and Sussex Counties. In 
1803 he returned to Princeton as pastor and professor, 
and in 180G accepted a call from the Independent Pres- 
byterian Church at Savannah, Ga., where his labors were 
abundant. He sailed for England in 1817, not only in 
quest of health, but also to collect materials for a life of 
John Calvin, and after an absence of eight months re- 
turned to Savannah, where he died, Dee. 29, 1819. A col- 
lection of his Sermons was published in 1822 (Savannah, 
4 vols. Svo). Dr. J. W. Alexander {Life of Dr. A rchi- 
bald A lexander , p. 359) pays Dr. Kollock a very high 
tribute as a scholar, and says of him as a preacher that 
lie was “ one of the most ornate yet vehement orators 
whom our country lias produced.” — Sprague, A nnals, iv, 
2G3 sq. See Cambridge General Repository, i, 135; Chris- 
tian Review , vol. xiv ; Kollock (S.K.), Biography of II. 
Kollock. 

Kollock, Shepard Kosciusko, a Presbyteri- 
an minister, and brother of the preceding, was born at 
Elizabeth, N. J., June 29. 1795; graduated with high 
honors from Princeton College when but sixteen years 
of age, and soon thereafter pursued a course in theology 
with the Kev. Dr. M ‘Dowell, and afterwards with his 


KOLONTAJ 


145 


KONIG 


brother, Rev. Dr. Henry Kollock. lie was licensed J une, 
1814, and preached with abundant success for three years 
in Georgia, when he was called in May, 1818, to Oxford, 
N. C., where he was ordained. He soon after accepted 
the position of professor of rhetoric and logic in the 
University of North Carolina. In 1825 he was called to 
the Church at Norfolk, and labored there ten years; and 
was next agent of the Board of Domestic Missions. 
From 1838 to 1848 he was pastor at Burlington, N. J., 
and subsequently, till I860, had charge of a Church at 
Greenwich, N. J. For the last five years of his life he 
filled the position of preacher to the benevolent institu- 
tions of Philadelphia, where he died, April 7, 1865. The 
following writings from his pen give evidence of uncom- 
mon culture and breadth of mind : Hints on Preaching 
without Reading; Pastoral Reminiscences (translated into 
French): — The Bards of the Bible: — Eloquence of the 
French Pulpit (1852) : — Character and Writings off me- 
lon (1853): — Character and Writings of Pascal: — St. 
Ignatius and the Jesuits (1854): — Character and Writ- 
ings of Nicole: — Sidney Smith as a Minister of Religion 
(1856) : — Pastoral Reminiscences (N. Y. 1849, 12mo) ; etc. 
fSec Princeton Review , Index, ii, 229 ; A me r. Ann. Cyclop. 
1865, p. 469 ; Allibone, Diet, of Engl, and A nier. A uthors, 
vol. ii, s. v. ; Wilson, Presb. Hist. Aim. 1866, p. 126 sq. 

Kolontaj, Hugo, a Polish Roman Catholic theolo- 
gian of note, was born in the county of Sandomir April 
1, 1759; was educated at Pinczow and Cracow, and in 
1774 became canon at the cathedral of Cracow. He 
was a decided opponent of the Jesuits, and did all in his 
power to purge the schools of Poland from Jesuitical aid 
or influence. In 1782 the University of Cracow, in rec- 
ognition of his services, elected him rector for three 
years, but his opponents succeeded in driving him from 
the place after only two years of his term had expired. 
During the Polish Revolution he worked earnestly in 
behalf of reform, and when the Revolution failed he was 
obliged to flee from the country, and thereafter lie nev- 
er held office again, though he was permitted to return 
to his native country. He died at Warsaw February 
28, 1812. Ilis works are all of a secular nature ; their ti- 
tles are given in Broekhaus, Conversations Lexikon (11th 
edition), viii, 923. 

Komander, Johann ( Dorfmann ), a German theo- 
logian of the Reformation period, became interested in 
the cause of the Reformers while pursuing his studies 
at Zlirich, and was highly prized as a friend by Zwin- 
gle, and after his secession from the Romish Church (in 
1525), in which he had been priest, became the chief 
support of the Reformation in the BUnden region. Here 
the worthlessness of the clergy, w ho were often ignorant 
of the language of the people, and guilty of gross im- 
morality, necessitated reform, for which a people of truly 
independent spirit were also ready. Many prominent 
laymen early favored the movement, particularly Jacob 
Salzmann, at Chur. At the Bundestag of 1524, held at 
Ilanz, a complaint, set forth in an act of eighteen arti- 
cles, w-as entered against the corruptions of the Church, 
and especially the malpractices of the clergy. In ac- 
cord with the spirit of this “Artikelbrief,” which was 
adopted by the Assembly, and remained for centuries 
the fundamental law in Graubiinden, Komander was 
appointed pastor at St. Martin’s Church, of which posi- 
tion the former incumbent confessed himself incapable, 
and he there began and continued his labors for thirty- 
three years. He met bitter opposition and yet encour- 
aging success. Z wangle, especially, sent a letter of con- 
gratulation in January, 1525, addressed to the ‘‘three 
Rlnetian Federations.” The most troublesome obsta- 
cles to the movement w r ere the Anabaptists, whom the 
Rapists themselves encouraged for the sake of creating 
division. Brought under accusation in the Bundestag 
of 1525, Komander asked opportunity for a public de- 
fence of his position, which he made at Ilanz in Janua- 
ry, 1526, in eighteen theses. lie could only with diffi- 
culty secure a fair and orderly debate, but finallv brought 
Y.— K 


all his opponents to acknowdedge his first thesis, viz. 
“That the Church is born of the Word of God, and 
must abide by it alone.” In the w'hole affair the learn- 
ing of the Reformers w r as confessed; seven priests w r ere 
w’on to the evangelical faith, and the accusations w r ere 
not established. Komander administered the Lord’s 
Supper in the evangelical form on Easter of 1526, and 
had the images removed. The Bundestag of this year 
granted full liberty and protection of worship under the 
new form. Against the intrigues of the Catholic bishop 
twenty new’ reform articles were established. The ab«- 
hot Schlegel, former accuser of Komander, was beheaded 
for connivance with the declared enemies of the Confed- 
eracy, and the bishop fled. Komander, in order more 
perfectly to organize the reform movement, secured the 
formation of a synod that should have authority in the 
examination and appointment of pastors. A disputa- 
tion sustained at Sus, in the Eugadine, in 1537, in the 
Romance language, chiefly by Gallicnus, the fast friend 
of Komander, and Blasius his colleague, where the eigh- 
teen theses defended by Komander at Ilanz w'ere adopt- 
ed, secured the entire prevalence of the reform in the 
Eugadine. Komander prepared a catechism, and suc- 
ceeded, with the' aid of Bullinger’s influence, in estab- 
lishing a gymnasium at Chur in 1543. He w'as deeply 
interested for the Italians of the southern districts, but 
found his work with them chiefly a matter of dispute 
on sceptical points. The R licet ian Confession was adopt- 
ed by the synod with particular reference to the errors 
of the Italians. Komander rejoiced at the sudden end 
of the Council of Trent in 1552. In the following year 
he had to counteract the pope’s endeavors .to bring in 
the Inquisition. Prostrated by the plague of 1550, 
which carried off 1500 of the population of Chur, lie 
never recovered full strength, though he worked on till 
his death early in 1557. — Herzog, Real-Encyklop. s. v. 
(E. B. O.) 

Komano-Bikuni, a female order of Japanese Beg- 
hards, or begging nuns, w ho accost travellers for their 
charity, singing songs to divert them, though upon a 
strong, wild sort of tune, and stay with travellers who 
desire their company. Most of them are daughters of 
the Jamabos (q. v.), and are consecrated as sisters of 
this begging order by having their heads shaved. They 
are neatly and well clad, and w r ear a black silk hood,, 
with a light hat over it, to protect their faces from the 
sun. Their behavior is, to all appearance, free, yet mod- 
est. They always go tw’o and two, and are obliged to 
bring a certain portion of their alms to the temple of the- 
sun goddess at Isye. See M‘Farlane, Japan , p. 219, 220. 

Komp, Hetxrtcii, a German Roman Catholic the- 
ologian of note, born at Fulda in 1765, w T as educated at 
the University of Heidelberg; became priest in 1789,. 
in 1790 professor at the gymnasium of his native place,, 
in 1792 professor of theology, etc., in 1811 court chap- 
lain to prince Primas, grand duke of Frankfort-on-the- 
Main and archbishop of Regensburg, and in 1829 cathe- 
dral scholastic. lie died Feb. 14, 1846. — Kathol. Real- 
Encyhlop. xi, 858. 

Konarski, Adam, a Roman Catholic prelate, flour- 
ished about the middle of the 16th century. He w'as 
bishop of Posen from 1562 to 1574. He is noted for his 
efforts to improve the religious educational advantages 
of the youth of his Church. Upon the model of the 
school at Braunsberg, one of the most noted Roman 
Catholic literary institutions, he founded a Jesuit col- 
lege at Posen in 1572, furnishing for its support a great 
part of his own income. He was at the head of the 
Polish delegation of magnates that went to France to 
meet Henry of Valois, afterwards king of Poland. — Wet- 
zer und Welte, Kirchen-Lex. vi, 243. 

Konig, Christian Gottlieb, a German theolo- 
gian of note, was bom at Altdorf March 26, 1711, and 
w r as educated at the university of his native place. In 
1734 he was appointed professor at Giessen University, 
but resigned this position only tw'o years later. In 1742 


IvOXIG 


146 


KONRAD 


he became pastor at Elberfeld, and remained there until 
1747, when he removed to Amsterdam, where he taught 
the Oriental languages. He died at Leyden in 1782. 
His principal work is )Veissagung Mosis in den letzten 
Tagen (Frankfort, J 741, fob). A list of his writings is 
given in Dbring’s Gelekrte Tkeol . DcntscliL ii, 152 sq. 

Konig, Georg, a German Lutheran theologian, was 
born at Amberg Feb. 2, 1500, and was educated at the 
universities of Wittenberg and Jena. In 1014 he was 
called as professor of theology to Altdorf, and in 1G44 he 
added to the duties of his chair the librarianship of that 
high-school. He died Sept. 10, 1054. He wrote Casus 
Consckiduv, etc. — Allgem. Hist. Lexikon, iii,45. 

Konig, Johann Friedrich, a German Lutheran 
theologian, was born at Dresden October 10, 1019. He 
studied at Leipzig and Wittenberg; became professor of 
theology atGreifswalde in 1051, superintendent of Meck- 
lenburg and Katzeburg in 1050, and finally professor of 
theology at Rostock in 1050, where he died Sept. 15, 1004. 
His Tiieologia positiva aci'oamatica (Rost. 1604: 0th ed. 
Rost. 1080, 8vo; Wittenb. 1755) became, notwithstand- 
ing its dryness, a very popular text-book of dogmatics. 
Hahn, Richter, and Haferunghave expounded and com- 
mented upon it, and it became the foundation of J. A. 
Quenstiidt’s celebrated work. See Walcli, Bill, tkeol. sel . 
i,39; Heinrich, Versuch einer Geschichte d+ verschiedenen 
Lehvarten d. ehristliehen Glaubensvarheiten , etc. (Leipz. 
1700); Schrockh, Kirchengeseh. seit d.Rcfor. viii, 11 sq. ; 
Gass, Gesch. d. prot. Dogmatik, i, 321 sq. ; Herzog, lieal- 
Encyclopadie , viii, 1 sq. 

Konig, Mauritius, a Danish prelate of note, flour- 
ished in the second half of the 17th century. lie was 
professor of theology at Copenhagen, and later bishop 
of Aalburg, and died May 2, 1072. — Allgem. Hist. Lexi- 
kon, iii,40. 

Konig, Samuel, celebrated in the annals of Swiss 
pietism, was born at Gergensee, in the canton of Berne, 
about 1070. lie studied at Berne and Zurich, and af- 
terwards made a journey to Holland and England, as 
was customary in those days, lie evinced great zeal 
and talents in the Oriental languages, which were then 
much studied by the l’rotestants, and was considered by 
his followers as a first-class Orientalist. He was also 
noted for his participation in the mystic tendencies of 
his day, and after studying Petersen’s chiliastic exposi- 
tions, became himself a zealous partisan of the doctrine 
of the Millennium. After his return to Berne he was 
ordained, and appointed at first preacher in the hospital 
attached to the Church of the Holy Ghost. About the 
same time Spener’s pietism was beginning to gain ad- 
herents in Berne, especially through the efforts of Lutz 
(Lucius). Konig, who at tirst held aloof, was gradually 
drawn into connection with them, and thus became iden- 
tified with the development of pietism in Berne. Here, 
as elsewhere, pietism was strenuously opposed by the 
orthodox party in the Church, who, on April 3, 1098, ap- 
pointed a special committee to proceed against “Quaker- 
ism, unlawful assemblies, and doctrinal schisms.” In 
August of the same year the upper council appointed a 
committee on religion, for the purpose of ascertaining 
all about pietism (in Berne), and reporting thereon to 
the council. Konig was several times summoned before 
this committee, and courageously defended his views on 
these occasions on chiliasm,as also his sermons, in which 
he insisted with peculiar force on the necessity of re- 
pentance and of regeneration. Among his theological 
opponents the most distinguished were the professors of 
theology, Wyss and Nudorf. Konig was finally ejected 
and exiled, the pietists were persecuted, and the so-call- 
ed “association oath” was instituted, July, 1000, with a 
view to prevent separation. To these measures were 
added a strict censorship of books, and the prohibition 
of religious reunions. Konig retired to lierborn, but 
was soon driven out from that place also, and went to 
the county of Sayn-Wittgenstein. the general refuge of 
all pietists and illurainati. In 1700 he went to llalle, 


where he gained many adherents, and afterwards to 
Magdeburg, where he found congenial spirits, especial- 
ly in Petersen and his wife, Johanna Eleonora von Mer- 
lau, Nik. von Rodt, and Fellenberg. Finally he return- 
ed to active life as pastor of a French Church in Biidin- 
gen. Here he resided eighteen years, during which 
he wrote a number of works. In 1730 he returned to 
Berne, and secured an appointment as professor of mod- 
ern languages and mathematics in the university, lie 
continued to hold religious meetings, and travelled oc- 
casionally in the interest of pietism, but, having at- 
tempted to establish meetings for mutual edification at 
Basel (in 1732), he was expelled from the city. Konig 
died May 30, 1750. His principal works arc , Bctraeh- 
tung d. imcendtgen Reich s Gottes, vie es im Herzen d.-Men - 
sehen aufgeriehtet wird (Basel, 1734): — Theologia Mys - 
tica (Berne, 1730). See F. Treehsel, Samuel Konig u. d. 
Pietismus in Berne ( Berner Taschenbuch , 1852) ; Sehlc- 
gel, Kirehengeschichte d. iS len J ah rh it nderts, ii (1),3G7 sq.; 
Schuler, Thaten vnd Sitten d. Eidgenossen, iii, 208 sq. ; 
Hurst’s Hagenbach, Ch. Ilist. 1 8th and 10 th Cent i, 179, 
183. 

Konigsdorfer, Colestin Bernhard, a German 
Roman Catholic monastic, was bom Aug. 18, 1756, at the 
village of Flotzheim ; was educated at Augsburg from 
1708 to 1770, and entered the Benedictine order in 1777, 
at Donauwbrth. lie was ordained priest Dec. 23, 1780, 
and was sent to the university at Ingolstadt to continue 
his theological studies and the acquisition of the Oriental 
languages. In 1700 he was called to a professorship at 
Salzburg University; in 1704 was elected abbot of his 
convent, and remained its head until 1803, when the con- 
vent was suppressed. lie died March 1G, 1840. Ko- 
nigsdorfer wrote Theologia in Compendium rcdacta (Ko- 
penh. 1787) — a theological compend which he intended 
mainly for his monastic brethren : — Gesch. d. Blasters z . 
heiligen Kreuze in Donamcorth (1810-1820, 3 vols. in 4 
parts), lie also published several sermons (1800, 1812, 
1814). — Kuthol. Real-Eneyklopddie , vi,328. 

Konigsdorfer, Martin, brother of the preceding, 
a popular pulpit orator, was born at Flotzheim Oct. 20, 
1752; studied theology at Dillingen; was ordained priest 
at Augsburg March 15, 1777, and was successively ap- 
pointed to Monheim, Ileideck, Seiboldsdorf near Neu- 
burg, and Lntzungen near Ilocbstiidt. He died about 
1815. Konigsdorfer was noted as a preacher for his rare 
ability in adapting himself to the standard of his audi- 
ences; thus, in his appointments in rural districts, he 
knew how to interest the peasants in his preaching, and 
did much good among them. He published Katholische 
llomilien and Erklarungen d. licit Erangelien avf alle 
Sotin- u. Eeiertage (Augsburg, 1800. and often) : — Kuthol. 
Geheimnisse u. Sittenreden (1812-32,8 vols. 8vo) : — Ka- 
thol. Christ enldti'en (1800,2 vols.) : — Die christliehe Kin- 
derzueht (six sermons, 1814) '.—Das avige Pritsterthum 
d. Kuthol. Kircke (1832). — Kuthol. Peal-Encyklop cidie, 
vi, 320. 

Konigswarter, Baron Jonas, a celebrated Jew- 
ish philanthropist, was born at Frankfort-on-the-Main 
about 1800, and removed to Vienna about 1830, when a 
mail of only moderate wealth. There his means in- 
creased rapidly, and he died Dec. 24, 1871, leaving an 
only son heir to a property worth fifteen million dollars, 
lie was a great benefactor to the Jews of the Austrian 
capital, over whom he presided as chief, and took par- 
ticular interest in all the charitable institutions of Vi- 
enna. He left large sums to benefit each of these, with- 
out any regard to confession or creed. — Xetv York Jew- 
ish Messenger , Jan. 20, 1872. 

Konrad of Marijurg, a German Dominican of the 
13th century, one .of the most trusted of Rome’s vota- 
ries, was confessor of princess St. Elizabeth of Thurin- 
gia, and inquisitor of Germany. Of his personal history 
but little is known. Some suppose him to be identical 
with the Konrad who, as a scholastic of Mentz, enjoyed 
the favor of ilonorius 111 (q. v.). Konrad of Marburg 


KONRAD 


147 


KOPKE 


was a particular favorite of pope Gregory IX, by whom 
he was intrusted with various disciplinary offices, par- 
ticularly with the punishment of heretics and the ex- 
tirpation of heresy. His conduct towards St. Elizabeth 
(q. v.) was perfectly atrocious, hut no less inhuman was 
t lie treatment which t he Patarenes (q. v.) received at 
his hands. lie was tinally slain in 1233 by, or at the 
instigation of, some German nobles whom he had op- 
posed. See Hansrath, Konrad von Marburg (1861); 
Henke, K. v. Marburg (1861) ; Herzog. Peal-Encyklop. 
viii, 25; and the ltoman Catholic Kirchen-Lexikon , by 
Wetzcr uml Welte, ii, 805 sq. (J. II. W.) 

Konrad III, emperor of the Germans, the founder 
of the Hohenstaufen dynasty, eminent among the Cru- 
saders, was the son of Frederick of Suabia, and was born 
in 1093. lie was elected successor to Lothaire by the 
princes of Germany at Aix-la-Chapelle, Feb. 21, 1136, 
to prevent the increasing preponderance of the Guelf 
party. For his quarrels with Henry the Proud, duke 
of llavaria and Saxony, and head of the Guelf party in 
Germany, etc., see Guelfs and Giiibellines. When 
St. Bernard of Clairvaux commenced to preach a new 
crusade, Konrad, seized with the general infatuation, set 
out for Palestine at the head of a large army [sec Cru- 
sades] in company with his old enemy, Guelf of Bava- 
ria, who proved treacherous, however, returned to Ger- 
many before Konrad, and with his nephew, Henry the 
Lion, renewed, though unsuccessfully, the former at- 
tempt to gain possession of Bavaria. Konrad took sides 
with the pope and the northern Italians against Hoger 
of Sicily, but, while preparing for an expedition against 
the latter, he was poisoned, Feb. 15, 1152, at Bamberg. 
Konrad was largely endowed with the virtues necessary 
for a great monarch, and, though himself unlearned, was 
a warm patron of science and letters. His marriage 
with a Greek princess was symbolized by the two-head- 
ed eagle which tigured on the arms of the emperor of 
Germany, and now appears on the arms of the sover- 
eign of Austria. See Germany. 

Konradin of Suabia, the last descendant of the 
house of the Hohenstaufen, son of the excommunicated 
Henry IV. was born in 1252. He deserves our notice 
for the relation he sustained to the intriguing pope In- 
nocent IV, and the treatment he received at the pope’s 
hands. His Italian possessions were seized by Innocent 
IV on the plea that the son of a prince tcho dies excom- 
municated has no hereditary rights , an example which 
the other enemies of the house of Hohenstaufen rejoiced 
t o follow. Konradin’s cause was befriended bv his uncle 
Manfred, who took up arms in his behalf, drove the 
pope from Naples and Sicily, and, in order to consolidate 
his nephew’s authority, declared himself king till the 
young prince came of age. The pope’s inveterate ha- 
tred of the Ilohcnstanfen induced him thereupon to 
offer the crown of the Two Sicilies to Charles of Anjou, 
a consummate warrior and able politician. Charles im- 
mediately invaded Italy, met his antagonist in the plain 
of Grandella, where the defeat and death of Manfred, in 
1266, gave him undisturbed possession of the kingdom. 
But t lie Neapolitans, detesting their new master, sent 
deputies to Bavaria to invite Konradin, then in his six- 
teenth year, to come and assert his hereditary rights. 
Konradin accordingly made his appearance in Italy at 
the head of 10,000 men, and, being joined by the Neapol- 
itans in large numbers, gained several victories over the 
French, but was finally defeated, and, along with his 
relative, Frederick of Austria, taken prisoner near Tagl- 
iacozzo, Aug. 22, 1268. The two unfortunate princes 
were, with the consent of the pope , executed in the market- 
place of Naples on the '10th of October. A few minutes 
before his execution, Konradin, on the scaffold, took olf 
his glove, and threw it into the midst of the crowd, as a 
gage of vengeance, requesting that it might he carried 
to his heir, Peter of Aragon. This duty was under- 
taken by the chevalier De Waldburg, who, after many 
hair-breadth escapes, succeeded in fullilling his prince’s 
last command. See Innocent IV; Sicilian Vespers. 


Koolhaas, Caspar, often named with Koomhert, 
in Holland, as the predecessor of Arminius, was horn at 
Cologne in 1536. He studied at Diisseldorf, and in 1566 
renounced many advantages to join the Reformation. 
He afterwards held some situations as pastor in the 
duchies of Zweibruck and Nassau. In 1574 he was 
called to the University of Leyden, then opening, as a 
professor. He subsequently resigned the professorship, 
and died a private teacher at Leyden in 1615. His 
opinions had been the cause of his resignation : he 
maintained nearly the same views professed afterwards 
by the Arminians on the extension of the authority of 
superiors in ecclesiastical affairs, reduction of the doc- 
trine of the Church to a few simple, fundamental points, 
and the correction or absolute rejection of the doctrine 
of predestination. Ilis work Be jure Christiani magis- 
trate circa disciplinam et regimen ecclesice gave great 
offence. He was summoned before a synod held at 
Middelburg in 1581, and requested to recant and sign 
the Belgian Confession, but refused, and appealed to the 
States. A provincial synod of Haarlem excommunica- 
ted him in 1582, but he was protected by the chief mag- 
istrate of Leyden, who reported to the Dutch States 
against the renewal of religious persecution, as well as 
against the acts of the synods, and the encroachments 
of the ecclesiastical college on the rights of the author- 
ities. See A. Schweizcr, Gesch. d. ref. Centraldogmen , ii, 
40; Benthem, Holland Kirchen-u. Schutenstaat, ii, 33; 
Uytenbogaert Kerkel. Hist . p. 214. — Herzog, Real-Ency- 
klopadie , viii, 26. 

Koordistan. See Kurdistan. 

Koornhert. Sec Cornarists* 

Kopacsy, Joseph von, a Hungarian Roman Cath- 
olic prelate, was born of noble parentage at Wessprim 
in 1775, and was educated at the seminary in Fresburg. 
He was ordained priest in 1798, and shortly after received 
an appointment as professor of Church history and ec- 
clesiastical law. In 1806 he became preacher at Wess- 
prim, in 1822 lie was made bishop of Stuhhvcissenburg, 
and in 1824 bishop of Wessprim. In 1839 he wan pro- 
moted to the archbishopric of Grau, and at the same 
time was made primate of Hungary. He died Sept. 18, 
1847. Bishop Kopacsy published a German translation 
of Fleury’s Customs and Usages of Jews and Christians 
(1803). — Kathol. Peal-Encyklop. xi, 861. 

Koph. See Ape. 

Kopher. See Campiiire. 

Kopiatai. Sec Copiat^e. 

Kopistenski. Zaciiarias, a Russian theologian, 
flourished in the beginning of the 17th century as ar- 
chimandrite of the convent of St. Anthony at Kief, and 
died there April 18, 1626. He translated into Slavonic 
the commentary of St. Chrysostom on the Acts and 
Paul’s epistles (Kief, 1623 and 1624, folio). He also pub- 
lished a Funeral Sermon , in which he seeks to prove 
that the doctrine of Purgatory is sanctioned by apostolic 
authority; and a Nomacanon, or review of the canons 
(Kief, 1624 and 1629; Moscow, 1639; Lemberg, 1646). — 
Iloefer, None. Eiog. Generale, xxviii, 75. 

Kopitar, Bartiiolomaus, a learned Orientalist, 
was born at Repnjc in 1780, and educated at the Uni- 
versity of Vienna. In 1809 he was appointed assistant 
at the Imperial Library, was promoted to the head libra- 
rianship in 1843, and died Aug. 11, 1844. He published 
an edition of the Polish Psalter found in the convent of 
St. Flarian, with a German and Latin translation (Vi- 
enna, 1834), etc. — Kathol . Peal-Encyklop. vi, 362. 

Kopke, Adam, a German fanatic, who flourished in 
the first half of the 18th century as pastor at Walmo, 
was an ardent follower of Dippel (q. v.), and, with Ila- 
gcnbach ( Church Hist. 1 8th and 1 8th Cent., transl. by Dr. 
Ilurst, i, 168 sq.), we are in doubt what place to assign 
any of Dippel’s followers; he was measurably a Mystic, 
yet lie can neither he definitely classed with them nor 
with any of the sects known as Pietists or Rational- 


KOPPE 


148 


KORAH 


ists, fanatics or scoffers, Mystics or Illuminists. He 
wrote J/istor. Nachricht v, Caspar Schvenkfeld (Prenz- 
lau, 1715, 8vo) : — Weyiceiser zum gottlichen Liber 7 etc. 
(ibid, 1714, 8vo ) : — Die reinigende Kraft des Gottes-Blutes 
Jesu Christ i (ibid, 1744, 8vo). See Kraft, Theol. Bibli- 
othek , i, 2G2 ; Waleli, Comp . hist. eccL recent iss. p. 233 sq. : 
Fuhrmann, llandicorterb, d. Kirchengesch. ii, 591. 

Koppe, Johann Benjamin, a distinguished Ger- 
man Biblical scholar, was born at Dantzig Aug. 19, 1750. 
lie studied philology and theology at the universities 
of Leipzig and Gottingen, and became professor of Greek 
at the college ofMittau in 1771, and professor of theol- 
ogy at Gottingen in 1775. He subsequently became (in 
1777) director of the seminary for preachers, superin- 
tendent and president of the consistory at Gotha (in 
1781), and preacher at the court of Hanover (in 1788). 
He died Feb. 12. 1791. He wrote De Critica Ceteris Tes- 
tamenti eaute adhibenda (Gottingen, 17G9) : — Vindiciie 
oracnlorum a dcemonum erque imperio ac sacerdotum 
fraudibus (Gutting. 1774, 8vo): — JsraeJitas non 215 sed 
430 annos in sEgypto commoratos esse (Gottingen, 1777, 
4to; reprinted in Post and Rupert i’s Sylloge Commenta- 
tionnm theoloyicarum , vol. iv) : — Interpretutio Jsaicr, viii, 
23 (Gott. 1780, Ito) : — Ad Matthau xii, 3 1, De Peccato 
in Spiritum Sanctum (Gott. 1781, 8vo) : — Super Evan- 
gel io Mat'd (Gott. 1782, Ito): — Explicatio J/oisis, iii, 14 
(Gutting. 1783, 4to) : — Marcus non epitomator Matthcei 
(Gott. 1783, Ito) : — Predigten (Gott. 1792-3, 2 vols.Svo). 
He also edited three vols. of the Novum Testamcntum 
Greece perpetua annotatione illustration, published at 
Gottingen, 10 vols. 8vo, at the close of the 18th century. 
This work, which .he began, but did not live to com- 
plete, bears his name, as the plan, which is excellent, is 
his. it furnishes “ a corrected edition of the Greek text, 
mostly agreeing with Griesbacli, with critical and philo- 
logical notes on the same page, with prolegomena to 
each book, and exenrsus on the more difficult passages. 
On this plan Koppe gave a volume on the Epistles to 
t lie Galatians, Ephesians, and Thessalonians, and anoth- 
er on the Epistle to the Homans, which closed his labors. 
Heinrichs, in continuation of the original design of 
Koppe, lias published the Acts, and all the remaining 
epistles of Paul, except those to the Corinthians; and 
Pott has published the Epistles of Peter, and that, of 
James. Koppe is esteemed a safe and judicious critic; 
Heinrichs and Pott less so. Koppe’s Romans has been 
republished by Ammon, the well-known neologist, with 
characteristic notes of his own” (Orme). See Koppen- 
stadt, Ueb. Koppe (1791, 8vo); Sclilichtegroll, Necrolog. 
vol. i ; Annalen d. Braunschu\ Liinebnrrj. Churkinde, vi, 
GO-84; II oefer, None. Biog . Getter, xxviii, 79; Herzog, 
Peal- Encyklop. viii, 27. (J. 1 1 . W.) 

Koppen, Daniel Joachim, a German divine, was 
born at Lilbeck in 173G. lie was pastor at Zettemin 
for thirty-nine years, and died June 7, 1807. Koppen 
secured for himself, by earnest literary labors, the repu- 
tation of great scholarsliip, and his works are all valua- 
ble. He wrote llanptzweck des Predigtumtes (Leipzig, 
1778, 8vo ) : — Die Bibel, ein lFcnt der gottlichen 1 Veisheit 
(ibid. 1787-88, 2 vols. 8vo; 2d edition, much enlarged. 
1797-98): — Werist Christ (ibid, 1800, 8vo). — Diking, Gk- 
lehrte Theol. Deutschlands, ii, 155 sq. 

Koppen, Friedrich, a German theologian and 
philosopher, was born at Liibeek in 1775; became preach- 
er in Bremen in 1805; professor of philosophy in 1807, 
at Landshut; and in 182G was appointed professor at 
Erlangen. He died Sept. 4. 1858. Koppen was an ar- 
dent follower of Jacobi (q. v.), and wrote Veber die Of- 
fenbarung in Beziehung ait f Kant sche, u. Eichtesche Phi- 
losophic (Li'ib. 1797 ; 2d ed. 1802): — Schilling's Lehre odcr 
das Ganze der Philosophic des absolufen Nichts (I land). 
1805 ): — Darstellnng des 1 1 'eseirs tl. Philosophic (Nuremb. 
1810):- Philosophic des Christ enth inns (Leipz. 1813-15,2 
vols.; 2d ed. 1825); etc. — Pierer, Cniversal Lexikon, ix, 
711. 

Kor. See Cor. 


Ko'rah (Heb. Ko'rach, n^p, ice, as in Psa. cxlvii, 
17 ; Sept. Kopi, also X. T. in Jude 1 1 ; Josephus Kop?/£, 
.1 tit. iv, 2 ; Yulg. Core ; Auth.Vers. “ Kore” in the patro- 
nymic, 1 Chron. xx vi, 19, and “Core” in Jude 11), the 
name of several men. 

1. The third son of Esau by his second Canaanitish 
wife Aholibamah (Gen. xxxvi. 14 ; 1 Chron. i, 35). B.C. 
post 19G4. He became the head of a petty Edomitish 
tribe (Gen. xxxvi, 18). In ver. 1G his name appears as 
a son of Eliphaz, Esau’s son ; but probably by a confu- 
sion of tlie parentage, for in the parallel passage (1 Chron. 
i, 3G) this name is omitted, and “Timna” inserted after 
the next name — probably another interpolation for Tim- 
nah. See Esau. 

2 . A Levite, son of Izhar, the brother of Amram, the 
father of Closes and Aaron, who were therefore cousins 
to Korah (Exod. vi, 21). B.C. probably not much ante 
1 G 19. From this near relationship we may, with toler- 
able certainty, conjecture that the source of the discon- 
tent which led to the steps afterwards taken by this un- 
happy man, lay in his jealousy that the high honors and 
privileges of the priesthood, to which he, who remained 
a simple Levite, might, apart from the divine appoint- 
ment, seem to have had as good a claim, should have 
been exclusively appropriated to the family of Aaron. 
When to this was added the civil authority of Closes, 
the whole power over the nation would seem to him to 
have been engrossed by his cousins, the sons of Amram. 
Under the influence of these feelings he organized a 
conspiracy, for the purpose of redressing what appeared 
to him the evil and injustice of this arrangement. Da- 
than, Abiram, and On, the chief persons who joined him, 
were of the tribe of Reuben ; but he was also supported 
by many more from other tribes, making up the num- 
ber of 250, men of name, rank, and influence, all who 
may be regarded as representing the families of which 
they were the heads. The appointment of Elizaphan to 
be chief of the Kohathites (Numb, iii, 30) may have fur- 
ther inflamed his jealousy. Korah’s position as leader 
in this rebellion was evidently the result of his personal 
character, which was that of a bold, haughty, and am- 
bitious man. This appears from his address to Moses 
in ver. 3, and especially from his conduct in vcr. 19, 
where both his daring and his influence over the con- 
gregation are very apparent. Were it not for this, one 
would have expected the Gerslionites — as the elder 
branch of the Levites — to have supplied a leader in con- 
junction with the sons of Reuben, rather than the fam- 
ily of Izhar, who was Amram ’s younger brother. The 
private object of Korah was apparently his own ag- 
grandizement, but his ostensible object was the general 
good of the people : and it is perhaps from want of at- 
tention to this distinction that the transaction has not 
been well understood. The design seems to have been 
made acceptable to a large body of the nation, on the 
ground that the first-born of Israel had been deprived 
of their sacerdotal birthright in favor of the Levites, 
while the Levites themselves announced that the priest- 
hood had been conferred by Moses (as they considered) 
on his own brother’s family, in preference to those who 
had equal claims: and it is easy to conceive that the 
Reubenites may have considered the opportunity a fa- 
vorable one for the recovery of their birthright — the 
double portion and civil pre-eminence — which had been 
forfeited by them and given to Joseph. (See Kitto’s 
Daily Bible Illustrate ad loc.) These arc the explana- 
tions of Aben-Ezra, and seem as reasonable as any which 
have been offered. (See below.) 

The leading conspirators, having organized their plans, 
repaired in a body to Moses and Aaron, boldly charged 
them with public usurpation, and required them to lay 
down their arrogated power. Moses no sooner heard 
this than he fell on his face, confounded at the enormity 
of so outrageous a revolt against a system framed so 
carefully for the benefit of the nation, lie left the mat- 
ter in the Lord’s hands, and desired them to come on 
the morrow, provided with censers for incense, that the 


KORAH 


149 


KORAH 


Lord himself, by some manifest token, might make 
known his will in this great matter. As this order was 
particularly addressed to the rebellious Levites, the Ren- 
benites left the place, and when afterwards called back 
by Moses, returned a very insolent refusal, charging him 
with having brought them out of the land of Egypt un- 
der false pretences, to kill them in the wilderness” 
(Numb, xvi, 1-17). 

The next day Korah and his company appeared be- 
fore the tabernacle, attended by a multitude of people 
out of the general body of the tribes. Then the Sheki- 
nah, or symbol of the divine presence, which abode be- 
tween the cherubim, advanced to the entrance of the 
sacred fabric, and a voice therefrom commanded Moses 
and Aaron to stand apart, lest they should share in the 
destruction which awaited the whole congregation. On 
hearing these awful words the brothers fell on their 
faces, and, by strong intercession, moved the Lord to 
confine his wrath to the leaders in the rebellion, and 
spare their unhappy dupes. The latter were then or- 
dered to separate themselves from their leaders and from 
the tents in which they dwelt. The terrible menace 
involved in this direction had its weight, and the com- 
mand was obeyed; and after Moses had appealed to 
what was to happen as a proof of the authority by which 
he acted, the earth opened, and received and closed over 
the tents of Korah, Dathan, and Abiram. The Reuben- 
ite conspirators were in their tents, and perished in 
them; and at the same instant Korah and his 250, who 
’were offering incense at the door of the tabernacle, were 
destroyed by a fire which “ came out from the Lord ;” 
that is, most probably, in this case, from out of the cloud 
in which his presence dwelt (Numb, xvi, 18-35). The 
censers which they had used were afterwards made into 
plates, to form an outer covering to the altar, and thus 
became a standing monument of this awful transaction 
(Numb, xvi, 3G-40). The rebellious spirit excited by 
these ambitious men vented itself afresh on the next 
day in complaints against Moses as having been the 
cause of death to these popular leaders 1 a degree of ob- 
duracy and presumption that called forth the divine in- 
dignation so severely as not to be allayed till a sudden 
plague had cut off thousands of the factious multitude, 
and threatened still further ravages had it not been ap- 
peased by Aaron’s offering of incense at t lie instance of 
Moses (Numb, xvi, 41-50). The recurrence of a similar 
jealousy was prevented by the divine choice of the fam- 
ily of Aaron, attested by the miraculous vegetation of 
his rod alone out of all the tribes (Numb. xvii). On, al- 
though named in the first instance along with Dathan 
and Abiram (ver. 1), does not further appear either in 
the rebellion or its punishment. It is hence supposed 
that he repented in time ; and Abendana and other Rab- 
binical writers allege that his wife prevailed upon him 
to abandon the cause. 

It might be supposed from the Scripture narrative 
that the entire families of the conspirators perished in 
the destruction of their tents. Doubtless all who were 
in the tents perished; but, as the descendants of Korah 
afterwards became eminent in the Levitical service [see 
Korauite], it is clear that his sons were spared (Exod. 
vi, 24). They were probably living in separate tents, 
or were among those who sundered themselves from the 
conspirators at the command of Moses. There is no 
reason to suppose that the sons of Korah were children 
when'their father perished. Perhaps the fissure of the 
ground which swallowed up the tents of Dathan and 
Abiram did not extend beyond those of the Reubenites. 
From .Numb, xvi, 27 it seems clear that Korah himself 
was not with Dathan and Abiram at the moment. His 
tent may have been one pitched for himself, in con- 
tempt of the orders of Moses, by the side of his fellow- 
rebels, while his family continued to reside in their 
proper camp nearer the tabernacle ; but it must have 
been separated by a considerable space from those of 
Dathan and Abiram. Or, even if Korah's family resided 
among the Reubenites, they may have lied, at Moses’s 


warning, to take refuge in the Kohathite camp, instead 
of remaining, as the wives and children of Dathan and 
Abiram .did (verse 27). Korah himself was doubtless 
with the 250 men who bare censers nearer the taberna- 
cle (ver. 1‘J), and perished with them by the “ fire from 
Jehovah” which accompanied the earthquake. It is 
nowhere said that he was one of those who “ went down 
quick into the pit” (compare Psa. evi, 17, 18), and it is 
natural that he should have been with the censer-bear- 
ers. That he was so is indeed clearly implied bv Numb, 
xvi, 1G-19, 35, 40, compared with xxvi, 9, 10. 

The apostle holds up Korah as a warning to presump- 
tuous and self-seeking teachers, and couples his crime 
with those of Cain and Balaam, as being of similar enor- 
mity (Jude 11). The expression there used, “gainsay- 
ing” (urnAoyia, contradiction'), alludes to his speech in 
Numb, xvi, 3, and accompanying rebellion. Compare 
the use of the same word in lieb. xii, 3 ; Psa. evi, 32, 
and of the verb, John xix, 12. and Isa. xxii, 22; Ixv. 2 
(Sept.), in which latter passage, as quoted Pom. x, 21, 
the A. V. has the same expression of “ gainsaying” as in 
Jude. The Son of Sirach, following Psa. evi, IG, 

etc. (otherwise rendered, however, by the Sept., 
| rrapiopyKTav), describes Korah and his companions as cn- 
I vious or jealous of Moses, where the English “malign- 
! ed” is hardly an equivalent for tZ))\uHTav (Ecclus. xlv, 
18).— Kitto ; Smith. A late ingenuous writer (Prof. Pei- 
chel, of Dublin, Nrnnows, Cambr. 1855) distinguishes the 
: crime of Korah from that of Dathan and Abiram (q. v.) 
: as being an ecclesiastical insubordination, whereas the 
latter was apolitical rebellion; he also draws a parallel 
; between the position of Aaron as representing the liigh- 
j priesthood of Christ — the one underived, perpetual, and 
i untransferable pontificate “alter the order of Melchize- 
dek,” and the Levitical order represented by Korah cor- 
j responding to the Christian ministry; and he arrives at 
' the following conclusion: “The crime in the Christian 
Church corresponding to that which Korah and his fol- 
; lowers committed in the Jewish Church consists, not, 

| as is often stated, in the people taking to themselves the 
i functions of the ministry, but in the Christian ministry 
impiously usurping the functions of Christ himself ; and, 
not contented with their Master’s having separated them 
from the congregation of his people to bring them near 
unto himself, to do the service of his house, and to stand 
before the congregation to minister to them, in their 
4 seeking the priesthood also' This is the gainsaying 
of Korah, which the authority of inspiration declares 
should be repeated even in the earliest ages of the Chris- 
tian Church, and which is significantly coupled by the 
I apostle Jude with the way of Cain, and with the run- 
ning greedily after the error of Balaam for reward.” In 
short, it was an attempt on the part of such as were al- 
ready invested with an official rank in the Levitical 
cultus to supplant those occupying the higher offices in 
the same economy, and even to derogate the supreme 
and exclusive control of its dispensation ; and all this 
for the sake merely of the honors and emoluments of 
the promotion. It is therefore at once apparent how 
little this narrative supports the arrogant claims of any 
class of so-called priests in the modern Church, and that 
it altogether fails to warrant their exclusion and con- 
demnation of others who have as clear a divine call as 
themselves to the same order of functions, especially 
when the latter move in a different community, are ac- 
tuated by the most unselfish motives, and proceed in 
accordance with the most imperative demands of cir- 
cumstances. 

Korah is elsewhere referred to in Numb, xxvi, 9-11 ; 
xxvii, 3; 1 Chron. vi, 22, 37; ix, 19. See Jouy'n. Sac. 
Lit. App. 1852, p. 195; Forster, Israel in the Wilderness 
(Loud. 18G5). On the Korachidie, see Carpzov, 7>rfro- 
duct. ii, 105; Van Iperen, De Jiliis Korachi psalmor. 
quorund. auctorib., in the Bibl. Hagan. II, i, 99 sq. ; comp. 
Eichhorn, Bibl. d. bibl. Lit. i, 911 sq. ; Bauer. I lehr. My- 
tholoy. i, 302 ; Erkldr. d. Miaul. d. .4 . Test, i, 219 sq. On 
the Arabic legends, see Fleischer, Hist . anteislam. p. 321. 


KORAHITE 


150 


KORAN 


3. The first named of the four sons of Hebron, of the 
family of Caleb, of the tribe of Judah (L Chron. ii, 43). 
B.C. considerably post 1G12. 

Ko'raliite (Hebrew Korchi', Exod. vi, 24; 

Numb, xxvi, 58; 1 Chron. ix, 31 ; xxvi, 19; plur. Kor- 
ekim’, C^rr.p, 1 Chron. ix, 19; xii,G; xxvi, 1 ; 2 Chron. 
xx, 19; Scptuag. K opirgg, 1 Chron. ix, 31; KopTrcn, 1 
Chron. ix, 19 ; xii, G ; elsewhere paraphrases uloi, cijpog, 
or yei’tGtig K ope ; Auth.Vers. Korahites,” 1 Chron. ix, 
19; “Korahite,” 1 Chron. ix, 31; “ Korat bites,” Numb, 
xxvi, 58; “Kore,” 1 Chron. xxvi, 19; elsewhere “Kor- 
hites”), the patronymic designation of that portion of 
the Kohatliites who were descended from Korah, and 
are frequently styled by the synonymous phrase Sons 
of Korah (q. v.). Comp. Asaph. It would appear at 
first sight, from Exod. vi, 24, that Korah had three sons | 
— Assir, Elkanah, and Abiasapli — as Winer, Rosenmiil- 
ler, etc., also understand it; but as we learn from 1 
Chron. vi, 22, 23, 37, that Assir, Elkanah, and Abiasapli 
were respectively the son, grandson, and great grand- 
son of Korah, it seems obvious that Exod. vi, 24 gives 
ns the chief houses sprung from Korah, and not his ac- 
tual sons, and therefore that Elkanah and Abiasapli were 
not the sons, but later descendants of Korah. See Sam- 
uel. The offices filled by the sons of Korah, as far as 
we are informed, are the following : 

1. They were an important branch of the singers in 
the Kohatliite division, lleman himself being a Korah- 
ite (1 Chron. vi, 33), and the Korahites being among 
those who, in Jehoshaphat’s reign, “stood up to praise 
the Lord God of Israel with a loud voice on high” (2 
Chron. xx, 19). Sec Hem an. lienee we find eleven 
psalms (or twelve, if Psa. xliii is included under the 
same title as Psa. xlii) dedicated or assigned to the sons 
of Korah, viz. Psa. xlii, xliv-xlix,lxxxiv,lxxxv,lxxxvii, 
lxxxviii. Winer describes them as some of the most 
beautiful in the collection, from their high lyric tone. 
Origen says it was a remark of the old interpreters that 
all the psalms inscribed with the name of the sons of 
Korah are full of pleasant and cheerful subjects, and free 
from anything sad or harsh ( Ilomi l. on 1 Kings, i. e. 1 
Sam.), and on Matt, xviii, 20 he ascribes the authorship 
of these psalms to “ the three sons of Korah,” who, “ be- 
cause they agreed together, had the Word of God in the 
midst of them” ( IJomil . xiv). St. Augustine has a still 
more fanciful conceit, which he thinks it necessary to 
repeat in almost every homily on the eleven psalms in- 
scribed to the sons of Kore. Adverting to the interpre- 
tation of Korah, Calvities , he finds in it a great mystery. 
Under this term is set forth Christ, who is entitled Cal- 
vus because he was crucified on Calvary, and was mock- 
ed by the by-standers, as Elisha had been by the chil- 
dren who cried after him “ Calve, calve!" and who, 
when they said“6’o up, thou bald pate,” had prefigured 
the crucifixion. The sons of Korah are therefore the 
children of Christ the bridegroom ( Uomil . on Psalms). 
Of moderns, liosenm filler thinks that the sons of Korah, 
especially lleman, were the authors of these psalms, 
which, he says, rise to greater sublimity and breathe 
more vehement feelings than the Psalms of David, and 
quotes llensler and Eiclihorn as agreeing. l>e Wettc 
also considers the sons of Korah as the authors of them 
(h ml. p. 335-339), and so does Just. Olshausen on the 
Psalms (. Exeg . Hundb . Mini. p. 22). As, however, the lan- 
guage of several of these psalms, e. g. of xlii, lxxxiv, 
etc., is most appropriate to the circumstances of David, 
it has seemed to other interpreters much simpler to ex- 
plain the title “for the sons of Korah” to mean that 
they were given to them to sing in the Temple services. 
If their style of music, vocal and instrumental, was of a 
more sublime and lyric character than that of the sons 
of Merari or Gcrshon, and llbman had more fire in his 
execution than Asaph and Jeduthun, it is perfectly nat- 
ural that David should have given his more poetic and 
elevated strains to lleman and his choir, and the sim- 
pler and quieter psalms to the other choirs. A serious 


objection, however, to this view is that the same titles 
contain another phrase dedicating the psalms in ques- 
tion “to the chief musician,” so that the following ex- 
pression must be rendered bg (b “ auctoris”) the Korah- 
ites. See Psalms. J. van lperen (ap. Kosenmiiller) as- 
signs these psalms to the times of Jehosliaphat; others 
to those of the Maccabees; Ewald attributes the 42d 
Psalm to Jeremiah. The purpose of many of the Ger- 
man critics seems to be to reduce the antiquity of the 
Scriptures as low as possible. 

2. Others, again, of the sons of Korah were “por- 
ters,” i. e. doorkeepers, in the Temple, an office of con- 
siderable dignity. In 1 Chron. ix, 17-19, we learn that 
Shallum, a Korahite of the line of Ebiasaph, was chief 
of the doorkeepers, and that he and his brethren were 
over the works of the service, keepers of the gates of 
the tabernacle (compare 2 Kings xxv, 18) apparently 
about the time of the Babylonian captivity. See also 

1 Chron. ix, 22-29; Jcr. xxxv, 4; and Ezra ii, 42. But 
in 1 Chron. xxvi we find that this official station of the 
Korahites dared from the time of David, and that their 
chief was then Shelemiah or Meshelemiah, the son of 
(Abi)asaph, to whose custody the east gate fell by lot, 
being the principal entrance. Shelemiah is thought to 
have been the same as Shallum in 1 Chron. ix, 17, and 
perhaps Meshullam, 2 Chron. xxiv, 12; Neh. xii, 25, 
where, as in so many other places, a name may desig- 
nate, not the individuals, but the house or family. In 

2 Chron. xxi, 14, Kore, the son of Imnah the Levite, the 
doorkeeper towards the east, who was over the free-will 
offerings of God to distribute the oblations of the Lord 
and the most holy things, was probably a Korahite, as 
we find the name Kore in the family of Korah in 1 
Chron. ix, 19. In 1 Chron. ix, 31 we find that Matti- 
thiah, the first-born of Shallum the Korahite, had the 
set office over the things that were made in the pans. — 
Smith. See Levite. 

Koraidhites is a name sometimes applied to the 
unfortunate Jewish tribe of Koraidha, of Northern Ara- 
bia, which Mohammed extirpated upon their refusal to 
accept him as God’s “prophet.” For a detailed descrip- 
tion of the sufferings of the Jews of Karaidha, see Gratz, 
Gesch.d.Jnden , v, 125-127 ; Milman, Hist, of the Jims, iii, 
99 sq. ; Muir, Life of Mohammed, iii, 135 sq. ; Sale’s Ko- 
ran, p. 345, note h. See Mohammed. 

Korcin, often Anglicized (when, as properly, it has 
the article prefixed) A t- Co ran, but more precisely Qu- 
ran. The emphasis is not on the first syllable, as many 
persons place it. The word is from the Arabic root 
karaa , and means literally the reading — that which 
ought to be read.; corresponding nearly to the Chaldee 
Keri (q. v.\ The book is also called Furqdn , from a 
root signifying to divide or distinguish ; Sale says to de- 
note a section or portion of the Scriptures; but Moham- 
medans say because it distinguishes between good and 
evil. It is furthermore spoken of as Al-Moshaf “The 
Volume,” and Al-Kitdb. “The Book,” by way of emi- 
nence; and Al-Dhikr. “The Admonition.” The Koran 
is the Mohammedan Book of Faith, or, as we may say, 

| Bible. 

Divisions. — It consists of one volume, which is divided 
I into one hundred and fourteen larger sections or portions 
called Surds, which signifies a regular series. These 
suras or sections are not numbered in the original, but 
j bear each its own title, which is generally some 1 key- 
word in the chapter, or the first word therein. In cases 
1 where it is taken from near the close of the chapter, it 
is probable that that portion was originally uttered first. 
, Some suppose these titles to have been matter of revela- 
tion, as also the initial Bism-illah, “ in the name of 
God.” etc., which is likewise placed as a prefatory phrase 
i in all Moslem hooks, hut in the Koran stands at the head 
of each chapter or sura. There are twenty-nine chap- 
ters which begin with certain letters, and these the Mo- 
hammedans believe to conceal profound mysteries, that 
i have not been communicated to any but the prophet; 


KORAN 


151 


KORAN 


notwithstanding which, various explanations of them 
have been proffered. For these curious but unimpor- 
tant theories, see Sale, p. 43. The chapters or suras do 
not now stand in the order in which they were original- 
ly uttered. As the Mohammedan theory concerning the 
reconciliation of inconsistencies in the Koran is that the 
later revelation abrogates any former one with which 
it conflicts, and as some two hundred and twenty-five 
of the passages of the Koran are admitted thus to have 
been cancelled, their chronological order frequently be- 
comes a matter of considerable importance. The real 
order in point of time, and, therefore, authority, as now 
determined, after immense painstaking, is the following : 
Suras numbered 103, 100, 99, 91, 10G, 1, 101, 95, 102, 104, 
82, 92, 105, 89, 90, 93, 94, 108, were delivered in the order 
in which they are here set down in the first stage of 
Mohammed's prophetic career. Suras numbered 9G, 1 12, 
74, 1 II, belong to the second period of his career, and 
extend to his fortieth year. Those numbered 87, 97, 88, 
80, 81. 84, 8G, 110, 85, 83, 78, 77, 76, 75, 70, 109, 107, 55, 5G, 
belong to the third period. Numbers G7, 53,32,39, 73, 
79, 54, 34, 3 1 , 09, G8, 4 1 , 7 1 , 52, 50, 45, 44, 37, 30, 26, 15, 5 1 , 
cover the time from the sixth to the tenth year of Mo- 
hammed’s mission. Numbers 46, 72, 35, 36, 19, 18, 27, 
42, 40, 38, 25, 20, 43, 12, 1 1, 10, 14, G, 64, 28, 23, 22, 21, 17, 
1G, 13, 29, 7, to the fifth stage. The date of numbers 
113, 114 is not known. Numbers 2, 47, 57, 8, 58, 65, 98, 
62, 59, 24, 63, 48, 61, 4, 3, 5, 33, GO, 66, 49, 9, are those de- 
livered at Medina. Most of the others were delivered 
at Mecca, though some were delivered partly at Medina 
and partly at Mecca. The Koran is further subdivided 
by the equivalent of our verses, called Ay at, which 
means signs or wonders, as the secrets of God’s attri- 
butes, works, judgments, etc. It is again arranged in 
sixty equal portions called Ileizb , each of which is di- 
vided into four equal parts (or into thirty portions twice 
the length of the former, and subdivided into four parts), 
for the use of the readers in the royal temples or in the 
adjoining chapels where the emperors and great men 
are interred. Thirty of these readers belong to each 
chapel, and each reads his section every day, so that the 
whole Koran is read through once a day (Sale, p. 42). 

Contents . — The matter of the Koran is exceedingly 
incoherent and sententious, the book evidently being 
without any logical order of thought either as a whole 
or in its parts. This agrees with the desultory and in- 
cidental manner in which it is said to have been deliv- 
ered. The following table of the suras (condensed from 
Sale) will give the reader some idea of its miscellaneous 
range of topics. Many of the headings, however, are, as 
above explained, simply cateh-titles, taken from some 
prominent word or expression. Most of the contents 
are preceptive merely; some are a travesty of Bible his- 
tory; others recount in a vague and fragmentary way 
incidents in the prophet’s personal or public career; and 
a few are somewhat speculative. Generally these ele- 
ments are indiscriminately mixed iii the same piece. 


C teT Tit,e in the Original. I 

1. Preface 7 

2. The Cow 2S6 

3. The Family of Imran 200 

4. Women 175 

5. The Table 120 

C. Cattle 165| 

7. Al-Araf 206 

8. The Spoils 76 

9. The Declaration of 

Immuuity [Conver- . \ 
sion] 139 

10. Jouas 109 

11. Hud 123 

12. Joseph Ill 

13. Thunder 43 

14. Abraham 52 


15. Al-1 1 ej vaiThe Flight] 99 

16. The Bee 128 ! 

17. The Night Journey. 110 

IS. The Cave Ill 

19. Alnrv eo 


zw. i.ji 

21. The Prophets 112 

22. The Pilgrimage 7S| 


C tlT Title in the Original, 

23. The True Believers. 1 IS 


24. Light 74 

25. Al-Forkau {.The Ko- 

ran] 77 

2G. The Poets 227 

27. The Ant 93 

28. The Story 87 

29. The Spider G9 

30. The Greeks CO 

31. Lokman 34 

32. Adoration 29 

33. The Confederates . . 73 

34. Saba 54 

35. TheCreator [Artgels] 45 

36. Y. S. [I. S.] 83 

37. Those who rank them- 

selves iu Order [The 
Classes] i«2 

38. S 86 

39. The Troops 75 

40. The True Believers. S5 

41. Are distinctly Ex- 

plained [ Explana- 
tion ] 54 


Chap- TUle in the original. 

No. of 
Verses. 

42. Consultation 


43. The Ornaments 

of 

God [Dress] 

.. S9 

44. Smoke 

.. 57 

45. The Kneeling 

.. 36 

46. Al-Ahkaf 


47. Mohammed[7/ieZ>a£- 

tie] 

.. 33! 

43. The Victory 



49. The Inner Apart- 

ments [Sanctuary] 18 

50. K 45 

51. The Dispersing [Breath 

of the Winds] 00 

52. The Mountain 48 

53. The Star 61 

54. The Moon 55 

55. The Merciful 78 

56. TheluevitableCJud#- 

vient] 99 

57. Irou 29 

53. She who Disputed 

[The Complaint ] . . 22 

59. TheEmigratiou [The 

Assembly ] 24 

60. She who is tried [The 

Proof] 13 

61. Battle Array 14 

62. The Assembly [Fri- 

day] 11 

63. The Hypocrites [Im- 

pious] 11 

64. Mutual Deceit [Knav- 

ery] 18 

65. Divorce 12 

66. Prohibition 12 

67. The Kingdom 30 

68. The Pen 52 

69. Theln fallible [The In- 

evitable Da y] 62 

70. The Steps [The Class- 

es] 44 

71. Noah 28, 

72. The Genii 2S 

73. The Wrapped tip [The 

Prophet in his Dress] 19 

74. Th eCove red['TheMan- | 

tie] 55 

75. The Resurrection 40 

76. Man 31 

77. Those who .are sent 

[The Messengers ] . . . 50 
73. The [Important] News 40 
79. Those who tear forth 


Chap- *j*itle in the Original. 2?*’ 
ter. & \ erses. 

[ The Ministers of 


Vengeance] 46 

80. He Frowned [The 

Froum] 42 

81. TheFokliug u\)[Dark- 

ness] 29 


52. The Cleaving asunder 19 

53. Those who give short 

Measure or Weight 36 

84. The Rending asunder 23 

85. The Celestial Signs.. 22 

86. The Nocturnal Star.. 17 


87. The Most High 19 

8S. The Overwhelming 
* [The Gloomy Veil] . 26 

89. The Daybreak 30 

90. The Territory [The 

City] 20 

91. The Sun 15 

92. The Night 21 

93. The Brightness [The 

Sun in Meridian ]. . 11 

94. Have we not opened? 

[ Th e Exposition ] ... S 

95. The.Fig-[tree] 8 

96. The Congealed Blood 

[The Union of the 
Sexes] 19 

97. AI-Kadir [ The Cele- 

brated Sight] 5 

9S. The Evidence S 

99. The Earthquake S 

100. The War Horses 11 

101. The Striking [Day of 

Calamities] 10 

102. The Emulous Desire 

ofMnltiplying[Lore 
of Gain] S 

103. The Afternoon 3 

104. The Slanderer 9 

105. The Elephant 5 

106. Koreish 4 

107. Necessaries [The Sue- 

coring Hand] 7 

108. Al-Kathar 3 

109. The Unbelievers 6 

110. Assistance 3 

111. Abu Laheb 5 

112. The Declaration of 

God’s Unity 4 

113. The Daybreak [ God 

of Morning] 5 

114. Man 6 


Manner of Preservation. — Mohammed’s professed rev- 
elations were made at intervals extending over a period 
of t wenty-three years, when the canon was closed. We 
have no certain information about the manner of their 
preservation during the prophet’s life. Many persons 
wrote them on palm-leaves and various other substances 
which were conveniently at hand. A writer in.the Cal- 
cutta Review (xix, 8) says: In the latter part of his ca- 
reer the prophet had many Arabic amanuenses; some of 
them occasional, as Ali and Otliman, others official, as 
Zeid ibn-Thabit (who also learned Hebrew expressly in 
order to conduct Mohammed’s business at Medina). In 
Wackidy’s collection of dispatches the writers are men- 
tioned, and they amount to fourteen. Some say there 
iv ere four-and-twenty of his followers whom he used 
more or less as scribes, others as many as forty-two 
(Weil’s Mohammed , p. 350). In his early life at Mecca 
he could not have had these facilities, but even then 
his wife, Ivhadija (who could read the sacred Scriptures), 
might have recorded his revelations; or Waraca, Ali, or 
Abu-Bekr. At Medina, Obey ibn-Kab is mentioned as 
one who used to record the inspired recitations of Mo- 
hammed (Wackidv, p. 277|). Abdallah ibn-Sad, anoth- 
er, was excepted from the Meecan amnesty because lie 
had falsified the revelation dictated to him by the proph- 
et (Weil’s Mohammed). It is also evident that the rev- 
elations were recorded, because they are frequently call- 
ed throughout the Koran itself Kitab , 1 the writing,’ i. e. 
Scriptures.” Besides this, however, there were many 
persons who recited these sayings daily, considering 
their repetition to be a duty, and persons generally re- 
peated some parts of them, it was said that some could 
repeat literally every word of the Koran. The recital 
of a portiou of it was essential ill every celebration of 


KORAN 


152 


KORAN 


public worship, and its private perusal was urged as a 
duty and considered a privilege. No order was, how- 
ever, observed in t heir perusal, in public the imam or 
preacher selecting according to his own pleasure. 

Collected by Zeid. — Many of the best memorizers of 
the Koran were slain in battle at Yemana, whereupon 
Omar advised caliph Abu-I>ekr, “as the battle might 
again wax hot among the repeaters of the Koran,” that 
he should appoint Zeid to. collect from all sources the 
matter of the Koran. This Zeid did from date-leaves, 
tablets of white stones, breasts of men, fragments of 
parchment and paper, and pieces of leather, and the 
shoulder and rib bones of camels and goats. Sale sup- 
poses that Zeid did not compile, but merely reduced to 
order the various suras. This, however, was but im- 
perfectly done. Zeid’s copy was committed to the care 
of Ilafza, the daughter of Omar. 

Recension in Othman's Time, — A variety of expres- 
sion either originally prevailed, or soon crept into cop- 
ies made from Zeid’s edition. The Koran was “one,” 
but if there were several varying texts where would be 
its unity? There were marked differences between the 
Syrian and Iranian readings. The caliph Ot liman or- 
dered Zeid and three of the Koreish (q. v.) to reproduce 
an authorized version from the copy of Ilafza, and this 
was subsequently sent into all the principal cities, all pre- 
vious copies being directed to be burned. This recen- 
sion being objected to in modern times on the ground 
that the Koran is incorruptible and eternal, and pre- 
served from all error and variety of readings by the mi- 
raculous interposition of God, the Mohammedans now 
say that it was originally revealed in seven different 
dialects of the Arabic tongue, and that the men in ques- 
tion only selected from these. The variations in the 
copies of Othman’s edition are marvellously few. There 
is probably no other work which has remained twelve 
centuries with so pure a text. 

A uthenticity. — It would appear difficult, notwithstand- 
ing the care taken since Othman’s day, to prove that 
the Koran has been entirely uneorrupted. The Shiite 
Mussulmans say that Otliman struck out ten sections, 
or one fourth part of the whole; and the Dabistdn, 
translated by Shea and Iroyer (ii, 368), contains one of 
the sections said to have been struck out. Again, while 
the Koran was in the care of Ilafza, one of Mohammed’s 
wives, we cannot say that it was not in any way tam- 
pered with. The balance of evidence, however, is prob- 
ably against the views of the Shiite seet. At the time 
of the recension there were multitudes who had tran- 
scripts, and who remembered accurately what they had 
heard. There was bitter political enmity to Othman, 
headed by Ali, who would gladly have seized on any 
such Haw or failure. Abu-Bekr was a sincere follower 
of Mohammed, and all the people seem to have been ear- 
nest in their endeavor to reproduce the divine message. 
The compilation was made within two years of the 
prophet’s death, while yet there were official reciters 
and tutors of the Koran in every quarter. The very 
fragmentary and patchwork character of the arrange- 
ment of the book bears marks of honesty; yet passages 
revealed at various periods may, after all, not be all in- 
cluded. The very call for the recension of Othman’s is, 
on the other hand, urged as evidence of acknowledged 
corruption. 

The Koran as a Revelation . — The Mohammedan the- 
ory is that the Koran is eternal and uncreated, and was 
first written in heaven on a table of vast size, called 
“the Preserved Table;” that a copy of this volume was 
made on paper, and brought by Gabriel down to the 
lowest heaven in the month of Eamadan, from which 
copy the work was at various times communicated to 
the prophet. The whole was shown to Mohammed 
once a year, and the last year of his life he saw it twice. 

The evidence relied on to prove its inspiration, so far 
as found within the Koran itself, is as follows: 

1. That Mohammed was foretold by .lesus in these 
words: “Oh children of Israel. I bring glad tidings of 


an apostle who shall come after me, whose name shall 
be Ahmad” (sura G). Ahmad is from the same root, 
and has almost the same meaning as Mohammed. A 
passage of the New Test. (John xvi, 7), in which Christ 
promises to send the Comforter, is wrested for the same 
service, as also are Psa. i, 2, and Deut. xxxiii, 2. 

2. Some suppose that the Koran contains accounts of 
miracles worked by Mohammed. The 24th sura con- 
tains what some Mohammedans interpret as an account 
of Mohammed’s splitting the moon. The Mohammedan 
critics are not agreed themselves as to whether the 
prophet there speaks in the future or past tense. AY he til- 
er he does not merely affirm that the moon shall be split 
before the day of judgment admits of question. Mo- 
hammed elsewhere in the Koran distinctly and repeat- 
edly denies that he could or would work miracles (sura 
13-17, etc.). The night journey of Mohammed from 
Mecca to Jerusalem (sura 17), and the conversion of the 
jinns or genii who heard him reading the Koran (sura 
40, 72), are also referred to as miracles by the Moham- 
medans, but it is doubtful if the language in the Koran 
was intended to assert what it has since been made to 
support. Various passages are referred to by Moham- 
medans to show that their prophet foretold future events 
— as the account in the 30th sura about the Greeks be- 
ing overcome; but the commentators are not agreed as 
to the reference (sura 24, 27-48). 

3. But the predictions in the Koran were never re- 
ferred to as evidence of Mohammed's inspiration. The 
real testimony to the inspiration of the Koran appealed 
to throughout by Mohammedans is the book itself. The 
author of it everywhere appeals to it as a literary mira- 
cle: it is “uncreated” and “eternal” (Sale, p. 46); it 
could not have been composed by any but God (Sale, p. 
160) ; Mohammed challenges men and genii to produce 
a chapter like it (Sale, p. 169-235) ; no revelation could 
be more self-evident (Sale,p. 136) ; it contains all things 
necessary to know (Sale, p. 221, 273); it was so won- 
derful that it was traduced by its enemies as a piece of 
sorcery (Sale, p. 106), as a poetical composition (Sale, p. 
364); it was not liable to corruption (Sale, p. 175). and 
should not be touched by the ceremonially unclean (Sale, 
p. 437). 

The Style of the Koran. — It is difficult to make a pre- 
cise judgment of its merits. It was written in a dialect 
of Arabic which may now almost be called a dead lan- 
guage. It is composed in a kind of balanced prose, 
with frequent rhyming terminations; a sort of compo- 
sition once greatly admired by the Syrian Christians, 
but in Europe neither the poetic cadence nor the jingling 
sound is deemed suitable to prose composition. Some 
learned Mussulmans have not considered it remarkably 
beautiful (Bocock’s Specimen Ilist. Arabian, ed. White, 
p. 224; Maracci, Prodromvs, iii, 75; Lee’s Martyn's 
Tracts , p. 121, 135). Gibbon is probably too severe in 
his judgment if his remarks have reference to its man- 
ner and not to its matter, when he calls it an “incohe- 
rent rhapsody of fable, and precept, and declamation, 
which sometimes crawls in the dust, and sometimes is 
lost in the clouds” ( Dccl . and Kali Roman Empire , i, p. 
365, Milman’s edition). Some affirm that Hamzah ben- 
Ahined wrote h book against the Koran with at least 
equal elegance ; and Maslema another, which surpassed 
it, and occasioned a defection of a great number of Mus- 
sulmans. There is perhaps little reason to differ from 
the representations of Mr. Sale when he says, “The Ko- 
ran is usually allowed to be written with t lie utmost el- 
egance and purity of language in the dialect of the Ko- 
reish, the most noble anil polite of all the Arabians, but 
with some mixture, though very rarely, of other dia- 
lects. It is confessedly the standard of the Arabic 
tongue, and, as the more orthodox believe, and are 
taught by the book itself, inimitable by any human pen 
(though some sectaries have been of another opinion), 
and therefore insisted on as a permanent miracle, great- 
er than that of raising the dead, and alone sufficient to 
convince the world of its divine original” (Koran, p.43). 


KORAN 

Relation to the Bible . — The Koran maintains that rev- 
elation is gradual, and that God has given written rev- 
elations to many prophets from time to time, non# of 
which are extant except the Pentateuch of Moses, the 
Psalms of David, and the Gospel of Jesus; that God 
revives, and republishes or reproduces from time to time 
his revelations through his prophets, according to the 
necessity of the case. The three revelations — Jewish, 
Christian, and that of the Mussulman — are equally in- 
spired and divine. The preceding Scriptures are, how- 
ever, to be interpreted according to the latest revelation, 
and are liable to have their ordinances modified in con- 
formity therewith. A distinction is thus made between 
belie/ in and obligation to obey these precepts. The 
Jewish and Christian Scriptures are variously spoken 
of as “ the Word of God,” “ Kook of God,” Taurdt, etc. ; 
they are described as “ revelations made by God in ages 
preceding the Koran.” Exhortations are given “ to 
judge” in accordance therewith. Mohammed himself 
was sent “ to attest the former Scriptures,” etc. (Com- 
pare passages in the following suras : 2, 8, 4, 5, 0, 7, 0, 
Id, 11, 12, i3, lti, 17, 19, 20, 21, 23, 25, 26, 28, 29, 32, 34, 
35, 37, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 45, 4(5, 47, 48, 53, 54, 61, 02, 00, 
74, 80, 87, 98.) 

There are various correspondences with these Scrip- 
tures, as in the accounts of the fall of Adam and Eve, 
the narratives of Noah and the deluge, of Abraham, 
Sarah, Lot, Isaac, Moses, Joseph, Zacharias, John the 
Baptist, etc. The contradictions arc, however, innumer- 
able: e. g. one of Noah’s sons was drowned in the Del- 
uge (sura 11); the wife of Pharaoh saved Moses (sura 
28); the wind was subject to Solomon (sura 21); Solo- 
mon was driven from his kingdom ; devils built for Sol- 
omon, other devils dived for him (ibid.); thousands of 
dead Israelites were raised to life (sura 3) ; Ezra and 
his ass died for a hundred years, and were then raised 
to life (sura 2) ; the grossest being that Jesus teas not 
crucified , and is not the Son of God (sura 4). 

Sources of Jewish and Christian Elements . — The Jew- 
ish and Christian elements in the Koran are readily to 
be accounted for. Jews from all parts of Arabia were in 
yearly attendance at the great fairs of Oeatz, Mujanna, 
Dzul, Majaz, etc., and great mercantile journeys were 
made from Mecca to Syria, Yemen, and Abyssinia at 
least once a year. Christianity was established in these 
quarters. Some Arabs even reached much further. 
Othman ibn-IIuweirith, a citizen of Mecca, went to 
Constantinople, and subsequently returned a baptized 
Christian. Arabs frequented the Christian courts of 
I lira and Ghassan, which adjoined Arabia on the north. 
Mohammed himself had been twice to Medina. More 
than a hundred of his followers found refuge in the 
Christian court of Abyssinia, both before and after the 
Hegira. Embassies were sent by Mohammed to the 
Iioman and Persian courts, to Abyssinian and other 
Christian chiefs. “Mohammed had connection with 
Jews and Christians of every quarter of the civilized 
world” (Muir’s Testimong, p. 118, 1 19). There are, more- 
over, many prominent individual cases : Zeid was of 
Syria, among whom Christianity prevailed. lie was 
captured and sold into slavery, and was presented to 
Khadija shortly after her marriage to Mohammed, who 
loved him, and adopted him as his own son. He learned 
Hebrew. Waraca, a cousin of Khadija, was a convert 
to Christianity, acquainted with the religions tenets and 
sacred Scriptures of the Jews and Christians, copied or 
translated some portion of the Gospel in Arabic or He- 
brew, and was of the family of Mohammed. The slaves 
generally of Mecca knew something of Christianity and 
Judaism (Muir’s Mohammed). 

Mohammedans, however, do not admit that our pres- 
ent Scriptures are trustworthy, but believe them to have 
been interpolated and otherwise corrupted. They quote 
a great number of passages of the Koran to establish 
this. Mr. Muir ( Testimong , p. 119 sq.) nevertheless 
shows that there is no charge in the Koran against the 
Christians on this account, and that even those against 


KORAN 

the Jews are of “ hiding, concealing” the whole, and not 
of corrupting. 

Doctrines and Morals . — The contents of the Koran 
as the basis of Mohammedanism will be considered un- 
der that head, while for questions more closely connect- 
ed with authorship and chronology we must refer to 
Mohammed. Briefly it may be stated here that “the 
chief doctrine laid down in it is the unity of God, and 
the existence of but one true religion, with changeable 
ceremonies. When mankind turned from it at different 
times, God sent prophets to lead them back to truth ; 
Moses, Christ, and Mohammed being the most distin- 
guished. Both punishments for the sinner and rewards 
for the pious are depicted with great ditfuseness, and 
exemplified chiefly by stories taken from the Bible, the 
apocryphal writings, and the Midrash. Special laws and 
directions, admonitions to moral and divine virtues, more 
particularly to a complete and unconditional resignation 
to God’s will, legends, principally relating to the patri- 
archs, and, almost without exception, borrowed from the 
Jewish writings (known to Mohammed by oral commu- 
nication onl}', a circumstance which accounts for their 
often odd confusion), form the bulk of the book, which 
throughout bears the most palpable traces of Jewish in- 
fluence” (Chambers, Cgclop. s. v.). 

Outward Reverence . — The Mohammedans regard the 
Koran with great esteem, never holding it below the 
girdle nor touching it without purification. It is con- 
sulted on all matters of importance, and is the basis of 
the entire civil code and procedure of all Mohammedan 
countries. Sentences from it are inscribed on their ban- 
ners : they are written on tissue paper, and are suspend- 
ed in gold and silver lockets from their necks. The ma- 
terials of its binding are often costly, being emblazoned 
with gold and precious stones. Mohammedans much 
dislike to see the book in the hands of “infidels,” as 
they call all but Islamites. The bazaars or streets in 
which it' is sold in Constantinople have become almost 
as sacred as mosques, and the dealers in the Koran have 
come to be as much reverenced as the preacher. Ke- 
mal Bey has recently had photographed a famous copy 
of the Koran, written nearly two hundred years ago (in 
1094 of the Hegira) by Hafiz Osman, from the MSS. of 
Al-Kari, a celebrated doctor (Friend of India, Nov. 2, 
1871 ; also A theneeum). Multitudes of Mussulmans know 
the entire Koran by heart; these are called Hafiz, and 
are much venerated in consequence. 

Translations, Commentaries, Editions, etc. — Various 
versions of t he Koran have been made. Mohammedans 
do not object to this (Sale, p. 50). Of French transla- 
tions we have those of Du lloyer, Savary (with notes, 
1783), Garcia de Tassy (1829), and Kassi Mirski (1840). 
In Latin there is an early one (A.I). 1143) by Ketenon- 
sis, an Englishman (Basle, 1543). and an Italian one from 
it — both condemned by Sale. The Latin translation of 
Maracei (1G98) is much quoted by authors. In German 
we have those of Mcgerlin (1772),WahI (1828). and Ull- 
mann (1840). In English there is BodwcII’s (1802), and 
the excellent one with notes by George Sale (first edit. 
1734; last, Lond. 1801); also Lane’s Selections from the 
Koran (Lond. 1843, 12mo). Besides these there are a 
great number of Persian, Turkish, Malay, Hindustani, 
and other translations, maele for the benefit of the vari- 
ous Eastern Moslems. 

Of eoncorelances to the Koran may be mentioned that 
of FUigcl (Leipz. 1842), and the Nujum al-Furkan (Cal- 
cutta, 181 1). 

The Koran has been commented upon so often that 
the names of the commentators aleme would fill volumes. 
Thus, the library of Tripoli, in Syria, is reported to have 
once contained no less than 20,000 commentaries. The 
most renowned are those of Samachshari (died 539 He- 
gira), Beidliavi (died 685 or 710 Hegira), Mahalli (died 
870 Hegira), and Sovuti (died 91 1 Hegira). The Amer- 
ican Oriental Society has in its library at Neiv Haven a 
superior copy of the Persian Commentary on the Koran, 
by Kamal ed-Din Husain (2 vols. in one, folio). For a 


153 


KORATHITE 


154 


KOREISH 


full list of these and the Oriental translations and edi- 
tions of the Koran, see Triibner’s pamphlet, A Catalogue 
o f A rabic , Persian , and Turkish Books printed in the 
East (Egypt, Tim is, Oudh, Bombay, etc.). See Arabic 
Language. 

The principal editions are those of llinkelmann (Ham- 
burg, 1694), Maracci (Padua, 1G98), Flilgel (Leipzig, 3d 
ed. 1 838, a splendid one), besides many editions (of small 
critical value) printed in St. Petersburg, Kasan, Teheran, 
Calcutta, Cawnpore, Serampore, and the many newly- 
erected Indian presses. 

Literature . — In addition to the above, special refer- 
ence may be made to W. Muir, The Testimony borne by 
the Koran to the Jewish and Christian Scriptures (Alla- 
habad. India, 18G0) ; Prof. ( leroclc, Christoloyie des Koran 
(Hamburg, 1839) ; Muir, Life of Mahomet (Lond. 18G0), 
vol. iv (tlie first volume being almost entirely occupied 
with a discussion of the sources available for such a bi- 
ography) ; a valuable article in the Calcutta Review, vol. 
xix; the Journal Asiatique, July, 1838, p. 41 sq. ; De 
Tassy, Doctrines ct devoirs de la Reliyion M usulmane 
tires du Coran; White {Hampton Lectures ), Comparison 
of Mohammedanism and Christianity ; Neal, Is/ctmism, its 
Rise and Progress (2 vols. 12mo — valueless) ; Letters to 
Indian Youth, by Dr. Murray Mitchell, of Bombay ; Life 
and Religion of Mohammed, in accordance with the Shiite 
Traditions of the I/ezat al-Kulud (translated from the 
Persian by Rev. J. L. Merrick, Boston. 1850) ; Nbldeke 
(Theodor), Gesch. d. Quoran (Gotting. 1860); Weil, II is- 
torische Einleit. in den Koran (Bielf. 1844); Weil, Mo- 
hammed der Prophet sein Leben u.s. Lehre (Stuttg. 1843, 
8vo); Sprenger, Leben u. Lehre von Muhammed (Berlin, 
1861) ; Kreraer, Alfred von, Gesch . d. herrschenden Ideen 
des I slams (Lpz. 18G8) ; Perceval (CausVm de), Essai sur 
Vhistoire des A rales, (leant V I slamisme, pendant Tepoque 
de Mahomet, et jusqu'a hi reduction de toutes les tribus 
sous la loi Mussiilmane (Paris, 1847-8, 3 vols. 8vo) ; and 
especially iSeries of Essays on the Life of Mohammed, 
and Subjects subsidiary thereto , by Seyd Ahmed Khan 
Bahader (London, 1870) ; A mer. Presb. Rev. Oct. 1862, p. 
754 ; Revue des deux Maudes, Sept. 1, 1865. On the Chris- 
tology of the Koran, see the Studien u.Krit. 1838-1847; 
Kitto, Journal Sacred Liter . xxviii, 479 ; Lond. Quart. 
Review , Oct. 1869, p. 160 sq. (J. T. G.) 

Ko'rathite (Numb, xxvi, 58). See Koraiiite. 

Kordes, Berenne, a German writer on exegetical 
theology, was born at Liibeck Oct. 27, 1762, and studied 
at the universities of Kiel, Leipzig, and Jena. In 1793 
lie became librarian of the university at Kiel, and died 
there Feb. 5, 1823. Ills exegetical works are, Observa- 
tionum in Jonie Oracnla Sprcimina (Jena, 1788): — Ruth 
ex versime Septuaginta interpretnm (Jena, 1788). — Hoe- 
fer, Xouv. Biog. Generate, xxviii, 84. 

Xo're (Hebrew Kore', SOip, but in 1 Chron. 
xxvi, I, a partridge, as in 1 Sam. xxvi, 20; Sept. 
but K cool) v. r. Kotji) in 2 Chron. xxxi, 14), the name of 
two or three men. See also Koraii. 

1. A Levite and Temple- warden of the Korahites, of 
the sons of Asaph, and father of Meshelemiah or Shele- 
miali (l Chron. xxvi, l). B.C. 1014. He was probably 
identical with the soil of Ebiasaph and father of Shal- 
lum, Levites of the family of Korah, engaged in the 
same service (1 Chron. ix, 19). 

2 . Son of lmnah, a Levitical porter of the east gate, 

appointed by Hezekiah to take charge of the Temple 
offerings (2 Chron. xxxi, 1 1 ). I>.( \ 726. 

3. By erroneous translation m the A.Y. at 1 Chron. 
xxvi, 19 for Koraiiite (q.v.). 

Koreisli is the name of a celebrated aboriginal tribe 
of Arabia, from whose ranks came Mohammed, the foun- 
der of Islam. The influence which the Korcish must 
have exerted in the early days -of Mohammed is appar- 
ent from the fact that they exercised the guardianship 
over the Kuaba (q.v.). When Mohammed claimed for 
himself the dignity of a prophet, and inveighed against 
the primeval superstition of the Koreisli (or Meccans, 


as they are sometimes called, after their principal place 
of residence, the city of Mecca), he was denounced by 
all the Koreisli tribe. Many of his people were still 
devoted to Sabaism (q. v.), a somewhat refined worship 
of the planetary bodies (in all probability the belief of 
the Koreisli in the century preceding the establishment 
of the Mohammedan creed; compare Sprenger, Life of 
Mohammed, i, 170; Milman’s Gibbon, Decline and Pali 
of the Roman Empire, x, 92 sq. ; Milman, Latin Chnsti- 
anity , ii, 127 ; and the article Arabia, vol. i, p. 342, in 
this Cyclopedia), while many others, although disbe- 
lieving the general idolatry of their countrymen, and 
not yet believers in Judaism, or in the corrupt Christi- 
anity with which alone they Avere acquainted, were 
looking for a revival of what they called the ‘“religion 
of Abraham.” Indeed, the greater the number of Mo- 
hammed's converts, the greater the opposition of his 
tribe; for had not the new religionists dared to question 
the saeredness of the holy temple, and call their ancient 
gods idols, and their ancestors fools? With .all the an- 
imosity of an established priesthood trembling for their 
dignity, their power, and their wealth, the Koreish re- 
sisted the inroads of the new prophet, and though there 
were of their number those who had actually longed for 
the propagation of a monotheistic faith, they now spurn- 
ed its establishment, as it was likely to give superiority 
to the family of Ilashem, only a side branch of the pow- 
erful tribe. Many of the converts suffered all manner 
of annoyance ; not a few were subjected also to punish- 
ment. In consequence of this contest, Mohammed felt 
constrained to advise his followers to seek refuge in 
Abyssinia. He himself had hitherto escaped only by 
the heroic conduct of his adopted father, Abu Talib, 
who, though not a believer in the new' religion, consid- 
ered it his duty to afford protection to Mohammed and 
all his kindred. But the rapid spread of the Islamitish 
doctrines made the Koreish violent, and they now de- 
manded that Mohammed should be delivered into their 
hands. Upon Abu Talib’s refusal to comply with their 
demands a feud resulted, and all the Ilasliemites were 
excommunicated. The Prophet himself, however, they 
sought to remove by secret assassination ; a price was 
set upon his head — 100 camels and 1000 ounces of sil- 
ver — and he escaped their vengeance only by the self- 
possession with which one of his converts, Nueim, met 
the v'ould-bc assassin Omar. “ Ere thou doest the deed,” 
said Nueim, £ * look to thine ow n near kindred.” Omar 
rushed infatuated to the house of his sister Fatima to 
punish her apostasy, but there the Koran was present- 
ed to him ; he read a few sentences, and was changed 
into a follower of the Prophet. Vet did not the Koreish- 
ites abate their hostility; and it is said that for three 
long years Mohammed was under the depressing influ- 
ence of the interdict, and constantly obliged even to 
change his bed in order to elude the midnight assassin 
(eomp. Sale’s Koran, oh. xxxvi; D'llerbelot, Biblioth. 
Orientate , p. 445). A fugitive from his native city, and 
despairing of making Mecca, the metropolis of the na- 
tional religion, the centre of his new' spiritual empire, he 
turned to the friendly city of Medina, whither more 
than a hundred of his faithful flock had preceded him. 
Here he found a kind reception, and succeeded in win- 
ning for his cause and creed six of the most distinguish- 
ed citizens. From this llight, or rather from the first 
month of the next Arabic year, the Mohammedan aira 
{Hegira, q. v.) is dated. See Mohammed. 

Once successfully established at Medina, Moham- 
med’s first object was to secure his native stronghold, 
and for this purpose he declared himself at Avar Avitli the 
Meccans, and opened the contest ca'cii during the sacred 
month of the Rajah. The fair option of friendship, 
submission, or battle Avas proposed to the enemies of 
Mohammed. If they should profess the creed of Islam, 
they Avere to he admitted to all the temporal and spirit- 
ual benefits of his primitive disciples, and to march un- 
der the same banner to extend the religion which they 
had embraced. In his very first battle he routed the 


KORHITE 


1 55 


Koreishites, and, notwithstanding a severe loss and a 
personal wound in the battle near Oliod, his power had 
increased so rapidly that in the sixth year of the He- 
gira he determined upon and proclaimed a pilgrimage 
to Mecca. Although the Meccans did not suffer him to 
carry out this project, he secured their recognition as a 
belligerent and equal power with themselves by a formal 
treaty of peace, into which they mutually entered. In 
the year following he was allowed to spend a three-days’ 
pilgrimage undisturbed at Mecca. The unfortunate 
attitude of the Ivoreishites towards Mohammed during 
his wars with the Christians emboldened him to seek 
immediate revenge for their treachery, and at the head 
of an army of 10,000 men he marched against Mec- 
ca, before its inhabitants had time to prepare for the 
attack, without difficulty became master of the place, 
and readily secured acknowledgment as chief and proph- 
et. Among the first to fall prostrate at his feet were 
the chiefs of the Koreish. “What mercy can you ex- 
pect from the man whom you have wronged ?” “We 
confide in the generosity of our kinsman.” “And you 
shall not confide in vain; begone! You are safe, yon 
are free.” With the conquest of Mecca the victory of 
the new religion was secured in all Arabia, and for the 
history succeeding this event we must refer to Moham- 
med and Mohammedanism. For the detail of the three 
Koreishite wars, see references in Milman’s Gibbon, ii, 
133. See also Mecca; Medina, (J. II. W.) 

Kor'laite (Exod. vi, 24; xxvi, 1 ; I Chron. xii, 6; 
2 Chron. xx, 19). See Ivor aii. 

Kormczai ICniga, the Russian “corpus juris ca- 
nonici,” or canonical lav, is supposed to have become 
the possession of the Russians in the days of Vladimir 
the Great. The oldest Codex of the Kormczai Kniga 
dates from 1280, and was found in the cathedral at Nov- 
gorod ; its style of language has. led to the suppo- 
sition that it was translated by a southern Russian. 
The Greek original has never yet been found. The Co- 
dex was first printed Nov. 7, 1G50, at Moscow; in a 
somewhat modified form, it was printed by the Ras-lvol- 
niki (q. v.), a Russian sect at Warsaw, in 178G. Since 
that date several editions have been published. 

The Codex, in its treatment of ecclesiastical law, is 
divided into seventy chapters, of which forty-one, mak- 
ing part i, contain the canons of the apostles, the coun- 
cils, and the canonical letters; the remaining chapters, 
making part ii, contain the laws of the Eyzantine em- 
perors, and different treatises on ecclesiastical law. The 
work also contains historical contributions on the Greek 
and Russian Church, the Nomocanon of Photius, a notice 
of the name and edition of the work, the edict and gift 
of Constantine to Sylvester (q. v.), and a polemical trea- 
tise against the Latins. See Schlosser, MorgenL oi'tho - 
doxe Kirche Russlands (Iieidelb. 1845) ; St raid, Bcitrage 
z. ntssischen Kirchengesck. (Halle, 1827), p. 14; Ascii- 
bach, Kirchen-Lexicon, iii, 918. Comp, Pnorius ; Rus- 
sian Churcii. (J. II. W.) 

Korner, Johann Gottfried, a German theologian, 
was bom at Weimar Nov. 1G, 172G, entered Leipzig Uni- 
versity in 1743, and in 1749 became catechet at St. Pe- 
ter’s Church in that city. In 1752 he was made sub- 
dean at Thomas Church, in 175G at St. Nicholas Church, 
and in 1775 became archdeacon. Some time after this 
he was appointed regular professor of theology and su- 
perintendent of the churches of Leipzig. lie died Jan- 
uary 4, 1785. Korner wrote considerably, but his contri- 
butions to Church History are of especial value. His 
most important works are, Epitome cont rover siarum the- 
ologicarum (Lipsiiv, 17G9, 8vo): — Yom Culibat der Grist- 
lichen (ibidem, 1784, 8vo) : — Erasmi sententin de symbolu 
apostolico ex Rujino defensa (ibid, 1749, 4to). — During, 
Gebhrte Tkeol. Deutschlands , ii, 157 sq. 

Koinmann, Rupert, a Roman Catholic priest, was 
born at Ingolstadt in 1759 ; entered the cloister of 1 ’rif- 
ling in 177G; took the vow in 1777, and was made priest 
in 1780. In order further to prosecute his theological 


KORNTHAL, SOCIETY OF 

studies he went to the University of Salzburg, holding 
at the same time the chaplaincy at Nonnenberg. In 
1790 he was made abbot of the cloister of Prilling. He 
retired from this monastery after its secularization, and 
died Sept. 23, 1817. Among his many writings we have 
Die Sibylle der Zeit,aas der Vorzeit , oder politische Grund - 
sdtze durcli die Geschichte bevakrt, nebst einer Abhand- 
lung iib.die politische Divination (Frankf. and Leipz. 1810, 
2 vols.8vo) : — Bibylle der Religion aus der Welt- und Men- 
schen-geschichte , nebst einer Abkandlung iibc-r die goldenen 
Zeitalter (Munich, 1813, 8vo) : — Xachtraye za den beulen 
Sibyllen (with a biography of the author, Regensburg, 
1818, 8 vo). — Wetzer und Welte, K irchen-Lexikon , vol. vi, 
?. v. 

Kornthal, Society of, a German religious com- 
munity, which bears its name from the place where it 
originated, Kornthal, in Wiirtemberg. Rationalistic in- 
fluences in the Wiirtemberg Church had Occasioned 
changes in the liturgy (1809) obnoxious to many who 
adhered more strictly to the old Lutheranism. The 
millenarian influence of Jung Stilling and Michael Ilahn 
incited among this class an inclination to migrate, espe- 
cially to Russia, where, near Tiflis, in 1816—17, several 
Wiirtemberg settlements were formed, while many hun- 
dred families were making ready to follow. The king 
sought means to restrain this movement, and in 1819 
accepted the suggestions of Gottlieb Wilhelm Hoffmann, 
burgomaster of Leonburg. The latter, m consequence 
of deep religious impressions received in his youth, was 
in sympathy with the Pietists, and now proposed to re- 
tain for the state a valuable class of citizens by securing 
for them the establishment of a community similar to 
that authorized at Konigsberg under king Frederick, 
simply independent in its religious matters of the Lu- 
theran Consistory. The motive was Pietistic, and not 
schismatic. Hoffmann’s scheme sought to realize the 
spirit of the apostolic age; required as condition of mem- 
bership “a regenerate state of heart, manifested in a 
true life which springs from a sense of pardoned sin ,” 
and demanded careful education of children both men- 
tal and industrial, as well as charitable and missionary 
work. The community, as established, arose from the 
combination of three distinct elements, viz., the Old- 
Chnrch Pietism represented by Hoffmann, the Moravian 
ideas appearing in the constitution and Church service, 
and the partially millenarian views of Ilahn to which 
the majority adhered. 

Michael ilahn, known among the people as “Michel,” 
was at this time sixty-two years old. His spirit was 
that of Jacob Bohme. Converted at the age of twenty, 
he passed at that period, and subsequently, through an 
experience of religious ecstasy. Persecuted by his fam- 
ily and neighbors, he lived ascetically, was much in 
prayer, addressed religious assemblies, and soon won 
thousands of adherents, who sought him in Sindlingen, 
where he settled in 1794. II is writings were dissemi- 
nated in manuscript, and in 1817 his followers numbered 
18,000. Hahn’s teaching, with its acknowledged de- 
fects, brought a spirit of practical activity to the aid of 
a too subjective Pietism. The Kornthal society was 
founded Jan. 12,1819. and Ilahn was chosen its presi- 
dent, but he died on the 20th of the same month. 8ee 
Hahn, Michael. 

The Constitution of the community seeks to realize 
rather the union of the religious and civil orders than 
their separation. Truly patriarchal under the presi- 
dency of “ Father” Hoffmann, who died in 18-1G, it is real- 
ly based on the idea of the universal priesthood of Chris- 
tians. Not the clergy, but the community, is the final 
authority. The latter (“die Giiterkanfsgcscllschaft”) 
is the original possessor of the land, from whose author- 
ity it cannot be alienated. The lordship of Kornthal, 
1000 acres, all its buildings, gardens, vineyards, woods, 
was purchased for 1 13,000 gulden, and given out by lot 
to each member. Money can he borrowed only from 
the common chest, ami no debts can be contracted by 
members outside the community. A common council 


KORTIIOLT 


150 


KOSTER 


anil council of elders is periodically elected. The pres- 
ident, pastor, and schoolmaster are chosen by the com- 
munity, with recognition of the government and Church. 
The pastor shares the functions of the Sunday service 
with the president, councilinen, and schoolmaster, each 
of whom has authority to conduct a week-day service. 
The community admits its members by vote, and the 
children of the members are received only upon their 
own recognition. The criminal administration is under 
the general state authority, the property census and tax 
assessment being controlled by the president. 

The usual Church festivals are observed. Baptism is 
a public and solemn ceremony, the import of which the 
people are not allowed to forget. The Lord’s Supper is 
administered once a month on Saturday evening, pre- 
ceded by a week of preparatory meetings. 

The Christian activity of the community is displayed 
in connection with foreign and domestic missions and in 
education. It has few of its own members in the foreign 
mission field, though many missionaries, male and female, 
were educated at its schools. It is a supporter especially 
of the Basle Mission House, and its yearly missionary fes- 
tival is an occasion of great interest. The destitute of 
the neighborhood are systematically visited, and its in- 
stitution for abandoned children is chief among those of 
its class at Wiirtemberg. In its separate educational in- 
stitutions for the two sexes about 10,000 persons from 
various lands have received their training. 

Kornthal has in all a population of about 1300. It 
lias ever exerted a salutary influence for the prevention 
of schism in the Wiirtemberg Church, has furnished for 
the sentiment of Pietism a corrective model of practical 
life, and has in general shown a successful example of 
religious and moral principle directly applied to social 
laws. Ilore are uniformly neat dwellings, clean streets, 
a well-clad people; intemperance and brawls are un- 
known ; not a beggar is seen except such as may come 
in from abroad; there has been no case of bankruptcy 
from the foundation of the community, but two illegiti- 
mate births, and not a case of civil or criminal process 
of law has been required, while remarkable fidelity to 
the government in times of trial has characterized its 
people. — Kapff, Die Wiirt ember gischen B r tide rge mein den 
Kornthal u. Wilkelmsdorf (Kornth. 1830) ; Barth. Ueber 
die Pietisten (Tubing. 18*10) ; Zeitsch r. f hist, thcol. 1841 ; 
Haag, Stndien d. 1 Viirttemb. Geistl. ix, 1 sq. ; llerzog, Real- 
Encgklop. vol. xix, s. v. (E. B. O.) 

Kortliolt, Christian (l). See Cortiiolt. 

Korthoit, Christian (2), an eminent Danish Prot- 
estant theologian, and a nephew of Christian Kortholt 
(1), was born at Kiel in 1700. He studied at the uni- 
versity of his native city, and afterwards visited Hol- 
land and England. On his return to Germany he was 
appointed rector of the College of Leipzig, and adjunct 
professor of philosophy in the university of that city. 
A few years after he became professor of theology in the 
University of Gottingen, and finally ecclesiastical super- 
intendent. lie died Sept. 21, 1751. Besides a number of 
articles published in the Acta Eruditorum IJpsiensium , 
and a collection of sermons in German, he wrote l)e sac - 
rorum Christianorum in Cimbria primordiis (Kiel, 1728, 
*1 to) : — Commentatio histarieo-eccksiastiea de ecclcsiis sub - 
urbicuriis,qna in diociesin quam ejriscopus Romanus ictate 
concilii Xicieni habuit,inqniritur (Leipz. 1732, 4to): — f)c 
Soeietate A ntiquaria Londinensi ad Knappinm (Lpz. 1735, 
4to) : — De Matth. Tiudulio (Lpz. 1734, 4to) : — De Enthu - 
siusmo Mohammedis (Gotting. 1745, 8vo): — De Simone 
Petro primo A postal, it ultimo ((Jotting. 1748, 8vo); etc. 
He published also Leibnitii cpistohe ad di versos (Leipzig, 
1733-42,4 vols.). See .loach. Lindcmann, Christ. Kor- 
tholti Oratio funebris (in Sacer decadum septenarius, me- 
moriam theologorum nostra atate, etc.,Lpzg. 1705, 8vo); 
Niceron, Me mo ires, vol. xxxi , Hoofer, Siouv. Biog. Gen. 
xxvii, 03 ; Piercr, Cniv. Lexikon , ix, 734. (J. N. P.) 

Kos. See Owl. 

Kosa. See Koreisii. 


Kosegarten, Bernhard Christian, a German 
theologian, was born at Parchim, in Mecklenburg, May 
7, 1722; entered Rostock University in 1739; went to 
Halle in 1745, and became adjunct professor in 1750. 
lie died June 17, 1803. Kosegarten made for himself 
quite a name by his Ycrsneh das Kirchliche Dogma vom 
Stande der Ended rigung Christi eincr P rifling zu unter- 
U'erfen (New Brandenburg, 1748, 4to). — Dbring, Gekhrte 
Thcol. Deutschlands, ii, 174. 

Kosegarten, Hans Gottf l ied Ludwig, a Ger- 
man Orientalist and historian, was born at Altenkirchen, 
Isle of Kiigen, Sept. 10, 1792; studied theology and phi- 
lology at the University of Greifswald, anil in 1811 
went to Paris to continue the study of the Oriental lan- 
guages. He became adjunct professor at Greifswald in 
1815, and in 1817 professor of the Oriental languages at 
Jena, and of the same chair at Greifswald in 1824. He 
died in 1860. Kosegarten wrote De Mohammede Ebn 
Batata ejusque itineribus (Jena, 1818), and published 
editions of Amru ben-Kelthum’s Moallaka (Jena, 1820) : 
— IAbri Corona} legi$,idcst Commentarii in Peutatenchum 
Karaitiei ab Aharone ben-Elihu eonscripti aliquot par- 
ticular (Jena, 1824); etc. See Tievcr, Universal Lexikon, 
ix, 738. 

Kosegarten, Ludwig Theobald, a German di- 
vine and poet, was born at Grevismuhlen, in Mecklen- 
burg, Eeb. 1, 1758 : became rector at Wolgast in 1785; 
pastor at Altenkirchen in 1792, and in 1808 professor of 
history at the university in Greifswald; later also pro- 
fessor of theology, anil pastor at St. James’s Church in 
that place, and died Oct. 26, 1818. He was at one time 
honored with the rectorate of the university. His writ- 
ings belong to the domain of belles-lettres. See Kober- 
stein, Gcschkhte d. deutschen Nationa Hit ter at u r, iii, 2623 
sq. 

Kossoff, Sylvestre, a Russian divine, who flour- 
ished near the middle of the 17th century, was metro- 
politan of Kief in 1647, anil died April 13,1657. Kos- 
soff wrote a work on the Seven Sacraments (Koutimsk, 
1653, 4to), which an ecclesiastical council at Moscow in 
1690 declared heretical. 

Koster, J ohann Friedrich Burchardt, a Ger- 
man theologian, was born at Loccum in 1791. He be- 
came professor of theology in Kiel in 1839, anil died 
about 1850, Ilis works arc, Meletemata critica et exegeti- 
c a in Zachariam Prophetam, cap. 9-14 (Gotting. 1818) : 
— Das Christenthum (Kiel, 1825) : — Lehrb. der Pastoral 
1 Yissenschaft (ibid, 1827): — translations of the Psalms 
(1837) anil the Prophets (Leipzig, 1838). 

Koster, Martin Gottfried, a German theolo- 
gian, was born at (iuntersblum Nov. 11, 1734; was edu- 
cated at the University of Jena, which he entered in 
1752, and in 1755 became pastor at Wallersheim. In 
1761 he was called to Weilburg as pastor and prorector 
of the gymnasium in that place. In 1773 he was ap- 
pointed professor at Giessen, anil died there Dec. 6, 1802. 
Koster was decidedly orthodox in belief, and labored 
both by his tongue and his pen to stay the incoming 
tide of Rationalism. His most important work in this 
direction is his Xeueste Religionsbegebenheiten (Giessen, 
1778-1796), in which several eminent German theolo- 
gians assisted him. lie wrote also Yorurtheile fitr uml 
wider die christi. Religion nebst eincr A bhandlung von Zu - 
lassnng des Boseu (Frankfort-on-the-Main, 1774, 8vo) : — 
Erorterung der icichtigsten Sch wierigkdten in der Lehre 
vom Teufel (ibid, 1776, 8vo; another work on SaUin, Gies- 
sen, 1776, 8vo); etc. See Donw^Gcleiirte Thcol. Deutsch- 
lands, ii, 159 sq. 

Koster, Wilhelm, a German theologian, was bom 
in 1765, anil early devoted himself to the study of theol- 
ogy. He became pastor first at Oppenheim, later at Ep- 
pingen, and died May 8, 1802. He devoted much of his 
time to the study of practical theology, especially to lit- 
urgy, anil wrote Liturgie bei Beerdigungen (March, 1797, 
8vo): — Allgem. Alta rliturgie (ibid, 1799, 8vo). — Doring, 
Gekhrte Theol. Deutschlands, ii, 162. 


KOSTHA IBX-LUKA 


157 


KB AFT 


Kostha Ibn-Luka (or Luca), an Arabian phi- | 
losopher, the originator of Heliopolis in Syria, flourished 
towards the close of tire 9th century. He died, accord- [ 
ing to Abulfarag, about 890. He translated many works 
of Greek philosophers into Arabic, and wrote himself 
many original treatises, among which are, De A nimce. 
et Spirit us Discrimine : — De Marie inopinata : — De- 
scrip tio Spheres C'celestis: — Liber apologeiicus ad versus 
lihrum astrologi Aba I see de Mohamet i Apostolatu et 
Prophetia . See Fabricius, Bibliotheca Grccca, ii, 801 ; 
D’Herbelot, Biblioth . Orientate , p. 975. 

Kots. See Thorn. 

Kotter, Christoph, a German religions fanatic, 
was born at Sprottau, Silesia, in 1585. lie claimed to 
have visions (which were published at Amsterdam in 
1057). The first of these was in June, 1G10. He fancied 
he saw an angel, under the form of a man, who command- 
ed him to go and declare to the magistrates that, unless 
the people repented, the wrath of God would make dread- 
ful havoc. His pastor and friends kept him in for some 
time, nor did he execute his commission, even though 
the angel had appeared six times; but in 1019, when 
threatened with eternal damnation by the same spirit, he 
would suffer himself to be restrained no longer. Kotter 
was laughed at; nevertheless, his visions continued, and 
were followed by ecstasies and prophetic dreams. lie 
waited on the elector 'palatine, whom the Protestants 
had declared king of Bohemia, at Breslau, in 1020, and 
informed him of his commission. He became acquaint- 
ed, in 1025, with Comenius, whom he converted to be 
a believer in his prophecies, which at this time were 
rather of a political cast, presaging happiness to the 
elector palatine, and the reverse to the emperor, so he 
became at length obnoxious, and in 1027 was closely 
imprisoned as a seditious impostor, lie was finally lib- 
erated again and banished from the empire; went to 
Lusatia, then subject to Saxony, and died there in 1047, 
Kotter’s visions were related by Comenius in a work 
entitled Lux in tenebris (Amst. 1057 ; an epitome of this 
work appeared in 1000 : see, for an account of it, under 
Drauicics). See Bayle, /list. Diet, iii, 079 sq. (J. II. W.) 

Kotzebur, Joiiann, a German divine, was born in 
Magdeburg about 1054. He was rector at Quedlinburg. 
He died September 3, 1G92. Kotzebur wrote Suseitabu- 
lum C atholico- Luther anu m : — Covfutatio traetatus De- 
cani de eeelcsia, etc. — Allgem. Hist. Lex. iii, 01. 

Kouyunjik. See Nineveh. 

Koz (Heb. Kots, j’ip, a thorn, as often : 1 Chron. iv. 
8: Sept. Kwe, Yulg. Cos, Anth. Yers. “ Coz ;” elsewhere 
with the art. ‘pi'pn, hak-Kots, 1 Chron. xxiv, 10, Sept. 
'Akkuic, v. r. Kw£, Yulg. A ccos, Auth. Yers. “ Hakkoz 
Ezra ii, Gl, Sept. ’Akkovq, Yulg. A ccos; Neh. iii, 4, 21, 
Sept. 'Akkioq , Yulg. .4ee?/s, Ilaccus; Neh. vii, 03, Sept. 
'Akkioc, v. r. ’Aicibg, Yulg. A ccos), the name of two or 
more men. 

1. A descendant of Judah, concerning whose genealo- 
gy we have only the confused statement that he “ begat 
Annb and Zobebah, and the families of Aharhel, the son 
of Ilarum” (l Chron. iv, 8). B.C. prob. cir. 1012. 

2. The head of the seventh division of priests as ar- 
ranged by David (1 Chron. xxiv, 10). B.C. 1014. He 
is probably the same whose descendants are mentioned 
as returning with Zcrubbabel from Babylon, but as be- 
ing excluded by Nehemiah from the priesthood on ac- 
count of their defective pedigree (Ezra ii, 01 ; Neh. vii, 
G3). To this family appears to have belonged Urijah, 
whose son Mercmoth is named as having repaired two 
portions of the wall of Jerusalem (Neh. iii, 4, 21). 

Krafft, Adam, a celebrated German sculptor and 
architect, born at Nuremberg about 1430, and supposed to 
have died about 1507, deserves our notice for his promi- 
nent connection with ecclesiology. One of the most re- 
markable performances of his still extant is the tabernacle 
in stone, fixed against one of the columns of the choir of 
the church of St. Lawrence (Lorenzkirche), Nuremberg. 


It is in the form of a square open Gothic spire, and is 04 
feet high; the pinnacle being turned downwards like 
the crook of the crosier or an episcopal staff, to avoid the 
arch of the church. The ciborium is placed immedi- 
ately upon a low platform, which is supported partly by 
the kneeling figures of Adam Krafft and his two assist- 
ants; the rail or baluster of the platform is richly carved, 
and is ornamented with the figures of eight saints. The 
whole tabernacle is also profusely ornamented with small 
figures in the round andbassi-relievi: immediately above 
the ciborium, on three sides, are representations in basso- 
relievo of “Christ taking leave of his Mother,” the “Last 
Supper,” and “Christ on the Mount of Olives;” high 
above these are “Christ before Caiaphas,” the “Crown- 
ing with Thorns,” and the “ Scourging;” above these is 
the “Crucifixion;” and lastly, above that, is the “Bes- 
urrection,” all in the round. This elaborate work was 
executed by Krafft lor a citizen of the name of Hans 
Imhof, and for the small sum of 770 florins. There is a 
print of this tabernacle in Doppelmayr’s / HstorischeXach - 
richt von den Niirnbergischen Kiinstleni. lieccnt writers 
have indulged in various conjectures regarding the time 
and works of Krafft, but the circumstances of both are 
still involved in their former uncertainty. See Fiissli, 
A Hgemeines Kiinstler-Lexikon , s. v. ; Nr.gler, Allgemtines 
Kiinstler-Lex ikon , s. v. — English Cgdop. s. v. 

Krafft, Johann Christian Gottlob Lud- 
wig, the modern reformer of the Protestant Church in 
Bavaria, was born at Duisburg Dec. 12, 1784. He stud- 
ied first at Duisburg, where he fell temporarily under 
the influence of infidelity. He then spent five years as 
private tutor at Frankfort-on-the-Main, and this period 
was of great spiritual regeneration to him, though he 
did not succeed in allaying all his doubts. In October, 
1808, he became pastor of the Reformed congregation at 
Weeze, near Clevc. He still felt dissatisfied, however, 
and continued to search the Scriptures. In 1817 he be- 
came pastor of the German Ileformed congregation at 
Erlangen, and professor in the university in 1818. By 
this time his convictions had become settled, and be a 
firm Biblical supernaturalist. The last period of his 
spiritual development, his conversion, took place, ac" 
cording to his own account, in the spring of 1821. He 
died May 15, 1845. Without being gifted with very 
brilliant talents or especial eloquence, Krafft, by his ear- 
nest practical faith, and his uncommon energy, can be 
said to have awakened the Protestant Church of Bava- 
ria from the lethargic sleep into which it had fallen un- 
der the influence of ultra rationalism. He took great 
part in the progress of home missions, and was the 
founder of an institution for the daughters of the poor. 
He wrote De servo c-t Ubero arbitrio (Nuremb. 1818): — 
Seven Sermons on Isaiah liii, and four on 1 Cor. i. 30 ; 
Jahrgang: Predigten ii.freie Texte (Erlang. 1828, 1832, 
1845). After his death Dr. Burger published his Chro- 
nologie it. Ilarmonie d. ricr Evangelien (Erlangen. 1848). 
— Herzog, Peal-Enegklopadie, vol. viii, s. v. (J. N. P.) 

Kraft, Friedrich Wilhelm, a German theolo- 
gian, was born at Krautheim, in the duchy of Weimar, 
Aug. 9, 1712, and was educated at Jena and Leipzig 
from 1729 to 1732. In 1739 he became pastor at Frank- 
endorf, and in 1747 university preacher at Gottingen, 
holding also after this an adjunct professorship of the- 
ology in this high-school. In 1750 he removed to Dant- 
zic as senior preacher to Mary’s Church, and died there 
November 19, 1758. His most important works are, 
Schrifhndssiger Beireis v.d.Ankvvft d.Messias (Loipz. 
1734,8vo) : — Ejnstola de honore Iki per honoris mihis- 
trorum ecclesice promovendo (Erf. 1739, 4to): — Commen- 
tatio de pietate obstetrician Mlggpiiacarum (ibid, 1744, 
4to). He also published many of his sermons, some of 
them under the title Geistliche lieden (Jena, 1740, 8vo), 
and Xene theologische Bihliothek (Lpz. 1740-1758; con- 
tinued by Ernesti, and later by Dbderlein), which last 
named work evinces Kraft’s extended researches in the- 
ological lit< ratnre. See Dbring, Gelehrie Theol. Deutsch- 
lands , ii, 17G sq. 


KRAFT 


158 


KRANTZ 


Kraft, Johann Georg, a German theologian, was 
born at Baiersdorf, in the duchy of Baireuth, June 8, 
1740, and was educated at the university in Erlangen, 
lie entered the ministry at first, but in 1704 obtained the 
privilege of lecturing at the university, and in 17GG be- 
came extraordinary professor of philosophy, and in 17G8 
ordinary professor of theology and university preacher, 
lie died July 2, 1772. He furnished many articles to 
theological periodicals, and published, besides a host of 
dissertations and several sermons, an edition of lluth’s 
Gesammelie Sonn- u.Festtagspredigten (Schwabaeli, 1768- 
1771,3 vols. 4to). — During, Gelehrte Theol. Deutschlands, 
ii, 179 sq. 

Kraft, Johann Melchior, a German theologian, 
was born at AVetzlar June 11, 1G73. lie pursued his the- 
ological studies at Wittenberg University, where lie ob- 
tained the master’s degree in 1G93. In 1695 lie began 
lectures at the University of Kiel, and in 1G98 he be- 
came pastor at Sudcrstapel; in 1705 pastor at Sandes- 
neben ; in 1709 archdeacon at llusum. and shortly after 
counsellor of the Danish Consistory, lie died July 22, 
1751. Ills most important works are EmendcmcJa et Cor- 
rigenda queedam in historia versionis Germanicm Biblio- 
rum (Dr. J. F. Mayero edita, Schleswig, 1705, 4t.o): — Po- 
droma historic e versionis Bihliorum Germanicm (ibid, 
1 7 1 4, 4to) : — A usjiih rliche Ilistorie vom Exoreismo (Ham- 
burg, 1750, Svo). — During, Gelehrte Theol, Peutsch lands, 
ii, 182 sq. 

Kraft, Johann Wilhelm, a German theologian, 
was born at Allendorf March 1 1 , 1G9G. He went to Mar- 
burg University in 1712, and in 1723 became pastor of 
the Reformed Church at Marburg ; later (in 1738) he re- 
moved to Hunan, but returned to Marburg in 1747, to 
assume the duties of a professorship in theology at his 
alma mater. He died Nov. 25, 1767. His most impor- 
tant works are Fasciculi observationum sacrarum ix, 
quibus v aria Script urce loca atque argumenta theologica 
illustrantnr (Marb. 1758-1766, Svo) : — Sci.agraphia theo- 
logicr moralis ex resipiscentia et jide tanquam ex genu i- 
no geminoque omnium virtuium Christianarum fonte li- 
qvido deriratie (Rintel and Hersf. 17G0, 8vo). — Dbring 
Gelehrte Theol. l)euischltinds,\\, 185. 

Kraft, Justus Christoph, a German divine, son 
of the preceding, was born at Marburg Jan. 2, 1732, and 
was educated at the university of his native place and 
at Gottingen. In 1757 he became pastor at Weimar, 
and in 1762 at Cassel, whence lie moved to Frankfort- 
on-the-Main in 1769. lie died there Jan. 22, 1795. For 
a list, of his sermons as published, see During, Gelehrte 
Theol. JJeutsehlunds , ii, 187. 

Kragh, Peter, a Danish missionary, born at Grim- 
ming, near Banders, Nov. 20, 1794, was sent as mission- 
ary to Greenland about 1820, and returned to his native 
country in 1828. The date of his death is not known 
to us. Kragh wrote extensively, and translated into 
the vernacular of the people among whom he preached 
the Gospel of Christ, parts of the O. T., sermons, works 
on practical religion, etc. lie also published in Danish 
and Greenlandish, Hans Egedes Aftensaminler med sine 
disciples (Copenhagen, 1837, 8vo).— Vapereau, Diet, dcs 
Cohtemporains , s. v. 

Krakewitz, Albert Joachim von, a German Lu- 
theran divine, was born at Gevczin. near Stargard, in 
Mecklenburg, May 28, 1674, and was educated for the 
ministry at the universities of Rostock, Copenhagen, 
Leipzig, and other German high-schools of note. He 
became professor of Hebrew at Rostock in 1698; in 1708 
also professor extraordinary of theology, and in 1713 
was promoted to the full professorship. In 1721 he re- 
m >vcd to the university at Greifswald, and there held a 
prominent position as a theologian. 1 1 is works, mainly 
of a controversial nature, are limited to pamphlet form. 
.See Allgemeines Hist. J. exikon, Addenda, s. v. 

Kraliz, Bible ok, the most celebrated Bohemian 
version of the Holy Scriptures, issued, in the 16th cen- 
tury, by the Bohemian and Moravian Brethren. It was 


translated, in fifteen years, by a committee of their bish- 
ops and ministers, among whom the most prominent 
were John /Eneas, John Nemczansky, Zaeharias Aris- 
ton, and Isaiah Cepolla, aided by two Hebrew scholars 
of Jewish extraction. The work of translating and 
printing was carried on in the castle of Kraliz — hence 
the name of this Bible — near Willimowitz, in the west 
of Moravia, at the expense of Baron von Zierotin, 
the proprietor of the domain, and a member of the 
Brethren’s Church. He set up for this purpose a spe- 
cial and costly printing-press, which was superintended 
by Zaeharias Solin, an ordained minister of the Breth- 
ren. The first edition appeared in six folio volumes, as 
follows: Part i, the Five Book9 of Moses, in 1579; Part 
ii, Joshua to Esther, in 1580: Partin, the Poetical Books, 
in 1582; Part iv, the Prophetical Books, in 1587; Part 
v, the Apocrypha, and Part vi, the New Testament, in 
1593. "Flic sixth part was a reprint of the Bohemian 
N. T. translated from the Greek by John Blalioslaw, a 
very learned bishop of the Church, who was no longer 
living. In 1601 a second edition appeared, and in 1613 
a third. The last was in one volume quarto. The 
Kraliz Bible was the first Bohemian version made from 
the original, six other translations having preceded it, 
all based on the Vulgate. It was, moreover, the first di- 
vided into chapters and verses, and the first which sep- 
arated the apocryphal from the canonical books. To 
each single verse, throughout the entire work, was ap- 
pended a very brief commentary. The correctness of 
the translation is generally conceded, and the purity of 
the style universally admired. This Bible is still the 
classic standard for the Bohemian tongue. At the pres- 
ent day, however, it exists as an antiquarian work only, 
a copy costing about 300 florins. This is owing to 
the destruction to which it was doomed in the Bohe- 
mian anti-Reformation, when it was everywhere con- 
fiscated and committed to the flames by the Jesuits and 
soldiers who passed through the country in search of 
Protestant books. A compendium of it was republish- 
ed at Prague, by J. L. Koher, in 1861 to 1865. It con- 
stitutes, moreover, the text, word for word, of the Bohe- 
mian Bible issued by the British and Foreign Bible So- 
ciety. Gindely, Geschichte d. Bbhmischen Briider , ii, 309, 
310; Czerwenka, Geschichte cl.Evang. Kirche in Bohnien , 
ii, 500, etc. ; Croger, Gesch. d. alien Bruderkirehe , ii, 157, 
etc. (E. i>e S.) 

Krama or Kiasis, the practice of mixing water 
with the sacramental wine (the mixture bearing the 
name tegdpa, and the act o f mixing tcat'anf), was adopt- 
ed very early in the Church, on the assumption that the 
wine used at the Passover was mixed with water; but 
Lightfoot shows that this was not necessarily the case. 
In the Western Church, the mixture of cold water with 
the wine takes place only once before the consecration; 
wine being tirst poured into the cup, and the water add- 
ed. In the Oriental Church a twofold mixing takes 
place. There is the first, mixture of cold water with the 
wine in the cup before consecration, and then a second 
mixture with warm water after consecration, and imme- 
diately before distribution. This is said to have been 
designed to represent at once the water which flowed 
from our Saviour’s side and the lire of the Holy Spirit. 
— Farrar, Eccles. Diet. s. v. 

Krain, Andreas, archbishop of. See Andreas of 
Crain. 

Krantz, Albert, a German theologian and eminent 
historian, was born at Hamburg towards the middle of 
the 15th century. He studied at Hamburg, Cologne, 
etc., and became doctor in theology and canon law. Af- 
ter traveling throngh most of Europe, he was, on his re- 
turn, appointed professor at Rostock, and rector of that 
university in 1482. In 1492 he settled at Hamburg, 
after having been employed in important diplomatic 
missions. In 1 199 he was sent as envoy to England and 
France, and was often chosen to decide difficulties: thus 
he acted as arbiter between king John of Denmark and 


KRANTZ 


159 


KRAUSE 


duke Frederick of Holstein in 1500, etc. In 1508 he was 
appointed dean of Hamburg, and died there December 
7, 1517. Though not an ultramontane, he did not show 
himself practically much in favor of reformation in the 
Church, yet as a historian he exhibits great impartial- 
ity and much sound criticism. Krantz wrote Vandalia 
(1510; Frankf: 1575, 1588, 1601 ; German by St. Macro- 
pus, Liib. 1600) : — Saxonia (1520; Frankfort, 1575, 1580, 
1621; Cologne, 1574, 1595; German by Faber, Leipzig, 
1503 and 1582 ; continued by Clivtrans, Wittenb. 1585) : 
— Chronicon regnorum aquilonarium , Iktnia ?, Suecice et 
Norwague (1545; Lat. 1546; Frankf. 1574, 1595; Ger- 
man by Eppendorf, Strasb. 1545) : — Metropolis s. Hist, ea- 
ch- s. in Saxonia (1548; Easel, 1568; Cologne, 1574, 1596 ; 
Wittenb. 1576: Frankf. 1576, 1500, 1627): — Institutions 
logicce (Lpz. 1517): — Defensorium eccl. ; Spirantissimum 
opusculum in ojjicium misse (1506, etc.). Under Clement 
VIII the writings of Krantz were, on account of some 
damaging confessions for Romanism therein contained, 
put in the Index. See Pierer, Universal Lexikon , vol. 
viii, s. v. ; Herzog, Real-Encyklop. vol. ix, s. v. 

Krantz (or Cranz), David, a Moravian historian, 
was born at Neugarten, Pomerania, in 1723. In his youth 
he was master of a school at Herrnhut; he became secre- 
tary to count Zinzendorf in 1747, was afterwards sent on 
a literary mission to Greenland, where he was eminently 
successful in collecting historical information. He return- 
ed in 1762, and became pastor of the church at Rixdorf, 
near Berlin, in 1766. He died at Gnadenburg, in Silesia, 
in 1777. His principal works are The History of Green- 
land, and of the mission of the United Brethren (transl. 
Lond. 1820, 2 vols.Svo) : — The ancient and modern History 
of the Brethren (Lond. 1780, 8vo). — Dari i ng, Cycl. Bill. s.v. 

Krasicki, Ignaz, a Roman Catholic prelate, was 
born at Dubieeko, Poland, Feb. 3, 1734, and early en- 
tered the priestly offiee. His remarkable talents secured 
for him, when only twenty-nine years old, the honorable 
appointment as prince-bishop. He died March 14, 1S0J , 
as prince-bishop of Gnesen, where he had lived since 
1795. See Kathol. Reul-Encyklop. vi, 396. 

Krasinski, count Valerian, the Protestant Church 
historian of Poland, was a native of the ancient Polish 
province of White Russia, and was descended from a 
noble family, which embraced at an early period the 
Protestant faith. lie was born about 1780, and received 
a superior classical education; while yet a young man 
he was appointed chief of that department of the minis- 
try of public instruction in the kingdom of Poland which 
was charged with the superintendence of the various 
classes of dissenters. He was zealous in his endeavors 
to promote instruction among them, and especially ex- 
erted himself in the establishment of a college at War- 
saw for the education of Jewish rabbis. In order to 
lessen the expense of valuable works, especially those 
on scientific subjects, he was the first to introduce stere- 
otvpe printing into Poland, and this was not accom- 
plished without a considerable diminution of his own 
income. When the Polish Revolution of 1830 had pro- 
claimed the throne of Poland vacant, and organized a 
national government, with prince Adam Czartoryski as 
president, a diplomatic mission was sent to England, of 
which count Valerian Krasinski was a member. When 
the Russian armies in 1831 had overpowered the revo- 
lutionnry movement of his countrymen, he was still in 
England, where he then became, with many ethers of 
his countrymen, a penniless exile. After having ac- 
quired the English language, he devoted himself to lit- 
erature as a means of support, and became the author 
of several valuable works. He resided in London dur- 
ing the first twenty years of his exile, and during the 
last five in Edinburgh, where he died Dec. 22, 1855. 
Count Krasinski was a man of varied learning, and pos- 
sessed extensive information, especially on all matters 
connected with the Slavonic races. His most impor- 
tant works are the following: The Rise, Progress , and 
Decline of the Reformation in Poland (Lond. 1838-40, 2 


vols. 8vo) : — Lectures on the Religious History of the Sla- 
vonic Nations (London, 1840, 8vo) : — Sketch of the Relig- 
ious History of the Slavonian Nations (Edinl>.185l,8vo) : 
— Treatise on Relics, by J. Calvin, newly translated from 
the French original, with an Introductory Dissertation 
on the Miraculous Images of the Roman Catholic and 
Russo-Greek Churches (1854, 8vo). He published also 
some works and pamphlets on secular and recent politi- 
cal subjects, especially on those connected with the res- 
toration of Poland. See English Cyclop, s. v. ; British 
and For. Ev. Rev. 1845, p. 502; Jenkins, Life of Cardi- 
nal Julian (Preface). 

Kraus, Christian Jacob, a German philosopher, 
was born at Osterode July 28, 1753, entered the Uni- 
versity of Konigsberg in 1771, studied first theology 
and later mainly metaphysics; in 1779 went to Gottin- 
gen; was appointed professor of philosophy at the Uni- 
versity in Konigsberg in 1781, and died there Aug. 25, 
1807. Ilis writings were published under the title Yer- 
mischte Schriften (Konigsb. 1808-12,7 vols.Svo); etc. 
— Katholische Real-Encyklopadie, vi, 307. 

Kraus, Johann Baptist, a German Roman Cath- 
olic theologian, was born at Regensburg Jan. 12, 1700, 
entered the Benedictine order in 1715, and in 1721 was 
sent by his superior to Paris to study in the convent St. 
Germain under Montfaucon and Guarin; returned to 
Germany in 1724, and was ordained priest. In 1725 he 
was appointed to St. Emmcran Convent, and remained 
there until his death, June 14, 1762. Kraus was a de- 
cided Roman Catholic, rather ultramontane in his views, 
and hardly suited for the liberal German associations 
which surrounded him. lie battled earnestly in behalf 
of his sect, and opposed vigorously the liberal tendency 
of the Benedictine Rothfiseher, who had frankly confess- 
ed the failings of some of the institutions of the Romish 
Church. For a list of the works of Kraus, see During, 
Gelehrte Theol. Deutschlands, ii, 189 sq. 

Krause, Friedrich August Wilhelm, a Ger- 
man doctor in philosophy, was bom at Dobrilugk in 
1767, and nourished at Vienna, where he died March 24, 
1827. lie published Pauli ad Corinthios epistolcn Gr., 
perpetua annotatione illustratce, vol. i (Franc, ad Moen. 
1702) ; intended as a continuation of Koppe’s New Tes- 
tament, but never carried further. He had previously 
published Die Brufe an die Philipp, und Thessal. iiber- 
setzt und mit A nmerk. begleitit (Frankfort, 1790). — Kitto, 
Biblical Cgclopcedia , s. v. 

Krause, Johann Christian Heinrich, a Ger- 
man divine, was born at Qucdlinburg April 29,1757, and 
entered the University of Jena in 1775. Four years 
later he began lectures at the University of Gottingen, 
but in 1783, on account of straitened circumstances, went 
to Jever as rector, and in 1702 was called to a like posi- 
tion at Hanover. He died Jan. 12, 1828. For a list of 
His works, see During, Gelehrte Theol. Deutschlands , ii, 
193 sq. 

Krause, Johann Friedrich, a German theolo- 
gian, was bom at Reielienbaeh Oct. 26, 1770, and was 
educated at Wittenberg University, where, after secur- 
ing the master’s degree, he lectured a short time. In 
1793 he was called to his native place as diaeonns, and 
in 1802 the city of Naumburg called him as preacher to 
the cathedral. In 1810 lie went to the University of 
Kiinigsberg to fill a professorship in theology, which po- 
sition he held until 1810, when he accepted a call as 
preacher to Weimar, and there he died, May 31, 1820. 
Krause’s writings consist of several academical pro- 
grammes, two on the Epistle to the Philippians, one on 
the first Epistle of Peter, and four on the second Epistle 
to the Corinthians, and of some discussions pertaining 
to philosophy and theology. They were collected by 
him, and issued together under the title Opuscula Theo- 
logica . sparsim edita collegit , ineditisque auxit, etc. (Re- 
gioin. 1818). Ilis sermons he published under the title 
Predigten iiber die gewohnlichen Sonn- u. Festt a gse range- 
lien des ganzen Jahres (Lpzg. 1803, 2 vols. 8vo; vol. iii, 


KREBS 


KRAUSE ICO 


ibid, 1805, 8vo). See Doring, Gekhrte Theol. Deutsch- 
land* ?, vol. ii, s. v. 

Krause, Karl Christian Friedrich, a German 
philosopher, born in Eisenberg INI ay 0, 1781, was edu- 
cated at the University of Jena, where he attended the 
lectures of Reinhold, Fichte, and Soliciting, and then lect- 
ured as w privat docent” from 1802 to 1804. Ill order 
to devote himself to the wide range of studies which he 
deemed necessary to give completeness to his philosoph- 
ical system, more especially to studies in art, he quitted 
Jena, and resided successively in Iiudolfstadt, Dresden, 
ami Berlin. lie made several journeys through Ger- 
many, France, and Italy, and lectured at Gottingen from 
1824 to 1831, when he retired to Munieh. “The aim 
of his speculations was to represent the collective life of 
man as an organic and harmonious unity; and he con- 
ceived the scheme of a public and formal union of man- 
kind, which, embracing the Church, State, and all other 
partial unions, should occupy itself only with the inter- 
ests of abstract humanity, and should labor for a uniform 
and universal development and culture. The germ of 
such a union he thought he found in freemasonry, to 
which he rendered great service by his works.” He 
died in Munieh Sept. 27, 1832. Among his works are 
VorUtsungen iiber dris System dev Philosophic (Gottingen, 
1828, 8 vo): — Abriss der Reliyionsphilosopkie (1828) : — 
and Yorlesungen iiber die Grundwahrheiten der Wissen- 
schaft (Gottingen, 1829). See Krug, Philosopkisches 
Lexikon , ii, 0 42 ; Kathol. Ileal- Encyklopadie, vi, 398, 399 ; 
Appleton’s Xew A mer. Cyclopedia, x, 2 1 7. (J. 1 1. W.) 

Krauth, Charles PiiiLir, D.D., an eminent divine 
in the Lutheran Church, born in Montgomery Co., Pa., 
May 7, 1797. Originally designed for the medical pro- 
fession, he commenced its study under the direction of 
Dr.Seklen, of Norfolk,Va., and subsequently attended a 
course of lectures in the University of Maryland. By a 
Providential interposition, as he always regarded it, his 
attention was directed to the ministry as a field of use- 
fulness. Brought under the influence of saving truth, 
and having consecrated himself unreservedly to the Mas- 
ter, he felt that “woe would be unto him if he preached 
not the Gospel.” lie very soon commenced his theo- j 
logical studies with Iiev. Dr. Schaeffer, of Frederick, Md., 
and concluded them with llev. A. Reek, of Winchester, ; 
Ya., whom he also aided in the pastoral work, lie was 
licensed to preach the Gospel by the Synod of Pennsyl- 
vania in 1819. His first pastoral charge was the united 
churches of Martinsburg and Shepardstown, Va., where 
he labored for several years most efficiently and success- 
fully. lie removed to Philadelphia in 1827 ; advanced 
rapidly as a scholar, a theologian, and preacher, and in 
1833 was unanimously elected professor of Biblieal and 
Oriental literature in the theological seminary at Gettys- 
burg, Pa., with the understanding that a portion of his 
time should be devoted to instruction in Pennsylvania 
College, in the same place. In 183 1 he was chosen pres- 
ident of the college, which office he filled with distin- 
guished success for seventeen years, a model of Chris- 
tian propriety, purity, and honor. The history of the 
college during his connection with it furnishes an un- 
erring proof of his abilities and faithfulness. During 
his administration the institution enjoyed several pre- 
cious seasons of revival, when large numbers of the 
young men joined themselves to the people of God. In 
1850 L)r. Krauth resigned the presidency of the college, 
to devote his entire time to the quiet and congenial du- 
ties of theological instruction, and continued these labors 
until the close of life, delivering his last lceture to the 
senior class within ten days of his death. He died May 
30, 1807. Dr. Krauth was a mail of rare endowments of 
intellect. 1 1 is mind was distinguished for the. harmoni- 
ous blendings of all its powers. ~ His attainments in ev- 
ery department of literature and science were very ex- 
tensive. In the pulpit he was pre-eminent. Ilis ser- 
mons were always impressive, often thrilling, and some- 
times accompanied with the most powerful results. The 


I following is a list *of his publications: Oration on the 
! Study of the Herman Language (1832) : — Address deliv- 
ered at his Inauguration as President of Pennsylvania 
College (1834): — Sermon on Missions (1837): — Address 
on the Anniversary of Washington's Birthday (1846) : — 
Discourse at the Opening of the General Synod (1850) : — 
Baccalaureate Discourse (1850) : — Discourse on the Life 
and Character of Ilenry Clay* (1852). He edited the 
General Synod's Hymn-book ; Lutheran Sunday-school 
Hymn-book; Lutheran Intelligencer (of 182G); Evangel- 
ical Quarterly Review (from 1850-61). (M. L. S.) 

Krautwald, Valentin. See Schwenkfeld. 

Krebs, Johann Friedrich, a German theolo- 
gian, was born at Baireuth March 5, 1651 ; studied at 
Jena; became rector of the gymnasium at Heilsbrunn 
in 1075, where he afterwards filled the posts of professor 
of theology and Hebrew, and inspector; and died Aug. 
16, 1721. Krebs was a copious writer, the list of his 
works filling five closely-printed columns in Adelung. 
They embrace natural and moral philosophy, historical 
and political science, and theology, mostly in the form 
of dissertations. Among the most valuable is a work 
on the first five chapters of Genesis, illustrated from the 
Syriac, Chaldee, Persic, yEthiopie, and ether Oriental 
languages. See Adelu ng, Geleh rten Lexikon , vol. i i, s. v. ; 
Doring, Gelehrie Theol. Deutschlands, vol. ii, s. v.; Kitto, 
Bib/. Cyclop, vol. ii, s. v. 

Krebs, Johann Tobias, a German theologian, 
was born at Buttelstadt (Thuringia) in 1718, and was 
educated at Leipzig University, where, after attaining 
to. the master’s degree, he lectured on N. T. exegesis. 
Later he was eonrector at Chemnitz, and finally rector 
at the gymnasium in Grimma, where he died in 1782. 
Krebs edited Schottgen’s Lexicon in Nov. Testament 
(Lips. 1765), and wrote himself two works of consider- 
able value for the illustration of the facts and language 
of the N. T., De usu et preestantia Romance Historic in 
X. T. interpret atione (Lips. 1745) : — Observationes in X. 
T. e Flario Joseph . (Lips. 1755). “ The latter contains 

a rich collection of examples of the peculiarities of N.-T. 
phraseology.”— Pierer, Univ. Lexikon , vol. ix, s. v. ; Kitto, 
Bib!. Cyclop, s. v. 

Krebs, John Michael, D.D., a noted Presbyte- 
rian minister, was born in Hagerstown, Md., May 6, 
1804, and was converted at the age of nineteen. He 
entered Dickinson College in 1825, and after graduation 
in 1827 with the highest honors of his class, studied 
theology, and was licensed by Carlisle (Pa.) Presbytery 
in 1829. Shortly after he became the pastor of Rutgers 
Street Church, Xew York City, which he served until 
his death, Sept. 30, 1867. Though one of the ablest and 
most prominent ministers of the Presbyterian Church, 
Dr. Krebs published only a few occasional sermons, be- 
sides several contributions to the periodicals of bis 
Church (for which see Allibone, Diet. Engl, and A mer. 
A uthors, ii, 1016), and to Sprague’s Annals of the A mer - 
icon Pulpit. “He was a man of rare gifts, and of still 
more rare and varied acquirements, being learned not 
! only in theology, but in the whole range of the sciences; 
and his learning was all made to bear upon the work 
to which he had devoted his life, that of the Gospel 
ministry. He was eminent as a preacher of the < iospel, 
and still more eminent in the councils of the Church, 
having no equal in the knowledge of ecclesiastical law, 
and in his acquaintance with the ecclesiastical history 
of the denomination to which he belonged.” He was 
honored with the appointment of chairman of the Com- 
mittee on the Reunion of the Presbyterian Church, and 
had previously held other offices of distinction in the 
councils of his denomination. See V il&on, Presb. His- 
torical Almanac, 1868, p. 100 sq. 

Krebs, William, a Methodist Episcopal minister, 
was horn in Baltimore, Md., Sept. 2, 1819 ; joined the 
Church in 1841, and was immediately licensed to exhort; 
and the year following joined the Baltimore Conference 
as pastor of Wesley Chapel, Baltimore. He died Sept. 


KRECHLING 


161 


KRISHNA 


26, 1870. “Brother Krebs was a perspicuous preacher, I 
logical in method, earnest in manner, although not ve- j 
hement, and eminently diligent in preparation. He was 
also a notably faithful pastor. Five years of his minis- I 
try were spent in Washington, five in Baltimore, and 
one in Chicago, and everywhere the Lord owned his la- 
bors.” — Conference Minutes, 1871, p. 19. 

Krechling. See Anabaptists. 

Krell. See Crell. 

Urey, Johann Bernhard, a German theologian, 
was born at Rostock Dec. 6, 1771, and was educated at 
the university in that city and at Jena. In 1806 he 
was appointed assistant pastor at St. Peters Church in 
Rostock, and in 1814 became the principal pastor. He 
died Oct. 6, 1826. He published Beit rage zur Mecklen- 
burgischen Kirchen- w. gelehrten Geschichte (Rost. 1818- 
1823, 3 vols. royal 8vo). For a list of his works, see Do- 
ring, Gelehrte Theol. Deutschlands , ii, 207 sq. 

Krider, Barnabas Scott, a Presbyterian minister, 
was bom in 1825, in Rowan County, North Carolina; re- 
ceived his education in Davidson College, N. C., where 
he graduated in 1850; and completed his theological 
studies in Columbia, S. C., and Princeton, N. J., semina- 
ries in 1855. In 1856 he was ordained and installed as 
pastor of Bethany and Tabor churches, and in 1858 took 
charge of Unity ami Franklin churches, N. C. The year 
succeeding he became pastor at Thyatira, where he died 
Oct. 19, 1865. Krider “ was popular in address, judicious 
and practical, and won the affection of his people.” — 
Wilson, Presb. Historical Almanac, 1866. 

Krin oil. See Lily. 

Kripner, Samuel, a German divine of some note, 
was born at Schwabelwald, in the duchy of Baireuth, 
March 31, 1695; entered Jena University in 1716, and 
in 1727 was appointed professor of Greek and the Ori- 
ental languages at the gymnasium in Baireuth. He 
died Oct. 15, 1742. For a list of his writings, mainly 
dissertations, see Doring, Gelehrte Theol . Deutschlands, ii, 
210 sq. 

Krishna was the eighth and most celebrated of the 
ten chief incarnations of the god Vishnu, who. together 
with Brahma and Siva, constituted the divine triad of 
the Hindu mythology. See Trimurti. The term 
Krishna is a Sanscrit word signifying black, and was 
given to the incarnation either because the body as- 
sumed was of a black complexion, or, more properly, be- 
cause of the relation of the avatar to a deity whose dis- 
tinguishing color was black, as that of Brahma was red, 
and Siva was white; or for a reason implied in the ci- 
tation from Porphyry (Eusebius, De Prrepar. Evang.), 
that the ancients represented the Deity by a black stone 
because his nature is obscure and impenetrable by man. 
See further, Maurice, Indian Antiquities , ii, 364-368; 
Prichard’s Egypt, Mythol. p. 285; Maurice, Ilistorg of 
Ilindostan , ii, 351. 

Krishna is the most renowned demigod of the Indian 
mythology, and most famous hero of Indian history. It 
is probable that when the story of his life is stripped of 
its mythological accidents it Avill be found that he was 
a historical personage belonging to the Aryan race when 
they were making their gradual inroads south and east 
in the peninsula of India. It is presumable that the 
enemies whom he attacked and subdued were the Tura- 
nian races who constituted the aborigines of the coun- 
try [see KiiondsJ, and who, fighting fiercely and mer- 
cilessly in their primeval forests, were soon magnified 
into gods and demigods. See Mythology. 

I. Theory of the Incarnation . — Krishnaism, with all 
its imperfections, may be accounted as a necessary and 
the extreme revolt of the human heart against the un- 
satisfying vagaries of the godless philosophy into which 
Brahmanism and Buddhism had alike degenerated. The 
speculations of the six schools of philosophy, as enumer- 
ated by native writers, served only to bewilder the mind 
until the word mayo, “illusion,” was evolved as the ex- 
ponent of all that belongs to the present life, while the 
' V.— L 


awful mysteriousness of Nirvana overshadowed the life 
to come. Man’s nature asks for light upon the per- 
plexed questions of mortal existence, but at the same 
time demands that which is of more moment, an an- 
chorage for the soul in the near and tangible. The 
ages had been preparing the Hindu mind for the dogma 
of Krishna— an upheaving of something more substan- 
tial from the great deep of human hope and fear than 
the unstable elements of a life transitory and void. Con- 
sult Max Muller’s Chips, i, 242 ; Biblioth. Sacra, xviii, 
543-568. 

The avatars preceding that of Krishna were mere 
emanations of the god Vishnu, but this embodied the 
deity in the entirety of his nature. In those he brought 
only an ansa, or portion of his divinity, “a part of a 
part;” in this he descended in all the fulness of the 
godhead, so much so that Vishnu is sometimes con- 
founded with Brahma, the latter becoming incarnate in 
Krishna as “the very supreme Brahma.” See Hard- 
wick, Christ and other Masters, i, 280, 291, note; also Sir 
Wm. Jones, in Maurice’s Ilindostan, ii, 256. In the 
Bhagavat Gita, that wonderful episode of the Maha- 
bharata, Arjuna asks of Krishna that he may be favored 
with the view of the divine countenance. As, in re- 
sponse, the deity bestows upon him a heavenly eye that 
he may contemplate the divine glory, he indulges in a 
rhapsody which describes the incarnate god as compris- 
ing the entire godhead in all its functions. Again, 
Krishna says of himself, “I am the cause of the produc- 
tion and dissolution of the whole universe,” etc. (Thom- 
son’s edition, p. 51). 

One object of this incarnation was “ the destruction 
of Kansa, an oppressive monarch, and, in fact, an incar- 
nate Paitya or Titan, the natural enemy of the gods” 
(II. H. "Wilson, Religion of the Hindus, ii, 66). A more 
satisfactory object is disclosed by Krishna in the Blia- 
ghavat Gita: “Even though I am unborn, of change- 
less essence, and the lord of all which exist, yet in pre- 
siding over nature ( prakrit i), which is mine, I am born 
by my own mystic power (may o'). For, whenever there 
is a relaxation of duty, O son of Bharata ! and an in- 
crease of impiety, I then reproduce myself for the pro- 
tection of the good and the destruction of evil-doers. I 
am produced in every age for the purpose of establish- 
I ing duty” (Thomson’s ed. p. 30). The incarnations of 
Vishnu, which were multiplied to infinitude, assuming 
diversified forms of man, fish, and beast, because physi- 
cal life has in it nothing real, nothing individual, noth- 
ing of lasting worth, we may believe contemplated even 
yet a more ennobling end, an antidote to the essential 
evil of nature as declared in one of the Puranas: “The 
uncreated being abandons the body that he used in or- 
der to disencumber the earth of the burden that over- 
whelmed it, as we use one thorn to draw out another” 
(Burnouf. quoted by Pressense, Religions before Christ, 
p. 63). “The thorn is material life, which Vishnu ap- 
parently takes on himself that he may the more tffec- 
tually destroy it” (Pressense, ibidem'). “Crude matter 
and the five elements are also made to issue from Krish- 
na, and then all the divine beings. Narayana or Vishnu 
proceeds from his right side, Mahadeva from his left, 
Brahma from his hand, Pharma from his breath, Saras- 
wati from his mouth, Lakshin i from his mind, Purga 
from his understanding, Radlia from his left side. Three 
hundred millions of gopis, or female companions of Ra- 
dha, exude from the pores of her skin, and a like num- 
ber of gopas. or companions of Krishna, from the pores 
of his skin ; the very cows and their calves, properly the 
tenants of Goloka, but destined to inhabit the groves of 
Brindavan, are produced from the same exalted source” 
(II. II. Wilson, Religion of the Hindus, i, 123). 

On the other hand, the Puranas disclose with regard 
to Krishna a human life, when considered from the most 
favorable stand-point, discreditable to the name and na- 
ture of man. It is a tissue of puerilities and licentious- 
ness. The miraculous deeds of Krishna were rarely for 
an object commensurate with the idea of a divine inter- 


KRISHNA 


162 


KRISHNA 


position. Ilis associations as a cowherd (gopala) with 
the gopis— in which capacity he is most popular as an 
object of adoration — are no better than the amours of 
classic mythology. The splendid creation of the Gita, 
not unlike the human head in the Ars Poetica, finds in 
the Puranas an unsightly complement. In liis infancy 
he is represented as destroying in a wonderfid manner 
the false nurse Putana ; playing his tricks upon the cow- 
herds — spilling their milk, stealing their cream, and al- 
ways making cunning escapes; and rooting up trees the 
fall of which made the three worlds to resound. In his 
childhood swallowed by an alligator, he burns his way 
out from the entrails of the monster, and on another oc- 
casion contends with and overcomes the dragon, one of 
whose jaws touched the ground while the other stretch- 
ed up to the clouds; checkmates Brahma, whose mind 
had been led by evil suggestions to steal away the cat- 
tle and the attendant boys, by creating others which 
were perfect fac-similes of those that had been stolen. 
Still a child, he dances in triumph on the great black 
serpent Kali-naja, and then, in compassion, assigns him 
to the abyss; hides and restores the clothes of the gopis 
while bathing; lifts the mountain Govarddhana on his 
little finger with as much ease as if it had been a lotus, 
that its inhabitants might be protected from the storm ; 
and plays blind-man’s buff, assuming the form of a wolf, 
that he might find and restore the boys who had been 
abducted by another wolf. In his more mature man- 
hood we behold him promoting his love intrigues by 
miraculously corrupting the hearts of the gopis, or ac- 
complishing that most astounding miracle with respect 
to his 10,000 wives, “quas omnes una nocte invisebat 
et replebat” (Paulinas, Systema Brahmanicum , p. 150), 
in order that Nared might be convinced of his divine 
nature. Now he careers in triumph over battle-fields, 
with a blade of grass or with a single arrow shot from 
the all-conquering bow discomfiting entire armies ; and 
now lie yields himself to scenes of sumptuous revelry in 
the gardens of golden earth, through which tiowed “the 
river whose banks were all gold and jewels, the water 
of which, from the reflection of rubies, appeared red, 
though perfectly white” — in all the license of joy sport- 
ing with his 10,000 wives, by whom he was surrounded 
“ as lightning with a cloud ” — they and he pelting each 
other with flowers, thousands of lotuses floating on the 
surface of the river — whose water was the water of life 
— among which innumerable bees were humming and 
seeking their food (Bhagavat Purana, in Maurice, Hist, 
of llindostan , ii, 327-458). Sir Wm. Jones, however, 
with enlarged charity, takes a modified and more pleas- 
ing view of the darker phases of a life the worst scenes 
of which are not fit to be told, “ that he was pure and 
chaste in reality, but exhibited an appearance of exces- 
sive libertinism, and had wives or mistresses too numer- 
ous to be counted; he was benevolent and tender, yet 
fomented and conducted a terrible war.” See farther 
Maurice, llindostan , ii, 258. 

II. Life of Krishna. — “The king of the Daityas or 
aborigines, Ahuka, had two sons, Devaka and Ugrasena, 
The former had a daughter named Devaki, the latter a 
son called Ivansa. Devaki ( the divine) was married to 
a nobleman of the Aryan race named Yasudeva, the son 
of Sura, a descendant of Yadu, and by him had eight 
sons. Yasudeva had also another wife named Rohini. 
Kansa, the cousin of Devaki, was informed by the saint 
and prophet Narada that his cousin would bear a son 
who would kill him and overthrow his kingdom. Kan- 
sa was king of Mathura, and he captured Yasudeva and 
his wife Devaki, imprisoned them in his own palace, set 
guards over them, and slew the six children whom De- 
vaki had already borne. She was about to give birth 
to the seventh, who was Balarama, the playfellow of 
Krishna, and, like him, supposed to be an incarnation of 
Yishnu; but, by divine agency, the child was tVansferred 
before birth to the womb of Yasudeva’s other wife, Ro- 
hini, who was still at liberty, and was thus saved” (Thom- 
son’s summary in Bhagavad Gita, p. 134), Her eighth 


child was Krishna, who was produced from one of the 
hairs of Yishnu (Muir’s Sanscrit Texts , cli.ii, sec. 5), and 
was born at midnight in Mathura, “the celestial phe- 
nomenon.” The moment A'asudeva saw the infant he 
recognised it to be the Almighty, and at once presented 
his adoration. The room was brilliantly illuminated, 
and the faces of both parents emitted rays of glory. 
The child was of the hue of a cloud with four arms, 
dressed in a yellow garb, and bearing the weapons, the 
jewels, and the diadem of Yishnu (II. II. Wilson, lit sup. 
i, 122). The clouds breathed forth pleasing sounds, and 
poured down a rain of flowers ; the strong winds were 
hushed, the rivers glided tranquilly, and the virtuous 
experienced new delight. The infant, however, soon 
encountered the most formidable dangers, for Kansa left 
no means unemployed to compass the child’s destruc- 
tion. The gods interposed for his deliverance ; lulled 
the guards of the palace to a supernatural slumber; its 
seven doors opened of their own accord, and the father 
escaped with his child. As they came to the Yamuna, 
the child gave command to the river, and a way was 
opened that they might pass over, a serpent meanwhile 
holding her head over the child in place of an umbrella. 
The child was surreptitiously exchanged for another, of 
which the wife of an Aryan cowherd, Naiula by name, 
had been delivered. Krishna was left with the cow- 
herd, while Yasudeva returned with the other to the 
palace. Not long after, Kansa discovered the impos- 
ture, and in anger gave command for the indiscriminate 
slaughter of all male children. To escape the impend- 
ing danger, Krishna was removed by Narnia to the vil- 
lage Gokula. Here his youth was passed in the care 
of the flocks and herds. The young gopas and gopis, 
cowherds and milkmaids, flocked to his side from the 
surrounding country, won by his matchless beauty and 
the display of his miraculous powers. lie selected from 
the fascinated gopis a bevy of beauties, of whom he 
married several, Radha enjoying the honor of being his 
favorite mistress, and subsequently of being associated 
with him as a joint object of worship, lie beguiled 
the hours with them in the gay revelries of dance and 
song. A second Apollo, he wielded the power of music, 
and at the sweet sounds of flute or vhia the waters stood 
still to listen, and the birds lost the power of flight. The 
Puranas dwell upon his repeated exploits witli serpents, 
diemons, and other monsters, eacli one of whom was 
eventually crushed or conquered, for the unequal con- 
test was waged with one who embodied the strength 
of the world.” An impostor arose, pretending to be the 
true son of Yasudeva or Krishna himself, but he also 
was defeated and slain (Johnson’s Selections from the 
Mahabharata , third section, note). Krishna participa- 
ted in the family feud between the Kurus, or hundred 
sons of Dhritarastlira, and their cousins, the five sons 
of Pandu. One of the battles is fabled to have lasted 
eighteen days, and to have been attended with incredi- 
ble slaughter. The varied fortunes of this protracted 
strife, interspersed with a vast number of legends and 
traditions, constitute the subject of the great epic the 
Mahabharata. For the protection of the people of Yadu 
against the invasion of a foreign king, Krishna built 
and fortified the town of Dvaraka, in Guzcrat, all the 
walls of which were so studded with jewels that there 
was no need of lamps by night. To Rukmini is accord- 
ed the pre-eminence as his wife, though his harem num- 
bered 1G.000 others, each one of whom bore him ten sons 
(comp. The Dabistan, ii, 31, 183, and Bhagavat Parana, 
ibid, ii, 408). Many were liis notable deeds, some of 
them embracing the regions of the dead, and others In- 
dia’s heaven, from which lie stole the famous Parijata- 
tree, produced at the churning of the ocean, and at that 
time thriving in the gardens of Indra. 'flic mighty 
tyrant Kansa, and the mightier daemons Clianura and 
Mushtika, fell beneath liis prowess, and even his own 
tribe, the Yadavas, was exterminated through his agen- 
cy (II. II. Wilson, Vishnu Purdna, v, passim). His death 
at last took place in a wonderful manner, and is sup- 


KRISHNA 


1C3 


KRISHNA 


posed by some to illustrate the prophecy of the Garden. 
Durvasa had once warned him, “ Oh, Krishna, take care 
of the sole of thy foot ; for if any evil come upon thee it 
will happen in that place” (as is related in the Maha- 
bharata in Maurice, ibid, ii, 472). As he sat one day in 
the forest meditating upon the fearful destruction of 
Kuru and Yadava alike, he inadvertently exposed his 
foot. A hunter, Jara (old age), mistook him for a beast, 
and with his arrow pierced the sole of his foot. In his 
death so great a light proceeded from Krishna that it 
enveloped the whole compass of the earth, and illumi- 
nated the entire expanse of heaven. lie abandoned his 
mortal body and “ the condition of the threefold quali- 
ties.” According to the Purana, “ he united himself with 
his own pure, spiritual, inexhaustible, inconceivable, un- 
bom, undeeaying, imperishable, and universal spirit.” 
lie returned to his own heaven, denominated Goloka — 
the sphere or heaven of cows — a region far above the 
three worlds, and indestructible, while all else is subject 
to annihilation. “There, in the centre of it, abides 
Krishna, of the color of a dark cloud, in the bloom of 
youth, clad in yellow raiment, splendidly adorned with 
celestial gems, and holding a flute” (Wilson, Religion of 
the Hindus , i, 123). 

In this entire life we find no high moral purpose to 
elicit our admiration or command our faith. Now and 
then there appear in the Puranas suggestions of relief 
from individual burdens of oppression and woe, but they 
are as void and dissevered as flashes of lightning, which 
serve but to intensify the gloom. Like Buddha, our di- 
vinity bewails the evils of existence. Whatever may 
be the recognition of human need, the idea of succor is 
most limited, and only proves that the religion feels it- 
self inadequate to the emergency of man’s mortal estate 
(comp, the opening of the Bhagavat Purana). Its sub- 
Hmest thought is a method of escape from the necessity 
of repeated births, but even this it fails to elaborate. 
With our eve upon the balance in which Krishnaism 
is weighed, the confession of Porphyry still presses pain- 
fully upon us that “there was wanting some universal 
method of delivering men’s souls which no sect of phi- 
losophy had ever yet found out” (Augustine, De Civitute 
Dei , lib. x, eh. xxxii). See Incarnation, vol. iv, p. 530. 

III. The Worship of Krishna. — The worship of this 
divinity is so blended with that of Vishnu and Rama, 
another of the incarnations of Vishnu, that it is difficult 
to treat of the one without trenching on that of the 
others. These are all generally considered under the 
denomination Vaishnavas, or worshippers of Vishnu, 
who are usually distinguished into four Bampradayas , 
or sects, designated in the Padma Purana as Sri, Madli- 
wi, Rudra, and Sanaka (comp. Wilson, Reliy. of Hindus , 
i, 34). The worshippers of Krishna have been subdi- 
vided into, 1. those who worship him alone; 2. those 
who worship his mistress Radha alone ; and, 3. those 
who worship both conjointly (see Vollmer, Worterb. d. 
Mythol. p. 1093). According to H. II. Wilson, through- 
out India the opulent and luxurious among the men, 
and by far the greater portion 6f the women, attach 
themselves to the worship of Krishna and Radha either 
singly or together. In Bengal the worshippers of 
Krishna constitute from one fifth to one third of the 
entire population (Ward, On the Hindus , ii, 175, 448). 
The temples and establishments devoted to this divinity 
are numerous all over India, particularly at Mathura 
and Brindavan, the latter of which is said to contain 
many hundreds, among them three of great opulence 
(Wilson, nt supra , i, 135). For the controversy on the 
extent of Krishna worship, see Wilson’s Vishnu Purana, 
vol. Appendix. 

We shall have to content ourselves with glancing at 
some of the more notable sects or Sampradayas. The 
Rudra Sampradayis or Vallabhacharis adore Krishna as 
an infant. This form of worship is widely diffused 
among all ranks of Hindu society. In their temples and 
houses are images, not unfrequentlv of gold, in the form 
of a chubby boy of a dark hue, and with a mischievous 


face, in some cases holding butter in both hands, by 
which is perpetuated one of his boyish pranks (Paulli- 
nus, By sterna Brahmanicum , p. 146, and plate 15). This 
image eight times a day receives the homage of its vo- 
taries with most punctilious ceremony. At the first 
ceremony, beiug washed and dressed, it is taken from its 
! couch, where it has slept for the night, and placed upon 
a seat, about half an hour after sunrise. Lamps are 
kept burning, while refreshments are presented, with 
betel and Pan (see Wilson, Reliy. of Hindus, i, 12G-128). 
The Sanakadi, who are scattered throughout the whole 
of Upper India, the Sakhi Bhavas, the Raddha Valla- 
bhis, and the Charan Basis differ in minor particulars 
of creed and ritualism, but all worship Radha in union 
with Krishna. The Chaitanyas are schismatics. They 
believe in the incarnation of Krishna in Chaitanya their 
teacher, who on this account is elevated to joint adora- 
tion. With them the momentary repetition of the 
name of their divinity is a guarantee of salvation. 

Festivals in commemoration of Krishna are annually 
observed throughout India, and still maintain a most 
powerful hold of the popular heart. The third day of 
the Uttarayana, a festival held about the middle of 
January, is sacred to Krishna as gopala or cowherd. 
In the afternoon the cows and bulls are washed and fed 
with sacred food, then decorated with chaplets of flow- 
ers. Thereupon the Hindus, with joined hands, walk 
around the herds as well as around the Brahmans, and 
prostrate themselves before them (Wilson, ibid, ii, 171). 
The Holi festival is observed about the middle of 
March. It may be not improperly described as an older 
and more crazy sister of our April Fools’ Day, and is 
mostly devoted to Krishna. His image enjoys a swing 
several times during the day, is besmeared with red 
powder, and dashed with water colored red. In the 
mean time unbounded license reigns through the streets. 
“ It would be impossible to describe the depths of wick- 
edness resorted to in celebration of the licentious in- 
trigues of this popular god” (Trevor’s India, p. 97). The 
festival of Juggernaut (“ Lord of the world”), in whose 
magnificent temple a bone of Krishna is most sacredly 
preserved, commemorates the departure of Krishna from 
his native land. See Jaggernaut. This also takes- 
place in the month of March. Those who are so highly 
favored as to assist in the drawing of his car are sure of 
going to the heaven of Krishna when they die (see 
Gangooly, in Clark’s Ten Great Religions, p. 134; Du- 
bois, Manners and Customs of India, p. 418). The na- 
tivity of Krishna is celebrated on the eighth day of Au- 
gust. This is the most popular of all the festivals at 
Benares. The Rasa Yatra falls on the full moon in Oc- 
tober, and perpetuates the dance of the frolicsome deity 
with the 16,000 gopis. Though it is universally ob- 
served in Ilindostan, the details are such that it will 
not be seemly to treat either of the occasion or the ob- 
servance of this festival (see Holwell’s Indian Festivals. 
pt. ii, p. 132; Maurice, Indian Antiquities, v, 159). 

The Hindu sects are distinguished from each other 
by various fantastical streaks, in different colors, upon 
their faces, breasts, and arms. The followers of Krishna 
bear upon their forehead two white marks perpendicular 
to the eyebrows, between which a red spot is percepti- 
ble, in token, says Vollmer, that Krishna bore a sun 
upon his brow ( Worterb . d. Mythol. p. 1093; also Wil- 
son’s Red. of Hind, i, 41 ; Dubois, Manners of India, eh. 
viii, and p. 214; Trevor’s India , p. 101). 

Unquestionably the influence of the worship of this 
divinity upon the morals of the people is eviL On the 
one hand, it embraces the hideous barbarity of Jagger- 
naut; and, on the other, excepting a festival of Siva, it 
is responsible for the most licentious of all the annual 
feasts (eomp. Dabistan, i, 183). Entire dependence upon 
Krishna, or any other form of this heathen deity, says 
II. II. Wilson, not only obviates the necessity of virtue, 
but sanctifies vice. Conduct is wholly immaterial. It 
matters not how atrocious a sinner a man may be if he 
paints his face, his breast, his arms with certain secta- 


KRISHNA 


104 


KRISHNA 


rial marks; or, what is better, if he brands them per- 
manently upon his skin with a hot iron stamp; if he is 
constantly chanting hymns in honor of Vishnu; or, 
what is equally efficacious* if he spends hours in the 
simple reiteration of his name or names; if he die with 
the word 1 lari, Kama, or Krishna on his lips, and one 
thought of him in his mind, he may have lived a mon- 
ster of iniquity, but he is certain of heaven (Wilson, 
Relig. of Hindus, ii, 75; see also i, 1G1). On the subject 
of the sects and worship of Krishna, consult Asiatic Re- 
searches , xvi, 1, and xvii, 100; Journal of the Royal 
Asiatic Society, ix, 00-110; H. II. Wilson, Select Works, 
vol. i, ii, passim ; Penny Cyclop . xxvi, 389. 

I V. Resemblances between Krishnaism and Revealed 
Religion. — Efforts have been made in the interest of 
scepticism to establish a philological similarity between 
the words Krishna and Christ. Such speculations be- 
long to a past rather than to the present age, as it is 
now conceded by philologists that the two words have 
nothing in common. The curious are referred to Hick- 
son’s Time and Faith , ii, 377 ; Volney’s Ruins , p. 1G5 
(Am. ed. 1828); and for refutation to Maurice, Ilindos- 
tan, ii, 208-271. The readiness with which the scep- 
tical mind of our own age seizes upon and magnifies 
even fancied resemblances is evinced by Inman, who in 
his first volume ( Ancient Faith, p. 402) gives an engrav- 
ing of Krishna strikingly like those attributed to Christ, 
but which in the second volume, on farther acquaint- 
ance with the subject, he admits to be u of European 
and not of Indian origin, and consequently that it is 
worthless as illustrating the life of Krishna” (p. xxxii). 

There are correspondences, however, some of which 
have already appeared in the summary of the life of 
Krishna, that deserve more than a passing notice. It is 
sufficient to adduce the more striking ones, without their 
correlatives in the Bible, as these will readily occur to the 
reader. These are as follows : that he was miraculous- 
ly born at midnight of a human mother, and saluted by 
a chorus of Devatas; that he was cradled among cow- 
herds, during which period of life he was persecuted hy 
the giant Kansa, and saved by his mother’s flight; the 
miracles with which his life abounds, among which were 
the raising of the dead and the cleansing of the leprous, 
perhaps the only ones which particularly resembled 
those of Christ, for the rest were either puerile or mon- 
strous; his contests with serpents, which he crushed 
with his foot; his descent to the regions of the dead, 
and his final ascent to the paradise Goloka (comp. Kleu- 
ker, Abhandluny d. Kalk. Gesellsch . i, 235; Stirm, A po- 
loyie des Christenthums, p. 181, 2d ed.) 

1. The consideration of the interesting questions in- 
volved in these correspondences will be facilitated by 
bearing in mind that India, from the earliest recorded 
period, had sustained intimate mercantile relations with 
Sliemitic races. “ Before merchants sailed from India 
to Egypt, and from Egypt to India” (that is, as the con- 
text shows, before the period of the Ptolemies), “Arabia 
Felix was the staple (mart) both for Egyptian and In- 
dian goods, much as Alexandria is now for the commod- 
ities of Egypt and foreign merchandise” (Arrian, Peripl. 
Mar. Erythr. in Ileeren’s African Researches, p. 228). 
“ If,’’ says lleeren, “ the explicit testimony here brought 
forward proves a commercial intercourse between India 
and Arabia, it proves at the same time its high antiqui- 
ty, and that it must have been in active operation for 
many centuries” (ibid, p. 229). A caravan trade also 
extended from India to Meroe, in Ethiopia, which was 
its grand emporium (ibid, p. 211). Taking its rise be- 
yond the horizon of history, it was yet in its zenith 
during the times of Isaiah, Jeremiah, and Ezekiel (see 
also Vincent’s Periplus , p. 57, etc.). It could not be 
otherwise than that there should have been an inter- 
change of religious knowledge as well as an exchange 
of wares; for commerce was promoted by religion, and, 
to a great extent, controlled by the priesthood ; even its 
temples were stations and marts for caravans (see fur- 
ther, lleeren, ibid, p. 219, 225, 232). The striking re- 


semblance existing between the Egyptian and Hindu 
mythologies, which has been unfolded by many writers, 
illustrates the fact of an interchange of religious light; 
and that these extremes of the known world should thus 
have met remarkably confirms the views of lleeren just 
adduced (see further, Prichard, Egyptian Mythology, p. 
227-301 ; Maurice, Indian Antiquities , iii, 50-124 ; Bun- 
sen, God in History , bk. iii, cli. ii). The annexed figures 



Krishna trampling upon the Serpent. 


were copied by Sonnerat from sculptures in one of the 
oldest of the Hindu pagodas. No Vislmuite of distinc- 
tion, Sonnerat tells us, is without these images in his 
house, either of gold, silver, or copper (see also Prichard’s 
Egypt. Myth. p. 20 1 ). F or a glowing descript ion of Krish- 
na’s person, see the Purana in Maurice, Ilindost. ii,3G3. 

2. On the supposition of the oneness of our race there 
is no reason to exclude the Hindu from an original par- 
ticipation in the patriarchal knowledge of the promised 
Redeemer, as transmitted by Noah and his family. Sue- 
tonius (Yespas. iv) and Tacitus (Hist, v, 4, 13) unite in 
the thought of“ an ancient and permanent belief having 
spread itself over the whole East” to this effect. (See 
farther Gray’s Cojmection, i, chap, xxv; llengstenberg, 
Christology , iv, Appendix ii ; Tholuck, Lehre v. d.Siinde, 
p.220-229; Stolberg’s Religions Geschichte i,Beilage iv; 
Faber’s Proph. Diss. i, 57-114; Faber’s Hone Mosaicce , 
i, ch. iii.) All Hindu traditions connected with the or- 
igin of their religion and their people point but one 
way, and that to the recognised birthplace of our race — 
the lofty watershed from which in every direction hu- 
man faiths and mythologies have flowed forth. (See 
Max Midler on the relations of the Veda and Zend-Aves- 
ta, Chips, i, 81-80.) Though these traditions in them- 
selves may be as inconsequential as falling stars, still 
they reflect a light kindred with that which shines forth 
from fixed stars in the firmament of true faith. Krish- 
na, as seen in the monuments of the Hindu, stands a 
striking exponent of primeval traditions, that, having 
sprung from the promise of the Garden, have more or 
less modified most distant and varied mythologies. lie 
is a crude though riot inartistic painting of a hope pre- 
served to us in the Word of God, lmt otherwise hope- 
lessly lost. He is one of a brotherhood that embraces 
an Apollo triumphant over the python ; a Ilercides, 
burying the immortal and burning out the mortal heads 


KRISHNA 


165 


KRISHNA 


of the livdra; a Sigurd, a descendant of Odin, slaying 
the serpent Fafnir, and rescuing priceless treasure; a 
Thor, styled “ the eldest of the sons of God,” who, in his 
contest with the serpent, though brought upon his knee, 
yet bruised his enemy’s head with the mace and finally 
slew him; an Oshanderbeglni, predicted by Zoroaster, 
who contends twenty long years with a malignant dae- 
mon, whom he eventually conquers; and even the less re- 
nowned Algonquin conqueror Michabo, destroying with 
his dart the shining prince of serpents who flooded the 
earth with the waters of a lake. For other instances, 
considt the authorities referred to* immediately above, 
and Brinton’s Myths of the New World, p. 1 1G, with his 



interpretations. On the other hand, Major Moor states 
that among a numerous collection of pictures and images 
of Krishna he had not one original in which the ser- 
pent is represented as biting Krishna’s foot ( Hindu Pan- 
theon'). For an account of this, see above. 

3. It is not to be questioned that India was a field of 
evangelical effort not long after the death of Christ, 
which, taken in connection with the generally accepted 
view that Krishnaism Lsof comparatively recent origin, 
suggests that its more palpable features of resemblance 
have been more or less directly derived from the Scrip- 
tures themselves. If doubt be cast upon the extent of 
country comprehended under the term India in this con- 
nection, it is to be borne in mind that those parts of the 
world which arc supposed by some to be confounded 
with India proper maintained by trade thus early a live- 
ly intercourse with India, and could thus furnish a chan- 
nel for the propagation of Christianity throughout the 
field where Krishnaism subsequently prevailed. 

According to Eusebius, “ Pantaenus was constituted a 
herald of the Gospel of Christ to the nations of the East, 
and advanced even as far as India.” lie found himself 
anticipated by some who were acquainted with the Gos- 
pel of Matthew, to whom Bartholomew, one of the apos- 
tles, had preached, leaving with them the same Gospel 
in Hebrew which was preserved until his time (Peek’s. 
Hist. bk. v, ch. x ; see Jerome, Catal. Script, cap. xxxvi ; 
and for comparison of their views consult Mosheim, 


Commentaries , cent, ii, sec. ii, note 1 ; see also Neander, 
Ch. Hist., Clark’s cd., i, 1 1 2). Tradition tells us that St. 
Thomas preached to the Indians, which is confirmed by 
Gregory of Nazianzum. Jerome, however, makes the 
field of labor to have been Ethiopia. There seems to 
be little doubt that copies both of the apocryphal and 
of the genuine Gospels circulated early through portions 
of Southern India. Silly miracles, resembling those of 
the former almost to the letter, have been incorporated 
into the sacred writings of Krishnaism. Theophilus, 
surnamed Indiens, visited India as a missionary in the 
time of Constantine, and found Christianity already 
planted and nourishing, though isolated from Christian- 
ity at large. Both Bardesancs and Maui, heresiarchs of 
the early Church, in their travels came into close and 
prolonged contact with Buddhism, from which they drew 
much of the virus that they strove to infuse into Chris- 
tian belief. The former of them certainly visited India 
as early as the latter part of the 2d century (see Kurtz, 
Hist, of Ch. p. 109, sec. 50 ; Neander, ii, 198). Weber and 
Lassen agree in this respect in their interpretation of a 
passage of the Mahabharata, that at an early period in 
the history of the Church three Brahmans visited some 
community of Christians either in Alexandria, Asia Mi- 
nor, or Parthia, and that on their return they ‘‘ were en- 
abled to introduce improvements into the hereditary 
creed, and more especially to make the worship of Krish- 
na the most prominent feature of their system.” See 
farther I lard wick, rist, i, 240-258, 284-293 ; Canvithen, 
Bruhmimeal Religion, p. 98-104, 320-322; Faber’s Pro- 
phetical Dissertation , i, G4 ; Origin of Pagan Idol. bk. vi, 
chap, vi ; Treatise on three Dispensations, bk. i, chap, vi ; 
Wuttke, Geschichte des Ileidenthnms , ii, 339 ; also author- 
ities referred to by Hardwick, l. e. See India, Modern. 

4. It was the fashion early in the present century to 
search out astronomical allusions in Krishna, and resem- 
blances to Apollo, the mythological counterpart to the 
sun, but these have given place to sounder criticism. 
Becent researches favor the view that no great antiq- 
uity is to be attributed to Krishna as an object of relig- 
ious regard. That some one bearing that name may 
have figured as a local hero in the earl} r history of In- 
dia, and even as far back as the period preceding the 
war of the Mahabharata, is not improbable (comp. Wil- 
son, Religion of the Hindus , ii, 65, G6). The allusions on 
classical pages serve to justify such a conclusion. 

5. But it is important to remember that Krishnaism 
nowhere appears in the Vedas, the most ancient scrip- 
tures of the Hindu. “ Krishna worship is the most 
modern of all the philosophical and religious systems 
which have divided India into rival sects. Founded 
upon the theory of successive incarnations which neither 
the Vedas nor the legislators of the first Brahmanical 
epocli admitted, Krishnaism differs in so many points 
from the faiths peculiar to India that we are tempted to 
regard it as borrowed from foreign philosophies and re- 
ligions” (M. Pavie, Bhayavat Dasan Askaud, Pref. p. xi ; 
in like manner Lassen, Indische Alterthumsk. i, 488; ii, 
1107 ; Prichard, Kyypt . Mythology, p, 259, with citations 
from Colcbrooke ; Max M filler, ( 'hips, ii, 75, Amor. edit. ; 
Asiatic Researches, viii, 494). ik It is believed,” says II. 
II. Wilson cautiously, that llama and Krishna “ are un- 
noticed in authentic passages of the Sanhita or collected 
prayers, and there is no mention of the latter as Go- 
vinda or Gopala, the infant cowherd, or as the uncouth 
and anomalous Jaggernaut. They are mentioned in 
some of the Upanishads, supplementary treatises of the 
Vedas, but these compositions are evidently, from their 
style, of later date than the Vedas, and some of them, 
especially those referring to llama and Krishna, are of 
very questionable authenticity” (ibid, ii, Go). Compare 
Wilson’s Transl. of the Rig 1 ’ eda Sanhita, i, 2G0, 313, 315; 
ii, 35, note b ; iii, 148, note 7. 

At the time of its first translation into English by 
Wilkins, an immense antiquity was claimed for the Bha- 
gavat Gita (see above, sec. i ), but this is now generally 
admitted to be an interpolation in the Mahabharata, and 


KRISHNA 


166 


KRISHNA 


to have been produced subsequently to the rise not only 
of Christianity, but of Krishnaism itself. Lassen accords 
it a place in the later history of Hindu religions, when 
“ the Vishnuites broke up into sects and sought to bring 
their religious dogmas into harmony with the theories 
of philosophy” (Indische Alt. ii, 494 ; Hardwick, i, 241). 

As to the Purdnas, which are almost the sole author- 
ities for those events in the life of Krishna (exclusive 
of his victorious contest with the serpent) that most re- 
semble the life of Christ, they are, in their present form, 
unquestionably of modern origin. They abound in le- 
gends that may properly be regarded as piirana (an- 
cient), but bear upon their face sectarian marks, which 
betray both their animus and their age. They are eigh- 
teen in number, and some of them are voluminous. The 
Puranas themselves in many cases ascribe their author- 
ship to others than Vyasa, ‘‘and they offer many inter- 
nal proofs that they are the work of various hands and 
of different dates, none of which are of very high antiq- 
uity. I believe the oldest of them not to be anterior to 
the 8th or 9th century, and the most recent to be not 
above three or four centuries old. . . . The determina- 
tion of their modern and unauthenticated composition 
deprives them of the sacred character which they have 
usurped, destroys their credit, impairs their influence, 
and strikes away the main prop on which at present 
the great mass of Hindu idolatry and superstition relies” 
(H. H. Wilson, Relig. of the Hindus , ii, G8). There is 
but little doubt that the Brahmans are right in referring 
the authorship of the Bhagavata, the most popular of 
the Puranas (from which we have quoted so freely in 
the summary of Krishna’s life), to Vopadeva, who flour- 
ished in the 12th century (ibid, p. 09; see also preface 
to Wilson’s Vishnu Parana). Bentley (Vieio of Ancient 
Astronomy, i, bk. ii, chap, ii) informs us that he obtained 
access to the Janampatra, or horoscope of Krishna, and 
was enabled to discover from it that he is reputed to 
have been born on the 23d of the moon of Sravana, in 
the lunar mansion Rohini, at midnight, the positions of 
the sun, and moon, and five planets being at the same 
time assigned ; from whieh he deduced the date of the 
pretended nativity to be Ang. 7, A.D. GOO. In AI r. Bent- 
ley’s opinion, perhaps a fanciful one, Krishna himself 
was one of the Hindu personifications of time, whieh 
view he supports by Krishna’s own declaration, “ I am 
time, the destroyer of mankind matured, come hither to 
seize at once on all these who stand before us.” See 
farther, on the astronomical view, Greswell’s Fasti Ca- 
tholici , iv, 88; Cardinal Wiseman’s Led. ii, 1-28; Tom- 
kins’s Ilulsean Prize Ledures , p. 35-41 ; W. A. Butler’s 
Ancient Philos, i, 247. 

From considerations like these, not to speak of others 
that might be urged, we are led to conclude that Krish- 
naism proper was post-Christian, an outcropping of hu- 
man and possibly of diabolic nature, that was illustra- 
ted at the foot of Sinai, but which no more resembled 
its divine original than the lifeless golden calf resembled 
the living Apis of Egypt. As in the pitiable blur of a 
palimpsest, Krishnaism has replaced or obscured that 
which was more precious — the religion of Christ, found- 
ed no less in impregnable trnth than in the undying 
necessities of men. For at the rise of this false religion 
it is plain to us that the light of Christianity was re- 
flected already on the sky of India — light that was sadly 
perverted to set forth a feeble caricature of the incarna- 
tion and life of Christ. 

G. As the tenor of our argument lias indicated, the 
criticism of the present age is disposed to assign a re- 
cent origin to Krishnaism, though, at the same time, it 
does not ignore the existence of a hero bearing the 
name of Krishna conspicuous in the early and fabulous 
history of India. It may be of interest to the reader to 
have presented somewhat morS in detail tlte views of 
some of the scholars of the present century, conflicting 
and confused though they be, upon the general subject 
of the relations of Krishnaism to Christianity as well 
as profane religions. Archdeacon Hardwick thinks 


that the resemblances are no greater than the outward 
and fortuitous resemblances between other heathen 
deities, or between some of them and Christ. He 
illustrates by the incident of the persecution of Her- 
cules in his infancy by Juno; the dancing of the milk- 
maids and satyrs of Bacchus, which compares with 
that of Krishna ; the concealing of Apollo in the house- 
hold of Admetus. He says further, “If Krishna is to 
be regarded as a purely human and historical hero, 
doomed to death in childhood from forebodings that 
his life would prove the ruin of another, we can find 
his parallel in the elder Cyrus, who had also been in- 
trusted to the care of herdsmen to preserve him from 
the vengeance of his royal grandfather, whose death it 
was foretold he should ultimately accomplish” (i, 285, 
28G). Colonel Wilford supposes Krishna to have lived 
about B.C. 1300. Sir William Jones says the story of 
his birth is long anterior to the birth of Christ, and 
traces it probably to the time of Homer. lie thinks it 
likely that the spurious gospels of the early age of 
Christianity were brought to India, and the wildest 
parts of them repeated to the Hindus, who ingrafted 
them on the old fable of Kesava, the Apollo of India 
(Asiatic Researches , i, 274). Mr. Bentley (Hindu As- 
tronomy ), in contradiction to Mr. II. Colebrooke, Sir 
William Jones, major Moor, and others, boldly charges 
the whole history of the incarnation of Krishna as 
a “modern invention” and “fabrication” of the Brah- 
mans, who, alarmed at the progress of Christianity, in- 
vented a story not unlike that of Christ, and affixed a 
name somewhat similar to the hero of it ; all of which 
they threw back to a very remote age, that it might be 
impossible successfully to contradict it, and then repre- 
sented that Christ and Krishna were the same person, 
of whose history the Christians had an incorrect ver- 
sion. Mr. J. C. Thompson thinks that Krishna ante- 
dates the Bralnnanieal triad — Brahma, Vishnu, and Siva 
— and that his great exploits occasioned him later in 
Aryan history to be identified with Vishnu (p. 134). 
Lassen, an eminent Oriental scholar, refers the origin 
of the system of avatars, as disclosed in Vishnu, to a 
period of time at least three centuries before Christ; 
while Weber, equally distinguished as a critic, contro- 
verts his views, and argues that Krishna, the hero or 
demigod, was no incarnation, and differed vastly from 
the Krishna of later times. (See farther Hardwick, 
ibid, i, 288, note.) 

V. Literature. — The “ Mahabharata,” translated into 
French by Fauehe (Paris, 18G3), book x, which is appro- 
priated to the life of Krishna; the “ Bhagavad Gita 
episode of the preceding (Wilkins's, 1785, and Thomson’s, 
1855, transl. into English, and Wm. Schlegel’s transla- 
tion into Latin, 1823) ; the il Vishnu Parana ” (translated 
by II. H. Wilson, 1842 and 18GG, 6 vols.); the “ Bhaya - 
vata Parana ” (translated into Freneli by Burnouf, Paris, 
1840) ; the u I lari Vansa” (transl. into French by Lan- 
glois. Paris, 1842); “Analysis of the Agni Parana,” in 
the Journ. of As. Soc. of Bengal, i, 81 ; “Analysis of the 
Brahma Vaivartha Purana,” ibid, p. 217; also Asiatic 
Researches , passim, especially vol. xv and xvi ; Hard- 
wick, Christ and other M asters, i, 24G-258, 277-293 — a 
valuable and easily accessible resume of the whole sub- 
ject; II. II. Wilson, Religion of the Hindus, vol. ii, pas- 
sim ; Hoefer, Biographic Generate , art. Criehnic ; J. I>. 
Cuigniant, Religions de VAntiqnite , vol. i, bk. i, eh. iii; 
P. F. Stuhr, Religions systeme der heidnischen Volker des 
Orients (Berlin, 1836-38, 2 vols. 8vo) ; M. Pa vie, Bhaga- 
rat Dasani Askand (Paris, 1852); W. von Humboldt, 
Uebcr die miter dem Xamen Bhagavad Gita lehmnte 
Episode des Mahabharata (Berlin, 182G) ; A. Lemnsat, 
Melanges Asiatiques (Paris, 1825-1829, 4 vols.); P. von 
Bolden, Das Alfe Indlea (2 vols., 1830-31); Christ. Las- 
sen, Indische Alterthumskunde (4 vols., 1 844-4 G, chiefly 
vol. ii); A. F. Weber, Indischen Studien (10 vols., 1849- 
G7, especially the two first vols.); Indische Bkitzzen 
(Berlin, 1857), particularly the essay Die Verbindungen 
Pullens mit den Landern im 1 Vesten; Coleman, MgthoL 


KROCHMAL 


167 


IvRUDENER 


ogy of the Hindus (1832), art. Krishna ; Edward Moor, 
Hindu Pantheon (1810); II. T. Colcbrooke, Religion of 
the Hindus (London, 1858); Wm. "Ward, A ccount of the 
Writings , Religion , etc., of the Hindus (4 vols., 1817-20) ; 
G. Ilaslara, The Cross and the Serpent (London, 1849); 
G. W. F. Hegel, in the Jahrbiicher fur wissenschaftliche 
Kritik (Berlin, 1827) ; J. A. Dorner, Lehre von d. Person 
Christ i (Stuttgardt, 1845), i, 7 sq.; Theo. Benfey, Indien, 
in Ersch nnd Gruber’s Encyklop ., sec. ii, vol. 17 (Leip- 
sic, 1840); Biographie Universelle (Partie Mythologiqne, 
supplement, ii, 545-550); K. F. Stiiudlin, Magazin , iii, 
2, 99 sq. ; Muir, Original Sanscrit Extracts (5 vols., 1858 
-1870), vols. i and iv. See Vishnu. (J. K. B.) 

Krochmal, Nachman ben-Siialmon, one of the 
most celebrated Jewish scholars of modern date, was 
born in Brody Feb. 18, 1780. An erudite critic and em- 
inent Hebraist, he was the first among the Jews who, 
with a rare sagacity and independence of mind, inves- 
tigated the Hebrew Scriptures, in order to ascertain the 
origin, unity, and date of each book, as well as to char- 
acterize its peculiarity of style and language, irrespec- 
tive of the fixed traditional opinions held alike by the 
synagogue and the Church about the authors and ages 
of the respective canonical volumes (comp. Jost, Gesch. 
eles Judenthums und seiner Sekten, iii, 343). Krochmal, 
however, on account of feeble health and other infirmi- 
ties of the flesh, published but little in his lifetime. In 
many respects he may be likened to the great Jewish 
philosopher of the 19th century (Mendelsohn), for, like 
him, he suffered from impaired health, and, like him, he 
struggled for an education after he had entered the mer- 
cantile profession. He also gave much of his time and 
attention to philosophy, and, as the fruits of his inves- 
tigations, left in MS. a work entitled More Xcboche 
Ila-Seman , a treasury of criticisms on Jewish philoso- 
phy, Biblical literature, and sacred antiquities, which 
the learned Dr. Leopold Zunz edited and published at 
Lemburg in 1851. Compare also Zunz on Krochmal, in 
Jahrb.ftir Israeliten (1845). Krochmal was an inti- 
mate associate of the late Jewish savant Rapoport (q. 
v.), and is said to have exerted considerable influence 
over the latter, lie died at Tarnopol July 31, 1840. 
His works, which appeared in the Hebrew annual called 
Kerem Chemed (vol. v, Piag. 1841, p. 51 sq.), are, on The 
Sacred Antiquities ami their Import 
*jP3nn*l) : 1. On the age of the comforting promises in 
the second part of Isaiah, chap, xl-xlvi, in which he 
tries to demonstrate the late date of this part of the 
volume, and to show that Aben-Ezra was of the same 
opinion, only that he veiled it in enigmatical language. 
See Aben-Ezra. 2. On the date and composition of 
Ezra and Chronicles, with an investigation of the an- 
cient statement on this subject contained in the Talmud, 
Baba Bathra , 14, b, which is very important. He tries 
to trace and analyze the different parts of which these 
books are composed, and to show that they extend to 
the destruction of the Persian empire. 3. On the date 
and composition of Ezekiel, the Minor Prophets, Daniel, 
and Esther, with an examination of the ancient state- 
ment on this subject contained in the same passage of 
the Talmud, which is still more important, inasmuch as 
Krochmal shows here what is meant by the Great Syn- 
agogue , and tries to demonstrate that some portions of 
the Minor Prophets belong to the period of the Greek 
empire. 4. On the origin and date of Ecclesiastes, in 
which he insists that it is the latest composition in the 
canon. See, besides the authorities already referred to, 
Ginsburg, in Ivitto, Cyclop. Bibl. Lit. ii, s. v. 

Kromayer, Jerome, a German Frotestant di- 
vine, nephew of the succeeding, was born at Zeitz in 
1010, and was educated at Lei pzic, Wittenberg, and Je- 
na. He was appointed professor at Leipzig in 1643, and 
in 1657 regular or ordinary professsor of divinity. In 
1660 he became minister at Zeitz, and in 1661 at Meis- 
sen, He died in 1670. He wrote largely; the most 
important of his works are : Commcntaria in Epist . ad 


Galatas : — Comment, in Apocalypsin : — Ilistorice Eccles . 
Cent ur ice X VI : — Theologia Positivo-Polemica : — Loci 
A ntisyncretistici : — Polymathia Theologica : — some con- 
troversial tracts, dissertations, etc. — Hook, Eccles . Bid. 
vi, 501. 

Kromayer, John, a German theologian, was bom 
at Dobelen, in Misnia, in 1576, and was educated at the 
University of Leipzic. In 1000 he was made deacon, 
and some time after was appointed pastor at Eisleben, 
and later pastor at Weimar. He died in 1643, after 
having a short time previously been honored with the 
general superintendency of the churches of the duchy 
of Weimar. John Kromayer wrote Harmonia Ecange - 
listarum : — Ilistorice Ecclesiastics Compendium : — Speci- 
men fontium Script urs Sacrs apertorum, etc.: — Exa- 
men Libri Christians Concordis: — a Paraphrase on the 
Prophecy and Lamentations of Jeremiah : this is held in 
high estimation, and is in the Bible of Weimar: — Expo- 
sition of the Epistles and Gospels throughout the Year 
(4to) ; and Sermons . — Hook, Eccles. Bid. vi, 502. 

Krotos ( Kporog ), a word used to signify approba- 
tion of a public speaker. It means literally a beating , 
str iking , knocking, as of the hands, together ; and hence 
it was used to signify consent and approbation, either 
by words or actions. Public applauses and acclamations 
appear to have been common in the early Church. — Far- 
rar, Eccl Bid. See Acclamations. 

Kriidener, Barbara Juliana von, a religions vis- 
ionary and enthusiast, was a granddaughter of the Rus- 
sian field-marshal Von Munich, and daughter of the 
states councillor baron Von Wietinghoff, and was born 
at Riga in 1764 according to some authorities, or in 
1766 according to others. In 1782 she married baron 
Von Kriidener, the Russian ambassador at Venice, and 
a great admirer of the French philosopher Rousseau. 
But, unfortunately, the baron, who had been twice mar- 
ried before, succeeded much better in making his wife 
an ardent disciple of the philosophical principles which 
he himself espoused than in winning her affections for 
himself, and after the birth of a son and a daughter the 
husband and wife separated, the latter to take up her 
residence at Paris. Here, in the vortex of dissipation, 
her better feelings would sometimes assert themselves, 
but they were smothered by the adulations of all the 
brilliant personages who surrounded her, among whom 
figured conspicuously Chateaubriand and Madame de 
Stael. In imitation of the latter she gave the world 
her biography, in the shape of a sickly sentimental 
novel entitled Valerie, describing an immoral relation 
concealed beneath the fragrant veil of romance, and red- 
olent with a religious Romish and fanatical sentimental- 
ism. The work is said to have been written with the 
assistance of St. Martin, and created quite a sensation, 
meeting with great success, especially in the higher cir- 
cles of society. After many adventures, Madame von 
Kriidener came to reside at Berlin, where she enjoyed 
the close intimacy of that noble woman queen Louisa, 
of whose projects she was the confidante and sharer in 
the stormy period of Prussia’s warfare with France. In 
1808 she became acquainted with Jung Stilling and 
OberIin,and thereafter we find her devoted to religious 
mysticism in its most aggravated forms. She bought 
a place for the mystics at Borminglieim, in Wiirtem- 
berg, and did all in her power to promote their inter- 
ests. Unfortunately, however, the disorders occasioned 
by the seeress Kumrin, and by pastor Fantaine, whom 
she protected, were visited upon her head, and she was 
exiled by king Frederick. She now retired to Baden, 
and then went to Strasburg, and finally to Switzerland. 
Wherever she went she attracted attention, both by her 
political predictions and by the preaching of her pecul- 
iar doctrines, heralding a new religious a?ra, that of unity 
in the Church — “the period when there should be one 
flock and one shepherd.” At Geneva especially she cre- 
ated quite a stir in religious circles, and among the cler- 
gy of distinction whom she won to her views may be 


KRUDENEIi 


168 


KRUG 


mentioned pastor Empnvtaz, the eventual head of the 
Manners (q. v.). With the assistance of men of talent 
and education of Empaytaz’s stamp she formed “prayer 
unions,” and urged the community to a more vital Chris- 
tian living, and the liberal use of property for the good 
of the poor. The fulfilment of her predictions of the 
fall of Napoleon, his return from Elba, and the final cri- 
sis at Waterloo, aided her cause, and emboldened her to 
the assertion that she enjoyed the favor of God in a spe- 
cial degree. Among her most ardent followers at this 
time she counted no less a personage than the Russian 
emperor Alexander, who, with the Bible in his hand, was 
her frequent guest; and it is known that her inlluence 
over Alexander brought about the lloly Alliance. Iler 
love of humanity, however, and her gigantic schemes 
for its moral and social elevation, often led her to over- 
step the bounds of prudence and propriety, and made 
her appear a dangerous character in the eyes of persons 
of authority, so that she gradually lost the favor of men 
of political prominence. She was obliged to quit France 
and other countries successively, and even lost the friend- 
ship of the emperor Alexander, as is evinced by the 
treatment she received in Russia when she was called 
thither in consequence of the sickness of her daughter. 
.She was not only refused admittance to the emperor, 
but when afterwards she advocated the cause of the in- 
dependence of Greece, and pointed to the Russian em- 
peror as the instrument selected by God for the accom- 
plishment of this great work, she was requested to re- 
frain and to leave St. Petersburg. Under the influence 
of the Moravians her life and habits had been changed 
after she quitted Paris, and she had often dreamed of 
founding a great correctional establishment for the ref- 
ormation of criminals and persons of evil life. Now 
driven from St. Petersburg, and the attack of a cutane- 
ous disease necessitating her residence in the south, she 
started in 1824 with the design of founding such an in- 
stitution, and of establishing a German and Swiss colony 
on the other side of the Volga. On the way, however, 
death overtook her at Ivara-su-bazar, Dec. 13, 1824. The 
life thus suddenly brought to a close lias been variously 
commented upon. In her day “ pa&don oscillated in the 
public judgment beween favor and hostility to her,” but 
now, when nearly half a century has passed, and it is 
easy in deliberation to pass judgment upon her life and 
acts, she is generally spoken of favorably, and her en- 
deavors to inspire the people with religious zeal, and a 
feeling of love for each other as a common brotherhood, 
are. recognised. Says Hagenbach (Ch. llist. 1 8/A and 
V)th Centuries [transl. by I)r. J. F. llurst], ii, 418 sq.), 
“It is a remarkable phenomenon, that a woman trained 
in the dwellings of vanity, and humbled by her sins and 
errors, had such a spirit of self-denial as to minister on 
a wooden bench to the poor and suffering, to seek out 
criminals in prison, and to present to them the consola- 
tions of the Cross; to open the eyes of the wise men of 
this world to the deepest mysteries of divine love, and 
to say to the kings of the world that everything avails 
nothing without the King of kings, who. as the Cruci- 
fied, v'as a stumbling-block to the Jews and foolishness 
to the Greeks. .She w r as derided, defamed, persecuted, 
driven from one country to another, and yet never grew 
weary of preaching repentance in the deserts of civiliza- 
tion, and of proclaiming the salvation of believers and 
the miserv of unbelievers. . . . Wherever she set her 
foot, great multitudes of people physically and spiritu- 
ally hungry, of sufferers of every class, and persons with- 
out regard to confession, surrounded her, and received 
from her food— yea, wonderful food. The woes which 
she pronounced on the impenitent awakened in many 
an oppressed and troubled spirit, a feeling of joy at mis- 
fortune, while many a genial word of love fell into-good 
ground.” Besides the novel already mentioned, she 
w'roto Le Camp des Vert us (Baris, 18 1 a). Many curious 
details of her conversations and opinions are preserved 
in Krug’s Conversational mit Frau r. Kriidener (Leipz. 
1818). See also C. Maurer, Bilder aus d. Leben tines Pre- 


differs (Schaff hausen, 1843) ; Perl. Zeitschrift fur christl, 
Wissenschaft it. christl. Leben (1857, No. 5); Zeitgenossen 
(Leipz. 1838), iii ; Adele du Thou, Xotice sur Mme. Ju- 
lienne de Kriidener (Geneva, 1827, 8vo) ; Mahul, Annu- 
aire Xecrologique , anno 1825; Eynard, Vie de Mme.de 
Kriidener (Baris, 1849, 2 vols. 8vo) ; Ziethe, Jul.v. Krii- 
dener (18G4) ; 1 1 auck, Theol. Jahresbericht (18C9), iv, 537 ; 
Sainte-Beuve, Portraits de Femmes ; Berniers Portraits 
JJtt era ires , etc. ; 1 Ierzog, Real-Encyklop. viii, 1 12 ; II oc- 
fer, Xouv. Bitxj. Generate , xxvii, 234. (J. II. W.) 

Krug, John Andrew, one of the earlier Luther- 
an ministers who immigrated to this country, w'as horn 
March 19, 1732. lie w'as highly educated, and w’as for 
a time preceptor in the Orphan House at Halle. He 
came to the United States in 1703, commissioned by 
Dr. Fran eke, who considered him well fitted for mis- 
sionary work. He labored first at Beading, Benin, and 
among the people of the surrounding country’, wholly 
devoted to his duties, and greatly beloved by the com- 
munity. In 1771, in accordance with the wishes of his 
brethren, he relinquished this field of labor, and assumed 
the pastoral care of the Lutheran Church in Frederick, 
Md. Here he continued till his death, vrhieh occurred 
March 30, 179G. (M. L. S.) 

Krug, Wilhelm Traugott, a distinguished Ger- 
man philosopher and writer, w'as horn at Badis. near 
Griifenhainchen, Prussia, June 22, 1770. lie studied at 
the school of l’forta and the University of Wittenberg, 
where he was appointed adjunct professor in 1794. In 
the year following he published Fiber die Perfectibili - 
tat tier geoffenbarten Religion (Jena and Lpz. 1795, 8vo), 
a work which was so rationalistic in character that it 
barred bis way for further promotion. In 1801 he be- 
came professor of philosophy in the University of Frank- 
fort-on-tlie-< filer, and here he wrote his principal work, 
Fundament alp] t ilosoph ie (Zullichau and Freistadt, 1803; 
3d ed. Lpz. 1827), which became very popular through- 
out Germany. Guided by Kant’s criticism, Krug pro- 
fessed a system which, under the name of “transcen- 
dental synthetism,” aimed to reconcile idealism and real- 
ism. “According to Krug, the act of philosophizing is 
thought entering into itself, to know and understand it- 
self, and by this means to be at peace with itself. The 
following are his principal points: 1. In relation with 
the starting-point, or first principle of knowledge: the 
Effo is the real principle, inasmuch as it takes itself as 
the object of its knowledge (the philosophizing subject). 
It is from it that proceed, as from an active principle, 
the ideal principles, which are essentially different from 
the real principles, or, in other words, the material and 
formal principles of philosophical knowledge. The ma- 
terial principles are the facts of consciousness grasped in 
conceptions, which are all comprehended in the propo- 
sition, 1 am an agent. The formal principles (deter- 
mining the form of knowledge) are the laws of my ac- 
tivity; they are as multifarious as activity itself: the 
first of these laws is, Seek for harmony in thy activity. 
2. How' far ought these researches to be carried (the ab- 
solute limit of philosophy)? The consciousness is a 
synthesis of being, or Fsse, and knowing, or Science (das 
Seyn mid das Wissen), in the Ego. Every consciousness 
is thus circumstanced, which implies that being and 
knowing are united in us a priori. This transcendental 
synthesis is therefore the original and inappreciable fact 
which forms the absolute limit of philosophizing. Since 
being and knowing (Seyn mid Wissen), united together 
in the consciousness, cannot be deduced the one irom 
the other, their union is completely primitive. 3. What 
are the different forms of activity? The primitive ac- 
tivity of the Ego is either immanent (speculative) or 
transitory (practical). Sensibility, intelligence, and rea- 
son are its different potencies. Philosophy, regarded as 
the science of the primitive legislation of the human 
mind in all its activity, is therefore divided into a spec- 
ulative part and a practical part. The first part is 
subdivided into formal doctrine (logic) and material 


KRUGER 


169 


KRUMMACHER 


doetriile (metaphysics and Aesthetics), inasmuch as the 
one regards the matter of thought per se, and the oth- 
er (Aesthetics) considers it in relation with sentiment. 
The latter part is likewise subdivided into formal doc- 
trine (the science of right and law) and material doctrine 
(morals and religion). Each of these considers the leg- 
islation of the human mind under a different aspect” 
(Tenneman, Manual o f Philos. § 421). After the death 
of Kant, Krug was called to Kbnigsberg to succeed his 
great master as professor of logic and metaphysics. He 
subsequently tilled also Kraus’s place as professor of 
practical philosophy. In ISOJfhc became professor of 
philosophy at Lcipzic, a position which he retained un- 
til 1831, when he was pensioned. He died at Leipzic 
Jan. 13, 1812. Krug’s other works are Yersuch eiuer 
systematischen Encyklopddie d. 1 Vissenschaften (Wittenb. 
179G-97, 2 vols.; 3d vol. Lpz. 1804): — Ueber d. Yerhdlt- 
niss d. kritischen Philosophic z. moralischen , politischen , 
v. religibsen Cultur d. Menschen (Jena, 1798) : — Yersuch 
einer systematischen Encyklopadie d. schunen K'unste 
(Lpzc. 1802) : — Philosophic d. Ehe (Lpze. 1800) :—Bnefe 
iiber d. neusten Idealismus (Lpzc. 1801): — Entwurjeines 
neuen Organon d. Philosophic (Meiss. and Liibben, 1801) : 
— System d. theoretischen Philosophic (Konigsb. 1800-10 ; 
four eds. since): — Gesch. d. Philosophic alter Zeit (Lpz. 
1815, 1820): — System d. praktischen Philosophic (Ko- 
nigsb. 1817-19, 2 vols.; 2d ed. 1830-38) : — Handbuch cl. 
Philosophic u. philosophischen Literatur (Lpzc. 1820-21, 
2 vols.; 3d ed. 1829): — Yersuch einer neuen Theoric d. 
Gefiihle a. d. sogmannten Gefiihlsvermogens (Kbnigsberg, 
1823) : — Pisteologie oder Glaube, Aberglaube u. Unglaube 
(Lpzc. 1825) : — Das Kirchenrecht nach Grundsdtzen d. 
Vermin fit , etc. (Lpzc. 1820): — Ally. Handled rte rb u ch d. 
philosophischen 1 Yissenschafen (Lpzc. 1827-28, 4 vols. ; 
2d ed. 1832-34, 5 vols. 8vo) : — Universalphilosophische 
Yorlesungen (Neustadt, 1831); etc. Ilis works have 
been collected and published under the title Gesammelte 
Schriften (Braunschweig, 1830-31, 0 vols. 8vo). See 
Krug, Mtine Lebensreise in seeks Stationen (Lpze. 1820 
and 1812) ; same, Leipziger Freuden u. Leiden, etc. (Lpz. 
1831); Morel!, / list. Mod. Philosophy ; Saintes, /list, of 
Rationalism , p. 138; Tennemanu’s Manual of Philosophy 
(by Morell), p. 405 sq. ; Krug, Philo so phis cites ) Yorter- 
buch , v (1), p. 017 sq. ; Iloefcr, Xouv. Biog. Gener. xxvii, 
240. (J.I1.W.) 

Kruger, Oswald, a German Jesuit, was born in 1598 
in Prussia, and made for himself a name by his thorough 
study of Hebrew, which lie taught in the schools of the 
Jesuits; later he devoted himself to mathematics, and 
became professor at the LTiiversity in Wilna. He died 
May 10, 1005. — Allgem. Hist. Lex. iii, 05. 

Krummacher, Friedrich Adolf, a German 
theologian and poet, was born at Tecklenburg, in West- 
phalia, July 13, 1707, and was educated at the univer- 
sities of Lingen and Halle. At the latter school he en- 
joyed the instruction of “ the elder Knapp,” the so just- 
ly celebrated “pious” professor of the university at that 
time. In 1800, after having filled various positions of 
trust, he was appointed professor of theology at the Uni- 
versity of Duisburg, where he remained until 1800. lie 
then became successively pastor of Krefeld, Kettwich, 
Bernbtirg, and Bremen. Ilis talents as preacher and 
administrator caused him to be appointed court preacher 
and Church superintendent, lie died at Bremen April 
14, 1845. Friedrich Adolph Krummacher deserves spe- 
cial commendation in this work for his piety and the 
noble Christian example he furnished to his sons, and 
which became manifest in their lives (comp. Krumma- 
ciiEn, Friedrich Wilhelm). He is especially known 
for his parables in verse, which have become classic in 
Germany, and, though he has had many imitators in 
this line, he has never been surpassed. Ilis works are, 
Die Liebe , a hymn (Wescl, 1801 ; 2d cd. 1809) :—Para- 
beln (Duisburg, 1805; 8th ed. Essen, 1850; French, Par. 
1821 ; English, Lond. 1844, 8vo, and often) : — A poloyien 
utuI Paramytkicn (Duisburg, 1810) : — Festbiichkin, cine 


Schi'ift fur's Yolk (Duisb. 1810, 2 vols.; 3d edit. Duisb. 
1819-21, 3 vols.) : — Die Kinderwelt (Duisb. 180G, 1813), a 
series of sacred poems for children : — Johannes, a drama 
(Lpz. 1815) : — Ueber d. Geist u. d. Form d. evanyelischen 
Gesch. in histor. u. assthetisch. Uinsicht (Lpz. 1805), by far 
his most important theological work : — Bibelkattehismus 
(Essen, 1844, 12th edit.): — Katechismus d. christl. Lehre 
(Essen, 1821 ; Gtli ed. 1841) : — Die christl. Yolksschule ini 
Bunde m. d. Kirche (Essen, 1823; 2d edit. 1825) : — St. 
Ansgar, d. alte und d. neue Zeit (Bremen, 1828) : — Der 
Hauptmann Cornelius (Bremen, 1829; English, London, 
1838, 12mo ; 1839, 12mo, with notes by Fergusson ; 1840, 
12mo) : — Das Leben des heiliyen Johannes (Essen, 1833; 
Engl., Lond. 1849, 8vo) : — Das Tdubchen (Essen, 1840, 
3d ed.). See Moller, F. A. Krummacher n. s. Freunde 
(Brem. 1849, 2 vols.); Herzog, Real-Encyklop. viii, 118 
sq. ; Brit, and For. Evangel. Rev. Ixix, G27. (J. II. W.) 

Krummacher, Friedrich Wilhelm, one of 
Germany’s most eloquent preachers in this century, and 
the most distinguished of a distinguished family, was 
the son of Friedrich Adolph Krummacher (q. v.), and 
was born at Mors, on the Bhine, January 28, 179G. After 
preparation partly at the Gymnasium and partly under 
his own father, he entered Halle University in the win- 
ter semester of 1815-1 G, and there enjoyed the instruc- 
tions of Niemever, Wegscheider, Gesenius, Marx, De 
Wette, and “ the elder Knapp,” for whom young Krum- 
maeher early cherished great affection. Two years later 
he removed to Jena, drawn thither by the celebrated 
philosopher Fries, and the theologian Schott, the well- 
known editor of a revised edition of the text of the 
New Testament. To an American student of theology 
this period of F. W. Krummacher’s life presents many 
points of special interest. He had left Ilalle for Jena 
determined to sit at the feet of Schott and other cele- 
brated theologians, but so disappointed was he that he is 
led to exclaim (in his A utobiography, p. 77), “Nothing 
remained for me but to seek refuge from this spiritual 
famine in reading,” and, instead of attending faithfully 
the lectures of his professors, he found it more to his 
sonl’s interest to devote his time to the reading of Her- 
der’s Spirit of Hebrew Poetry , his father’s Spirit and 
Form of the Gospels, Ivleuker’s apologetical writings, 
and other books of this class. Ilis first appointment as 
preacher he found, in the beginning of 1819, at Frank- 
fort-on-the-Main, as assistant to a German Reformed 
congregation. In 1823 lie removed to the village of 
Ruhrort, on the Rhine, near Dusseldorf, and two years 
later to Gemarke, a parish in the town of Barmen; and 
in 1831 he accepted a repeated call to the city of Elber- 
feldt. During his residence there a call came to him 
from the Pennsylvania Synod of the Reformed German 
Church to come to the United States and fill a profess- 
or’s chair in their theological school at Mercersburg, 
Penn., a position which he declined in favor of the cele- 
brated Church historian Philip Schaff, D.D., now pro- 
fessor in the Union Theological Seminary at New York 
city. In 1847 he was promoted by the king of Prussia, 
Frederick William IV, to the pastorate of Trinity Church, 
Berlin, as successor of the renowned pulpit orator Mar- 
heinecke, who had died in 184G, and he promptly ac- 
cepted the place. About two years later he became 
court preacher at Potsdam, the usual summer residence 
of the Prussian kings, and he died there Dec. 19, 18G8. 
Krummacher was honored with the doetorate of divin- 
ity by the University of Berlin. He was an active work- 
er in behalf of the Evangelical Alliance, and attended 
all its meetings as long as he lived. Dr. Krummacher 
acquired a world-wide celebrity by his devotional writ- 
ings, of which the most important are Elias der This - 
biter (Elberf. 1828; 5th edit. I860; transl. into English 
and extensively circulated both in England and in this 
country) : — Salomo und Snlamith (ibid. 3d ed. 1830; < th 
ed. 1855) \—Die Sabbath Glocke, a scries of sermons (Berl. 
1848 sq., 12 vols. 8vo) : — Der leidende Ch ristus (Biclef. 
1854, and often ; transl. into Engl, in Clark’s Library) : 
— and last, but hardly least, David, der Konig von Israel 


KRUMMACIIEr 


170 


KUFIC WRITING 


(Berl. 18GG, 8vo; transl. into English and published by 
Clark of Edinb. and Harpers of N. Y. 1870, 12mo). 

Like his father and uncle, Dr. Krummaclier was 
one of the few bold and uncompromising witnesses of 
evangelical truth of which Germany can boast. Dr. 
Schaff, who of all men this side the Atlantic is perhaps 
best entitled to a comment on the life and labors of this 
celebrated German preacher, speaks of him as follows : 

“ Krummacher was endowed with every gift that con- 
stitutes an orator, a most fertile and brilliant imagina- 
tion, a vigorous and original mind, a glowing heart, an 
extraordinary facility and felicity of diction, perfect fa- 
miliarity with the Scriptures, an athletic and command- 
ing presence, and a powerful and melodious voice, which, 
however, in latter years underwent a great change, and 
sounded like the rolling of the distant thunder or like 
the trumpet of the last judgment. This splendid outfit 
of nature, which attracted even theatrical actors and 
mere worshippers of genius to his sermons, was sancti- 
fied by divine grace, and always uncompromisingly de- 
voted to the defence of scriptural truth. lie was full 
of the fire of faith and the IIolv Ghost. In the pulpit 
he was as bold aiid fearless as a lion, at home as gentle 
and amiable as a lamb. Like all truly great men, he 
had a childlike disposition. ... He was a millionaire 
in images and illustrations. There is an embarras de 
ricliesse in his sermons, even more than those in Jeremy 
Taylor. The imaginative is too predominant for simple 
and severe taste; but with all their defects they will 
live as long as sermons are read for private devotion 
and as models for cultivating a higher style of pulpit 
eloquence. The name of their author will always shine 
as one of the brightest stars in the galaxy of those great 
and good men who, in the present century, have fought 
the good fight of the evangelical faith against prevail- 
ing nationalism and infidelity, and have entitled them- 
selves to the gratitude of the present and future gener- 
ations” ( The Observer , N. Y. Feb. 4, I860). Ilis Autobi- 
ography, left in MS. form, was published after his death 
by his family, and has been translated into English by 
the Iiev. M. G. Easton (Edinb. and N. Y. 18(50, 8 vo). See 
a very pleasant short sketch by professor C. W. Bennett, 
in the Y. Y. Christian A drocate, Feb. 1 1 . 18G9; and Meth. 
Quar. Review , I860, p. 142,441 ; 1870, p. 1GI sq.; British 
and For. Ev. Rev. Ixix, 628; Amcr. Presb. Rev. I860, p. 
77 G ; Evanrj. Qua r. Rev. 187 0, p. L49 ; Princeton Rev. 1 87 0, 
p. 156. (j.H.W.) 

Krummacher, Gottfried Daniel, a German 
theologian, younger brother of F. A. Krummacher (q. 
v.), was born at Tecklenburg April 1, 1774. He studied 
at Duisburg, and became successively pastor of Barth 
and Wolfratli, and finally of Elberfeld, where he died 
Jan. 30, 1837. He was thoroughly Calvinistic, not only 
in his tone of mind, but even in his outward aspect, and 
as the head of the Pietists in his district he carried 
their principles to their full length, even showing much 
unfriendliness to those who did not coincide with him. 
He wrote l>ie Wanrlerung Israels durch d.Wiiste (3d ed. 
Elberfeld, 1850-51,2 vols.; Engl., Lond. 1837-38, 2 vols. 
12mo) : — Ilauspostille (Menus, 1835) : — Tdgliches M anna 
(Elberfeld, 1838; 4th ed.1851; Engl., Lond. 1830, 12mo): 
— Jakob's Kampf v.Sieg(\8'2d; Engl., Lond. 1838, 12mo); 
etc. See A. \Y. Mailer, F. Krummacher' s Leben (Bre- 
men, 18 194, i, 1 GO ; ii, 84 ; F. V. Krug, Frit. Gesch. d.pt'o- 
ti-st.-relig. >Sch wiinnerei, etc., im Ilerzogthum Berg (Elber- 
feld, 1851) ; Krummacher ( Emil Wilhelm), Leben r. Gott- 
fried Daniel Krummacher (Elberf. 1838, Svo) ; Autobi- 
ography of F. IE. Krummacher (translated by Easton), 
p. 155; Herzog, Real-Encyldop. viii, 118 sq. 

Krummendyk, Alheut, a learned German theo- 
logian, flourished about the middle of the 15th-century 
as bishop of Holstein and Luboek, and died in 1480. He 
left in MS. form Chronicon Episcoporum Oldenburgien - 
sium ( t Lubecensium (printed in Meibomius's Scriptores 
Rerum Gennanicarum , tom. ii). 

Krusius, L. A. See Millennium. 


Kryptae {KpvTTTai, crypts). For the purpose of con- 
cealment from their persecutors, the early Christians 
occasionally prepared for themselves churches and ora- 
tories under ground, which served both as places of de- 
votion and as sepulchres for their dead. These were 
called cryptce, from KpvTrru), to conceal. — Farrar, Eccles. 
Diet. See Ckypt. 

Kryptics, a name sometimes given to those theo- 
logians who hold to the icpv\f;ic, or concealment theory of 
our Lord’s divine attributes during his earthly career. 
See Kenosis. 

Ktistolatrae ( worshippers of a orated thing'), a 
branch of the Monophy sites, who maintained that the 
body of Christ before his resurrection was corruptible, 
in contradistinction from the Actistetce, who held that it 
was not created. 

Kubel, Matiiaus, a German theologian, was born 
at Ilerbstein, in the duchy of Fulda, Nov. 14, 1742, and 
when twenty-two years old entered the order of the 
Jesuits, under whom he received his subsequent educa- 
tion. In 1783 he became professor of mathematics at 
Heidelberg University, and in 1785 was appointed to 
the chair of canon law. He died Jan. 3, 1800, Kubel 
was quite liberal in tendency, and had many warm 
friends among Protestant theologians, lie wrote Ratio 
field reddita (Heidelb. 1776, 4to) : — Exercitium canoni- 
enm de matrimonio (178G, 4to). — Doring, Gelehrte Theo- 
log. Deutschlemds des lS ten unci 19 (£n Jahrh. ii, 212. 

Ktichlein, Johann, a German Protestant theolo- 
gian, was born at Wetterau, in Hesse, in 1546. He 
studied at Heidelberg, entered the Church, and became 
pastor at Tackenheim. When, in 1576, elector Louis 
expelled the Calvinistic preachers, Kuchlein went to 
Holland, and for eighteen years held a professorship in 
theology at Amsterdam. In 1595 he became director 
of the College of Leyden, and died July 2, 1G0G. Guy 
Patin calls him one of the most learned men of his time. 
Ilis collected works were published at Geneva (1613, 
4to). See II. Witte, Diurium Biographicum ; Meursius, 
A then. Batav.; Moreri, Did. IJist.; Jbcher, GcUhrten 
Lex ikon ; Iloefer, Nouv. Biog. Generale, xxvii, 25G. (J. 
N. P.) 

Kuen, Michael, a German savant, was born at 
Weissenborn, Austria, Feb. 9, 1709, entered in 1728 the 
Augustine order, and was elected in 1754 abbot of tluir 
monastery at Ulm. lie died Jan. 10, 1765. Ilis prin- 
cipal works of interest to us are Collectio scriptorum rc- 
rum historico-monastico-ecelesiasticai'um variorum rcli- 
giosomm ordinum (Ulm, I756-6G, 6 vols. fol.)t — Joannes 
tie Canabaco ex comitibus de Canabac, qui vulgo renditur 
pro autore quatuor librorum de Imitatione Christi. re- 
center detectus a quodam cationico-regulari (ibid, 1760, 
8vo), written against those attributing the authorship 
of De Imitatione to Gersen instead of Kempis. — Iloefer, 
Xouv. Biog. Generale , xxviii, 258. 

Kufic Writing, an ancient form of Arabic char- 
acters, which came into use shortly before Mohammed, 
and was chiefly current among the inhabitants of North- 
ern Arabia, while those of the south-western parts em- 
ployed the llimvaritic or Mosnad ( clipped ) character. 
The Kufic is taken from the old Syriac character (E$- 
trangelo), and is said to have been first introduced by 
Moramer or Morar ben-Morra of Anbar. The first cop- 
ies of the Koran were written in it, and Kufa, a city in 
Irak-Arabi (pashalic of Bagdad), being the one which 
contained the most expert and numerous copyists, the 
writing itself was called after it. The alphabet was ar- 
ranged like the Hebrew and Syriac (whence its desig- 
nation, ABGaD He Ye t S). and this order, although now 
superseded by another, is still used for numerical pur- 
poses. The kufic character, of a somewhat clumsy and 
ungainly shape, began to fall into disuse after about A. 
D. 1000 ; Ebu-Morla of Bagdad (died A.D. 038) having 
invented the current or so-called Neshki ( nashak , to 
copy) character, which was still further improved by 


KUHLMANN 


171 


KUMAR AS AMBHAVA 


Ebn-Bawab (died 1031), and which now — deservedly, 
as one of the prettiest and easiest — reigns supreme in 
East and West. It is only in MSS. of the Koran, and 
in title-pages, that the Kufic is still employed. A pe- 
culiar kind of the Kufic is the so-called lvarmatian— of 
a somewhat more slender shape— in which several in- 
scriptions have been met with both in Arabia, and in 
Dauphiny, Sicily, etc., and which is also found on a cor- 
onation mantle preserved in Nuremberg. The Kufic is 
written with a style, while for the Neshki slit reeds are 
employed. Different kinds of the latter character (in 
which the alphabet is arranged according to the out- 
ward similarity of the letters) are the Moresque or Ma- 
ghreb (Western), the Divani (Koval— only employed 
for decrees, etc.), the Talik (chiefly used in Persian), 
the Thsolctki (threefold, or very large character), Jaku- 
thi, Rihani, etc. — Chambers, Cyclopaedia, s. v. See Al- 
phabet. 

Kuhlmann, Qumixus, a German visionary and re- 
ligious enthusiast, was born at Breslau Feb. *25, 1651. 
He began to attract public attention at the age of eigh- 
teen, when, rising from a sick-bed, he claimed to have 
been, during his illness, in direct communication both 
with God and the devil, and asserted that the duty had 
fallen upon him of revealing to all nations the inspira- 
tions which he had received from the Holy Ghost, lie 
quitted the University of Breslau, where he had been 
studying jurisprudence, and went at once to Holland, in 
1G73, to become a follower of the mystic Jacob Biilime 
(q. v.), as is shown by his Neubeigesterter BOhme (Ley- 
den, 1674, Svo). He found a congenial spirit in Johann 
Kothe, of Amsterdam, who claimed to be John the Bap- 
tist because his fathers name had been Zacharias, and 
to this fanatic Kuhlmann dedicated his Prodromus quin- 
quennii mirabilis (Leyden, 1674, 8vo). He also sought 
to enter into relations with Antoinette Bourignon, but 
does not appear to have succeeded. A letter of his, en- 
titled De sapientia tnfasa A damea Salomoneaqne , dated 
Lubeck, Feb. 1G75, shows that he was at that time a res- 
ident of that city. Another, addressed to sultan Mo- 
hammed IV, proves that he -was in Constantinople in 
1678. On Nov. 1, 1681, he published at Paris his 4r- 
canum microcosmicum , curious and scarce, like all his 
works. After wandering through Switzerland, England, 
and Germany, he went, about 1G89, to Russia, for the 
purpose of establishing there the u real kingdom of God.” 
At first he succeeded in gaining a large number of par- 
tisans, and he may perhaps be considered as the founder 
of the yet existing sect of Duchobortzi (q. v.), or spirit- 
ual wrestlers. But the momentary religious freedom 
enjoyed by Russia under Basil Galitzin soon came to 
an end on the downfall of Sophia and the accession of 
Peter 1 to the throne. One of the first acts of the latter 
was the expulsion of the Jesuits, and his sentence of 
death on Kuhlmann and his disciple, Conrad Norder- 
mann, supposed to have been occasioned mainly by the 
efforts of the Lutheran pastor Meinecke. They %vcre 
both burned alive at Moscow, Oct. 4, 1G89. Besides the 
above-named works, Adelung (Hist, de la foils humaine , 
v, 9) considers Kuhlmann as the author of forty-two 
other works, the principal of which are Eqnstnhe theo - 
sophicce Leidenses (Leyden, 1674, Svo): — Epistolamm 
Londinensium CathoHca ad Wicklefo - Waldenses, Ifuss - 
it as, Z to inglia nos, Lutheranos , Calvinianos (Rotterd. 1674, 
l*2mo) : — four pamphlets concerning his correspondence 
with Athanase Ivircher were published under the style 
Kircherhtna de arte magna sciendi , etc. (London, 1681, 
8vo). See B. G. Wernsdorf, De Fanatids Silesiarum ct 
spectatim de Quir. Kuhlmanno (Wittemberg, 1G98, 1718) ; 
Jf iiseum Bremense , vol. ii ; Moreri, Diet. Ilist. ; Encgchp. 
Catholique de Fribourg ; J. Gagarin, Un Document inedit 
sur V expulsion des Jesuites de Mnscou. en 1689, p. 27 ; 
Hoefer, Naur. Biog. Generate, xxviii, 2G3 ; Rotmund//'c- 
lehrten Lexikon , vol. iii, s. v. ; Bavle, Hist. Diet, iii, G88 
sq. ; Hagenbach, Varlesungen iiber Geseh. d. evangel. Pro - 
testantismus , p. 31G sq. 

Kuhn, Jean Gaspard, a French Protestant preach- 


er, was born at Saarbruck in the latter part of the 17th 
century, and flourished as professor of history and elo- 
quence at the University of Strasburg, and as canon of 
the Church of St. Thomas, in that city, lie died in 
1720. He wrote De Sociabilitate secundum Stoicorum 
disciplinam. — Haag, La France Protestante, s. v. 

Kuinoel, Ciiristianus Tiieofihlus (Christian 
Gottlieb Kiihnol in German), a German Protestant the- 
ologian and philologist, was horn at Leipzic Jan. 2,1768. 
lie studied the classics at the school of St. Thomas, and 
theology in the university of his native city. In 1788 
he began, by the advice of the celebrated German sa- 
vant Wolf, a course of lectures at his alma mater on the 
classics and on the books of the 0. and N. T. In 1790 
he was appointed professor extraordinary of philosophy, 
and in 1796 preacher of the university. In 1799 he de- 
clined an invitation to a professors chair at Copenha- 
gen, but in 1801 went to Giessen, as professor of belles- 
lettres. Subsequently, however, he devoted himself en- 
tirely to the exegesis of the N.T., and in 1809 was trans- 
ferred to the chair of theology as ordinary professor. He 
died there Oct. 15, 1841. He wrote Messianische IVeiVs-a- 
gungeti d. alt. Testaments ubersetst ?/. erlautert (Lpz. 1792, 
Svo, Anon.) : — Hoseie Oracula Hebr. et Lat. perpetua an - 
notatume illustrata (Lpz. 1792, 8vo). He had published 
in 1789 a German translation of the same book, with 
notes : — Observationes ad Novum Testamentum, ex libris 
apocryphis Veteris Testamenti (Lpz. 1794, Svo) : — Peri- 
copce e vange licce (Lpz. 1796, 2 vols. 8vo) : — Die Psalnien 
metrisch Ubersetst, mit A nmerkungen (Lpz. 1799, 8 vo): — 
Spicilegium observationum in Epistolam Jacobi (Lipsine, 
1807, Svo) : — Commentarius in libros Novi Testamenti 
historicos (Lpz. 1807-18, 4 vols. 8vo ; 4th ed. Lpz. 1837 ; 
reprinted, with the Gr. text added, Lond. 1835,3 vols. Svo) 
— a very able and successful work ; one of the best of the 
modern exegetical works on the N. T. ever issued from 
the German press, but unfortunately wanting in spirit- 
ual insight. It belongs to the range of higher criticism, 
while llosenm idler is occupied with the lower. Kuinoel 
is undecided between orthodoxy and neology, but seems 
to have so strong an under-current of conviction in fa- 
vor of the truth as to lead him to admit, with a good 
share of favor, evangelical interpretations into his pages. 
As to theological sentiments, he distinctly avows him- 
self a high Arian, and is evidently sceptical concerning 
the miracles of Christ. His commentary is of the his- 
torico-critical kind : — Commentarius in Epistolam ad lie - 
bneos (Lpzc. 1831, Svo). — Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate , 
xxviii, 268; Herzog, Real-Encyklop. xix, 758; Kitto, 
Cyclopedia, ii, 763. (J. II. W.) 

Kulkzynski, Ignatius, a Russian monastic, was 
born at Wladimir in 1707; early entered the order of 
St. Basil ; resided several years at Rome as general of 
his order; and died as abbot of Grodno in 1747. He 
is noted as the author of Specimen Eeclesur Ruthenicce 
(Rome, 1733, 8vo), a work which was dedicated to pope 
Clement XII, and is now hardly accessible. He wrote 
also 11 diaspro prodigioso di tre colori,ovvero narrazione 
istoriea di tre immagini miracolose della Beata Yergine 
Maria (Rome, 1732, 12mo) : — De Vitis Sanctorum divi 
Basilii magni (2 vols. folio, left in SIS. form). — Hoefer, 
Nouv. Biog. Gene rale, xxviii, 270. 

Kulon, the name of a city found only in the Sept, 
version (KouXov) of Josh, xv, 59, as lying in the tract 
around Bethlehem (see Kiel’s Comment, ad loc.) ; prob- 
ably corresponding to the modern village of Kvlonieh , 
an hour and a half west of Jerusalem (Robinson’s Re- 
searches, ii, 146), with many old walls built of hewn 
stones (Scholz, Reise, p. 161). See Judaii, Tribe ok. 

Kumarasambhava is the name of one of the 
most celebrated poems of the Hindus, and its author is 
believed to have been Kalidasa (q. v.). Its subject is 
the legendary history connected with the birth of Ku- 
mara, or Kartikega (q. v.), the Hindu god of war. It 
consists of twenty-two cantos, but only eight have hith- 
erto been published in the original Sanscrit. The first 


KUXADUS 


172 


KUHDISTAX 


seven have been elegantly rendered info English verse 
by Mr. B. T. II. Griffith, at present principal of the Be- 
nares Government College. — Chambers, Cyclop, s. v. 

Kunadus, Andreas, a Lutheran divine, born at 
Pbblen, in Misnia, in 1002, was professor of theology at 
the University of 'Wittenberg, and died in 1002, He 
wrote a Commentary on the Epistle to the Galatians . — 
lloefer, Xouv. Biog. Generate, xxviii, 270. 

Kuiiibert, a bishop of Cologne, who flourished in 
the 7th century (supposed to have held the see from 
013-001), is generally regarded as one of the most influ- 
ential prelates of the Frankish realm in the 7th century. 
Not only in ecclesiastical, but also in the civil history 
of that period, Kunibert tills a not unimportant place. 
He was a favorite adviser of king Dagobert I, and was 
the educator of Sigbert III. lie died Nov. 12, 001 or 
003. The Homan Catholic Church commemorates the 
day of his decease. See Aschbach, Kirchen-Lcxikon, p. 
942 sq. ; Kettberg, Kirchengesch. Dentsehlands, i, 530. 
Kimigunde, St. See Cuxigunda. 

Kiinneth, Johann Theodor, a German theolo- 
gian. was born at Creusen, in Bayreuth, Sept. 22, 1735; 
in 1753 he went to the University of Erlangen, and in 
1759 became assistant preacher in his native place. He 
died Aug. 28, 1800, as superintendent of Bayreuth. Run- 
neth was a very popular preacher, and published several 
of his sermons; lie also wrote largely for the theological 
journals of Germany. A list of his writings is given by 
During, Gelehrte Theologen Deutsehlands, ii, 214 sq. 

Kunwald, Mathias von, a bishop of the Bohe- 
mian Brethren, flourished in t lie 15th century. He was 
especially prominent at the Synod of Beichenau in 1494. 

Kunse, John Christopher, D.D., one of the most 
learned men in the Lutheran Church of this country, was 
born in Saxony about the middle of the 18th century. lie 
was educated in the Gymnasia of Bosslcben and Merse- 
burg and the University of Leipzic, and for several years 
was engaged in the work of teaching in his native 
land. When application from the corporation of St. 
Michael’s and Zion’s Church was made to the theologi- 
cal faculty at Halle for a minister, their attention was 
immediately turned to young Kunze. He reached the 
United States in 1770, and at once commenced his du- 
ties as associate pastor of the German churches in Phil- 
adelphia. This field of labor he occupied for fourteen 
years, universally beloved, and exercising a wide influ- 
ence for good. For several years he was professor in 
the University of Pennsylvania, from winch institution 
he received the doctorate in 1783. He accepted a call 
to the city of New York in 1784, where he labored for 
twenty-three years, till his death, July 24, 1807. lie 
was devoted to his work, and indefatigable in his efforts 
to do good. For a long time lie filled with signal abil- 
ity the professorship of Oriental literature in Columbia 
College. So high a reputation did he enjoy as a He- 
brew scholar that, young men who were pursuing their 
studies with ministers of other denominations frequently 
resorted to him for instruction. The rabbins connected 
with the Jewish synagogues also consulted him in their 
interpretations of the Hebrew. “The various acquire- 
ments of this gentleman, and particidarlv his Oriental 
learning, long rendered him an ornament of the Ameri- 
can republic of letters. He probably did more Ilian any 
individual of his day to promote a taste for Hebrew 
literature among those intended for the clerical profes- 
sion in the United States” (I)r. Miller’s lletrosptct of the 
Eighteenth Century'). Dr. Kunze published a number 
of works : History of the Lutheran Church : — Something 
for the Cnderst anding and the Heart (1781, 8vo ): — Xew 
Method for Calculating the great Eclipse of June 10, 180G: 
— Hymn-book for the Cse of theX'hnrch (1795) : — Cate- 
chism and IJtnrgy. See Hazelins, 1 list. Am. Luth. 
Church, 1685-1842. (M. L. S.) 

Kurdistan or Koordistan, an extensive tract of 
laud in the eastern portion of Asiatic Turkey and in 


■Western Persia. It is chiefly occupied by the Kurds, 
after whom it is called, but its boundary-line is not defi- 
nitely established, and the estimates of its area and pop- 
ulation greatly differ. The population, according to 
1 iussegger (7 '{risen in Europa, A situ, und Afrika, 1835- 
41), amounted to about 3,000,000; according to Carl Bit- 
ter, to only 800,000; according to Chambers, 100,000; 
according to Appleton, 40,000. The extent of Turkish 
Kurdisan is estimated at about 13,000 square miles. It 
was formerly divided into three governments; namely, 
1. Kurdistan, consisting of the Livas Mardin. Sard, and 
Diarbekir, and containing 2G5,000 inhabitants, of whom 
198,000 were Mohammedans, 51,000 Armenians, 72 Jac- 
obites, 4 Yezides, and 1100 Gipsies; 2. Ha? put, consist- 
ing of the Livas Meadin, Harput, Belisni, and Den- 
sem; 3. Wan, consisting of the Livas llakkiyari. Later 
it was divided into the pachalics Wan, Mosul, Diarbe- 
kir, and Urfa (Bakka); the bey lies Hakkiyari. Bahdi- 
nan, Butan (Bogden), and Ssindsliar; and the distriet 
of Mardin. The most important towns are Diarbekir, 
Bitlis, Wan, and Mardin. Persian Kurdistan comprises 
the south- western portion of the province of Aserbei- 
jan and the western portion of Ardilan, as far as the 
Kercha river. The most important town is Kirman- 
shan, with about 40,000 inhabitants. The Kurds are 
an agricultural people, who, during the summer months, 
pitch tlicir black tents upon the Alpine pastures. Asia 
Minor and Syria, and even Constantinople, are receiving 
from tin m large supplies of cattle. The country is 
made up of isolated villages, without a national bond of 
union, and their intercourse with each other consists 
chiefly in plundering expeditions. Old castles on in- 
accessible peaks serve the beys as places of refuge in 
eases of emergency. These beys often rule over several 
villages. The Kurds were known to Greek writers as 
Carclucliians (Kap&myoi, Cardnchi. see Smith’s Did. of 
Class. Geog. s. v.) or Kyrtians. In the highlands of Kur- 
distan they are divided into two different tribes, the As- 
sireta and the Guranians. The Assiretas are the caste 
of warriors, and rarely or never agriculturists, hut are 
devoted to cattle-breeding. The Guranians can never 
become warriors, are agriculturists, and kept in subjec- 
tion by the Assireta. As the language of the two tribes 
likewise differs, it may be assumed that the Guranians 
arc the descendants of the primitive inhabitants, who 
subsequently were subdued by a more warlike tribe. In 
Southern Kurdistan the Assireta call themselves Sipah 
(warriors) and the peasants Bavah (subjects). The lan- 
guage of the Kurds is nearly kindred to t lie New Per- 
sian, but is to a large extent mixed with Arabic, Syrian, 
Greek, and Bussian words, and is divided into numerous 
dialects. They have no written alphabet, and there- 
fore no literature, but a number of their popular poems 
and songs have been written down in Arabic. 

The majority of the inhabitants are fanatical Sunnite 
Mohammedans, who hate the Shiites even more than 
they do the Christians. But the number of Armenian, 
Jacobite, and Nestorian Christians is also considerable. 
The Armenians chiefly live in the northern part of the 
country. One section of the Jacobites has its centre 
near Mardin, nntlcr a patriarch, who resides in the con- 
vent of Safarani. Western Kurdistan is the seat of the 
Nestorians. See Nestorians. The Kurds show little 
disposition to embrace Christianity. Among the Arme- 
nians and Nestorians the missionaries of the American 
Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions have met 
with a great success. The mission at Ilarput for the 
Armenians commenced in 1853. In 1859 a theological 
seminary was established for the training of men for the 
pastoral office, and in 18G1 a female seminary for the 
training of their wives. In 1870 seventy out-stations 
were connected with the Church of Harput, ten with 
that of Bitlis, and twelve with that of Mardin. The 
number of members connected with Bitlis and the out- 
stations was 84; of Harput and out-stations, 602; of 
Mardin and its out-stations. 245; and the total number 
of registered Protestants in these stations* and out-sta- 


KURIA 


173 


KURTZ 


tions was upwards of G000. At Mardin the buildings 
for a theological school and other purposes are completed. 
The nourishing pussions among the Nestorians, embra- 
cing more than sixty congregations, are chiefly in Per- 
sia, and are now under the charge of the Mission Board 
of the Presbyterian Church of the United States. Of 
the Jacobites and Nestorians a considerable portion have 
recognised the supremacy of the pope. The former are 
called the United Syrians, the latter the ChakUeans. 
The United Syrians have a patriarch in Diarbekir, and 
the Chahheans a patriarch at El-Kush, near Mosul, in 
the convent of St. Ilormisdas. The sect of the Yezides, 
or Sherasieh, who are descended from the Parsees, though 
they follow at the same time some Mohammedan and 
Christian practices adopted from their neighbors, are 
lire-worshippcrs, live south of Mardin. See Shiel, A r otes 
on a Journey from Tcibris to Koordistcm (1836), in the 
Journal of the Royal Geographical Society (London, vol. 
viii) ; Rich, Narrative of a Journey through Koordistan 
(London, 183G, 2 vols.) ; Wagner, Reise nach Persien und 
dem Lande d. Kurden (Lpz. 1852, 2 vols.) ; Somdreczkh, 
Reise nach Persien und durck Kurdistan nach Urumiah 
(Stuttgard, 1857, 4 vols.) ; Layard, Nineveh , etc., with an 
Account of a Visit to the Chaldean Christians of Koor- 
distan, , etc. (London, 1850) ; Grundemann, Missionsatlas, 
Asien, p. 39 ; Badger, The Nestorians and their Rituals, 
with Narrative of a Mission to Mesopotamia and Coor- 
distan (London, 1854, 2 vols. 8vo). (A. J. S.) 

Kuria or Kyria. See Electa. 

Klirma (called also Kurmavatdra , i. c. the “avatar 
of the tortoise”) is the name by which the second incar- 
nation of Vishnu is designated. It is related in Hindu 
mythology that Kurma took the form of a tortoise so as 
to furnish a support to Mount Mandara while the gods 
and Asurs churned the ocean. The mountain being the 
chum-stick, the great serpent Sesha was made use of 
for the string. It may be proper to observe that in Iil- 
dia churning is usually performed by causing a body 
termed the churn-stick to revolve rapidly in the cream 
or milk by means of a string, in the same manner as a 
drill is made to revolve. In some of the Hindu pic- 
tures of the churning of the ocean the gods arc repre- 
sented as standing on one side of Mount Mandara and 
the Asurs on the other, both grasping in their hands 
the serpent Sesha, which is wound round the mountain. 
This rests upon the back of the tortoise (Vishnu). At 
the same time, the preserving deity, in consequence of 
his ubiquitous character, is seen standing among the 
gods and grasping Sesha, and also as dancing on the top 
of Mandara (see Plate 49 in Moor’s Hindu Pantheon). 
The churning of the ocean is one of the most famous 
and popular fables related in the mythology of the Hin- 
dus. It resulted in the production of the fourteen gems, 
as they are called, namely, 1. Chandra (the moon), 2. 
Lakshini, the incomparable consort of Vishnu; 3. Surfi- 
dcvi,or the goddess of wine; 4. Uchisrava, a wonder- 
ful eight-headed horse; 5. Kustubha, a jewel of inesti- 
mable value; G. Parijata, a tree that yielded whatever 
one might desire ; 7. Surabhi or lvamadhenu, a cow sim- 
ilarly bountiful ; 8. Dhanwantara, a wondrous physician; 
9. Iravata or Ira vat, the elephant of India ; 10. Shank, a 
shell which conferred victory on whosoever sounded it ; 
11. Danusha, an unerring bow; 12. Vish, a remarkable 
drug or poison; 13. Rcmbha (or Rambha), an Apsara 
possessed of surpassing charms; 14. Amrita, or Amrit, 
the beverage of immortality. See Moor, Hindu Pan- 
theon; Chambers, Cyclopaedia , ix, 814. 

Kurschner, Conrad. See Pellican. 

Kurtz, Benjamin, D.D., LL.D, a prominent min- 
ister of the Lutheran Church, was born at Harrisburg, 
Penn., Feb. 28, 1795. He was a lineal descendant of one 
of the Halle patriarchs, the grandson of Rev. John Nich- 
olas Kurtz, who came to this country in 1745 as an as- 
sociate of Henry Melchior Muhlenberg. When quite 
young Benjamin exhibited remarkable fitness for study, 
and great quickness in the acquisition of knowledge. 


At the age of fifteen he was employed as an assistant in 
the Harrisburg Academy, and subsequently gave private 
instruction in Latin, Greek, and German. Early train- 
ed to industry and self-reliance, he formed those habits 
of mental discipline which gave so much strength to his 
future character. He studied theology under the di- 
rection of Rev. Dr. Geo. Lochman, and was licensed to 
preach in 1815 by the Synod of Pennsylvania. He im- 
mediately received a call to Baltimore as assistant min- 
ister to his uncle, Rev. I)r. J. D. Kurtz. He remained 
in this position for a brief period, and then accepted the 
invitation to become pastor of the Hagerstown charge. 
During this period of his ministry his labors were crown- 
ed with the most abundant success. On a single occa- 
sion he added to the Church one hundred and fifteen 
members. Very reluctantly he resigned the position, 
and in 1831 took charge of the Lutheran Church in 
Chambersburg. But in the midst of his usefulness, with 
the brightest prospects of success, his labors here were 
abruptly terminated by the failure of his health. He 
removed to Baltimore Aug. 24, 1833, and commenced his 
career as editor of the Lutheran Observer. The paper 
became an engine of great infiuence in the Church, and, 
although physically disqualified to perform regular pul- 
pit labor, in liis editorial capacity he was permitted ev- 
ery week to preach the Gospel and to advance the inter- 
ests of the Church. lie died Dec. 29, 1865. Dr. Kurtz 
possessed an intellect of no common order, a resolute 
will, and remarkable personal power. He was an active, 
vigorous thinker. He had acquired habits of close ap- 
plication, of careful and keen observation, a fondness for 
analytical research, and the investigation of intricate 
questions. His mind was clear and logical, and in con- 
troversy he had scarcely a superior. He readily com- 
prehended a subject, and knew how to grapple with any 
truth that claimed his attention. Had he entered the 
legal profession, for which he was originally intended, 
or political life, to which he was so well adapted, he 
would, no doubt, have risen to the highest position, to a 
rank equal to his most distinguished contemporaries. 
As a preacher he was very much gifted. In his earlier 
years, and in the maturity of his strength, he was re- 
garded by many as the most eloquent speaker in the 
State of Maryland. He was plain, thoughtful, argu- 
mentative, and forcible. He gave utterance to the great 
truths of the Gospel with an energy and an unction that 
carried conviction home to the hearer. He was a clear, 
prolific writer, skilful in repartee, pungent in rebuke ; a 
man of independent spirit, fond of excitement, and work- 
ed best when under its influence. He was, in the full 
sense of the term, a public man, and few men in the Lu- 
theran Church of this country have wielded a greater 
power than he. His name was a tower of strength in 
connection with any enterprise that engaged his atten- 
tion. His public career, extending over half a century, 
was identified with the most important events in the 
history of the Lutheran Church during that period. The 
recognised leader of a central school in the Church, the 
public representative of a party whose views he adopt- 
ed, his sentiments on all subjects were regarded with fa- 
vor. His words were received as oracular. His life 
was one of ceaseless activity. Laborious, self-sacrificing, 
a man of great industry and unwearied perseverance, he 
never yielded to any obstacle that was not absolutely 
insuperable. Notwithstanding his daily routine of duty, 
and the multiplicity of his engagements, he found some 
time for authorship. His books were generally well re- 
ceived by the public ; some of them passed through sev- 
eral editions. The following embraces a list of his publi- 
cations : First Principles of Religion for Children (1821) : 
— Sermons on Sabbath-schools (1822) : — Faith , Hope, and 
Charity (1823) : — Address on Temperance (1824) : — Pas- 
toral Address during his absence in Europe (1827): — 
Ministerial Appeal , Valedictory Sermon, Hagerstown 
(1831) : — A Door opened of the Lord , Introductory Ser- 
mon, Chambersburg (1831) : — Infant Baptism aiul Af- 
fusion, with Essays on Related Subjects (Baltimore, 1840) : 


KURTZ 


174 


IOJVERA 


— Theological Sketch-book , or Skeletons of Sermons, care- 
fully arranged in systematic order, so as to constitute a 
complete Body of Divinity, partly original, partly select- 
ed (l*S4d, 2 vols.) : — Why are you a Lutheran ? (1847) : 
— Prayer in all its Forms, and Training of Children 
(185(5) : — Lutheran Prayer-book, for the use of Families 
and Individuals (1856) : — The, Serial Catechism, or Pro- 
gressive Instruction for Children (1848) : — Design, Ne- 
cessity, and Adaptation of the Missionary Institute at Se- 
linsgrove, Pa. (Inaugural Address) (1859): — The Choice 
of a Wife — Lecture to the Graduating Class of Theo- 
logical Students in the Missionary Institute (18G3) : — 
The Condemned Sermon — Experimental , not Ritual Relig- 
ion, the one thing needful ; preached before the West 
Pennsylvania Synod (1863): — Believers belong to Christ: 
Sacramental Discourse delivered before the Maryland 
Synod (1865). lie was also co-editor of the Year-book 
of the Reformation (1844). Sec Evang. Rev. 1866, p. 25 
sq. ; Lutheran Observer, Jan. 5 and 12, 1866. (M. L. S.) 

Kurtz, John Daniel, D.D., a distinguished minis- 
ter of the Lutheran Church, the son of the Rev. J. N. 
Kurtz, was born at Germantown, Penn., in 1763. Very 
early in life he had a strong desire to prepare for the 
ministry of reconciliation. After leaving school he pur- 
sued his studies under the direction of his father, and 
subsequently with Rev. Dr. II. E. Muhlenberg, of Lan- 
caster. In 1784 he was licensed to preach by the Synod 
of Pennsylvania. He commenced his ministerial labors 
by assisting his father in preaching, catechising, and vis- 
iting the sick. Afterwards he took charge of congrega- 
tions in the vicinity of York. lie removed in 1786 to 
Baltimore, where he labored with great diligence and 
fidelity for nearly half a century. In 1832, in conse- 
quence of advancing physical infirmities, he resigned 
his position, although he occasionally preached, and en- 
deavored to make himself useful whenever an opportu- 
nity offered. lie died June 30, 1856, in the 93d year’of 
his age, loved and honored by all who knew him. Din- 
ing his ministry he baptized 5156 persons, buried 2521, 
and solemnized 2386 marriages. Being once told that 
the Methodists were gathering in German Lutheran 
emigrants and organizing churches among them, his re- 
ply was, “And is it not better that they should go to 
heaven as Methodists than be neglected and overlooked 
as Lutherans?” He was one of the founders of the Gen- 
eral Synod of the Lutheran Church, a director of the 
Theological Seminary, and closely identified with all the 
benevolent institutions of the Church, lie aided in the 
formation of the Maryland Bible Society, and for many 
years was president of the trustees of the Female Or- 
phan Asylum. (M. L. S.) 

Kurtz, J ohn Nicholas, one of the earlier Luther- 
an ministers in this country, was bom at Lutzelinden,in 
the principality of Nassau -Weilburg, and came to this 
country in 1745. Fie pursued his studies at Giessen and 
Ilallc, and was regarded by Dr. Francke as peculiarly 
fitted for missionary labor among his countrymen in 
America, lie was the first Lutheran minister ordained 
in this country. He labored successively at New Hano- 
ver, Tnlpehockcn, Germantown, and York, Pa., although 
he frequently spent whole months in visiting the desti- 
tute places of the Church, preaching, catechising, and 
administering the sacraments. During his residence at 
Tulpehocken the services of the sanctuary were often 
conducted at imminent risk of life, as the ruthless In- 
dian lay in wait for victims, and whole families were 
sometimes massacred. The officers of the church stood 
at the doors armed with defensive weapons, to prevent 
a surprise and to protect minister and people. In trav- 
elling to his preaching stations and visiting among his 
members he was often exposed to danger from the at- 
tack of the tomahawk and scalping- knife. He was 
pastor at York when Congress, during the Revolution, 
held its session there, and bishop White, the chaplain, 
was his guest. As an evidence of his interest in the 
American struggle, it is mentioned that, after preaching 


on the Lord’s day, he invited his hearers to collect all 
the articles of apparel they could spare, and send them 
to his residence for distribution among the suffering, 
destitute soldiers. When he reached his threescore 
years and ten he felt that it was his duty to retire from 
the active duties of the ministry, lie removed to Bal- 
timore, where he spent the remainder of his days in the 
family of his son, John Daniel Kurtz (q. v.), until 1794, 
when he peacefully passed away to his rest. He was 
held in high estimation by his contemporaries as a man 
of great learning and earnest piety. (M. L. S.) 

Kushai'ah (Heb. only with 1 paragogic, Kushaya'- 
hu, !5i-ra>lp, bow of Jehovah, i. e. rainbow; Sept. Knrai- 
«c)» a Levite of the family of Merari, and father of 
Ethan, which latter was appointed chief assistant of He- 
man in the Temple music under David (1 Chron. xv } 
17) ; elsewhere (1 Chron. vi, 44) called Kishi. B.C. 1014* 

Kussemeth. See Rye. 

Kiister, Karl Daniel, a German theologian, was 
born at Bernhurg May 6, 1727. In 1745 he entered the 
University of Halle, and studied theology until 1749, 
when he became teacher in the German-FYench orphan 
asylum in Magdeburg. In 1754 he entered the army as 
chaplain, and in this capacity served the Prussians dur- 
ing the Seven Years’ War. On his return he became 
preacher at Magdeburg, and was made the first pastor 
of the city in 1768. He died Sept. 21, 1804. Kiister 
was a truly pious man, and greatly served the cause of 
Christianity, especially among the soldiers of Frederick 
the Great. For his works, see During, Gelehrie Theol. 
Deutschlands, ii, 218 sq. 

Kiister, Ludolf, a learned German Greek scholar, 
who was born at Blomberg, Westphalia, in F’eb. 1670, 
held first a professorship at the Joachimsthal Gymnasi- 
um in Berlin, and lately enjoyed the favor of Louis XIV, 
and a pension with membership in the French Acad- 
emy, and who died Oct. 12, 1716, deserves a place here 
for his edition of Mill’s Greek Testament, published at 
Rotterdam in 1710, and entitled Collectio M Uliana, etc. 
Iviister’s additions consist of the various readings of 
twelve MSS., of which the most important is the Codex 
Boernei'ianus, afterwards admirably edited by Matthaei. 
The edition also contains a preface by Kiister, and a 
letter of Lc Clerc’s discussing a number of various read- 
ings, of some historical interest. According to Trcgelles, 
it is usually considered inferior in accuracy to Mill's orig- 
inal edition. — Kitto, Cyclopaedia of Biblical Literature, 
ii, 764. 

Kutassy, Johannes, a very prominent Hungarian 
prelate of the Roman Catholic Church, flourished to- 
wards the close of the 16th century as archbishop of 
Gran. He was in great favor at the court of the emperor 
Rudolph II, and was employed on several important 
] diplomatic missions, lie died about 1601. — Allgemeines 
Ilist. Lexikon , iii, 69. 

Kuvera, the Hindu Plutus, or god of wealth, lie 
owes his name — which literally means “having a 
wretched (A-?/) body (vera)” — to the deformities with 
which he is invested by Hindu mythology. lie is rep- 
resented as having three heads, three legs, and but eight 
teeth ; his eyes arc green, and in the place of one he has 
a yellow mark ; he wears an earring, but only in one 
ear; and, though he is properly of a black color, his belly 
is whitened by a leprous taint. He is seated in a car 
( pushpaka ), which is drawn by hobgoblins. His resi- 
dence, Alaka, is situated in the mines of Mount Kaila- 
sa, and he is attended by the Yakshas, Mavns, Kinnaras, 
and other imps, anxiously guarding the entrance to his 
garden, Chaitraratha, the abode of all riches. Nine 
treasures — apparently precious gems — are especially in- 
trusted to his care. II is wife is a hobgoblin, Yakshi, or 
Yakshini, and their children are two sons and a daugh- 
ter. As one of the divinities that preside over the re- 
gions, he is considered also to be the protector of the 
north. — Chambers, Cyclopaedia, s. v. 


KUYPERS 


175 


LAI3ADIE 


Kuypers, Gerardus Arentse, D.D., an eminent 
minister of the Reformed (Dutch) Church, was bom of 
HoUandish parentage in the island of Cura 9 oa,W. I., Dec. 
1G, 17GG. II is father, Rev. Warmoldus Kuypers, was a 
clergyman, educated at the University of Groningen, and 
removed to this country, where he settled as pastor of 
the churches at Rhinebcck, N. Y., and Hackensack, N. J. 
He died in 1799. His son Gerardus was educated by the 
celebrated Dr. Peter Wilson, who was then the most 
popular and able classical teacher in New Jersey. His 
theological course was pursued under the care of his fa- 
ther and Drs. Ilermanus INI aver and Dirck Romeyn. Tie 
was licensed to preach in 1787, ordained in 1788 as co- 
pastor at Paramus, N. J., and in 1789 became one of the 
ministers of the Collegiate Reformed Dutch Church in 
New York, where he remained until his decease in 1833. 
Dr. Kuypers was a Christian gentleman, and a theolo- 
gian of the old school, remarkably conversant with the 
Bible, and possessed of high pastoral qualifications. He 
is described as an evangelical, practical, lucid, and su- 
perior preacher, a man of peace and prudence, and a liv- 
ing chronicle of past events, whose decisions on matters 
of usage and precedent were for many years received as 
final. His death was triumphant. He left unfinished 
a volume of Discourses on the Heidelberg Catechism . — 
Dr. Knox’s Memorial Discourse (1833) ; Sprague’s A n- 
nals ; Corwin’s Manual Ref. Ch. p. 130; Life of Dr.J. 
II. Livingston. (W. J. R. T.) 

Kvasir is the name of a mythic personage mention- 
ed in the Norse legends. “ He was so wise and know- 
ing that no one coidd ask him a question which he could 
not answer. He was, however, entrapped and slain by 
two dwarfs who had invited him to a feast. With his 
blood they mingled honey, and thus composed a mead 
which makes every one who drinks of it a skald, or wdse 
man.” See Thorpe, Northern Mythology , vol. i. 

Kyderminster (or Kidderminster), Richard, 
an English monk, greatly celebrated both as a preacher 
and scholar, born in Worcestershire, flourished in the 
first half of the lGth century. He w r as abbot of the 
Benedictine monastery at Winchcombe, Gloucestershire, 
and died in 1531. He wrote Tructutus contra Doctri- 
nuni Luthcri (1521); also a history of his monastery. 
See Wood, A then. Oxon.; Allibone, Dictionary of Eng- 
lish and American Authors, ii, 104G. 

Kypke, George David, a distinguished German 
Orientalist, was born at Neukirk, Pomerania, Oct. 23, 
1724. He studied at the universities of Kbnigsberg and 
Halle, took his degree in the department of philosophy 
in 1744, in 174G was appointed professor extraordinary of 
Oriental languages at Kbnigsberg, and was promoted to 
the full professorship in 1775. He died May 28, 1779. 
Kypke wrote Observationes sucres in Noi'i Foederis libi'os , 
ex uuctoribus Greeds et antiquitaiibus (Breslau, 1755, 2 
vols. 8vo); a successful attempt to illustrate many pas- 


sages of the New Testament by examples drawn from 
Greek classic authors. “ Of all the expositions of the 
New r Testament conducted on principles like these, I 
know of none that are superior, or, indeed, equal to 
that of Kypke” (Michaelis). See Iiotermund, Sitppl. 
zu J ocher ; Iloefer, Nouv. Riog . Generate , xxviii, 312. 

Kyrie (Kvptf), “ O Lord” (in Church music), the 
vocative of the Greek word signifying Lord, -with which 
word all the musical masses in the Church of Rome 
commence. Hence it has come to be used substantive- 
ly lbr the whole piece, as one may say, a beautiful Ky- 
rie, a Kyrie well executed , etc. 

Kyrie Eleeison (Kopif iXeqaov, Lord have mercy 
[iq>on ws]), the w r ell-knonm form of earnest and pathetic 
penitential appeal of the Scriptures, of frequent occur- 
rence in the services of the early Church, and in the 
liturgical formula? of the Eastern and Western church- 
es, and since the Reformation retained even in many 
Protestant churches. 

Eastern Church. — Most frequently it w^as used in the 
opening portions of the ancient liturgies. In that of St. 
Mark we find three long prayers, each preceded by the 
threefold repetition of the Kyrie. In St. Chrysostom’s 
the deacon offers ten petitions, and each is followed by 
the answering Kyrie of the choir. In the Apostolic Con- 
stitutions (lib. viii, can. G), w'hen the catechumens are 
about to pray, all the faithfid add for them this suppli- 
cation (comp. Neale, Primitive Lit. p. 88). 

Western Church. — In the West the Kyrie Eleeison and 
Christe Eleeison, termed by St. Benedict ‘‘lesser” or “mi- 
nor litany,” it is generally supposed were introduced by 
pope Sylvester I (314-335), and formed a part of the Prc- 
ces Feriales of the “ Salisbury Portiforium,” as they do 
now of the daily offices of prayer of the Church of Rome, 
England, and the Protestant Episcopal Church. In the 
Lutheran and many other evangelical liturgies the Kyrie 
Eleeison is retained. See Palmer, Orig. Lit. i, 122 ; Siegel, 
Ch ristlich-Kirchliche A Iterthiimer , iii, 237 ; Riddle, Chris- 
tian Antiquities, p. 381 ; Walcott, Sacred A rcheeol. s. v. ; 
Proctor, Common Prayer (see Index) ; Blunt, Diet. Doct . 
and Ilist. Theol. s. v. (J. II. W.) 

Kyrie, John, an English philanthropist, ndiom Pope 
has immortalized under the name of “ The Man of Ross,” 
was born at Dymock (County of Gloucester) in 1G37. 
With a small income of £500 he managed to do much 
good to the population of Hereford County. He en- 
couraged agriculture, opened ways of communication 
between the different places, and founded asylums for 
orphans and disabled persons. The passage in w’hich 
Pope commemorates him is too w’ell known and too long 
to be quoted here. We will only say that it is substan- 
tially based on facts. K}*rlc died in 1754. See Wart on, 
Essay on the Writings and Genius of Pope; Pope, Epistle 
II; Fuller, Worthies of England, i, 582. — Iloefer, Nouv. 
Biog. Generate , xxviii, 312. (J. N. P.) 


L. 


La'adah (Hcb. LadaV, order; Sept. Aaatd 

v. r. M«od3), the second named of the two sons of She- 
lah (son of J udah), and founder (“ father”) of Maresliah, 
in the lowlands of Judah (1 Chron. iv, 21). B.C. cir. 
1873. 

La'adan (Ileb. Ladan an'anger'), the name 
of tw r o men. 

X. (In 1 Chron. xxiii, 7-9, Sept. A eavctv v. r. ’E lav, 
Vulg. Leedan; in 1 Chron. xxvi, 21, AtJuu v. r. Aaoctv, 
Aaabdv, Ledaii.') The first named of the tw r o sons of 
Gershom, the son of Levi ; elsewhere called Liiini (1 
Chron. vi, 17). 

2. (Sept. PoXoaodc v. r. A aetcav, Aacuu,Yulg. La- 
adan.') Apparently the son of Taliau and father of 
Ammihud, of the posterity of Ephraim (1 Chron. vii, 
2G). B.C. considerably post 1612. 


Laanah. See Wormw'ood. 

Labadie, Jean de, a French enthusiast, and the 
founder of the religious sect known as Labudists, w r as 
born at Bourg, in Guienne, Feb. 13, 1610. Educated in 
the Jesuits’ school at Bordeaux, lie entered their order, 
began the study of theology hi 1G26, and soon distin- 
guished himself as a preacher. Struck with the abuses 
existing in the Romish Church, he clamored for reform, 
but, meeting with no encouragement in his order, he 
left it to join the Fathers of the Oratory in 1G39, and 
very shortly afterwards the Jansenists. In 1G40 he 
was appointed canon of Amiens, and at once inaugura- 
ted various reforms. He held conventicles for the pur- 
pose of Bible reading, and administered the Lord’s Sup- 
per in both kinds to the people. To prevent his prog- 
ress, he w r as removed in 1G4G, and sent as preacher 
and inspector to the convents of the third order of St. 


176 


LABAN 


LABADISTS 

Francis in Guienne. Still persecuted by the Jesuits, 
he joined the Iteformed Church at Montauban in 1650, 
and entered the Protest ant ministry under very au- 
spicious circumstances. In 1657 he became pastor in 
Orange, and in 1659 in Geneva. In both situations 
he exerted himself to the utmost for the restoration of 
apostolic religion on Rietistic principles, and gained 
many partisans, especially in Geneva. In 1666 he be- 
came pastor of a Walloon church in Id iddelburg, but, 
by the machinations of his enemies, was obliged to leave 
it*, and in 1669 went to Amsterdam, where his followers 
soon formed a distinct religious sect, known as Laba- 
bists. Peter Yvon was one of their preachers. Hav- 
ing been expelled from the country as a separatist, Laba- 
die went in 1670 to Hereford, where, through the influ- 
ence of his disciple, the learned Anna Marie von Schur- 
mann (who appears to have become his wife afterwards), 
he was protected by the princess Elizabeth. But, again 
driven away (in 1674) by the authorities as an Anabap- 
tist, he went successively to Bremen and Altona. Here 
he managed, with the assistance of Peter Yvon and I)e 
Lignon, to hold private meetings and to disseminate his 
doctrines. He died at Altona Feb. 13, 1674. His prin- 
cipal works are, Le hi vault du grand roi Jesus (Amst. 
1667, 12mo): — Le veritable exorcism e, ou V unique moyen 
de ehasser le Diable die monde Chretien (Amsterd. 1667, 
12mo): — Le chant, royal du roi Jesus-Ckrist (Amsterd. 
1670, P2mo) : — Les salutes Decades (xYmst. 1671, 8vo) : — 
V empire du St. Esprit (Amst. 1671, P2mo) :—La refor- 
mation de Veglise ; La jenne religieuse ; Varrivee apos- 
toliqne ,* Abrege du Christ ianisme (transl. into German, 
Frankf. 1742); etc. 

According to their confession of faith ( Declaration d. 
reinen Lehre u. d. gesumlen Glaubens d. Job. de L., etc., 
Ileref. 1671), the Labadists did not entirely differ from 
the Reformed Clmreh, whose symbolic books they ac- 
cepted. ’ They supported themselves by manual labor, 
and, after the example of the primitive Church, pos- 
sessed everything in common; they insisted that great 
stress is to be laid on the internal light, and that it alone 
can make the outer revelation intelligible. They, how- 
ever, declared against infant baptism ; also against the 
second baptism of the Anabaptists ; and rejected the ob- 
servance of the Sabbath on the plea that for them life 
was a perpetual Sabbath, etc. The reproach of immo- 
rality which some 1 Ionian Catholic writers have prefer- 
red against them is unfounded; they recognised and 
honored the institution of matrimony. After Labadie’s 
death his followers removed to Wicwert, in the duchy 
of Cloves, but gained few' adherents, and the sect grad- 
ually disappeared about the middle of the 18tli century. 
At the opening of the 18th century they attempted 
to establish themselves in the United States of Amer- 
ica; a few of their number settled on the banks of the 
Hudson River as missionaries, but they do not seem to 
have taken a special hold. See A. Pauli and J. Ilund, 
A ntilabadie (Hamm, 167 1 , 4 to) ; L. G. Engelschall, Rich- 
tige Varurtheile d. heutigen Welt (1716). p. 652-682; I)r. 
Schotel, A . M. v. Schurmann ( Hertogenb. 1853) ; Arnold, 
Kirchen u. Ketzergesch , ii, 6N0; llagenbach, Gesch. der 
Reformation , iv, 307 sq. ; Gobel, Gesch. d. christl. Lebens 
in d. Rheinisch- Westphdlischen evangel. Kirche (Coblenz, 
1852), vol. ii; Zeitschr. d. histor. theol. 1853, 1854. 

Labadists. See Labajue. 

Labagh, Peter, D.l)., a Reformed (I)uteh) minister, 
w'as born in 1773 in New York city, of French and llol- 
landisli descent. After receiving his classical education 
from Dr. Peter Wilson, of Hackensack, N. J., his theolog- 
ical studies were pursued under Drs. Froeligh and Liv- 
ingston, professors of theology in the Reformed Dutch 
Church. He was licensed in 1796, and immediately 
w ent to Western New- York on a tour of misshmary ex- 
ploration, and afterw ards proceeded on horseback to Ken- 
tucky, where he organized a Church in Mercer County. 
Returning to New' York, he settled as a pastor in Green- 
bush, Rensselaer County, where he remained until 1809, 
and then removed to the united churches of Shannoek 


and Harlingen. He retained the pastorate of the latter 
Church until 1844. lie died among his own people in 
1858, revered and beloved by all. Dr. Labagh possessed 
an active, acute, and powerful mind, rapid in its move- 
ments, sound in its conclusions, and distinguished by 
great accuracy of judgment. In ecclesiastical assem- 
blies he w'as ahvavs a leading debater and coimsellor. 
In the endow'ment of the Theological Seminary at New 
Brunswick, and in all the great movements of his de- 
nomination, he was a vigorous and successful worker, 
lie was a clear, strong, and experimental preacher. 
During the great revival of 1831 his Church experi- 
enced a w'ork of grace which “shook the whole commu- 
nity for miles around.*’ This was the crowning glory 
of his long ministry, llis latter years W'ere spent in 
patriarchal retirement. He w'as cheerful, happy, over- 
flowing with good-humor, mother-wit, and strong com- 
mon sense, and, above all, with a deep piety which illu- 
mined his ministry and consecrates his memory. A 
Memoir of him was published in 1860 by Rev. John A. 
Todd, D.D. (12mo). (W. J. R. T.) 

La'ban (Hebrew' Laban', j 'zb, white, as frequently; 
comp. Simonis, Onom. U. T. p. 100 ; Septuag. Ad/3«r, but 
A ofiov in Dent, i, 1 ; Josephus A etfiavoc, Ant. i, 16, 2), 
the name of a man and also of a place. 

1. An Arannean herd-owmer in Mesopotamia, son of 
Bethuel (Gen. xxviii,5), and kinsman of Abraham (Gen. 
xxiv, 15, 19), being a grandson (j2, not simply “son,” 
as usual; see Gesenius, Thesaur. p. 216) ofXahor (Gen. 

xxix, 5). During the lifetime of his father, and by his 

own consent, his sister Rebekah was married to Isaac in 
Palestine (Gen. xxiv, 50 sq.). B.C. 2024. See Rebek- 
aii. Jacob, one of the sons bv this marriage, on leaving 
home through fear of Esau, complied with his parents’ 
wishes by contracting a still closer affinity with the fam- 
ily of his uncle Laban, and while seeking the hand of 
his daughter Rachel at the price of seven years’ toil, was 
eventually compelled by Laban’s artifice to marry first 
his oldest daughter, Leah (Gen. xxix). B.C. 1927-1920. 
See Jacob. When Jacob, having fulfilled the addi- 
tional seven years’ service thus imposed upon him, and 
six years more under a contract to take care of his cat- 
tle (in which time he managed to repay his overreach- 
ing uncle by a less culpable stratagem), was returning 
by stealth across the Euphrates, Laban pursued him with 
intentions that were only diverted by a preternatural 
dream, and, overtaking him at Bit. Gilead, charged him 
with the abduction of his daughters and the theft of his 
household gods, which Rachel had clandestinely carried 
off, and now' concealed by a trick characteristic of her 
family, but was at length pacified, and formed a solemn 
treaty of amity with Jacob that should mutually bind 
their posterity (Gen. xxx, xxxi). B.C. 1907. Nie- 
meyer ( Charakt . ii,246) has represented Laban in a very 
odious light, but his conduct appears to have been in 
keeping with the customs of the times, and, indeed, of 
nomades in nil ages, and compares not unfavorably with 
that of Jacob himself. (See lvitto, Daily lllustra. vol. 
i; Abulfcda, .1 nteislam, ed. Fleischer, p. 25; Ilitzig, Ge- 
sch ichte Israel [Lpz. 1869], p. 40, 49 sq. ; Ewald, History 
o f Israel [transl. London, 1869], i, 346 sq.) — Winer, ii, 1 
sq. “The mere possession of teraphim, which the Jews 
at no time consistently condemned (comp. Judg. xvii, 
xviii ; 1 Sam. xix, 13; IIos. iii,4),does not prove Laban 
to have been an idolater; but that he must have been 
so appears with some probability from xxxi, 53 (‘the 
gods of Nahor’), and from the expression in 

xxx, 27 ; A. V., 1 1 have learnt by experience ,’ but proper- 
ly ‘ I have divined’ or 4 learnt by an augury’ (comp, xliv, 
15; 1 Kings xx, 33), showing that he was addicted to 
pagan superstitions” (lvitto). 

2. A eitv in the Arabian desert, on the route of the 
Israelites (Dent, i, 1) ; probably identical w ith their twen- 
ty-first station, Libnaii (Numb, xxxiii, 20). Ivnobel’s 
objections {ErWir. ad loe.) to this identification, that no 
discourses of Moses at Libnaii are recorded, and that the 


LAB AN A 


177 


LABIS 



l 


Israelites did not return to that place after reaching 
Kadesh, are neither of them relevant. He prefers the 
IJauara of ancient notice ( Notit. Digint . i, 78 sq. ; I lau- 
ar r a of the Peutinger Tabic , ix, e ; Avapa of Ptolemy, 
v, 17,5), between Petra and yEla, as having the signifi- 
cation white in Arabic (Stepli. Byz. s. v.). 

Lab'ana (A afiavd), one of the chief Temple-ser- 
vants whose “ sons” returned from the captivity (1 Esdr. 
v, 28); evidently the Lebana (q.v.) of the Hebrew list 
(Neh. vii, 48). 

Labanim is the name given to the old standard 
or flag of Christian nations. Its derivation is uncer- 
tain, but it has variously been consider- 
ed as coming from XajStin, XaLtyi), Xd- 
<pvpov , laboi'o , etc. Some, with Pruden- 
tius, pronounced both c/’s short; others 
(Althelm, De laud. Yirg.) considered the 
first as long. Sozomen has it Xdj3iopov ; 
Chrysostom, Xdfiovpov. (Comp., on the 
etymology, Gretser, De Cruce , lib. iii.) 
We find this name already applied to the 
Homan standard in coins of the republic 
and of the first emperors, espociallv on 
those connected with the wars against 
the Germans, Sarmatians, and Armeni- 
ans. The labarum obtained its Christian 
signification under the emperor Con- 
stantine the Great, who, after his conver- 
sion, placed the image of the cross on his 
standards, and caused it to be received 
at Home as the aujTi)pioi> rp07raiou. 
Henceforth it was considered as agptiov 

TToXtfllKuU TUJV aXXdJV TlflVlOTtpOV * it 

was carried in advance of the other stand- 
The Labarum. ar( j s? looked upon as an object of adora- 
tion by the Christian soldiery, and was surrounded 
by a guard of fifty picked men. Eusebius, who de- 
scribes it with great particularity (in Vita Constantin. 
li, cap. 30. 31; Baronins, Annales Ecclesiast. A.D. 312, 
No. 20), relates that Constantine was induced to place 
the Christian symbol on the Roman standard by having 
in vision seen a shining cross in the heavens. (This 
vision may be denied or variously explained from sub- 
jective causes; compare the. article Constantine, and 
Scliatf, Ch. 1/ist. ii, § 2.) The Homan labarum consist- 
ed of a long gilt spear, crossed at the upper end, and a 
crown towards the top, made either of gold or of pre- 
cious stones, and bearing the monogram of Christ (thus 

X or _j_ ) j which the emperor afterwards wore also on 

his helmet. From the spear was suspended a square 
piece of silken veil, on which the likeness of Constantine 
and of his sons -was embroidered with gold. 
According to Prudentius (in Symmachns, i, 
41 48G), the image of Christ was embroidered on 
it. During the reign of Julian the labarum 
Monogram was made in its original shape, and bore the 
°jChrist on image of the emperor, along with those of Ju- 
rum. a ~ l^ tor J Mars, And 3Iercurv, but the standard 
of Constantine was restored under Valentine 
and Gratian. The labarum remained the standard of 
Home until the downfall of the Western Homan Empire, 
under the names of labarum , crux , and vexillnm ecclesi- 
ast icum. The standards at present in use in some cere- 
monies of the Homan Catholic Church still consist of a 
spear, with a cross-piece, to which is attached a cloth 
covered with embroidery or painting. The most re- 
nowned masterpiece of Christian art, Raphael’s Madon- 
na del Sisto , was originally made and used for this pur- 
pose. See Herzog, Real-Fncyhiop. vol. viii, s. v. ; Gibbon, 
Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire, ii, 201 sq. ; Mar- 
tigny, Diet, des Antiquites, s. v. ; Walcott, Sacred Ar- 
chceology , s. v.; Voisin, Diss. crit. sur la Vision de Con- 
stantin (Paris, 1774). ( J. II. W.) 

Labat, Jean Baptiste, a French Roman Catholic 
missionary, was born at Paris in 1GG3. He joined the 
Dominicans in April, 1G85, went as professor of philoso- 
V.— 31 


phy to Nancy in 1087, and afterwards devoted himself 
exclusively to preaching. He landed at La 31artiuique 
Jan. 29, 1094, and was immediately put in charge of the 
mission at 31acouba. While attending to his ecclesi- 
astical duties, he made himself very useful in the colo- 
ny as engineer, agriculturist, and even as diplomatic 
agent, and rendered great service against the English 
when they attempted taking the island in 1703. 3Iost 
of his colleagues having died of yellow' fever and other 
diseases brought on by the climate, he returned to Eu- 
rope to seek for others, and arrived at Cadiz Oct. 9, 1705. 
He intended returning soon to the West Indies, but was 
sent to Home by his superiors, and ivas retained there 
until 1709; lie afterwards remained at CivitaVecchia 
until 171G, and finally returned to Paris, where he died, 
Jan. G, 1738. He wrote Nouveau Voyage aux lies de 
VAmerique (Paris, 1722, G vols. 12mo; La Have, 1724, G 
vols. 12mo; 1738, 2 vols. 4to; 2d ed. Paris, 1742, 8 vols. 
12mo; transl. into Dutch, Amsterd. 1725, 4 vols. 12mo ; 
German, Nurcmb. 1783-87, G vols. 8vo), and some other 
historical and miscellaneous works. See Jounial des 
Savants, Oct., Nov., and Dec. 1730 ; Echard, Script, ord. 
S. Domin. ii, 80G; lloefer, Nouv. Biog. Generale, xxviii, 
333. 

Labbe, Philippe, a celebrated French Jesuit, was 
born at Bourges July 10, 1G07. He joined the order in 
1G23, and became professor of ethics, philosophy, and 
moral theology, first at the College of Bourges, where he 
had been educated, and afterwards at Paris, where he 
settled in 1G43 or 1G44. After teaching theology for 
two years in that city, he turned himself exclusively to 
literary labors. He died at Paris 3Iar. 25, 1GG7. Labbe 
was a man of extensive learning, uncommon memory, 
and great activity. Sotwel, Niceron, and 3Iordri con- 
sider him as the author of seventy-five different works, 
some of them quite insignificant, however. Ilis chief 
claim to renown rests on his Xfanual of Councils, which 
was completed by Gabriel Cossart, and published at Par- 
is in 1G71 (1G vols. in 17, folio; to some copies an 18th 
vol. is added, containing Jacobatius de Conciliis). The 
most complete edition was published under the title SS. 
Concilia , ad regiam editionem exacta, quee olim quarto, 
parte prodiit auction. Studio Philip. Labbei, et Gabr. 
Cossartli. Nunc verb integre, insertis Stephani Baluzii 
etjoannis Ifarduini additametitis, plurimis preetcrea un - 
dicunque conquisitis monument is, not is insuper acobserva- 
tionibus, firmiori fundamejito conciliorum epochas jiree- 
cipue fulcicjitibus, longe locuplctior et emendatior exhihe- 
tur. Curante Nicolao Coleti (Yenet. 1728, 23 vols. fol.). 
Et supplement um J. D. Mansi (Lucie, 1748-52, 6 vols. ; in 
all, 29 vols. fob). This is the most complete collection 
extant of the Councils of the Church. It was reprinted, 
with the supplement incorporated, and edited by 3Iansi, 
at Florence (1757—98, 3 1 vols. folio) — a much esteemed 
and accurate edition ; but it only reaches to the year 
1509, while the edition by Coletus brings the councils 
down to 1727. Among his other works the most impor- 
tant are, SS. Patrum theologorum scriptorumque ecclesi- 
asticorum utriusque Testament i Bibliotheca chronologica. 
Cum pinacotheca script arum Soe. Jesn (Par. 1G59, lfimo) : 
— I ' etymologic de plusicurs mots Franqois , contre les ctbus 
de la secte des Hellenistes dn Port-Royid (Paris, 1GG1, 
12mo): — Bibliotheca bibliotheca rum (3d edit. Roth. 1G78, 
8vo) : — De Byzantince historic scriptoribus (Byzantine 
Histories, i): — Nova Bibbiotheca MSS. Librorum (1G57, 
2 vols. fob) : — De Scriptoribus Eccles. Dissertatio (2 vols. 
8vo) ; etc. See Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Generale, xxviii, 338 ; 
Darling, Cyclopaedia Bibliographica, ii, 1751 ; Pierer, U ni- 
versal Lexikon, ix, 944. (J. N. P.) 

Labben. See 3Iutii-labben. 

Labis (\a/3t'c, or Xafiidior, a spooii), an implement 
used in the Greek Church for the purpose of administer- 
ing the elements in the Lord’s Supper. Difficulties in 
the administration of the wine were fancied to arise in 
the 3riddle Ages, in order to meet which the fstulce eu- 
charisticce were introduced; and subsequently the prac- 



LABOR 


LABRADOR 


V, 

tice of dipping the bread in the wine, so that both might 
be administered together. The Latin Church at length 
withdrew the wine altogether; and the Greek Church, 
mingling both elements, administered them at once with 
a \af3ie, or spoon. — Farrar, Keel. Diet. See Fistulje. 

Labor (properly '~\'2V.abael', to icork,(h\ tpyu^ogai ; 
also > “V, ainal', to toil, Gr. Koitiaui ; and other terms). 
From Gen. ii, 15 (where the same word 'l'ZV is used, A. 
V. “till”), we learn that man, even in a state of inno- 
cence, and surrounded by all the external sources of 
happiness, was not to pass his time in indolent repose. 
F,v the very constitution of his animal frame, exercise 
of some kind was absolutely essential to him (comp. Ec- 
cles. v, 12). In Gen. iii, ID, labor, in its more rigorous 
and exhausting forms, is set forth as a part of the pri- 
meval curse, “ In the sweat of thy face thou shall eat 
bread and doubtless there is a view of labor which ex- 
hibits it in reality as a heavy, sometimes a crushing 
burden (compare Gen. xxxv, 1G). But labor is by no 
means exclusively an evil, nor is its prosecution a dis- 
honor (comp. Psa" ciii, 23, 24). It is the prostration of 
strength, wherewith is also connected the temporary in- 
capacity of sharing in the enjoyments of life, and not 
labor itself, which constitutes the curse pronounced on 
the fallen man. Hence we find that, in primitive times, 
manual labor was neither regarded as degrading nor 
confined to a certain class of society, but was more or 
less prosecuted by all. By the institution of the Sab- 
bath, moreover, one seventh of man’s brief life was res- 
cued from labor, and appropriated to rest of body and to 
that improvement of the mind which tends to strength- 
en, invigorate, and sustain the entire man. See Sab- 
bath. 

Labor was enjoined on all Israelites as a sacred duty 
in the fourth commandment (Exod.xx, 9; Deut.v, 13); 
and the Bible entertains so high a respect for the dili- 
gent and skilful laborer, that we are told in Prov. xxii, 
29,“ Seest thou a man skilled in his work, he shall stand 
before kings” (comp, also ibid, x,4; xii, 24,27). Among 
the beautiful features which grace an excellent house- 
wife, it is prominently set forth that “she worketh will- 
ingly with her own hands” (Prov. xxxi, 13). With such 
an honorable regard for labor, it is not to be wondered 
at that when Nebuchadnezzar carried the “Jews away 
into captivity, he found among them a thousand crafts- 
men and smiths (2 Kings xxiv, 14— 1G ; Jer. xxix, 2). 
The ancient rabbins, too, regarded manual labor as most 
honorable, and urged it upon every one as a duty, as 
may be seen from the following sayings in the Talmud: 
<s lie who does not teach his son a craft is, as it w’ere, 
bringing him up to robbery” (Cholin, 105); “Labor is 
greatly to be prized, for it elevates the laborer, and 
maintains him” (Chagiga, 5 ; Nnlarim , 49, b ; JJaba Ba- 
ikal, 110, a). See Handicraft. 

The Hebrews, like other primitive nations, appear to 
have been herdsmen before they were agriculturists 
(Gen. iv, 2, 12, 17,22); and the practice of keeping docks 
and herds continued in high esteem and constant ob- 
servance as a regular employment and a social condition 
(Jtidg. i. 10; iv, 1 1 ; Amos vii, 14 ; Luke ii, 8). The cul- 
ture of the soil came in course of time, introducing the 
discovery and exercise of the practical arts of life, which 
eventually led to those refinements, both as to processes 
and to applications, which precede, if they do not create, 
the fine arts (Gen. iv: xxvi, 12; xxxiii, 19). Agricul- 
ture, indeed, became the chief employment of the He- 
brew race after their settlement in Canaan ; it lay at the 
very basis of the constitution, both civil and religious, 
which Moses gave them, was held in great honor, and 
was carried on by the high as well as the humble in po- 
sition (Judg. vi, 11:1 Sam. xi, 5; 1 Kings xix, 19). No 
small care was bestowed on £he culture of the vine, 
which grew luxuriously on the hills of Palesiine (Isa. v, 
2, 5 ; Matt. xxi. 33 ; Numb, xiii, 24). The vintage was 
a season of jubilee (Judg. ix, 27 ; Jer. xxv, 30; Isa. xvi, 
10). The hills of Palestine were also adorned with well- 


S 

cultured olive-gardens, which produced fruit useful for 
food, for anointing, and for medicine (Isa. xvii, G; xxiv, 
13; Dent, xxiv, 20; Ezek. xxvii, 17; 1 Kings iv, 25; 
IIos. xiv, G, 7). Attention was also given to the culture 
of the fig-tree (2 Kings xxi, 7 ; 1 Chron. xxvii, 28), as 
well as of the date-palm (Lev. xxiii, 40 : J.udg. i, 1G ; iv, 
5; xx, 33; Deut. xxxiv, 3), and also of balsam ((Jen. 
xliii, 11 ; Ezek. xxvii, 17; xxxvii, 25 ; Jer. viii, 22). — 
Kit to. See Agriculture. 

Laborantes (laborers), a name sometimes given 
to the cojnatee or fossarii, on the assumption that the. 
Greek word KOTnciTdi is taken from kottoc, labor. — Far- 
rar, Eccl. Diet. s. v. Sec Copiatje ; Fossarii. 

Laborde, Vidieu, a French priest, bom at Tou- 
louse in 1G80, flouri.shed at Paris under the patronage 
of cardinal De Noailles. He died in 1748. His works 
are, A Treatise on the Essence: — Distinction and Limits 
of the Spiritual and Temporal Powers : — Familiar Con- 
ferences ; and other religious works of value. 

Labouderie, Jean, a celebrated French theologi- 
cal writer, was born at Chalinargues, Auvergne, Feb. 13, 
177G. lie became vicar of Notre Dame, Paris, in 1815, 
and early distinguished himself more as a writer than 
a preacher. lie w'as particularly conversant with the 
Hebrew language, lie died as honorary grand vicar 
of Avignon at Paris, May 2, 1849. Among his works 
are Pensees theologiques (Clermont, 1801, 8 vo): — Con- 
siderations addressees aux aspirants an ministere de 
Veglise de Geneve, fa isant suite a eelles de M. Kmpey- 
taz sur la divinite de Jesus-Christ, avec une reponse a 
quelques questions de M. Delloc, etc. (Paris, 1817, 8vo) : — 
Precis historiqne du Methodisme (1818, 8vo) : — Le Chris- 
tianisme de Montaigne (1819, 8vo): — 1 dcs des Saints 
(1820, 3 vols. 24mo) : — La Religion Chretievne (182G, 8 vo) : 
— Notice historiqne sur Z mingle (1828, 8vo) ; etc. See 
Iloefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate , xxviii, 395. 

Laboureur, Le Jean, a French priest, born at 
Montmorency in 1G23, became one of the almoners of 
the king, and died in 1G75. He WTote several valuable 
works on the history of France. 

Labrador, a peninsula of north-eastern America, is 
bounded on the east by the Atlantic Ocean, on the south 
by the Dominion of Canada and the Gulf of St. Law- 
rence, on the west by the Hudson Bay and James Bay, 
on the north by the Hudson Strait. Area about 500,000 
sq. miles. The peninsula formerly was a part of the ter- 
ritory belonging to the Hudson Bay Company, and with 
the remainder of this territory was in 18G9 sold to the 
government of the Dominion of Canada. The interior 
of the country is almost entirely unknown. The popu- 
lation, comprising Indians, Esquimaux, and a few Euro- 
peans, amounts to about 4000, It is believed that Lab- 
rador is identical with the Jfdluland (stone-land) which 
about the year 1000 was discovered by Leif, the son of 
Eric the Led. On June 24, 1497, it was again discov- 
ered by John and Sebastian Cabot. It was visited in 
1500 by the Portuguese G. Cortereal. who called it Tierra 
del Labrador (land for labor), and in 157G by the Eng- 
lishman M. Frobisher. In 1G18 Hudson explored a part 
of the coast. The country, which has a rugged coast, 
and is surrounded with many small islands, does not al- 
low an extensive cultivation ; for, although the vegeta- 
tion is only in the northern part so limited as it is 
throughout Greenland, the winters are even more se- 
vere, and during the short summers the musquitoes .are 
even more troublesome than in Greenland. The popu- 
lation of the interior, which consists of Led Indians, is 
very small; the Esquimaux, who inhabit the north-east- 
ern* and the western coast, are a little more numerous, 
and support themselves by fishing seals, etc. If these 
animals fail them a famine is brought on, or they are 
forced to penetrate farther into the interior, where they 
are apt to encounter t lie Led Indians, their irreconcila- 
ble enemies for centuries. 

The first attempt to establish a mission on the coast 
of Labrador was made by the Moravians in 1752, w hen 


LABROUSSE 


179 


LA CHAISE 


J. c. Erhardt was killed by the Esquimaux. In 1771 1 
the Moravians succeeded in establishing the station of J 
Nain, to which in the course of the following ten years 
the stations of Okak and Iloffenthal (Hopedale) were 
added. The mission met here with the same difficulties 
as in Greenland. Thirty-four years after the establish- 
ment of the first mission an extensive revival took place, 
in consequence of which the Esquimaux connected with > 
these stations were gained to Christianity. I or the 
Esquimaux living more to the north, 1 Iebron was found- 
ed in 1830. In 18G4 the station of Zoar was establish- 
ed for the tract of land lying between Nain and Iloffen- 
thal. All the Esquimaux in this part of Labrador are 
now Christians. Only north of Hebron a few pagans 
are still living, for the conversion ot whom in 1871 the 
station of llama, situated on the Bay of Nullatorusek (a 
little north of lat. 59° X.) was founded. Famine and 
epidemics have greatly reduced the number of the Es- 
quimaux in Labrador. In 1870 the station of Nain 
numbered 239, Okak 339, Iloffenthal 250, Hebron 219, 
and Zoar 109 souls, while the number of missionaries and 
attendants was 45. The acquaintance of the natives with 
European necessities forced the missionaries to charge 
themselves with the importation of some of these arti- 
cles. Subsequently this trade was transferred to speeial 
agents. In the mean while, commercial interests have 
caused a number of Europeans to settle on the coast of 
Labrador, and a number of trading-posts to be estab- 
lished. Besides the Moravians, the Society for the Prop- 
agation of the Gospel has begun missionary efforts on 
the southern coast, and the Homan Catholic Church has 
endeavored to gain an influence upon the lied Indians 
of the interior. See Newcomb .Cyclopcedia of Missions; 
Grnndeman, Missions it last ; Romer, Geschichte tier Lab- 
rador-Mission (Gnadau. 1871). (A. J. S.) 

Labrousse, Clotilde Suzan Courcelles de, a 
French religious enthusiast, was born at Vauxain, Peri- 
gord, May 8, 1747. While quite young she adopted 
exaggerated mystical notions, thought herself called to 
become a saint, and was so anxious to leave this world 
for a better one that she made an attempt at suicide 
when but nine years old. Her ascetic practices were 
very severe, and became still more so as she grew up, 
yet did not seem to have any injurious effect on her 
health. At the age of nineteen she became a nun of 
the third order of St. Francis, and soon after declared 
that she had received a mission to travel through the 
world to convert sinners, but was detained in the con- 
vent by her superior. She then wrote a history of her 
life, which she addressed to M. de Flamarens. bishop of 
Perigueux, without effect. The MS., however, attract- 
ed the attention of Horn Gerle, prior of the Chartreuse 
of Vauelaire, who entered into correspondence with the 
authoress in 17G9, and she afterwards declared, when he 
was elected a member of the National Assembly, that 
she had predicted it to him. When the Revolution 
broke out, M. Pontard, constitutional bishop of Dor- 
dogne, attracted her to Paris, where she prophesied 
against the court of Rome, and in favor of the civil con- 
stitution of the clergy. She subsequently returned to 
Perigord, and left there to go to Rome, thinking to con- 
vert the pope, cardinals, etc., to her views, and to induce 
them to renounce temporal power. On her way she ad- 
dressed the people wherever an opportunity offered. In 
August, 1792, she arrived at Bologna, whence she was 
driven bv the legate. At Viterbo she was arrested and 
taken to the castle of San Angelo. In 179G the French 
Directory interfered to obtain her liberation, but she 
preferred remaining, as she had been very kindly treat- 
ed ; but when the French took Rome in 1798 she left the 
prison and returned to Paris, where she died in 1821. 
She persisted to the last in believing herself inspired, 
and actually succeeded in gathering a small circle of ad- 
herents. Labrousse wrote Prophcties concernant la Re- 
volution Franqaise, suivies tVune Prediction qui annonce 
la fin du monde (for 1899) (Paris, 1790, 8vo): — Lettre de 
Mile, de Labrousse (Paris, 1790, 8vo). Pontard pub- 


1 lished a Recueil des Ouvrages de la eelkbre Mile. Labrous- 
se (Bordeaux, 1797, 8vo). See Malml, Annmvire necro - 
I log. 1822; Arnault, Jay, Jouv et Norvins, Biog. nouv . 
des Contemp .; Querard, La France Litteraire. — Hoeler. 
Nouv. Biog. Generate, xxviii, 418. 

La Brune, Francois de. See La Prune, Jean 

I)E. 

La Brune, Jean de, a French Protestant minis- 
ter, flourished in the second half of the 17th and the 
early part of the 18th century. After the revocation 
of the edict of Nantes lie went as pastor to Basle; later 
he became minister at Sehoonoven, in Holland. He is 
particularly celebrated as a writer, but many of the 
works which have generally been attributed to liim are 
now believed to be the production of Francois de la Brune, 
also a Protestant French pastor, who flourished about 
the same time; went to Amsterdam in 1G85, and, on ac- 
count of heterodox opinions, was suspended from the 
ministry in 1691. We have under the name of La 
Brune, among other works, Morale de Confucius (Amst. 
1688, 8vo): — Calvin’s Truite de la Justification (ibid, 
1G93, 8vo; 1705, 12mo): — 1 list, du Vieux et du Nouveau 
Test, en vers (1731, 8vo). — Iloefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate , 
xxviii, 423. 

Lacarry, Giles, a French Jesuit, who was born at 
Castres in 1G05, and died in 1G84, is noted as the author 
of several works on the history of liis country. See 
General Biographical Dictionary, s. v. 

Lace (b n r.2, pathiV, from being tivisted), the blue 
cord with which the high-priest’s breastplate was at- 
tached to the ephod (Exod. xxviii, 28, 37 ; xxxix, 21, 
31 ; rendered “riband” Numb, xv, 38); spoken of gold 
“ wire ” (Exod. xxxix, 3), the chain for attaching a cover 
to its vessel (“bound,” Numb.xix, 15) ; a strong “ thread ' 
of tow (Judg. xvi, 9), or measuring- 4 ' line ” of flax (Ezek. 
xl, 3); also of the string by which the signet-ring was 
suspended in the bosom (“bracelet,” Gen. xxxviii, 18, 
35); finally (/c\<5oym, a spun thread, like pathil above, 
for which it stands in Numb, xv, 3G), a cord (Ecclus. vi, 
30). 

Lacedasmo'nian ( Aatcecaipoi’ioc , 2 Macc. v, 9; 
elsewhere NTmpndnjc), an inhabitant of Lacediemon or 
Sparta, in Greece, with whom the Jews at one time 
claimed kindred (1 Macc. xii, 2, 5, G, 20, 21 ; xiv, 20, 23 ; 
xv, 23). See Sparta. 

Lacey, William B., D.D., a clergyman of the Prot- 
estant Episcopal Church, was born about 1781. He en- 
tered the ministry in 1813 as missionary of Chenango 
County, N. Y. ; in 1818 he became rector of St. Peter's 
Church, Albany. lie labored there upwards of twenty 
years, his ministration being crowned with great suc- 
cess. Subsequently he became professor in the Uni- 
versity of Pennsylvania, and president of a college at 
Laceyville, Pa. lie died October 31, 18GG. Dr. Lacey 
wrote a number of text-books for schools and colleges 
which were deservedly popular in their day, particularly 
his Rhetoric and Moral Philosophy. During the last 
ten years of his life he employed his leisure hours in re- 
vising a History of the English Church prior to the Time 
of the Monk A ugustin, and some of his choicest sermons 
and other MSS. See Am. Ch. Rev. 18G7, p. 647. 

La Chaise or La Chaize d’Aix, Francois de. 
Fere, a celebrated French Jesuit and noted confessor of 
Louis XIV, was born of a noble family at the castle of 
Aix Aug. 25, 1G24. lie was educated at the College of 
Roanne, became a Jesuit, and afterwards went to com- 
plete his studies at Lyons, where he subsequently taught 
philosophy with great success. Having been appointed 
professor of theology, he was soon called away from Ly- 
ons to direct the establishment of his order at Grenoble, 
but almost immediately returned with the office of pro- 
vincial. Finally, on the death of father Ferrier, he suc- 
ceeded him as confessor of the king in 1675. Madame 
de Montespan was then at the height of her favor, and 
all the efforts of father Ferrier, Bourdaloue, Bossuet, and 


LA CHAPELLE 


180 


LACIIISII 


Mascaron hail proved ineffective against her. La Chaise I 
proceeded more cautiously than his predecessors, and 
proved more successful. Never directly contradicting , 
his royal penitent, he knew how to gain him to his 
views bv slow but steady advances. Whenever he saw j 
the king disposed to throw off his easy yoke, he would 
feign sickness and send some priest of strict and uncom- 
promising principles to the king, who, being positively 
refused absolution once by father Descliamps, woidd, 
after such experiments, submit the more readily to the 
wily Jesuit. The latter, moreover, was an agreeable 
companion as well as an easy confessor. Madame de 
Montespan, weary of the contest with La Chaise and 
Madame de Maintenon, retired finally into a convent. 
'I'he queen dying a few years afterwards, La Chaise is 
said to have given the king the idea of a morganatic 
marriage, and even to have performed the ceremony. 
Yet, in spite of all he had done for her, Madame de Main- 
tenon (q. v.) does not appear to have ever been very 
friendly towards the Jesuit; perhaps because he pre- 
vented a public recognition of her marriage; perhaps 
also because she knew that in helping her he had work- 
ed only for himself. When Madame de Maintenon 
founded the institution of St. Cyr, La Chaise, Baeine, 
and Buileau were commissioned to revise its rules. The 
former opposed the rule that teachers should be required 
to take anything more than the simple vows, and car- 
ried his point, though subsequently this was changed, 
and they became subject to the rule of St. Augustine. 
After the death of the queen and of Colbert, the actions 
of the king were entirely governed by La Chaise and 
Madame de Maintenon. Both agreed against the Prot- 
estants. and their joint efforts brought on the revocation 
of the Edict of Nantes. The Jesuit, indeed, tried to con- 
ciliate the king and the pope when the difficulties arose 
about the declaration of the clergy in 1G82, and the fa- 
mous four propositions, and even appeared more inclined 
to side with the temporal than with the spiritual mon- 
arch; but he again balanced the account by advocating 
the dragonnades as a sure means of reclaiming erring 
consciences. He died Jan. 20, 1700. In the famous 
quarrel between Fenelon and Bossuet, La Chaise sided 
with the former, as far, at least, as he dared without of- 
fending the king. He even affected great regard for 
Quesnel, though, when it is remembered that he caused 
the works of that writer to be condemned, the sincerity 
of his regard may be doubted ; but it was liis principle 
to attack individuals, not parties, and he therefore found 
it convenient, as a true Jesuit, to praise men whom, on 
account of their very principles, lie secretly sought to 
destroy. See Jaxsexism; Jesuits, lie was a shrewd, 
persevering politician, and did much good to his order, 
but pert* La Chaise cannot be lauded cither as a great 
man or as a good priest. The kindest comment ever 
made on his character is that by Voltaire, who speaks 
of him as k *a mild person, with whom the ways of con- 
ciliation were always open.” lie obtained the king’s 
protection for the College of Clermont, since called Col- 
lege Louis-le-Grand, and received for his order a fine 
estate to which his name was given, and which is now 
the cemetery of “ Be re la Chaise' at Paris. He wrote 
Peripatetica: qnadruplicis philosophic Placita rational is, 
etc. (Lyons, 1061, 2 vols. fol.) : — llnmanai sapientuv Pro- 
positioncs prnpugnatce Lngduni in collegia Soc. Jesu (Ly- 
ons, 1GG2. fol.) : — Repome it qitelqnes dijjievltcs proposees 
it tin theologien , etc. (Lyons, 1666, 4to); etc. See Saint- 
Simon, Memoircs; Madame de Maintenon, Corrcspond- 
tvnee ; Voltaire, Sikele de Lon is XIV; Benoist , Uist.de 
r Edit de Xante s ; Jurieu, Politique du Clerge de France ; 
Sismondi, Hist, des Frnnqais , vol. xxv, xxvi, and xxvii ; 
Begis de Chantelauze, Ac P'ere de la Chaise (Lyons, 1850, 
8vo); Iloefer, Xouv. Biogr. Generale, xxviii, 483.- See 
Louis XIV. 

La Chapelle, Armand Boisuki.eau de, a Freneh 
Protestant writer, was born at Ozillae (Saintonge) in 
1676. lie was a student at the college of Bordeaux 
when the revocation of the Edict of Nantes obliged him 


to retire to England, where he was received by his 
grandfather, pastor of the Walloon Church at London. 
In 1604 he was ordained, and soon afterwards sent to 
Ireland. Subsequently he became successively pastor of 
Wandsworth, in the neighborhood of London, in 1696; 
of the chapel of the French artillery in that town in 
1711; and finally pastor of the Walloon Church of the 
Hague in 1725. He died August 6. 1746. La Chapelle 
wrote Rejlexions mi sujet d'un systeme pretendu nouveau 
sur le myst'ere de la Trinite (Amst. 1729, 8vo) : — Ex amen 
de la maniere de pi t cher des J’rotestants Franqais , etc. 
(Amsterd. 1730, 8vo): — Reponse it Mr.Mainard, ancien 
chanoine de St. Semin de Tonlonse , an sujet dune confer- 
ence sur la religion , etc. (La Have, 1730, 4to) : — Entrctien 
au sujet de la Lettre d’un Theologien sur le myst'ere de la 
Trinite (La Haye, 1730, 8vo) : — Lettre d'un theologien 
Reforme it nn gentilhomme Lutherien (Amst. 1736, 2 vols. 
12mo) ; it is also known under the title Lettres sur Vou- 
vrage de coutro verse du P. Schaffmacher : — 3] e moires de 
Pologne , etc. (Lond. 1739, 12mo): — Description des cere- 
monies observees it Rome depuis la mort de Clement XII 
jusqu'au couronneuunt de Benoit XIV, son successeur, 
etc. (Paris, 1741,12mo): — De la Xecessite du eulte pub- 
lic parmi hs Chretiens (La Haye, 1746, 8vo; Frankfort, 
1747,2 vols. 12mo; transl. into Dutch, Amst. 1748, 8vo; 
into German, Breslau, 1749, Svo; Lpz. 1769, 8vo). It is 
a defence of the course of the Freneh Protestants in 
holding their assemblies du desert in spite of the edicts of 
the king: — Vie de Beausobre (in Beausobre’s Remarques 
sur le Xouveau Testament, v ol. ii). He wrote also in La 
Bibliotheque Anglai.ce, ou histoire litteraire de la Grande- 
Bretagne (Amst. 1717-27, 15 vols. 12mo) : — Bibliotheque 
raisonnee des Ouvrages des Savants de V Europe (Amst. 
1728-53, 52 vols. 12mo) : — Xovrelle Bibliotheque , ou his- 
toire litteraire des principaux ecrits qui se publieut (La 
Haye, 1738 sq., 19 vols. 12mo). He also translated into 
French some works of Dition, Steele, Bentley, and Bur- 
net. See Querard, La France Litteraire ; Haag, La 
France Protcstante ; Iloefer, Xouv. Biog. Gener. xxviii, 
507. ( J. N. P.) 

La'chisll (Ileb. LakislV , prob. impregnable, 

otherwise smitten; Sept, in Josh, and Kings A a\ig; in 
Chron., Neh., and Jer. A a\tig v. r. An\ig ; in Isa. Aa\tiQ 
v. r. A a\ig or Aax'IQ ; in Mic. Aax^i" ; Josephus 
Ant. viii, 10, 1 ; also A «\rtera, Ant. ix, 9, 3), a Caanan- 
itish royal city (Josh, xii, 31) in the southern part of 
Palestine, whose king Japhia joined the Amoritish con- 
federacy against Joshua (Josh, x, 3,5) ; but he was taken 
(Josh, xv, 25), and his city destroyed by the victorious 
Israelites, in spite of the re-en forcemeat of the king of 
Gezer (Josh, xv, 31-35, where its great strength is de- 
noted by the two days’ assault). See Joshua. From 
these last passages it appears to have been situated be- 
tween Libnah and Eglon; but it is mentioned between 
Joktheel and Bozkath, among the cities of the Philis- 
tine valley or plain of Judah (Josh, xv, 39). It is men- 
tioned in connection with Adoraim and Azekali as hav- 
ing been rebuilt, or rather fortified, by Behoboam against 
the Philistines (2 Chron. xi, 9), and seems after that 
time to have been regarded as one of the strongest for- 
tresses of the kingdom of Judah (for hither Amaziah 
was pursued and slain, 2 Kings xiv, 19; 2 Chron. xxv, 
27), having for a time braved the assaults of the Assyr- 
ian army under Sennacherib on his way to Egypt (2 
Kings xviii, 14, 17; xix,8; 2 Chron.xxxii,9; Isa.xxxvi, 
2; xxxvii, 8); hut was at length taken by Nebuchad- 
nezzar, at the downfall of the kingdom of Judah (Jer. 
xxxiv. 7). It was rcoeeupied after the exile (Neh: xi, 
30). The affright occasioned by these sudden attacks 
was predicted by the prophet Mieah (i, 13), where this 
city, lying not very far from the frontiers of the king- 
dom of Israel, appears to have been the first to intro- 
duce the idolatry of that commonwealth into Judaism. 
A detailed representation of the siege of some large Jew- 
ish city by Sennacherib has been discovered on the re- 
cently disinterred monuments of Assyria, which is there 
called Lakhisha , and presumed to be Lachisli (Layard’s 


LACIIISII 


181 


LACIIISII 


Nineveh and Babylon , p. 152), although it does not ap- 
pear from the Biblical account that this city yielded to 
iris arms ; indeed, some expressions would almost seem 
to imply the reverse (see “thought to win them,” 2 
Chron. xxxii, 1 ; “ departed from Laehish,” 2 Kings xix, 
8 ; and especially Jer. xxxiv, 7). Col ltawlinson even 
reads the name of the city in question on the monu- 
ments as Lubana , i. e. Libnah (Layard, ut sup. p. 153, 
note). Itawlinson also thinks that on the first attack at 
least Sennacherib did not sack the city ( Herodotus , i, 
481, note 6). At all events, it woidd seem that, after the 
submission of Hezekiah, Sennacherib in some way re- 
duced Laehish, and marched in force against the Egyp- 
tians (Joseph. Ant. x, 1,1; comp. Isa. xx, 1-4). liaw- 
linson maintains (Jlerodotus, i,477) that Sennacherib at- 
tacked Laehish a second time, but whether on his re- 


turn from his Egyptian campaign, or after he had paid 
a visit to Nineveh, cannot now be determined. See 
IIezekiaii. It is specially mentioned that he laid siege 
to it “ with all his power” (2 Chron. xxxii, 9), and here 
“the great king” himself remained, while his officers 
only were dispatched to Jerusalem (2 Chron. xxxii, 9; 
2 Kings xviii, 17). See Sennacherib. This siege is 
considered by Layard and Ilincks to be depicted on the 
slabs found by the former in one of the chambers of the 
palace at Kouyunjik, which bear the inscription “ Sen- 
nacherib, the mighty king, king of the country of As- 
syria, sitting on the throne of judgment before (or at 
the entrance of) the city of Laehish (Lakhisha). I give 
permission for its slaughter” (Layard, Xin. and Bab. p. 
149-52, and 153, note). These slabs contain a view of 
a city which, if the inscription is correctly interpreted, 



must be Laehish itself. The bas-reliefs depiet the cap- 
ture of an extensive city defended by double walls, 
with battlements and towers, and by fortified outworks. 


The country around is represented as hilly and wooded, 
producing the fig and the vine. Immense preparations 
had evidently been made for the siege, and in no other 


Ground-plan of Laehish as taken by the Assyrians. From the Monuments. 



sculptures were so many armed warriors drawn up in 
array against a besieged city, which was defended with 
equal determination. The process of the assault and 
sack are given in the most minute and lively man- 
ner. The spoil and captives are exhibited in full, the 
latter distinguished by their Jewish physiognomy, and 
by the pillaged condition of their garments. On a 
throne in front of the *eity is represented the Assyr- 


ian king giving orders for the disposal of the prison- 
ers, several of whom are depicted as already in the 
hands of the executioners, some being stretched naked 
on the ground in order to be flayed alive, while others 
were slain by the sword. (See Layard’s Monuments of 
Nineveh , 2d series, plates 20-24.) See Captive. 

Eusebius and Jerome ( Onomast . s. v.) state that in 
their timo Laehish was a village seven miles south 



LACHMANN 


182 


LACOMBE 



(• ; towards Darom”) of Elcntheropolis. The only place 
that has been found by travellers at all answering to 
the scriptural notices is Um-Lakis , on the left of the 
road between Gaza and Hebron, situated “upon a low 
round knoll, now covered confusedly with heaps of small 
round stones, with intervals between, among which are 
seen two or three fragments of marble columns, wholly 
overgrown with thistles; a well to the south-east, below 
the hill, now almost filled up, having also several col- 
umns around it” (Bobinson, Biblical Researches , ii, 388). 
This locality, notwithstanding it is somewhat more dis- 
tant from ileit-Jibrin (Eleutheropolis) than the Ono- 
masticon calls for, and likewise to the south-wesf, and 
notwithstanding the imperfect agreement in name (sev- 
eral of the letters being different in the lleb. and Ara- 
bic, in addition to the prefix Um [which, however, may 
only denote its importance as a wo/Aer-city]), Baumer 
and 'Grosse (in the Studien n. Krit. 1845, i, 243 sq.) in- 
cline to identify with that of Laehish, on the ground of 
its proximity (see Josh, x, 31-3(1) to Eglou (Baumer, 
Beit rage zur biblischen Geographic, 1843, p. 23). With 
this conclusion Schwarz concurs ( Palestine , p.S5),as also 
Van de Velde (Memoir, p.329), and Thomson ( Land ami 
Book, ii, 35G) ; but hitter is undecided (Erdkunde, xvi, 
131)i By “ Daroma,” also, Eusebius may have intend- 
ed, not the southern district, but a place of that name, 
which is mentioned in the Talmud, and is placed by the 
accurate old traveller hap-Parchi as two hours south of 
Gaza (Zunz in Benj. ofTudela, by Asher, ii, 442). With 
regard to the weakness of Um-Lakis, Mr. Torter has a 
good comparison between it and Aslidod (Handbook, p. 
261). 

Lachmann, Jyarl, a distinguished German philol- 
ogist, was born at Brunswick March 4, 1793. lie stud- 
ied at the universities of Leipzig and Gottingen, and in 
1811 founded, together with Bunsen, Dissen, and Ern. 
Schulze, the Philological Society. In 1813 he entered 
the army as a volunteer, but, having left it at the conclu- 
sion of the war, he became professor at the University of 
Berlin in 1827, and member of the Academy of that city 
in 1830. He died at Berlin March 13, 1851. His phil- 
ological works are distinguished for profound learning 
and able criticism, lie confined himself mainly to edi- 
tions of classical authors, but he also published an edi- 
tion of the Greek New Testament (Berlin, 1831 ; 3d ed. 
1810; in a larger form, 1840-50). In this edition of the 
New-Testameut Scriptures in the original, “he aimed,” 
says Dr. W. L. Alexander (Kit to, Bill. Cyclop, ii, 709), 
‘*at presenting, as far as possible, the text as it was in 
the authorized copies of the 1th century, his design be- 
ing, not to compare various readings with the received 
text, but to supply a text derived from ancient authori- 
ties directly and exclusively. Belinquisliing the possi- 
bility of ascertaining what was the exact text of the 
original as it appeared in the autographs of the authors, 
he set himself to determine the oldest attainable text 
by means of extant codices. For this purpose he made 
use of only a very few MSS., viz. A, B. C, P, Q, T, 
Z, for the Gospels; D, G, 11, for the Epistles; the ante- 


1 Ilieronymian Latin versions, and the readings of Ori- 
1 gen, Iremeus, Cyprian, Hilary of Poitiers, Lucifer; and 
j for the Apocalypse, Primarins. Under the Greek text 
the editor cites his authorities, and at the bottom of the 
page he gives the Vulgate version edited from two cod- 
ices of the Gth century, the Fnldensis and the Amian- 
tinus, preserved in the Laurentian Library at Florence. 
. . . On its first appearance, his work and the principles 
on which it was based were subjected to much hostility, 
but bis great services to the cause of N.-T. criticism are 
now universally admitted. That he narrowed unrea- 
sonably the sphere of legitimate authority for the sacred 
text, that he was sometimes capricious in his selection 
of authorities, and that, while he did not always follow 
his authorities, he at other times followed them even in 
their manifest errors and blunders, may be admitted. 
But, after every deduction from the merits of bis work 
is made which justice demands, there will still remain 
to Lachmann the high praise of having been the first to 
apply to the editing of the Greek X. 4’. those sound prin- 
ciples of textual criticism which can alone secure a cor- 
rect and trustworthy text. In this lie followed, to a 
considerable extent, the counsel of the illustrious Bent- 
ley, uttered more than a century before (whence some, 
who sought to discredit his efforts, unworthily mocked 
him as ‘Simia Bentleii') ; hut he owed nothing to Bent- 
ley beyond the suggestion of the principles lie has fol- 
lowed; and he possessed and has ably used materials 
which in Bentley’s time were not to be had.” (Comp. 
Lachmann’s exposition of his principles in Studien vnd 
Kritiken, 1830, p. 817-845; also a review of Scrivener's 
[Collation of the Gospels, Cambr. 1853, 8vo] strictures 
on Laehmann’s edition of the X.-T. writings in Kitto, 
Journ . Sac. Lit. 1853, July, p. 3G5 sq.) See Hertz, Lach- 
mann ; eine Biogr aphie (Berlin, 1851, 8vo); Tregelles. 
Printed Text of the Greek X. T. p. 97 sq. ; Jloefer, X our. 
Biog . Generate, xxviii, 532; Pierer, Universal Lexikon, 
ix, 954. See Criticism, Biblical. 

Lacombe, Pkrk, a celebrated Boman Catholic mo- 
nastic. a native of Savoy, flourished in the second half 
of the 37th century, first as the spiritual adviser and 
confessor of Madame Guyon. and afterwards as a zeal- 
ous follower of the eminent French female Mystic. In 
1087, when the Quietism of Molinos. which Lacombe 
ardently espoused, was condemned, pere Lacombe was 
imprisoned, and he died in prison in 1099. During his 
imprisonment he became very much depressed in mind. 

I and finally lost bis reason. This gave rise to the state- 
ment made in our vol. iii, p. 1039, that “ he died in a mad- 
house.” His relation with Madame Guyon had been 
very intimate, and this was quite natural when we con- 
sider that the former confessor became an ardent follow- 
er of Madame, and no doubt the scandal to which their 
associations had given rise, as well as the imprisonment, 
made Lacombe a great sufferer in his last days. He 
wrote Analyse de I'oraison rnentale, which in 1088 was 
forbidden. See Guyon. (J. II. YV) 

Lacombe, Dominique, a French prelate of note, 
was born at Montrcjean (Haute Garonne) July 25,1749, 


LACORDAIRE 


183 


LACORDAIRE 


and was educated in the college at Tarbes, which he en- 
tered in 1700. In 1788 he became rector of a college at 
Bordeaux, but energetically embracing the principles of 
the Revolution in 1789, he solemnly declared in favor of 
separation of Church and State, and was elected in con- 
sequence curate of St. Paul at Bordeaux. Sent to the 
Assembly, he took quite a prominent part in politics 
until the decretal prohibiting all ecclesiastical dress was 
published (April 7, 1792), when he forthwith ceased his 
service to the state, and returned to Bordeaux to assume 
the duties of his ecclesiastical functions. In 1797 he 
was elected metropolitan of Bordeaux, and in 1802 was 
one of the twelve bishops nominated by the emperor 
Napoleon, as whose zealous partisan Lacombe is known 
after his elevation to the episcopacy of Angouleme. He 
died April 7, 1823. See Annales de la JleUgion , xv, 134 ; 
Iloefer, Xouv. Blog. Generate , xxviii, 541. 

Lacordaire, Jean Baptiste Henri, a noted Ro- 
man Catholic theologian of this century, the reviver of 
the Dominican order, and a most distinguished pulpit 
orator of modern France, was born at Recey-sur-Ouree, 
in the department Cote-d’Or, March 12, 1802. He was 
educated for the legal profession, first at Dijon, where 
he obtained the highest honors, and afterwards (1822) 
at Paris, and in 1824 he began practice as an advocate, 
and rose rapidly to distinction. Lacordaire was at this 
time, like most of the youth of France, a Deist of the 
Voltaire school, but Lamennais’ Kssai sur V indifference, 
which fell into his hands, decided the youthful lawyer to 
devote himself thereafter to the cause of the Christian 
religion, which he felt satisfied must form the basis of 
all social life. He immediately abandoned his profes- 
sion, and entered the College of St.Sulpiee, and in 1827 
received holy orders. Montalembert, Laeordaire’s bi- 
ographer, however, would have us believe that this sud- 
den change from atheism to orthodox Christianity ‘‘was 
due to no man and to no book, but solely to a sudden 
impulse of grace, which opened his eyes to the sin and 
folly of irreligion.” Shortly after his ordination he was 
offered the position of auditor of the rota at the court 
of Rome, an office which at once confers the title of 
monsignore, and is always a step to the episcopate, and 
often to a cardinal’s hat ; but he declined it peremptorily. 
His first appointment was that of almoner in the Col- 
lege of Juilly, also known as the College of Henry IV. 
Here he became personally acquainted with the abbe 
Lamennais, and speedily the youthful priest and the 
learned theologian formed a close and intimate alliance, 
which was interrupted only by the departure of Lamen- 
nais from the Church in 1833. One of the first, and 
perhaps most important, results of the friendly alliance 
of these three men was the establishment, after the duly 
revolution of 1830, of the Journal I' Avenir, “an organ 
at once of the highest Church principles and of the 
most extreme radicalism.” See Lamennais. Count 
Montalembert has furnished ns a life-like portrait of 
Lacordaire at this time; and, although much allowance 
must be made for the passionate exclamations of a 
friend, it deserves at least our notice. “It was in No- 
vember, 1830, that I saw him for the first time in the 
cabinet of the abbe Lamennais, four months after a rev- 
olution which had appeared for a moment to confound 
in a common ruin the throne and the altar, and one 
month after the establishment of the Journal V Avenir. 
That journal had for its motto ‘ God and Liberty!'' It 
was the intention of the founders that it should regen- 
erate Catholic opinion in France, and seal its union with 

liberal progress lie was twenty-eight years of 

age; he was dressed as a layman, the state of Paris not 
then permitting priests to wear their clerical costume. 
II is slender figure, his delicate and regular features, his 
chiselled forehead, the sovereign carriage of his head, 
his black and spariding eye, an indescribable union of 
high spirit, elegance, and modesty in his whole appear- 
ance, were only the outward tokens of a soul which 
seemed ready to overflow, not merely in the free con- 
flicts of public speaking, but in the effusions of intimate 


friendship. The brightness of his glance revealed at 
once treasures of indignation and of tenderness ; it 
sought not merely enemies to combat and overthrow, 
but also hearts to win over and subdue. 11 is voice, so 
vigorous and vibrating, took often accents of infinite 
sweetness. Born to combat and to love, be already 
bore the stamp of the double royalty of soul and of tal- 
ent. 11c appeared to me charming and terrible, as the 
type of enthusiasm for good, of virtue armed in defence 
of the truth. 1 saw in him one of the elect, predesti- 
nated to all that youth most desires and adores — ge- 
nius and glory.” The articles published in the Avenir 
speedily provoked the displeasure of the episcopate, and 
an early opportunity was sought to bring the ‘trans- 
gressors to grief. This was found in ail intemperate 
attack written by Lacordaire against Louis Philippe. 
Both Lacordaire and Lamennais were cited before a jury 
for trial in January, 1831; the former, however, pleaded 
the cause of the journal with so much eloquence and 
ability that both the accused were acquitted. Thus 
encouraged, they adopted more vigorous measures to se-' 
cure liberty of education, in the face of an energetic 
opposition from the university. They announced that 
they would open a free school in the French capital, 
and actually began teaching in May, 1831. The. police, 
however, soon put an end to this bold movement, and, 
as one of their number was a count (Montalembert), 
they were accused before a court of peers, and fined 100 
francs. A short time after the papal see openly de- 
clared its opposition to them by an encyclical censure 
which Gregory XVI issued Sept. 18, 1832. Rejecting 
all their dogmas, it declared “the whole idea of the re- 
generation of the Church absurd, liberty of conscience a 
delirium, freedom of the press fatal, and inviolable sub- 
mission to the prince a maxim of faith.” Even before 
this papal censure had been publicly proclaimed the 
three chief editors of U Avenir had gone to Rome, to 
prevent, if possible, any severe measures on the part of 
the pope. It was at this time that Lamennais first de- 
cided to turn from the corruptions of Rome — from the 
corpse which he saw clearly it was in vain to attempt 
to resuscitate. Not so, however, was Lacordaire affect- 
ed. Ilis imagination had been vividly impressed by 
the imposing ceremonies and glorious traditions of the 
Romisli Church, and he was prepared at once to sub- 
mit to it “sient cadaver.” “The miseries, the infirmi- 
ties,” says Montalembert, in his biography of Lacordaire, 
“inseparable from the mingling of everything human 
with that which is divine, did not escape his notice, but 
they seemed to him as if lost in the mysterious splen- 
dor of tradition and authority. He the journalist, the 
citizen of 1830, he the democratic liberal, had compre- 
hended at the first glance not only the inviolable maj- 
esty of the supreme pontificate, but its difficulties, its 
long and patient designs, its indispensable regard for 
men and things here below. The faith and the duty 
of the Catholic priest had at once elevated that noble 
heart above all the mists of pride, above all the seduc- 
tions, all the temptations of talent, above all the intoxi- 
cation of strife. With the penetration which faith and 
humility confer, he passed beforehand upon our preten- 
sions the judgment which has been ratified by time, 
that great auxiliary of the Church and of truth. It 
was then, I venture to believe, that God marked him 
forever with the seal of his grace, and that he gave him 
the assurance of the reward due to the invincible fidel- 
ity of a truly priestly soul.” Hereafter the man Lacor- 
daire is lost in the churchman, the active and inquiring 
intellect confined, if not extinguished, by the official re- 
ligion. His bond fide retractation of course drew upon 
him not only estrangement from his master, whose in- 
tellectual philosophy he had never really adopted, and 
whose retractation was never more than formal, but the 
reproach of worldliness. It was due in reality, how- 
ever, to a precisely opposite cause. His heart was iden- 
tified with the cause of the Church, and only his intel- 
lect with the Free-Clmrch theory. “Do not let us 


LACORDAIRE 


184 


LACORDAIRE 


chain our hearts to our ideas,” he said quite earnestly : | 
and he evidently felt the delight in submission which 
always accompanies a sacritice of self for something one 
thinks higher and better than self. lie thought he had 
detected a pride of systematic philosophy in the views 
of his master, Lamennais, and this had, he said, often 
galled and fretted him. lie believed that the Church, 
in condemning Lamennais and his school, had delivered 
him (Laeordaire) “ from the most terrible of all oppres- 
sions, that of the human intellect;” and henceforth, 
though tender and respectful to his master in the ad- 
versity of papal disfavor, he really loved the Church 
the better for having humbled himself before her deci- 
sion, just as he would have loved God better for having- 
bowed his own self-will to the divine volition. The 
Church, he held, was higher than his intellect. His 
spirit, he fancied, had gained in vital power by humbling 
his own intellect before the mind of the Church. And 
so he embraced the first opportunity that presented it- 
self to convince the papal see of his sincerity. Lamen- 
nais had just appeared before the public in his Paroles 
d'un croyant , and the book was selling extensively, and 
finding a very large circle of readers. Here was an op- 
portunity to break a lance in defence of Lome; and, 
though the attack in this instance had to be directed 
even against his own former master, he hesitated not to 
enter the lists. He replied to Lamennais’ book by his 
Considerations sur le systeme pkilosophique de M. La- 
mennais, a work which proved a total failure, and which 
Montalembert, the associate of Laeordaire — his bosom 
apostate from Lamennais — is obliged to admit as hav- 
ing been anything but successful. New honors, notwith- 
standing, soon sought out the devoted adherent to the 
cause of the Ultramontanes, first (in 1833 and 1835) in 
the offer of the editorship of the journal L'Univers , then 
lately established to further the Ultramontane princi- 
ples, and later in the proffer of a professor’s chair at the 
University of Louvain. lie desired none of these — the 
pulpit and the convent cell he had decided should be 
his future place of resort, “ to speak and to write, to live 
a solitary and studious life;” he says in a letter of 1833, 
“such is the wish of my whole soul.” 

In the spring of 1833 he preached for the first time 
in public. It was in the great church of St. Loch, in 
Paris. “I was there,” says SI. Montalembert, “with 
MH.de Courcelles, Ampere, and some others, who must 
remember it as I do. He failed completely, and, com- 
ing out, every one said, ‘ This is a man of talent, but he 
never will be a preacher.’ Laeordaire himself thought 
the same.” II is failure was very much like that of 
Sheridan, D’lsraeli, Lobert Hall, and many other ora- 
tors — an incentive to become great. In the beginning 
of 1834 lie delivered his famous Conferences in the Col- 
lege Stanislas, the humblest of the colleges of Paris, 
where he had been appointed as lecturer to the students, 
and where his failure at St. Loch was now recompensed 
by a great success, his audience oftentimes amounting to 
from 500 to 600 persons. In the year following (1835) 
we find him installed preacher at Notre Dame, and for 
once it was acknowledged that “ France had a living 
preacher who knew how to fascinate the intellect, kin- 
dle the imagination, and touch the heart of the most 
cultivated and of the most illiterate. Whenever La- 
eordairc was announced to preach in Notre Dame the 
cathedral was surrounded, long before the doors were 
open, by an immense and heterogeneous crowd. Lefore 
he appeared in the pulpit, the vast nave, the aisles, and 
the side chapels were thronged with statesmen and 
journalists, members of the Academy and tradesmen, 
working-men and high-born women, sceptics, socialists, 
devout Catholics, and resolute Protestants, who were all 
compelled to surrender themselves for the time-to the 
irresistible torrent of his eloqucijiHi” (L. W. Dale, in Con- 
temporary Review, May, 1.X0K, p. 2). 

Only two years after his appointment to Notre Dame, 
Laeordaire suddenly tixed the wonder of the multitude 
again upon him by relinquishing the career of distinc- 


tion which had so lately opened to him, and by jour- 
neying to Lome, “with the principal design,” as he 
himself tells us in one of his letters, “of entering the 
Dominican order, with the accessory design of re-estab- 
lishing it in France.” This opens a new phase in the 
life of Laeordaire. “It was always the mark of Lacor- 
daire’s character,” says a writer in the Spectator (Lond. 
Dec. 7, 1867), “that all his deepest feelings, like moral 
caustic, burnt inward, so that he complained from the 
beginning of life to the end that even the deepest friend- 
ship he knew led him not into society, but into solitude,” 
and it is in solitude that his days are mainly spent after 
his sudden retreat from Notre Dame in 1837. Hence- 
forth his “ inner life” is a story of the inward progress 
of self-humiliations — self-crucifixions, as he called them, 
measuring them by the standard of Christ’s sufferings. 
In the complete self-sacrifice of the monk, in the abso- 
lute life in God to which he now resigned himself, he be- 
lieved he could alone find the true source of a new life for 
human society. If Christ’s self-sacrifice was the source 
of human redemption, the orders which set forth that 
self-saerifice most perfectly to the world contained the 
true life-blood of the world; and henceforth his life and 
that of his followers became one long passion of self-im- 
molation, in which the spirit was trained by the sharp- 
est voluntary penances to regulate every inward move- 
ment by the ideal of Christian humility or humiliation.* 
What Laeordaire’s biographer reverently calls “holy 
follies” were of daily occurrence. “ Will you,” he said 
one day on the Campagna to his disciple, pere Lesson, 
“ suffer something for the sake of him who has suffered 
so much for us?” and, showing him a thorn-hush, they 
both at once precipitated themselves into it, and came 
out covered with blood. IIow this was “suffering for 
Christ’s sake” Laeordaire does not explain ; hut he seems 
to have thought that all suffering, needless or needful, 
voluntary or involuntary, was a lesson in love for Christ. 
“All his mysticism,” says his biographer, “reduced it- 
self to this one principle, to suffer; to suffer in order to 
expiate justice, and in order to prove love.” And 
henceforth his life as a monk was a burning fire rf re- 
ligious passion and penance, all intended to teach him, 
as he thought, to enter more deeply into crucified love : 
“ Ilis thanksgiving after mass was generally short ; in 
making it lie most often experienced very ardent emo- 
tions of love to God, which he went to appease in the 
cell of one of his religious. He would enter with his 
countenance still radiant with the holy joy kindled at 
the altar; then, humbly kneeling before the religious, 
and kissing his feet, he would beg him to do him the 
charity of chastising him for the love of God. Then he 
would uncover his shoulders, and, whether willing or 
unwilling, the brother was obliged to give him a severe 
discipline. He would rise all bruised from his knees, 
and, remaining for a long time with his lips pressed to 
the feet of him who had scourged him, would give utter- 
ance to his gratitude in the most lively terms, and then 
withdraw with joy on his brow and in his heart. At oth- 
er times, .after receiving the discipline, he would beg the 
religious to sit down again at his table, and prostra- 
ting himself on the ground under his feet, he would re- 
main there for a quarter of an hour, finishing his prayer 
in silence, and delighting himself in God, as he felt his 
head under the foot that humbled him. These penances 
were very often renewed, and those who were chosen to 
execute them did not resign themselves to the office 
without difficulty. It was a real penance to them, es- 
pecially at first; they would willingly have changed 
places with him. But gradually they became used to 
it, and the father took occasion of this to require more, 
and to make them treat him according to his wishes. 
Then they were obliged to strike him, to spit in his 
face, to speak to him as a slave. k Go and clean my 
shoes; bring me such a thing; away with you, wretch !’ 
and they had to drive him from them like a dog. The 
religious whom he selected to render him these services 
were those who were most at their ease with him ; and 


LACORDAIRE 


183 


LACTAXTIUS 


he returned by preference to such as spared him least. I 
His thirst for penances of this description appears the 
more extraordinary from the fact that his exceedingly 
delicate and sensitive temperament rendered them in- 
supportably painful to him.” To Protestants this sounds 
like the rehearsal of an unreal moral tragedy, a rehearsal 
which must have done far more to bewilder the minds 
of those who were guilty of these artificial, cruel, and 
unmeaning insults to one they loved and revered than 
to deepen his own love for his Lord. Yet in scenes like 
these were fostered the roots of his life as a Dominican 
friar — the spirit less of a modern Catholic thinker than 
of a mediaeval monk. Put if his change to a monastic 
seclusion from the turmoils of Paris life must appear 
strange to a Protestant reader, greater still will ever be 
the task. to explain how this advocate of liberty of con- 
science and the impropriety of the interference of the 
civil power for the punishment of heretics could find it 
in his heart to resuscitate an order which has more 
crimes and cruelties to answer for than even the infa- 
mous sect of the Assassins — an order whose founder was 
the very incarnation of persecution. Just here also it 
may not be out of place to allude to the uncritical man- 
ner in which Lacordaire composed a life of St. Dominic 
— the founder of the Inquisition — entirely ignoring all 
those historians who have detailed and proved the atro- 
cious cruelties perpetrated by that saint and his follow- 
ers ( 1 7c de /Saint- Dominique , Paris, 1840-4, 8vo). 

In 1840, after a three-years’ .novitiate in the convent 
of Quercia, Lacordaire took the vows of the order of St. 
Dominic, and in 1841, with shaved head and clad in the 
white robe of his order, which had not been seen in 
France for half a century, he once more ascended the 
pulpit of Notre Dame. From this time his voice was 
frequently heard within the walls of that great cathe- 
dral of the capital of the French, as well as in many 
other parts of France. Thus, in 1847, he preached in 
the cathedral church of Nancy the funeral sermon of 
general Drouot, by many (e. g. Ste.-Peuve) pronounced 
a masterpiece of pulpit oratory. In the first election 
which succeeded the Devolution of 1848 he was chosen 
one of the representatives of Marseilles, and took part in 
some of the debates in the Assembly; but he resigned 
in the following May. and withdrew entirely from polit- 
ical life. In 1849, and again in 1850 and 1851, he re- 
sumed his courses at Notre Dame. To immense au- 
diences, such as no orator in France had ever been able 
to call together before, he delivered in these eventful 
years a series of discourses on the communion of man 
with God, on the fall and the restoration of man, and on 
the providential economy of the restoration, which, to- 
gether with earlier discourses, have been collected in 
three volumes, under the title of Conferences de Notre 
Dame de Paris (18.35-50 ; a selection was published in 
English dress by Henry Langdon, N. York, 1871, 8vo). 
His last public discourse at Paris he delivered at St. 
Koch in February, 1853. To some of his remarks the 
imperial government took exception; and Lacordaire, 
finding himself restricted in that freedom of speech of 
which he had been throughout life a steady and power- 
ful defender, never again preached in Paris; but at 
Toulouse — the birthplace of St. Dominic and the burial- 
place oftSt. Aquinas — hfc delivered in 1854 six discourses 
on life — the life of the passions, the moral life, the super- 
natural life, and the influence of the supernatural life on 
the public and private life of man — which his biogra- 
pher (Montalembert) pronounces “the most eloquent, 
the most irreproachable of all.” Offered the direction 
of the school and eon vent of Soreze, he withdrew to that 
noted retreat of the Dominicans, and there died, Nov. 
21, 1861. Besides the works alluded to — the Confe- 
rences and Considerations philosopkiqnes — Laeordaire 
wrote a Memoir e pour le retablissement en France de 
Vordre des f re res precheurs (1840). His correspondence 
with Madame Swetchine (by Falloux, 1864), with Mont- 
alembert (1863), and with a young friend (by l’abbe 
Perreire, 1863), as well as all his other writings, were 


published as (Euvres completes in 1851, 1858, and 1861, 
in 6 vols. 8vo and 12mo. He was elected a member of 
the Academy in 1860 as successor to M. de Tocqueville, 
upon whom he pronounced a eulogy — the customary in- 
augural address — which was his last public address. 

Of the ability Lacordaire displayed in his works a 
writer in the Brit, and For. Evanej. Rev. (Oct. 1863), p. 
726 sq., thus comments: “As a writer, Lacordaire has 
not the slightest pretensions to compete with Laraen- 
nais, one of the greatest writers of French prose. His 
loose, declamatory, theatrical style is in every respect 
far inferior to the simple, grand, nervous eloquence of 
Lamennais. \Ye also venture to affirm that, in too 
many of his discourses, instead of explaining the Word 
of God simply and familiarly to the people, he goes out 
of his way to attack what he terms the prevailing doubt 
and scepticism of the age, and attempts to guide his 
hearers to a positive divine faith by the utter annihila- 
tion of the natural reason. In many of his discourses, 
too, he falsities history for the purpose of making it co- 
incide with his Komanist prejudices. lie absolutely 
refuses to recognise any good whatever in former sys- 
tems of religion and philosophy. Without the pale of 
the Romish Church all is evil, within it everything is 
good. As to human reason, he cannot endure it. 4 That 
which at present ruins everything,’ lie says, ‘ that which 
causes the world to vide insecurely at anchor, is the 
reason.’ ‘Our intelligence appears to me like a ship 
without sails or masts on an unknown sea.’ ‘ Societies 
are tottering when the thinkers take them in hand, and 
the precise moment of their downfall is that wherein 
they announced to them that the intellect is emanci- 
pated.’ And while human reason is thus summarily 
condemned, the infallibility of the Church is asserted 
and defended in the most absolute manner. ‘ The Cath- 
olic doctrine.’ he says, ‘ resolves all questions, and takes 
from them even the quality of questions. We have no 
longer to reason, which is a great blessing, for we are 
not here to reason, but to act, and to build up in time a 
work for eternity.’” 

See Montalembert, Le Fere Lacordaire (Paris, 1862, 
8vo) ; Lomenie, Le Fere Lacordaire (1844); Lorrain, 
Biographic historique de Lacordaire (1847); Chocarne, 
Inner Life of Fere Lacordaire (trail si. by Father Ayl- 
ward; Loud, and New York, 1867, 8vo); Yillard. Corre- 
spondence inedite et biograph ie (Par. 1870, 8 vo); Kirwan, 
Modern France (1863) ; and the Revue des deux Mondes , 
May 1,1861: Sainte-Bcuve, Cau series duLvndi, i,208sq.; 
Brit, and For. Ev. Rev. Oct. 1863, art. iii ; Contempora- 
ry Rev. May, 1868, art. i. M. Edmond Scherer, in the 
Litterature Contemporaine , also treated of pere Laeor- 
daire, but with special regard to his ability as a writer. 
His estimate of the noted Dominican is rather unfavor- 
able, perhaps even unjust. Of the discourses of Lacor- 
daire, he maintains that they are “ unreadable” (p. 166). 
See also Blachrood's Magazine, Feb. 1863 ; Lond. Quart. 
Review , J uly, 1864. (J. i I . W.) 

Lacroix, Claudius, a noted Roman Catholic theolo- 
gian and philosopher, was born at the village of St. An- 
dre, province of Limburg, in 1652. He became master 
of philosophy in 1673, and immediately after joined the 
Order of Jesuits, lie taught moral theology first at 
Cologne, then at Munster; became doctor of theology in 
1698, and died June 1, 1714. He wrote a commentary 
on Busenbaum’s Moral Theologie (Cologne, D 19, 2 vols. 
folio). See Busenuau.ii. 

Lacroze, Matdurix Veyssiere de, a distinguish- 
ed French Orientalist, was in turn a merchant, a medi- 
cal student, and a Benedictine monk. Finally, having 
abjured Romanism, he retired to Prnssia, where, in 1697, 
he became librarian to the king. He died at Berlin in 
1739. His principal works are TIistoire dv Christian- 
isme des Indes (La Have, 1724, sm. 8vo) : — flistoire du 
Christianisme d' Ethiopia et d' Armenia (La Have, Do9, 
sm. 8vo). See Darling, Cyclop. Bibliog. s. v. 

Lactantius. Lucius Ccelius (or C.ecilius) Fir- 


LACTAXTIUS 


186 


LACTAXTIUS 


miaxus, one of the early Latin fathers, called by Jerome I 
(Catal. e. 80) the most learned man of his time, and, on 
account of the tine and rhetorical culture which liis 
writings evince, not unlrequently named the Christian 
Cicero (or, as Jerome has it, “ Flavius eloquent Uc Tulli- 
ame'’), was formerly supposed to have been by birth an 
African, but is now generally believed to have been of 
Italian birth, a native of Firmura (Fermo), on the Adri- 
atic. Italy. He was born probably near the middle of 
the 3d century; his parents, according to his own ac- 
count, were heathens, and he only became a Christian 
at a somewhat mature age (comp. De Ira Dei , c. 2; In- 
stitt. Dii\ vii, 2), certainly before the Diocletian perse- 
cution. Laetantius pursued his rhetorical studies in the 
school of the celebrated rhetorician and apologist Arno- 
bius of Sicca, in proconsular Africa, and it is thus, in all 
probability, that arose the notion that Laetantius was 
of African birth. While yet a youth Laetantius gained 
celebrity by the publication of a poetical work called 
& ’ymposion, a collection of a hundred riddles in hexame- 
ters for table amusement. But it was his eloquence 
that secured him really great renown, and he was heard 
of by Diocletian, and by him called to Nieomedia as 
professor of Latin eloquence. This city was, however, 
inhabited and visited mainly by Greeks, and Laetantius 
found but few pupils to instruct. This afforded him 
plenty of leisure, and he welcomed it as an opportunity 
to devote liiraselflargelv to authorship. Thus he con- 
tinued at Nieomedia ten years, while the Christians 
were not only persecuted by the emperors with tire and 
sword, but, also assailed by the heathen philosophers 
with the weapons of science, wit, and ridicule. Against 
so many outrages Laetantius felt impelled to undertake 
the defence of the hated and despised religion, and the 
more as he thought he had observed that they proceed- 
ed, at least in part, from ignorance and gross misunder- 
standings. It was dnring this defence of Christianity, in 
all probability, that lie became himself a convert to the 
true faith, and thus may it be accounted for that Con- 
stantine called him to his court in Gaul as preceptor 
(after 312 says Dr. Schaff, Ch. Hist, iii, 95G) of his son 
Crispus, whom Constantine afterwards (32G) caused to 
be put to death. Eusebius tells ns that even in this 
exalted position he remained so poor as often to want 
for the necessaries of life, lie must have been quite 
old when he arrived in Gaul, for he is then already spo- 
ken of as a grav-liaired old man, and he is supposed to 
have died at the imperial residence in Treves shortly 
after his pupil Crispus, about 330. It has often been a 
matter of great perplexity to antiquarians to aeeount 
for the fact that Laetantius escaped personal injury dur- 
ing the Diocletian persecution. Some think, and this 
seems to be reasonable, that Laetantius escaped suffering 
for his faith because he was generally regarded as a 
philosopher, and not as a Christian writer; and, indeed, 
to judge from his De Opijicio Dei , he appears to have 
been more attracted by the moral and philosophical as- 
pects of Christianity than by the supernatural and the 
dogmatic. In fact, in all the theological works of Laetan- 
tius is manifest the influence of his early studies of all 
the masterpieces of ancient rhetoric and philosophy, and 
lie may be detined as a Christian pupil of Cicero and of 
►Seneca. (Comp., on the inclination of the early Chris- 
tian teachers in the 1 toman empire to style themselves 
‘•philosophers.'* fir if. Quart. Dev. J uly, 1871, p. 9, eol. 1.) 
Jerome even says of him ( Ejnst . 83, ad Puulitnnn [alias 
8 1 ad Mar/utnu]), “ Laetantius wrote seven books against 
the Gentiles, and two volumes on the work and the an- 
ger of God. If you wish to read these treatises, you 
will find in them a compendium of Cicero's Dialogues.” 
lie had entered more deeply into Christian morals than 
into Christian metaphysics, and his works otlcr hone of 
those learned and profound expositions of the dogmas 
which we find in Clement of Alexandria or in < )rigen. 
Laetantius, however, has been called, as we already 
hinted, the Christian Cicero, on account of his resem- 
blance to this celebrated classical writer in the elegance 


and finish of his style, but still more on account of hav- 
ing made himself the advocate and propagator of the 
great moral truth of Christianity, while carefully avoid- 
ing all dogmatic speculation; thus also did Cicero advo- 
cate all the great practical truths of the best philosoph- 
ical systems of antiquity, but set little store by what- 
ever was purely metaphysical. 

In learning and culture Laetantius excelled all the 
men of his time; in the words of Jerome, he was “om- 
nium suo tempore eruditissimus.” Jlis writings betray 
a noble unconsciousness which forgets itself in striving 
to reach its lofty aim. The modesty of his claims and 
of his estimate of himself is exhibited and embodied in 
the facts of his life. Although at the court of the great- 
est prince on earth, and by liis position invited to luxu- 
rious indulgence, he voluntarily preferred a poverty 
which not only excluded superfluities, but also often dis- 
pensed with the necessaries of life. Some have repre- 
sented that he pushed his austerities even to an unau- 
thorized extreme. “ 1 shall think that I have sufficiently 
lived,” lie writes, “and that 1 have sufficiently fulfilled 
the office of a man, if my labor shall have freed any 
from their errors, and directed them in the way to 
heaven.” 

Laetantius was a layman and a rhetorician, and yet 
he displays in his writings in general — and they were 
not few — such a depth and extent of theological knowl- 
edge as could scarcely have been expected. It is sur- 
prising with what penetration and precision he handles 
many intricate subjects. Warmth of feeling, richness 
of thought, and clearness of apprehension are impressed 
upon ail his literary productions, liis expressions arc 
always lucid, considerate, and well arranged. Nowhere 
does the reader feel an unpleasant tone of pedantry or 
affectation ; everywhere he is attracted by the impress 
of genuine learning and eloquence. In harmony and 
purity of style, in beauty and elegance of expression, he 
excels all the fathers of Christian antiquity, if we except 
Ambrose in some of his letters, and Sulpicius Severns. 
His reputation in this respect was so celebrated in the 
earliest times that men loved to call him the Christian 
Cicero. So much for form and diction. The ease is 
quite otherwise with the exposition of the peculiar doc- 
trines of Christianity in detail. In the midst of admi- 
rable philosophical developments, as with other writers 
of this class, we meet with many mistakes, many errd- 
neous views and half-truths, for which Gelasius classed 
his writings with the Apocrypha. If the judgment 
above expressed is thus, in some measure, modified, yet 
is his merit not much diminished. That is to say. there 
are at bottom almost entirely sneli anomalies as he met 
in the older writers before him, and which the Church 
had not yet distinctly excluded by a more precise defi- 
nition of the doctrines in question. What strikes us 
more unpleasantly is that we miss the establishment of 
Christianity by proof from its own dogmas, which he 
himself had promised to give; we sympathize with Je- 
rome in the wish, “Utinani tarn nostra confirmare potu- 
isset, quant facile aliena distinxit.” 

Dr. Schaff gives the following summary of the doc- 
trinal views of Laetantius ( Church Ilist. iii, 957) : “ liis 
mistakes and errors in the exposition of points of Chris- 
tian doctrine do not amount to heresies, but are mostly 
due to the crude and unsettled state of the Church doc- 
trine at the time. In the doctrine of sin he borders 
upon Manichaasm. In anthropology and soteriology he 
follows the synergism which, until Augustine, was al- 
most universal. In the doctrine of the Trinity he was, 
like most of the ante-Niccnc fathers, a snbordinationist. 
He taught a duplex nativitas of Christ, one at the crea- 
tion, and one at the incarnation. Christ went forth 
from God at the creation as a word from the mouth, yet 
hypostatieally.” 

Works. — VVe will briefly notice his works in order: 1. 
Dii'inarum lustitutiamim , libri vii (Divine Institutes, 
seven hooks), a comprehensive apology for the Christian 
religion, which, on aeeount of the elegant style in which 


LACTANTIUS 


187 


LACTANTIUS 


it is written, has been favorite reading, and is said to 
have appeared in more than a hundred editions, llis 
motive for writing this work lie thus assigns himself: 
Since men, by their own fault bewildered, can no longer 
find the way back to truth, his object is to point it out 
to them, and, at the same time, to confirm in it those 
who have already reached it. He feels himself the 
more impelled to this because his predecessors in this 
field— and lie names particularly Tertullian and Cyprian 
— had not, in his opinion, satisfied the requirements of 
the case on all sides, and had performed their task nei- 
ther with the requisite learning and thoroughness, nor 
with the suitable adornment of art and scientific depth. 
To this unfortunate circumstance he ascribes it that the 
Christian religion was held in such contempt, and with 
the educated classes was as good as totally unknown. 
When, with all the power of language and genius which 
he eminently possessed, Laetantius promises to make a 
defence of the faith, the precedence in this respect must 
by all means be conceded to him ; in beauty of form 
and splendor of diction he surpasses all; but Jerome 
justly refuses to admit the same in respect to the weight 
of the contents and the solidit}* of the proofs. The work 
is dedicated to Constantine the Great — if the passage is 
not an interpolation — whom he extols with the highest 
reverence, and praises as the first Christian prince, and 
the restorer of righteousness. Consequently, it was 
written at the time when lie, advanced in years, was al- 
ready at court; but the Church was still sighing under 
a severe persecution, evidently that of Licinius, since the 
author refers to that of Diocletian as having long since 
died out. This brings us to the year 320, although he 
had, as elsewhere appears from his own words, formed 
the purpose and the plan at a much earlier period. Some 
suppose that the work was commenced in lfithynia and 
completed in Gaul after a lapse of twenty years. Oth- 
ers, from an allusion which it contains to the Diocletian 
persecution — “Spcctata? sunt enim spectanturquc adlmc 
per orbem poena? cultorum Dei,” etc. (v, 17, § 5), suppose 
it to have been written before Laetantius went to Gaul. 

The seven books into which this work is divided 
form seven separate treatises. The first book is in- 
scribed De falsa religione. lie designedly leaves un- 
touched the principal question in regard to the existence 
of a supreme Providence, and takes his departure from 
the proposition that there is one God , and that, accord- 
ing to onr idea of his essence, of his relation to the 
world under him, and of that to him, there can be but 
one. lie proceeds then to confirm this dogma by the 
authority of the prophets (of which, however, he makes 
more use in his programme than in his performance; 
and which, indeed, would have been only a petitio prin- 
cipii), by the utterances of the poets, the philosophers, 
and the sibyls — all of whom consent in one and the 
same truth ; and this, at least, is good as an argumentum 
ad hominem, though he seems to allege it as having a 
higher and proper force of proof. The last half of the 
book consists in the ludicrous exposure and sarcastic 
confutation of the mythological system of deities in 
general and in detail, as recognised by its advocates. 

The second book, De origine erroris , demonstrates the 
manifold absurdity with which mankind, while all na- 
ture impels them to the knowledge of the one God, and 
a law of necessity teaches every one instinctively to 
seek him, arc nevertheless so blinded as to wander 
away to the worship o.f idols. lie confutes the spurious 
grounds by which particularly the educated class among 
the heathen sought to excuse or justify idolatry, and 
shows how this whole pagan religion, more closely con- 
sidered, is only a reflex of their thoroughly materialized 
and secularized habit of mind. l>ut since the heathen 
used especially to appeal to the antiquity of their coitus 
and to venerable tradition, the author meets them in 
this wise: In matters of religion every one must see for 
himself; error, though ever so full of years, has. by its 
old age, acquired no right, and must give way to the 
truth so soon as she establishes against it her primitive 


and indefeasible claims. lie proceeds, with constant 
reference to the diverging opinions of the philosophers, 
to develop from the holy Scriptures the history of the 
creation and of the origin of idolatry. According to 
him, this originated in its first germ from Ilam, who lay 
under his fathers curse. Among his posterity the loss 
of the knowledge of the true God first prevailed; this 
passed over into Sabaism or Parsceism (worship of the 
heavenly bodies); spread itself in this form first in 
Egypt, and thence among the neighboring people. In 
its further progress it included the deification of men, an 
externally pompous worship, and finally developed it- 
self into idolatry proper, which, cherished and promoted 
by the influence of daemons, and strengthened by means 
of other arts, by oracles, magic, etc., leavened the whole 
life of the pagan nations. The truth of this intimate 
connection of the daemon realm with the heathen poly- 
theistic worship, and with the phenomena pertaining 
thereto, lies visibly before ns, says Laetantius, in the 
Christian power of exorcism; and with this he con- 
cludes. 

The third book, De falsa sapientia , exposes the hea- 
then philosophy as nugatory and false. The etymology 
of the word philosophy indicates, says he, not the pos- 
session of wisdom, but a striving after it; and in its ul- 
timate result it leaves us nothing but mere opinions, 
upon whose grounds or groundlessness it can give us no 
trustworthy criterium, and consequently no certainty. 
The result of all philosophy, therefore, when brought 
into relation to our highest end, is unsatisfying and use- 
less. Our heart thirsts after happiness, and this eager, 
fervent impulse no human wisdom can satiate. The 
reason why it cannot is this : because, torn away from 
its union with religion, the fundamental condition of 
happiness, it must necessarily become external, one- 
sided, and abstract. He finally points out in detail this 
result of all philosophy in the history of the different 
schools, none of which has found the truth, or could find 
it, because their formal principle had already misplaced 
the way to the desired goal. Therefore — and this is the 
natural conclusion — to still his thirst for knowledge, man 
must not turn himself to these, but to God’s own revela- 
tion. 

The fourth book, De vera sapientia, proposes to pre- 
pare the way to this goal. Starting with the principle 
already enunciated, but here set forth more in detail, 
that (genuine) wisdom and religion are, in the last 
analysis, one, they may, only in our conception, be held 
asunder as distinct, abstract elements, but in reality and 
in life ought never to be separated. The heathen phi- 
losophy and religion, in which this unnatural antithesis 
and separation occurred, were therefore, for this simple 
reason, false. The true unity of the two is found only 
in Christianity. In order to exl libit this principle as a 
fact, he reviews the history of our religion. After hav- 
ing briefly, but as much as he deemed requisite for his 
purpose, spoken of the prophets, he proceeds to develop 
the doctrine, after his fashion, of the person of Jesus 
Christ, from the first, the eternal birth of the Logos from 
the Father, and from the second, his incarnation in time; 
he establishes the truth of these, together with his De- 
ity and his Messianic ollice, from his life, his miracles, 
and the prophets, with reference almost always to the 
Jews only; but finally he shows to the heathen how the 
very idea of true ethical wisdom in some sort includes 
in itself the incarnation of the lawgiver, that so a perfect 
example may be given of the. possibility of keeping the 
law. The necessities of man required this in order to a 
mediation between God and man ; and the lowly life of 
Christ, his sufferings, and even his death on the cross, 
are in perfect, harmony with this design. 

The .fifth book, De just it ia , unfolds first the author’s 
motives and object. Then, entering upon the subject 
itself, he teaches how, anciently, in the times called by 
the heathen the Golden Age, t He one God was honored, 
and with his worship justice bore sway ; and how. in the 
sequel, in connection with polytheism, all sorts of vice 


LACTAXTIUS 


188 


LACTAXTIUS 


came trooping in, but with Christ a kind of golden age I 
lias again appeared through the propagation of right- 
eousness. 1 le further shows how near this lies to all, and 
that only through wilfulness it can fail to be known ; 
and how the heathen, in open contradiction to the idea 
of religion, to reason, and to every sentiment of right, 
bate the Christians, and persecute and torment them 
even to t he deat h. Were the Christians fools, one should 
spare them; if wise, imitate them. That they are the 
latter is made clear by their virtuous behavior and 
their unflinching constancy. It is true the wisdom 
and righteousness of God condescend to clothe them- 
selves in the appearance of folly, partly that thus the 
wisdom of the world may be convinced of its nothing- 
ness, and partly that the righteous man may be helped 
forward on the narrow way to his reward. The pre- 
texts offered by the heathen in justification of their 
treatment of the Christians, as that they sought to bring 
them to a sober mind, etc., were, he maintains, utterly 
empty, because, in the first place, this treatment was in 
itself unsuitable, and, in respect to the Christians, who 
knew very well how to defend their cause with all so- 
berness, it was contemptuous and destructive of its own 
object; but, in the second place, these pretexts were con- 
tradicted and falsified by the Homans 1 contrary practice 
of toleration towards other and extremely despicable and 
senseless religions. Bather it was abundantly clear that 
nothing but a fierce hatred against the truth impelled to 
those bloody deeds of violence and cruelty. 

The sixth book , De vero eultu, treats of the practical 
side of true religion. A merely external worship, like 
that of the heathen, is absolutely worthless, and only 
that is true in which the human soul offers itself to God. 
As all the philosophers agree in saying there are two 
ways for man, one of virtue, the other of vice; the for- 
mer narrow and toilsome, leading to immortality; the 
latter easy and pleasant, leading to destruction ; the 
Christians call them the way to heaven and to hell, and 
eagerly prefer the former, that at the last they may attain 
the enjoyment of the blessedness in which it ends. The 
philosophers could not find the way of virtue, because 
at the outset they had formed to themselves an utterly 
different idea of good and evil, and therefore always 
sought it where it is never to be found — on earth in- 
stead of in heaven. The Christians, who walk in the 
light of revelation, have the clew of the truth, the eter- 
nal, unchangeable law of God. adapted to the nature of 
man, which unfolds our duties both towards God (officia 
pietatis) and towards man (olficia lmmanitatis). Lac- 
t ant ius then proceeds to treat of the virtues which arc 
embraced in the fundamental principle of genuine hu- 
manity — pity, liberality, care for the widow, the orphan, 
the sick, the dead, etc.; finally, of self-government and 
the moderation of the desires and appetites, particularly 
of chastity in wedlock and out of if; and, last of all. of 
penitence or penance (poenitentia), and the true service 
of God. The ^rmcr lie treats as a satisfaction, and in 
the latter he does not rise above the merely ethical, na- 
tionalistic position, although, through his whole exposi- 
tion, he makes references, by way of contrast, to the di- 
vergent views of the philosophers. 

The seventh and last hook, De vita beat a, has for its 
subject the chief end of man. lie gives us briefly his 
own conception of the great end of our existence, thus: 
“The world was made that we might be born; we are 
bom that we might know the Creator of the world and 
of ourselves; we know him that we may honor him; 
we honor him that we may receive immortality as the 
reward of our effort, because the honoring of God de- 
mands the highest effort; wc are rewarded with immor- 
tality. that we, like the angels, may forever serve the 
supreme Father and Lord, and may form unto God an 
ever-during kingdom : that is the sum and substance of 
all things, the secret of God, the mystery of the world.” 
After this follows the proof of the immortality of the 
soul, pursued through ten distinct arguments, with the 
refutation of objections. He then proceeds with an at- 


tempt to show under what condition the natural immor- 
tality of the soul becomes at the same time a blessed 
immortality. With this he connects his views in re- 
gard to the time and the signs of the end of the present 
world to the last judgment, to the millennial reign, to 
the general resurrection and the transformation of this 
world. On the superabounding delights and glories of 
the millennium he enlarges with special satisfaction and 
copious eloquence. In conclusion, he congratulates the 
Church upon the peace which Constantine has given 
her, and calls upon all to forsake the worship of idols 
and to do homage to the one true God. 

2. An Epitome of the Institutes , dedicated to Pentadius, 
is appended to the larger work, and is attributed to Lac- 
tantius by Jerome, who describes it as being even in his 
time aKt^aXoQ. All the early editions of this abridg- 
ment begin at the sixteenth chapter of the fifth book 
of the original. Put in the 18th century a MS. con- 
taining nearly the entire work was discovered in the 
royal library at Turin, and was published by C. M. Pfaff, 
chancellor of the University of Tubingen (Paris, 1712). 
Walchius and others have doubted the genuineness of 
this Epitome , but Jerome’s assertion appears to ns con- 
clusive. 

3. De Ira Dei (On the Anger of God). It has often 
been observed how the Greek philosophy, and, follow- 
ing its lead, the heretical Gnosis, could not reconcile jus- 
tice and goodness. This had also struck Lactantius, 
and awakened in him the thought of proving in this 
treatise that the abhorrence of evil and primitive jus- 
tice are necessary and fundamental attributes of the di- 
vine Being. In the judgment of Jerome, this work is 
composed with equal learning and eloquence. Its date 
is probably somewhat later than that of the Institutes. 

The system both of the Epicureans and of the Stoics 
excluded all reaction of God against the wicked. The 
former, in order not to disturb God’s indolent repose; 
the latter, in order not to transfer to the idea of God hu- 
man characteristics, would know nothing of any vital or 
essentia] manifestation of the Deity in the course of the 
world or towards mankind. Lactantius showed how, 
on the contrary, in the worthy idea of God’s essence and 
operation, the conception of providence cannot lie want- 
ing; and how, moreover, complacency towards the good 
has, as its natural counterpart, the detestation of its op- 
posite, the evil. Besides, religion is incontestably found- 
ed in the nature of man ; but, if we assume that God is 
not angry with the wicked, or docs not avenge the trans- 
gressions of his commands, from religion are withdrawn, 
bv consequence, its rational motive and all its founda- 
tions, If there is a moral distinction among actions, it 
is impossible that God should stand affected in the same 
manner towards the one as towards the other, and that 
without its being necessary, in consequence, to ascribe 
to God likewise passions or affections which consist in a 
weakness, as, for example, fear. When Epicurus objects 
that God could punish — if punish he must — without any 
emotion within himself, Lactantius replies : the view of 
the evil must of itself provoke the will of any being who 
is good to a counter emotion, and it cannot be indiffer- 
ent to the lawgiver how his precepts shall be observed. 
The disproportion of the external fortunes of the good 
and the bad in the present life proves nothing to the 
contrary when we consider the proper attitude and es- 
sence of virtue, etc. The whole he confirms by declara- 
tions of the prophets, and especially of the sibyls. 

4. De Opijicio Dei , vel formatione horn inis (On Cre- 
ation). — This is thought to be the first-fruits of the 
Christian genius of Lactantius, since, judging from the 
introduction, the persecution was still in progress. The 
book is dedicated to a certain Demctrianus, who, having 
been his disciple, w-as now an officer of state ; it is espe- 
cially directed against the prevailing philosophy, and 
therefore the presentation of the subject is kept, in form 
and spirit, upon this basis. The subject of the treatise 
is the organization of human nature, which Ciecro, he 
says, has more than once superficially touched upon in 


LACTANTIUS 


1S9 


LACTANTIUS 


his philosophical writings, but never thoroughly inves- 
tigated. lie first draws a general parallel between the 
organism of the beasts and that of man ; to the latter 
God, in connection with an apparently scantier outfit, has 
given, in his reason, a pre-eminence far outweighing all 
tlie superiority of the beasts in physical force. When 
philosophy, particularly the Epicurean, reminds us of 
the helplessness of human infancy, of man’s weakness 
and early dissolution, the author shows, on the other 
hand, that these objections rest upon a one-sided mode 
of regarding, partly the phenomena in question con- 
sidered absolutely, and partly the essence and the end 
of man and of his nature (c. 1-4). Having thus, in a 
preliminary way, disposed of these possible objections 
against his subsequent exhibition of the subject, he pro- 
ceeds to his proper business, the consideration of the 
human body as the habitation and organ of the soul, 
lie indulges in a detailed investigation and analysis of 
its wonderful structure; shows the beauty and symme- 
try of its several limbs, their adaptation to their corre- 
sponding functions, and their admirable connection with 
the totality of the organism. Hence he establishes, 
what the Epicureans denied, that a divine creation, and 
an ordering and guiding providence, are active through- 
out the uni verse (c. 5-17). In conclusion, he dilates 
upon the essence of our soul, upon its distinction from 
spirit (animus), and, finally, upon its propagation. Tie 
here reviews the opposing philosophical theories, and 
declares himself thoroughly opposed to generationism or 
traducianism (c. 17-20). In this treatise he has caught 
the grand idea, and furnished the leading materials of 
Paley’s famous teleological argument; and, what is more 
surprising, has anticipated some of the most striking 
and comprehensive ideas of modern scientific and zoolog- 
ical classification. 

5. De mortibus pei'secutorum (On Martyrdom). — Le 
Nourry was of opinion that this treatise does not belong 
to Lactantius. In the only codex which we. have of it, 
it bears, not the inscription Firmiani Lactantii, but Lu- 
eii Cieeilii, which is never given to our author by the 
ancient writers. We must confess that, without being 
aware of this judgment of Le Nourry, we had already, 
upon a eareful reading of the treatise, come to the same 
conclusion from internal evidence. Mohler, on the other 
hand, maintains its genuineness; in confirmation of 
which he refers to the facts: (l) that Jerome refers to a 
work of Lactantius under the name Be Perseeutione , 
which, says he, indicates a similar subject matter with 
the work in question; (2) that it is dedicated to a cer- 
tain Donatus, like that De Ira Dei , and the writer shows 
himself to have been an eyewitness of the transactions 
in Nieomedia under Dioeletian. These reasons certainly 
are not very strong; but, meanwhile, it is a curious 
question whether the Donatus addressed in this treatise 
as a professor may not have been the first Donatus of 
heretical notoriety. Mohler further adds that the style 
is the same as that of Lactantius’s other works. From 
this we must strongly dissent. The style is harsher, 
more rugged, 'and broken and irregular — often obscure. 
It frequently reminds one of Tacitus; whereas the gen- 
uine Lactantius rarely departs from an imitation of the 
clear, smooth, flowing, and copious style of Cicero, whom 
he had chosen for his special model of eloquence. 

In the early editions of Lactantius De mortibus jierse- 
cutorum is altogether wanting. It was first printed by 
Stephen Baluze in his Miscellanea , vol. ii (Paris, 1G79), 
from a very ancient IMS. in the Bibliotheca Colberti- 
na. Its authenticity as the De Perseeutione Liber Unus 
of Lactantius, mentioned by Jerome, is maintained by 
Baluze, Ileumann, and others. Among the latest au- 
thorities in favor of accepting the production as a genu- 
ine work of Lactantius we count Mohler (see below) and 
Dr. Philip Schafif (Ch. Hist, iii, 958, note 2). Against 
accrediting this treatise to Lactantius are prominent, 
besides Nourry (in the Append, to ii, 839 sq. of Migne’s 
edition of Lactantius), Pfalf, Walch, Le Clerc, Lardner, 
Gibbon, Burekhardt, and others. 


The object of this work is to show the truth of the 
Christian religion historically, from the tragical fate of 
all those who have persecuted the Church of Christ. It 
gives a very detailed description of several scenes in the 
persecutions of Nero, Domitian, and Valerian, but es- 
pecially dwells upon the later times, those of Dioeletian 
and his imperial colleagues Galcrius and Maximin, and 
shows how avenging justice overtook them all. This 
work, if genuine, furnishes highly important contribu- 
tions to ecclesiastical history. Among other things, its 
author, whoever he may be, declares that Peter and Paul 
preached the Gospel at Borne, and established a temple 
of God there, where they both suffered martyrdom. 

G. Lost Writings * — The Symposium of Lactantius has 
probably perished, though some have surmised that the 
uEniymata , published under the name of Symposius, is 
really the youthful composition of Lactantius. Jerome 
mentions besides an Itinerarium in hexameters, two 
books to Asclepiades , eight books of letters to Probus, 
Severus, and Domitian, all of which are lost. It ap- 
pears from his own words (Inst it. vii, 1, sub fin.) that he 
had formed the design of drawing up a work against 
the Jews, but we cannot tell whether he ever accom- 
plished his purpose. 

Several other pieces still extant, but which have been 
erroneously ascribed to Lactantius, are, De Phanice , in 
elegiacs, a compilation of tales and legends on the far- 
famed Arabian bird ; it is probably of a later date (see 
Wernsdorff, Poetce Lat. M i no res, iii, 283): — Symposium , 
a collection of one hundred riddles, more likely the work 
of a certain Cadius Firmianus : — De Pascha ad Felicem 
Episcopum , now generally considered as the work of 
Venantius Honorianus Clementianus Fortunatus, in the 
Gth century: — De Passione Domini (printed in G. Fabri- 
eius’s Poet. Vet. Eccles. Op. Christiana , Basle, 15G4; and 
in Bibl. Patr. Lugdun. 1G77), in hexameters, worthy of 
Lactantius, but bearing in its language the impress of a 
much later age. 

The Editio Princeps of Lactantius was printed at the 
monastery of Subiaeo, by Sweynlievm and Pannartz, in 
14G5, and is one of the earliest specimens of typograph- 
ical art; the same printers published two other editions 
(Home, 14GS, 1470), the latter under the direction of An- 
drew, bishop of Aleria. A number of editions have been 
published since; the most important are by Galkeus 
(Lugd. Bat. 1GG0, in a series of Variorum Classics, 8vo), 
C. Cellarius (Lpz. 1G98, 8vo), Walchius (Lpz. 1715, 8vo), 
Ileumann (Dotting. 1736, 8vo), Bunemann (Lpzg. 1739, 
8vo), Le Brun and Lenglet du Fresnoy (Paris, 1748, 2 
vols. 4 to), F. Ea St. Xaverio (Borne, 1754-9), and Migne 
(Paris, 1844, 2 vols. royal 8vo). A convenient manual 
edition was prepared by O. F. Fritzselie for Gersdorfs 
Bibliotheca Patrum eccles. selecta (Lips. 1842), vols. x, xi. 
See Jerome, De Viris III. p. 79, 80; Chronic. Euseb. ad 
aim. ceexviii, Comment, in Eccles. c. 10; Comment, in 
Ephes. c. 4, A d Paulin. Epist. ; Laetant. Divin. Inst it. i, 
1, § 8; v, 2, § 2; iii, 13, § 12; Sehrockh, Kirchengesch . 
v, 232; Sehdnemann, Bibl. Patr. Lat. vol. i, § 2; Biihr, 
Gesch. d.Rdmisch. Litterat. Suppl. Band, l e Abtheil. § 9; 
2 e Abtheil. § 38-4G; Biihr, Die ch ristlich-rbm. Theologie, 
p. 72 sq. ; Franciscus Floridus, Subccsivarum. Led. fiber 
ii, ch. iv; Lenain de Tillemont, Ilistoire Eccles. vol. vi; 
Dupin, Biblioth. des A uteurs eccles. i, 295 ; Brooke Moun- 
tain, A Summary o f the Writings of Lactantius (Lond. 
1839) ; Mohler, Patrologie, i, 917-933; Ceillier, Hist, des 
A ut. saci'es , ii, 494 sq. ; Schaff, Ch. Hist. vol. iii, § 173; 
Biddle, Christian Antiquities, p. 160-1G3; Christian Re- 
view, 1845, p. 415 sq.; Wood ham, Teriullian, p. liii; 
Leekey, Hist. ICurop. Morals , i, 493 sq. Excellent arti- 
cles may also be found, especially on the writings of 
Lactantius, in Smith, Diet, of Greek and Roman Biog. 
ii, 701; and Herzog, Rcal-Encyklop. viii, 158. On the 
Christology of Lactantius, consult Dorner, Doctrine of 
the Person of Christ , div. i, vol. ii, p. 192 sq. ; Lamson, The- 
Church in the first three Centuries , p. 183 sq. ; Bull, On 
the Trinity (ii, index) ; Neander, Chr. Dogmas ; Zeitsehr. 
f. d. hist. Theol. 1871, vol. iv, art. xiii. 


LACTICIXIA 


190 


LADD 


Lacticinia, a term used in the Church law of fasts 
to denote whatever is obtained as an article of food from 
the mammalia, viz. milk, butter, grease, cheese. Eggs 
are usually included with these articles. Abstinence 
from such food was required in the Western Church 
during Lent, while the more stringent customs of the 
Greek Church extended the prohibition to all other 
fasts. Thomas Aquinas uses the following language: 


thy Servant since the Time of his believing and professing 
himself inspired (London, 1708, small 8vo). lie is also 
supposed to be the author of The general Delusion of 
Christians touching the Ways of God revealing himself 
to and by the Prophets (1713, 8vo) ; reprinted a few years 
since. See Darling, Encyclop . Bibliogr . vol. ii, s. v. 

Lad na'dr, often rendered “young man,” etc.; 
N. T. Tratciipior, a little child , the last occurring only 


‘•In jcjun.o quadragesimal, intcrclic.ii.ter, universal. ter John v ; 3 .. chil.l” in Matt, xi, 1C; both terms be- 

ct.am ora et lacticuiia, circa quorum abst.ncnt.am m ; originally without respect to sex). The Ileh.rvord 
ahtsjojtinns divers® consuetudincs ex.st.mtap.ul .liver- I occasionaUy tllus rende ml in the Auth.Vers., although 
SOS flic Laodicean and 1 rulla.i (A.D. 091) councils occasionaUv standhl , for a qin 


made stringent requirements on the subject. Certain 
papal dispensations, granted as late as A. I). 1344 and 
A.D. 1485, show that even in certain parts of the West- 
ern Church this abstinence was practiced in many fasts 
besides Lent. In some Catholic countries general dis- 
pensations on this point have become permanent by 
long custom and positive decree, especially on the 
ground of health and necessity. 

In the English Church the only abstinence that was 
ever enforced was from flesh-meat, in the reign of queen 
Elizabeth; but its object was rather the promotion of 
state interests, “to promote fisheries, to maintain mari- 
ners, and set men a fishing;” and was dispensed with by 
virtue of licenses, which were sold, according to the rank 37) ; evidently the Delaiak (q. v.) of the Hebrew text 


i girl or maiden (Gen. xxiv, 
14, 1G, 28, 55; xxxiv, 3, 12; Dent, xxii, 15 sq.), for 
which the fern, noun naaruh ') is usually em- 

ployed, properly denotes a boy, being prob. a primitive 
word. It is spoken of an infant just born (Exod. ii, G; 
Judg. xiii, 5, 7 ; 1 Sam. iv, 21), of a boy not yet full 
grown (Gen. xxi, 16 sq. ; xxii, 12; Isa. vii, 16; viii, 4), 
and of a youth nearly twenty years old (Gen. xxxiv, 19; 
xli, 12 ; 1 Kings iii, 7 ; 2 Sam. xviii, 5, 29). See Child, 
etc. 

La'dan (Ta^on v. r. AaXdr, and even *Aaav, Vulg. 
Dalarus), one of the Temple servants whose descend- 
ants had lost their pedigree after the exile (1 Lsdr. v, 


(Ezra ii, GO). 

Ladd, Francis Dudley, a Presbyterian minister, 


of the applicants, by the curates, under an act of Parlia- 
ment passed in the fifth year of her [Elizabeth’s] reign 
(Walcott, Sacred A rchccoh p. 273, 

Easts; comp. Ilook, Ch. Diction- 
ary, article Abstinence). “ With 
us,” says Wheat ly (Hook, Church 
Diet . p. 9), “neither Church nor 
State makes any difference in the 
kinds of meat ; but. as far as the 
former determines in the matter, 
she seems to recommend an en- 
tire abstinence from all manner 
of food till the time of fasting be 
over; declaring in her [Ch. of 
Engl.] homilies that fasting is a 
withholding of meat, drink, and 
all natural food from the body 
lbr the determined time of fast- 
ing.” See Wetzer und Welle, 

Kirchen-Lex . s. v. See also Au- 
stin exce ; E A STS. 

Lacunary Roofs. The 
ceiling of churches in early times 
was often composed of lacunary 
work, i.e. it was divided into sev- 
eral panels called laquearia or fa- 
cunaria , and these were richly 
gilded and otherwise ornament- 
ed. Jerome often speaks in his 
writings of the lacunary golden 
roofs. See Farrar, Eccl. Diet. s. v. 

Lacu'nus (rather Laccu- 
xrs, AetKKovvog, Vulg. C< liens'), 
one “of the sons of Addi,” who 
had married a foreign wife after 
the exile (1 Esdr. ix. 31); doubt- 
less the Chelae (q. v.) of the 
Hebrew text (Ezra x, 30). 

Lacy, John, an English mys- 
tical writer, flourished in the be- 
ginning of the 18th century. 1 Ie 
joined the French prophets upon 
their appearance in London, and 
professed to have supernatural 
revelations, llis principal works 

are, Warnings of the Eternal Spir- Ancient Egyptians assailing a Fortress with the Testudo and Ladders. 

it bn the Mouth of his Servant J, 2, 3, 4, besiegers protecting bv the testudo armed warriors, a,b,e,d, nt the base of the fort, t; 5, 
T k , i i /T driving a spike between the joints of the stones nloug the upper courses of the foundation walls, / , t<> sup- 

John , SUt named JMiy (LOIUIOI), t t [J e fu J, t o| - t(ie 8e nliiig-ladder ; 6, 7, b, warriors contending with the defenders of the hrst line of hat- 

1707 sin 8vo4: 1 Delation of tlements, /<; 9, nroher attacking those above ; 10, mounting to the second line of defences, g; 11, 12 seem 

J I LM ? Mil. vyvj. i iimcccis/* KJ to be letdown " •*-- ..l* - • 7 ... lU v ihit on udfleh ia mmintod 

the Dealings of God to his nmcor- the standard, 



11 to parry the assault ; i f k, l } m, the garrison defending the citadel, on which is mounted 


LADD 


191 


LADDEIi 


was bora in 1820. When only eight years of age he 
showed marked indications of piety, but it was not until 
his fifteenth year that lie joined the Church, under the 
ministry of the Rev. L)r. George Shephard, now professor 
in Bangor Theological Seminary. With a view to pre- 
pare for the ministry, he entered Bowdoin College at the 
age of seventeen, and graduated with honor in 1841 ; 
then studied theology at Bangor Seminary, and was or- 
dained at Farmington in 1846. In Nov., 1851, he re- 
ceived and accepted a call from the Penn Presbyterian 
Church, Philadelphia, Pa. During the war he labored 
incessantly for the good of the soldiers, but fell a prey 
to disease contracted in the camps, whither lie had gone 
several times, and died July 7, 1862. See Wilson, Presb. 
Historical A hnunac , 1863, p. 184. 

Ladd, William, an American philanthropist, born 
at Exeter, New Hampshire, in 1778, was one of the orig- 
inators of the American Peace Society, of which he be- 
came president, lie died in 1841. Ladd was editor of 
the Friend of Peace and the Harbinger of Peace, and 
wrote several essays cn that subject. 

Ladder (Csp, sullam', a staircase, perh. from >20, 
to raise up; Sept. irXt/fag ; the Arab . sullamun has the 






Ancient Assyrians assaulting a City with Ladders. 


same signification) occurs only once, in tire account of 
Jacob’s vision in his dream at Bethel (Gen. xxviii, 12), 
where the “ladder set up on the earth, and the top of it 
reached to heaven ; and behold, the angels of God as- 
cending and descending on it,” represented the Gospel 
dispensation, the blessings of which the patriarch’s pos- 
terity were to inherit; the Redeemer himself being this 
mystic channel of intercourse between heaven and earth 
(John i, 51). (See Lang, Yisio Scahe Jacob , Alt. 1669; 
Schramm, He Scala Jacvbcea, F. ad O. 17 — .) Scaling- 
ladders for war (tcXi/iatcuS) are mentioned in the Apoc- 
rypha (1 Macc. v, 30). That this was a contrivance 
known from the earliest times, we have abundant evi- 
dence on the monuments of Thebes, where attacks on 
fortified places are represented as being made by soldiers 
provided with scaling-ladders (Wilkinson, i, 390). (For 
illustration, see opposite page.) Similar scenes are fre- 
quently depicted on the Assyrian monuments (Layard, 
Nineveh, ii, 284). See Fortification. 

LADDER OF T\ BUS, tiie (?) icXifiat; Tvpov ; Vulg. 
a terminis Tyri, possibly reading icXi/ia ), one of the ex- 
tremities (the northern) of the district over which Si- 
mon Maccabceus was made captain (arpargybe) by An- 
tiochus VI (or Theos) very shortly after his coming to 
the throne; the other being “the 
borders of Egypt” (1 Mace, xi, 59). 
The Ladder of Tyre (2'J N -V,D 
“115, see Belaud, Palccst. p.343), or 
of the Tyrians (?) KXiya'^ nov Tc- 
pion>), was the local name for a 
high mountain, the highest in that 
neighborhood, a hundred stadia 
north of Ptolemais, the modern 
Akka or Acra (Josephus, War, ii, 
10, 2). The rich plain of Ptole- 
mais is bounded on the north by 
a rugged mountain ridge which 
shoots out from Lebanon and dips 
perpendicularly into the sea, form- 
ing a bold promontory about 300 
feet in height (Russegger, p.3, 143, 
262 ; Bitter, Palest, unci Syr. iii, 7 27, 
814 sq.). The waves beat against 
the base of the cliff, leaving no pas- 
sage below. In ancient times a road 
was carried, by a series of zigzags 
and staircases, over the summit, to 
connect the plain of Ptolemais with 
Tyre — hence the origin of the name 
Scala Ty riorum, 11 Ladder of Tyre.” 
It was the southern pass into Plioe- 
h nieia proper, and formed the bound- 
U ary between that country and Pal- 
estine (Kenrick, Phoenicia , p. 20 ; 
Belaud, p. 544). The road still re- 
mains, and is the only one along 
the coast. A short distance from 
it is a little village called Nakurah, 
and the pass is now called Pas en~ 
Nakurah (“the excavated prom- 
ontory”), doubtless from the road 
which has been “hewn in the rock” 
(Porter, Handbook, p. 389; see also 
Pococke, i, 79; Bobinson. Bib. Res. 
iii, 89; Stanley, p. 260, 262). The 
location of the Ras en-Nakhurah 
agrees very nearly with the above 
position defined by Josephus, as it 
lies 10 miles, or about 120 stadia, 
from Akka, anti is characterized by 
travellers as very high and steep. 
Both the Bas en-Nakhurali and the 
Ras el- A byad, i. e. the White Cape, 
sometimes called Cape Blanco, a 
headland six miles still farther 
north, are surmounted by a path 


LADISLAS 


192 


LADISLAUS 


cut ill zigzags; that over the latter is attributed to Al- 
exander the Great. It is possibly from this circum- 
stance that the latter is by some travellers (Irby, Oct. 
21 ; Wilson, ii, 232 ; Van de A'elde, Memoir, p. 340; etc.) 
treated as the ladder of the Tyrians. But by the early 
and accurate Jewish traveller, hap- Parch i (Zimz, in 
Bcitj. o/Tudcla, p. 402), and in our own times by IJobin- 
son (iii, 82), Mislin ( Les Saints Lieux, ii, 9). Selnvarz (p. 
70), Stanley (<%r. and Pah p. 204), the lias en-Nakhu- 
rah is identified with the ladder; the last-named travel- 
ler pointing out well that the reason for the name is the 
fact of its differing from Carmel in that it leaves no 
beach between itself and the sea, and thus, by cutting 
off all communication round its base, acts as the natural 
barrier between the Bay of Acre and the maritime plain 
to the north — in other words, between Palestine and 
Phoenicia” (comp. p. 200). — Smith; Kitto. 

Ladislas (T ladidas, Vladislaf Uladislas ) II, king 
of Poland (1380-1434), known also under the name of 
Jar/iello or Jagello , deserves a place in our work on ac- 
count of his introduction of Christianity into the Polish 
dominions, lie was born in Lithuania in 1348, the son 
of Olgerd and grandson of Gedimin, great princes of 
Lithuania. lie succeeded his father in 1380, and, by 
the noble influence of his pious Christian wife Iledvig, 
was influenced to embrace Christianity; a short time 
after all Lithuania became Christian, and when Poland 
came under his sway Christianity became the dominant 
religion there. lie died in Grodek, near Lemberg, Ga- 
licia, May 31, 1134. See Lithuania ; Poland. 

Ladislaus, king of Naples (A.D. 1380-1414), suc- 
ceeded to the throne on the violent death of his father, 
Charles III. Born in 1370, he was ten years old at the 
time of his accession to the disputed crown, Louis of 
Anjou, to whom queen Joanna, the predecessor of Charles 
111, had bequeathed the kingdom, was his competitor. 
Ladislaus and Louis were of nearly the same age. Each 
was left under the guardianship of a widowed mother, 
and each had on his side the authority of one of the two 
rival popes, between whom Christendom was divided, 
and whose mutual excommunications, extending to 
their respective adherents, were the scandal of the age. 

The reign of Ladislaus is historically important from 
its intimate connection with the great events of the 
time in Church and State. At an early age he devel- 
oped that restless energy and that unscrupulous ambi- 
tion which made him a model for Maehiavelli’s “Prince.” 
When but sixteen years old, his mother Margaret com- 
mitted him to the barons of her party to make his first 
essay in arms. Ilis marriage with the richest heiress 
of Sicily put into his hands an immense dowry, which 
he employed to prosecute his designs, securing, when it 
was expended, from the venal pontiff a divorce from his 
wife, whom he bestowed upon one of his favorites. 

By means of the papal sanction and his own energy 
he recovered Naples from the Angevin party (1400). 
The faction opposed to him felt the full weight of his 
vengeance. Ilis security was increased by a second 
marriage, which the pontiff, Boniface IX, proposed. Ilis 
ambition was excited by the tempting offer of the Hun- 
garian crown, made by those who, dissatisfied with 
Sigismund (subsequently emperor), had seized and im- 
prisoned him. His expedition proved unsuccessful, and 
his absence from Napies inspired anew the hopes and 
efforts of the Angevin party. His prompt return (1403) 
defeated tlicir attempts. The most powerful of the dis- 
affected nobility felt the weight of his vengeance. Many 
were thrust into prison. Numbers were strangled. Oth- 
ers fled. Wholesale confiscation enriched the royal treas- 
ury. A reign of terror prevailed throughout the king- 
dom. 

Jealous of his powerful ally, Boniface IX showed 
himself no longer disposed to co-operate with the ty- 
rant; but at this juncture he died. In spite of letters 
from the king of France deprecating a new election, 
that Cliristendom might be united under one pontiff 


(the French prelates supported as rival pope Benedict 
XIII, q. v.). the cardinals chose Innocent ATI (q. v.) as 
his successor. Ladislaus, whose policy was opposed to 
the reunion of Christendom, hastened to Rome to con- 
gratulate him upon his accession, lie had designs, 
moreover, upon Rome itself, torn by Guelph and Ghib- 
clline factions. Dissembling his purpose, he proposed 
himself as mediator, and secured a strong hold upon the 
government of the city, while his royal title was solemn- 
ly confirmed. 

Turning from Rome, he led his army to Southern It- 
aly (1406), but was repelled by the yalor of the Ursini. 
The new pope already regarded him with mistrust. At 
his instigation the Roman factions were brought into 
collision. Alarmed for his safety, the pope fled. Ladis- 
laus ordered his generals to take possession of the city, 
but they were repulsed. The citizens, inclining to favor 
the exiled pontiff, recalled him to Rome. Ladislaus, 
whose attention had again been diverted to Southern 
Italy, where a marriage with the widow of Raymond de 
Ursini had accomplished more than arms, now advanced 
in open hostility, resolved to regain his control of the 
city. lie was embittered against the pontiff, who re- 
sented his unscrupulous spoliation of churches and mon- 
asteries, as well as other revenues of the Church, and 
who complained, moreover, of his conspiracy and trea- 
son against himself. The charges against the king 
were drawn up in sixteen articles, and on the ground of 
these he was declared to have forfeited his kingdom, as 
well as the fiefs which he held of the Church, and was 
excommunicated by the Church. Ladislaus, however, 
succeeded in calming the papal resentment, and a treaty 
was effected which restored him to his former power 
and privileges; but as he evaded all the provisions 
which conflicted with his ambition, the excommunica- 
tion would have been renewed had not Innocent died 
suddenly (Nov. 6, 1406). 

Gregory XII, successor of Innocent ATI, pledged him- 
self on his election to promote the unity of the Church. 
Ilis disinclination to meet his rival in conference was 
encouraged by Ladislaus, who assured him of protection. 
The tmscrupulous proceedings of the king stood in need 
of the papal sanction, and be was willing to make some 
efforts to seeure a pope for himself. Gregory XII dis- 
appointed the expectations of his cardinals. Alarmed 
by the sedition at Rome, he fled to ATterbo (August 3, 
1407), and afterwards to-Sienna and Lueca. Ladislaus 
seized the occasion to make inroads upon the States of 
the Church. Gregory complained of his conduct, and 
menaced him with the thunders of the Church. He 
found himself forced, however, to accept the plausible 
excuses of the king, whose support he needed. Ladis- 
laus now resolved to prosecute his long-ehcrished desire 
of possessing himself of Rome. By means of force and 
treachery lie succeeded in his project. On the 25th of 
April, 1408, Rome opened its gates to him, and the ty- 
rant of Naples was welcomed by the shouts of the people. 

Gregory exulted in the king’s sneeess. lie hoped 
himself to be able now to return to Rome, lie was en- 
couraged to refuse his assent to the appointment of the 
council proposed to be held at Pisa, which he justly 
feared might prove fatal to his claims. Meanwhile 
Ladislaus prosecuted his ambitious plans. lie hoped to 
seeure possession of Sienna and Florence. For several 
months he prosecuted his plans by diplomacy and 
threats; but the cautious resistance of the republics, and 
the hostile attitude of the Pisan Council, which was 
now (March, 1409) in session, disconcerted him. The 
new pontiff, Alexander A', elected by the council, fa- 
vored the pretensions of Louis of Anjou, the rival pre- 
tender to the throne of Naples. The latter, followed by 
an army, and surrounded by his partisans, entered Italy 
and secured a lodgment in Rome. Ladislaus, in the 
height of his passion, swore to annihilate the authors of 
his calamity. He provided for the security of Gregory, 
who had been holding a council in Aquilcia, rivaj to 
that of Pisa, and ordained his recognition as pontiff 


LADISLAUS 


193 


LADVOCAT 


throughout the kingdom, lie then proceeded in force 
to Home, of -which lie quickly regained possession. 

Alexander V, indignant at the king’s course, made 
up a catalogue of his crimes, and ordered Ladislaus be- 
fore him to hear the sentence which pronounced his 
forfeiture of his throne. Iicgardless of the summons, 
Ladislaus prosecuted his measures of violent rapacity, 
amassing the means to continue the war. But at this 
juncture he lost possession of Koine. With treachery 
within and the forces of Balthasar Cossa without, the 
city yielded to the allies, and the papal authority was 
re-established within its walls. 

The sudden death of Alexander V (May 3, 1410) 
opened the way to the election of Balthasar Cossa him- 
self, the sworn foe of Ladislaus, under the title of John 
XXIII. Leaving Bologna, which he had ruled as a 
despot under the title of legate, he advanced in triumph 
to Iiome. Ladislaus was now confronted by an Italian 
pope and a French army under Louis. The sentence 
of excommunication was pronounced against him, but, 
reckless of spiritual terrors, he marshalled his forces and 
prepared for the conflict. The battle took place May 
19, 1411, near Ponte-Corvo, and, after a desperate con- 
test, the forces of Ladislaus were defeated. Instead of 
being disheartened by reverse, however, he exerted him- 
self successfully to bring into the field a new army large- 
ly composed of the fragments of the old. In a short 
time, by a liberal use of money, he had greatly profited 
by the respite which his enemies, too sluggish to pursue 
their advantage, allowed him. Betracing his disasters, 
lie said that on the first day his crown and personal lib- 
erty were endangered; on the second, he feared only for 
his kingdom; on the third, his foe could only waste 
himself. 

John XXIII had exulted in the defeat of his foe. The 
joy at Borne was expressed by pageants and processions ; 
but the pope soon discovered that he had been too pre- 
cipitate in his demonstrations, lie encouraged the 
hopes of Louis, but declined to aid him by arms. He 
contented himself with sending Ladislaus (August II, 
1411) a summons to appear before him as a heretic and 
favorer of schism, and with publishing a crusade against 
him. But the withdrawal of Louis from Italy left Lad- 
islaus without a competitor, and of a sudden the pope 
saw himself almost helpless in the hands of Ladislaus, 
and in constant fear of his ravages and assaults. Anx- 
ious for peace, he proposed a compromise with Ladislaus. 
The latter was to abandon the anti-pope, Gregory XII, 
and drive him from the kingdom. The pope was to 
confirm the king in possession of his dominions, to which 
other possessions were to be added, and was to be ap- 
pointed gonfalionere of the Church, and to be paid spe- 
cified sums of money. Thus John XXIII sacrificed his 
ally to his foe, and Ladislaus did the same. The double 
ingratitude and treachery were endorsed by the public 
recognition of the legitimacy of the pontiff on the part 
of Ladislaus, who ascribed his new and more correct ap- 
prehensions to the instruction of the Father of light. 
Gregory was forced to flee to Bimini, and at an inter- 
view between Ladislaus and the pope, the latter received 
from the former marks of profound homage. 

To this hollow compromise mutual distrust succeeded. 
The pope sought to recover his old allies. He excul- 
pated himself to Louis, and again denounced the king 
of Naples. The latter responded by hostile demonstra- 
tions. The council which the pope had meanwhile 
convoked at Borne was considered by him as depending 
on the appointment and authority of that of Pisa, and, 
as hostile to his interests, he hoped to disperse it. The 
prospect of gaining some advantage over his old foe, 
Sigismund of Hungary, now elected emperor, was also 
kept in view. Gathering his forces, he approached 
Borne. The faithlessness and feebleness of the papal 
forces facilitated its capture. The pope and cardinals 
fled. From place to place they wandered, yet even 
Florence dared not entertain them from fear of the 
vengeance of Ladislaus. John XXIII besought help of 
V.-N 


Sigismund, which was finally granted on the stipulation 
that the pope should immediately convoke a General 
Council. See John XXIII. 

Ladislaus meanwhile gave full scope to his vengeance. 
Borne trembled with terror. Some of her most distin- 
guished citizens were sacrificed to his revenge. The 
States of the Church came into his hands. Sienna and 
Florence felt themselves threatened. John XXIII for- 
tified himself at Boulogne, and gathered forces about 
him. Even here he did not feel himself safe. Ilis car- 
dinals prepared for flight, and some deserted him. The 
citizens sought to hide their treasures, and fled, some to 
Venice, or other places not yet threatened. 

There appeared no longer hope of effectual resistance 
to the advance of Ladislaus. All Italy seemed about to 
be forced to submit to his sway. But at this juncture, 
while lingering at Perusia, he was smitten by a mortal 
disease. A slow fever wasted his strength, but did not 
subdue his thirst for vengeance. lie had destined the 
Ursini, who had obstructed his capture of Borne, and 
whom he had promised to spare, as victims. They vis- 
ited him in his sickness, and were thrust into prison by 
his orders. This gross violation of faith excited gen- 
eral indignation. The murmurs of the soldiers con- 
strained him to pause in his purpose of vengeance. As 
his disease progressed his passions became more fierce. 
Beturning by way of Ostia to Naples, the officers who 
accompanied him were on the watch to prevent him 
from ordering the Ursini to be cast overboard into the 
sea. When he reached his capital he was no longer 
master of himself. Every word that escaped him was 
an order for some fatal arrest. He charged his sister, 
the princess Joanna, to see that Paul de Ursini be put 
to death. For the last three days of his life his mind 
was occupied only with thoughts of vengeance. With 
fearful cries he was heard to ask, “Is Paul dead?” 
sometimes calling for his dagger that he might stab 
himself. He could only be calmed for the moment by 
his sister's treacherous assurance that his orders should 
be executed. 

In the midst of his paroxysms Ladislaus died, Aug. 6 
or 8, 1414. Naples was relieved of a Ivrant and Italy 
of a terror that had disquieted her for years. History 
may account Ladislaus a modern Herod. All that was 
unscrupulous, cruel, and depraved seemed to be incar- 
nate in him. He alternated between private lust and. 
public violence. In his own age he was the most notori- 
ous representative of the vigor and craft of the Italian, 
“prince.” See Naples. 

See, for notices more or less extended of the deeds or 
career of Ladislaus, Van der 1 1 ard t , Monstrt let's Chroni- 
cles; Niern, Life of John XXI II ; Poggi, Braeciolini's 
Writings, Also the works of the earlier as well as the 
later Italian historians, including Sisniondi and Proctor. 
The most extended and connected account of his life, per- 
haps, is that given by M. d’Egly, llistoire eles Hois dcs 
Deux Sidles. He seems to have carefully silted his 
authorities, and he devotes over 200 pages of his second 
volume almost exclusively to Ladislaus. (E.I1.G.) 

Ladvocat, Jean Baptist, a noted French theolo- 
gian and author, was horn at Yancoulenrs in the early 
part of the 17th century, and was educated first at Tont- 
a-Mouson, afterwards in Paris at the Sorbonne, where 
he subsequently became a professor. In 1751 he was 
appointed to the chair, founded at his suggestion in the 
Sorbonne by the duke of Orleans, for the interpretation 
of the Ohl-Testamcnt Scriptures according to the He- 
brew text. He died in 1765. Ladvocat wrote Diction - 
naire Geographique portatif : — Diction n. Ilistorique por - 
tat if des grands homines (2 vols. 8vo: this is an abridg- 
ment of Moreri, and is full of errors). He also wrote 
a Hebrew Grammar for the use of his pupils: Tracta- 
tus de Condliis in Genere; and Lett re dans laquclle il ex- 
amine si les Textcs originaux de VEcriture sont corrum - 
pus et si la Vulgate leur est preferable . Ladvocat was. 
as an expositor of Scripture, a zealous disciple of ITou- 
bigant. lie was also a correspondent of Dr. Kenuicott, 


lady 


194 


LAmii 


whose "rent work he zealously promoted, and he collated 
many MSS. for him in the Koval Library at Paris. — 
1 look, Eccles. Biography, vi. 5t)0. 

Lady is the rendering in the Auth. Vers, of the fol- 
lowing terms in the original: (gele'reth, fem. of 

“P2.“, a mighty man) , applied to Babylon as the mistress 
of nations (Isa. xlvii. 5, 7 ; elsewhere a “mistress,” as 
opposed to a maid-servant, Gen. xvi, 4, 8, 9; 2 Kings v, 
8; Prov. xxx, 23; Psa. cxxiii, 2, Isa. xxiv, 2); il'TJ 
( sarah '. fem. of Tw, nolle ; the same as the name given 
to Sarai), a noble female (Judg. v, 29; Esth. i, 18; else- 
where a “princess,” spec, the king’s wives of noble birth, 
1 Kings xi, 13, different from concubines, comp. Cant, vi, 
8; “queen,” Isa. xlix, 23; “princess” among provinces, 
Lam. i, 1) ; tevota (fem. of Ki'piog, lord or master), mis- 
tress, occurs only as an epithet of a Christian female (2 
John i, 1, 5), either as an honorable title of regard, or as 
a fem. proper name Cyria (q. v.). 

Lady Chapel, a chapel dedicated to the Virgin 
Mary (“ Our Lady”), and usually, but not always, placed 
eastwards from the altar when attached to cathedrals. 
Henry VII’s chapel at Westminster is the lady chapel 
of that cathedral. 

Lady Day. See Annunciation, Feast of. 

Lady Fast, a species of penance, voluntary or en- 
joined, in which the penitent had the choice of fasting 
once a week for seven years on that day of the week on 
which Lady Day (q. v.) happened to fall, beginning his 
course from that day, or of finishing his penance sooner 
by taking as many fasting-days together as would fall 
to his lot in one year. — Walcott, Sac. Archecol. s. v. 

Lady of Mercy, Our, a Spanish order of knight- 
hood, instituted in 1218 by dames 1 of Aragon, in fulfil- 
ment of a vow made to the Virgin, during his captivity 
in France, for the redemption of Christian captives from 
among the Moors; and to this end each knight, at his 
inauguration, was obliged to take the vow that, if neces- 
sary for their ransom, he would remain himself a cap- 
tive in their stead. Within the first six years of the 
existence of the order no fewer than 400 captives are 
said to have been ransomed by its efforts. On the ex- 
pulsion of the Moors from Spain the labors of the 
knights were transferred to Africa. Their badge is a 
shield party per fess gules and or. in chief a cross patte'e 
argent, in basfc four pallets gules for Aragon, the shield 
crowned with a ducal coronet. 'Hie order was extend- 
ed to ladies in 1261. — Chambers. Cyclopedia, s. v. 

Lady of Montesa, Our, an order of knighthood, 
founded in 1817 by king James II of Aragon, after the 
abrogation of the Order of the Templars, for the protec- 
tion of the Christians against the Moors. By permis- 
sion of pope John XXII, James of Aragon used all the 
estates of the ex-Templars and of the Knights of St. 
John situated in Valencia for this new order, which king 
James named after the town and castle of Montesa, its 
head-quarters. The order is now conferred merely as a 
mark of royal favor, though the provisions of its statutes 
are still nominally observed on new creations. The 
badge is a red cross edged with gold, the costume a long 
white woollen mantle, decorated with a cross on the left 
breast, and tied with very long white cords. — Chambers, 
Cyclopedia , s. v. 

Lady Psalter. See Rosary. 

La'el (II el>. Laid', bxb.ybr or of God, i. e. created 
by him ; otherwise to God , i. e. devoted to him ; occurs 
also in Job xxxiii.G, where the Auth.Vers. has“ in God’s 
stead Sept nag. A m)\), father of Eliasaph, which latter 
was chief of the family of the Gershonitcs at the Exodc 
(Numb, iii, 24). B.C. ante 1657. 

LcCtare Sunday, called also Min- rent, is the 
fourth Sunday of Lent. It is" named T Art are (to rejoice ) 
from the first word of the Introit of the mass, which is 
from Isa. liv, 1. The characteristic of the services of 


the day is joyousness, and the music of the organ, which 
throughout the rest of Lent is suspended, is on this day 
resumed. La* tare Sunday is also called dominion de 
7’osa, because it is the day selected by the pope for the 
blessing of the Golden Rose. See Siegel .lldndbuch d. 
christ l.-Kirchlichen A Iterthiimer, iv, 366, 367. 

Laevinus, Torrentinus, commonly called Torren- 
tin. a Dutch theologian, who flourished in the second 
half of the 16th century, was a native of Ghent, and was 
educated in the University of Louvain in law and philos- 
ophy. After an extended tour in Italy, he became suc- 
cessively canon of Liege, vicar-general to the bishop of 
Liege, and finally bishop of Antwerp, from which he was 
transferred to the see of Mechlin, where he died in 1595. 
At Louvain Torrentin founded a Jesuitical college, to 
which he bequeathed his library and a large collection 
of curiosities. 

Lafaye (also known by the Latin name Fayns), An- 
toine, a French Protestant minister, was born at Cha- 
teaudun about the middle of the 16th century, lie be- 
came professor of philosophy at Geneva in 1570, and rec- 
tor in 1580. lie was transferred to the chair of theol- 
ogy in 1584, and died in 1615. In 1587 he took part in 
the composition of the Preface to the French translation 
of the Bible. Ilis works are, De rernctcidis Bihliorum 
interpret at ionibns ct sands vernacida lingua peragendis 
(Gen. 1572, 4to): — De Verio Dei (Gen. i501. 4to) : — De 
Traditionilus, ad versus pont ificios (Gen. 1592, 4to) : — De 
Christo mediatore (Gen. 1597, 4to) : — De Bonis Operibus 
(Gen. 1601, 4to): — Genera liberate, seu narratio libera - 
t ion is illius que dirinitus immissa est Geneve (Geneva, 
1603, 12mo) : — Enchiridion Di spit tat Ionian theologicarum 
(Gen. 1605, 8vo) : — De Vita et Obitu Beze Ilypomnemata 
(Geneva, 1606, 4to) : — Commentarii in Ecclesiasten (Gen. 
1609, 8vo) : — Comment, in Epist. ad Romanos (Gen. 1608, 
Svo) : — Comment, in Psalmos xlix et Ixxxrii (Gen. 1609, 
8vo)‘. — Comment, in priorem Epistol. ad Timotheum (Ge- 
neva, 1609, 8 vo): — Emblemata et Epigrammata select a cx 
strom at is peripateticis (Gen. 1610, 8vo). Sec Iloefer, 
Four. Biog. Generate, xxviii, 686. 

Lafitau, JosErn Francois, a French Roman Cath- 
olic missionary of the Order of the Jesuits, born at Bor- 
deaux in 1670, labored for many years among the Iro- 
quois tribe of American Indians. He died in 1740. La- 
fitau is especially noted for his archaeological researches, 
among which is Alaurs des sa nr ages A mericains com- 
parers aux meitrs des premiers temps (Paris, 1723,2 vols. 
4to). lie wrote also Uistoire des decourt ties et dts con- 
qnetes des Portvgais dans le nouveau monde. 

LaTiad (Heb. id. ‘in?, in pause prob. oppress- 
or, otherwise flame; Sept. Ado v. r. Ando, Vulg. Laad), 
the second named of the two sous of Jahath.of the fam- 
ily of Zerah, grandson of Judah (1 Chron. iv, 2). B.C. 
post 1612. 

Lahai-roi. See Beer-rahai-roi. 

Lah'mam (Heb. Lachmas', D 1 -H3, prob. an errone- 
ous reading for Lachmam' , c-r* , their bread, which is 

° 7 t : - 

read in some MSS., and which the Vulg. and Auth.Vers. 
follow'; Scptuag. Aapdg, Vulg. Lthemam), a city in the 
plain of Judah, mentioned between Cabbon and Kith- 
lisli (Josh, xv, 40), probably situated among the Philis- 
tines west of the Highlands of Judaea. A writer in Fair- 
bairn’s Dictionary, s. v., by a series of arguments resting 
essentially upon the insecure foundation of the mere or- 
der of the names in Joshua, seeks to identify Lahmatn 
with the 1 1- 1 In mam mentioned by Smith in the list in 
Robinson’s Researches (iii. Append, p. 119); but of this 
place there is no other trace save perhaps the name 
Tell- 1 mam on Zimmerman’s Map, some six miles to the 
S.E. of the vicinity of the other associated names, and 
apparently out of the bounds of the group, if not of the 
tribe itself. Lahmam is possibly the present Beit-Le - 
hia. a short distance N.E. of Gaza (Robinson, iii. Ap- 
pend. p. 118; Van de Velde, Memoir, p. 115). 

Lah'mi (Heb. Lachmi', ^ my bread; Scptuag. 


LAIDLIE 


195 


LAINEZ 


Aiepti v. r. A oopt, Aa\pt, etc. ; Yulg. Bethlchemites ), a 
person named (i Chron. xx, 5) as being the brother of 
(ioliath, and slain by Elhauan, one of David’s heroes; 
but prob. a corrupt reading for Betu-leiiemite, as in 
the parallel passage (2 Sam. xxi, 19). See Eliianan. 
It would seem that both these passages should be re- 
stored so as to read thus : “ Elhauan, the son of Jair (or 
Dodo) of Bethlehem, slew the brother of Goliath of 
Gath, whose spear-handle was like a weaver’s beam.” 
See Jair. 

Laidlie, Archibald, D.D., a noted minister of the 
Reformed (Dutch) Church, was born at Kelso, Scotland, 
Dee. 4, 1727. After graduating at the University of 
Edinburgh he was ordained to the Gospel ministry 
in 1759, and became pastor of the Scotch Church in 
Flushing, Holland, where he officiated four years, and 
as a member of the ecclesiastical courts of that country 
was held in high repute, lie there became acquaint- 
ed with the Dutch Church and language, and was prov- 
identially prepared for his ministry in America. The 
bitter controversy concerning the use of the Dutch lan- 
guage in preaching in the Reformed Church of this 
country was practically settled by the call and accept- 
ance of Dr. Laidlie as pastor of the Collegiate Church 
of New York, lie was the tirst minister called to preach 
in the English tongue in this denomination. Ilis tirst 
sermon was delivered April 15, 1704, from 2 Cor. v, 11. 
It was two hours long, most carefully prepared, and de- 
livered to an immense audienee with great effect in the 
Middle Dutch Church, which was set apart for his use 
on a part of eaeli Sabbath day. This event marks a 
new era in the history of the Reformed Dutch Church, 
and which Dr. Livingston declared “should have begun 
a hundred years before.” It would have saved the 
Church a civil lawsuit, a weary ecclesiastical strife, and 
a century of growth. Trained in the Scotch theology, 
and warmly devoted to the Dutch Church, Dr. Laidlie’s 
evangelical and powerful ministry resulted in great spir- 
itual blessings. He was a winner of souls. A great 
revival crowned his ministry. Crowds waited upon his 
preaching. His pastoral taet and success were remark- 
able. His brief ministry was interrupted during the 
Revolutionary War, when lie retired to Red Hook, and 
died there in 1778, at the age of fifty-one, a victim of 
consumption. His memory is held in great esteem. 
He was prudent, wise, devout, a peacemaker, and a 
dauntless herald of the truth. The circumstances of his 
call, the critical period of his advent, the learning, wis- 
dom, graee, and suceess of his ministry, have made his 
name historical in his Church. He left no printed books, 
but his “works do follow him.” It is related that one 
of his aged parishioners once said to him, soon after he 
came to New York, “All! dominie, we offered up many 
an earnest prayer in Dutch for your coming among us, 
and the Lord has heard us in English , and has sent you 
to us.” But his coming illustrated another phase of 
contradictor human nature in those who had most 
strenuously insisted upon the retention of the language 
of the mother country. Some of these very people, of- 
fended and bailled by their more sensible co-worship- 
pers, actually left the Dutch Church and joined the 
Episcopal, saying as they departed, “ If we must have 
English, we will have all English.” Among them were 
the Stuvvesants, Livingstons, and other eminent fami- 
lies of the city, who have ever since been connected 
with the latter denomination. — Dr. Thos. De Witt, llis- 
torical Discourse (1850) : Dr. Gunn, Life o f Dr. Living- 
ston; Sprague, Ann. of the Amer. Pulpit, vol. ix. (W. 
J. R.T.) 

Lainez (or Laynes), Francisco, a Portuguese 
Roman Catholic missionary, was born at Lisbon in 1050. 
Ilis true name was Francisco Trogano. lie joined the 
Jesuits in 1072, and was sent to t lie coast of Malabar in 
1081. He landed at Goa, and settled at Catur, in Ma- 
dura. It is claimed by his Order that he baptized there 
13,000 inhabitants. After a residence of twenty-two 
years in India he returned to Rome in 1703, and was 


! appointed bishop of Meliapur. In 1708 he started again 
j for India, and arrived at Goa September 25, 1709. Here 
he now had many difficulties with the civil authori- 
ties, and finally retired to the Jesuits’ establishment at 
Chandernagore, where he died, June 11, 1715. He 
wrote, Defensio Dulicarum Missionum M adurensis et 
Carnotensis , ete. (Rome, 1707, 4to): — Carta esorita de 
Madure aos padres da companhia missionaries acerca 
do V. P. Jodo de Brito , translated into French in the 
Lett res edifi antes et curieuses, ii, 1-50 ; and in the Mer- 
cure , under the title Lettre du P. Francois de Laynes , 
jesuite , ete. (March, 1695). See Barbosa Machado, Bib- 
liotheca Lusitana ; 1*. Prat, Vie de Jean de Brito (2 vols. 
8vo) ; Franeo. Imagem da virtude uro noviciado de Coim- 
bra (2 vols. foi.) ; lloefer, Nouv. Biog. Gen. xxx, 41. 

Lainez, Iago, a celebrated Spanish Jesuit, was 
born at Almaneario. near Siguenca, in Castile, in 1512, 
and was educated at the high-school of Alcala. In his 
nineteenth year he was attracted to Paris by the renown 
of Ignatius, and at once became one of his most ardent 
followers. He accompanied Loyola on his journey to 
Rome, and there obtained from pope Paul III the ap- 
pointment to a professor’s chair in the “Collegium della 
Sapienza.” On the death of the great leader of the 
Jesuitical order (in 1550) Lainez was elected his suc- 
cessor. and became general of the order (June 19, 1557). 
A cardinal’s hat and other high positions he refused, 
determined to devote all his time and energy to the in- 
terests of the new order. In the Council of Trent, 
where, with Salmeron, he represented his order, he took 
an active part, and opposed the doctrine of Seripando 
on justification. Lainez appeared on the field of con- 
trovers} 1 - more with a work on the subject than with a 
speech, lie had the greatest number of the divines on 
his side. He also took a leading part in that council in 
the discussion concerning the divine right of bishops 
and the infallibility of the pope. The historians have 
preserved a very full report of his speech on this point. 
It contains the most extravagant assertions of pontifical 
power and authority. Lainez maintained that Jesus 
Christ is sole ruler of his Chureh ; that when he left the 
world lie constituted Peter and his successors his vic- 
ars; that, in consequence, the pope is absolute lord and 
master, supreme and infallible ; that bishops derive from 
him their power and jurisdiction; and that, in fact, 
there is no power whatever in the Church excepting 
that whieh emanates from him, so that even general 
councils have no authority, are not infallible, do not en- 
joy the influence of the Holy Spirit, unless they are 
summoned and controlled by papal authority (compare 
Pal lav. lib. xviii, s. 15 ; Sarpi, lib. vii, s. 20: Le Plat, v, 
524). Lainez also took an active part (in 1561) in the 
Conference of Poissv (q. v.), where he aimed to concili- 
ate the Huguenots (q. v., espeeialh r p. 392). At Ven- 
ice he afterwards expounded the Gospel of St. John for 
the express edification of the nobility; and, aided by 
Lippomano, be succeeded in laying the foundation of a 
college of Jesuits. He devoted great attention to the 
schools, and directed the thoughts of his order towards, 
education, (Veil aware that man is most influenced dur- 
ing his whole life by his early impressions. In some 
parts of Germany — at Ingolstadt for instance — the Jes- 
uits soon acquired the reputation of most successful 
teachers. This new direction given to the order by 
Lainez came near, however, involving them in serious 
difficulties: the Jesuits had at first attached themselves 
to the doctrinal views of the Tliomists; but. desiring to 
be independent in doctrine as well as life, the Inquisition 
1 soon found reasons to criticise the freedom with which 
they pursued their speculations on this point, and Lai- 
! nez himself was suspected bv the Spanish Inquisition 
(see Llorente, iii, 83). lie died at Rome Jan. 19, 1505. 
It was under the guidan* of Lainez that the spirit of 
intrigue entered freely into the society. He possessed 
a peculiar craftiness and dexterity in managing affairs, 
and was frequently led by it into low and unworthy 
tricks. His ruling passion was ambition, which he 


LAIXG 


196 


LAISII 


knew well how to conceal under a veil of humility and 
piety. # Bv his artful policy he transformed the charac- 
ter of the Jesuitical order into a terrible army, that, for 
the sake of advancing its own interests, shrunk from 
no attempt to gain its ends; an order which lias lie- 
come a reproach to the Church that gave it birth. The 
desuits in the 19th century are recognised as a bold 
band — an order which dares to undermine states, to 
rend the Church, and even to menace the pope. See 
Jesuits. Lainez wrote several theological works, but 
none of them had been completed, and nothing from 
his pen, except some speeches, has ever been print- 
ed. See Michel d’Esne, Vie tie Lainez (Douai, 1597); 
Nicolini, Ilist. Jesuits, p. 506 sq. ; Versuch finer neuen 
Gesch. des Jesuiterordens , vol. ii ; Mosheim, Eccles. Hist. 
iii, 90, n. 20; Ranke, Ilist. of the Papacy , 16//i and 17 th 
Centuries, i, 145, 153, 163, 399, 585 ; Hardwick, Hist. Ref. 
ch. viii; Pierer, Universal- Lex ikon , x, 31 ; and for the 
Roman Catholic version, Wetzer mid Welte, Kirchen - 
Lexikon , vi, 316. (J. H. W.) 

Laing, Jamies, a Presbyterian minister, was born in 
Berry Holes of Blain, Perth County, Scotland, in 1785, 
and was educated at the University of Glasgow, where 
he graduated with distinction in 1816. After teaching 
for some time, he determined to devote himself to the 
ministry, and in 1825 was licensed by the Glasgow Relief 
Presbytery. May 8, 1830, he emigrated to the United 
States; was ordained by Washington Classis in 1832, 
and was installed pastor of the Church in Argvle, X. Y. 
In 1834 he removed to Andes, where he died Nov. 15, 
1858. “Mr. Laing was a man to be esteemed, loved, 
and trusted — a laborious pastor and ‘ Israelite indeed, in 
whom there was no guile.*” — Wilson, Presh. Historical 
Almanac, 1867, p. 359. 

La'ish (Heb. La'yish, Judg. xviii, 14, 27, 29 ; 1 
Sam. xxv, 44, a lion , as in Isa. xxx, 6, etc., in pause ILPSj 
text *£■"?, 2 Sam. iii, 15, with local Judg. xviii, 

7; Isa. x, 30; Sept. Adit; in Sam., Aourd in Judg., Art- 
ur a in Isa. ; Yulg. Lais, but Laistt in Isa.), the name of 
at least one place and perhaps also of a man. 

1. A city in the extreme northern border of Pales- 
tine (Judg. xviii, 7, 14,27,29), also called Lesiieji (Josh, 
xix, 47), and subsequently, after being occupied by a 
colony of Danites (Josh, xix, 47 ; Judg. xviii, 27 sq.), 
also Han (Judg. xviii, 29; Jer. viii. 16), a name some- 
times given to it in anticipation (Gen. xiv, 14; Dent, 
xxxiv. 1 ; comp. Jahn, Einleit. 1 1, i, 66 ; 1 1 ug, in the Frei- 
burg. Zeitschr. v, 137 sq.). ft lay in a fruitful district, 
near the sources of the upper Jordan (Josephus, A nt. viii, 
8,4), four miles from Paneas towards Tyre (Eusebius, 
Onomast.). Saadias and the Samaritan version falsely 
give, instead of Dan (in Gen. xiv, 14), “Paneas” (see 
Winer, Piss, de vers. Sam. p. 54), which also Jerome (at 
Ezek. xxvii, 15, and Amos viii. 14) gives as an equiva- 
lent. Laish was long the seat of a corrupt worship of 
Jehovah (Judg. xviii, 14 sq.), and as it fell within the 
kingdom of Israel, Jeroboam established there the idola- 
try of the golden calf (1 Kings xii,28 sq.). — Winer, ii, 4. 

The occupation of this place by t lie Sidonians is easily 
accounted for. Sidon was a commercial city. Situated 
on the coast, with only a narrow strip of plain beside it, 
and the bare and rocky side of Lebanon impending over 
it, a large and constant supply of food had to be brought 
from a distance. The plain around Laish is one of the 
richest in Syria, and the enterprising Phoenicians took 
possession of it, built a town, and placed in it a large 
colony of laborers, expecting to draw from it an unfail- 
ing supply of com and fruit. Josephus calls this plain 
“ the great plain of the city of Sidon” (.1 nt. v, 3, 1). A 
road was made across the mountains to it at an immense 
cost, and still forms one of tb<Miiain roads from the sea- 
coast to the interior. Strong Castles were built to pro- 
tect the road and the colony. Kulat esh-Shukif, one 
of the strongest fortresses in Syria, stands on a com- 
manding hill over the place v/hcre the ancient road 
crosses the river Lcontes, and it is manifestly of Phoeni- 


cian origin. So also the great castles of Banias, four 
miles east of Laish, and Hunin, about six miles west of 
it,w r ere founded by the Phoenicians, as is evident from 
the character of their architecture (Porter, Handbook, p. 
444, 447 ; Robinson, Researches , iii, 50, 52,371, 403). It 
is most interesting to discover, after the lapse of more 
than three thousand years, distinct traces of the w ealth 
and enterprise of the Phoenicians around the site and 
fertile plain of Laish. — Kitto, s, v. See Dan. 

2. A place mentioned in Isa. x, 30, where the proj di- 
et, in describing the advance of the Assyrian host upon 
Jerusalem, enumerates Laish with a number of other 
towns on the north of the city. It is not quite certain 
whether the writer is here relating a real event, or de- 
tailing. a prophetic vision, or giving a solemn warning 
under a striking allegory ; but, how’ever this may be, the 
description is singularly graphic, and the line of march 
is pointed out writh remarkable minuteness and precis- 
ion. Aiath,Migron, and Miclimash are passed; the deep 
ravine which separates the latter from Geba is then 
crossed; Ramah sees and is afraid — “Gibcah of Saul is 
tied.” The writer now, with great dramatic effect, 
changes his mode of description. To terror and flight 
he appends an exclamation of alarm, representing one 
place as crying, another as listening, and a third as re- 
sponding — “Lift up thy voice, daughter of Gallim ! 
Hearken, Laishah ! Alas, poor Anathoth !” The words 
iT*S*b are rendered in the A. V., “Cause it 

(thy voice) to be heard unto Laish” — that is, apparent- 
ly, to the northern border-city of Palestine; following 
the version of Junius and Tremellius, and the comment 
of Grotius, because the last syllable of the name which 
appears here as Laishah is taken to be the Ilebrew T par- 
ticle of motion, “to Laish” (agreeably to the Hebrew” 
accent), as is undoubtedly the case in Judg. xviii, 7. 
But such a rendering is found neither in any of the an- 
cient versions, nor in those of modern scholars, as Gese- 
nius, Ewald, Zunz, etc.; nor is the Hebrew' word here 
rendered “cause it to be heard” found elscw’here in that 
voice, but always absolute — “hearken” or “attend.” 
There is a certain violence in the sudden introduction 
amongst these little Benjamite villages of the frontier 
town so very far remote, and not less in the use of its 
ancient name, elsewhere so constantly superseded by 
Dan (see Jer. viii, 16). Laishah w*as doubtless a small 
town on the line of march near Anathoth (see Lowth, 
Umbreit, Alexander, Gesenius, ad loc.). — Kitto; Smith. 

Many, therefore, understanding a different place from 
Dan (Rosenmidler, Alterth. Ill, ii, 191 ; Ilitzig and Kno- 
bel , Comment, ad loc.), regard it as the Laisa (EXtacrd, 
God. Alex. ’AXofid) mentioned in 1 Maec. ix,5: but Be- 
laud has show’ll that the city of Judah there referred to 
is Adasa, and the form of the word in Isa. does not war- 
rant this interpretation (see Gesenius. Comment, ad loc.). 
This Adasa has been discovered by Eli Smith in the 
modern ruined village Adasa, immediately north of Je- 
rusalem (Eobinsou. Researches, iii, Append, p. 121). 

A writer in Fairbairn’s Dictionary plausibly suggests 
that the Laishah in question may be found in the pres- 
ent little village El-Istnriyeh, in a valley about a mile 
N.E. of Jerusalem (Robinson, Researches, ii, 108), beauti- 
fully situated, and unquestionably occupying an ancient 
site* (Tobler, Topograph ie von Jerusalem , ii, § 719). 

3. A native of Gallim, and father of Phalti or Phal- 
tiel, to which latter Saul gave David’s wife Miclial (1 
Sam. xxv, 44; 2 Sam. iii, 15, in which latter passage the 
text appears to have read UT 5 !?, Lush). B.C. ante 1062. 
“It is very remarkable that the names of Laish (La- 
ishah) and* Gallim should he found in conjunction at a 
much later date (Isa. x, 30)” (Smith). “ This associa- 
tion of names makes it more than probable that Laishah 
u'as founded by Miehal’s father-in-law, w'ho, according 
to the custom of those times, gave it his own name. 
The allusion to the lion which it involves is interesting, 
for this neighborhood was another of the favorite haunts 
of that animal. It was by such ravines as wadys Farah 


LAISIIAH 


197 


LAKE 


and Selam that it was wont to ‘ come up from the swell- 
ing of Jordan’ (Jer. xlix, 19); in the opposite direction 
we have a further trace of it in the Chephirah (‘young 
lion,’ now Kefir) of western Ilenjamin (Josh, ix, 17 ; 
xviii, 26) ; northward, we find it encountering the dis- 
obedient prophet on his return from Bethel (I Kings 
xiii, 21) ; while in the pastures of Bethlehem to the 
south we see it vanquished by the superior prowess of 
the youthful David (1 Sam. xvii, 14-17)” (Fairbairn). 

Lai shah (Heb. La'yeshah, iTIPp, i.e. Laish, with Jl 
paragogic, Isa. x, 30). See Laisii, 2. 

Laity, the people as distinguished from the clergy. 
The Greek word XcHkoq, derived from Aadf (Latin syn- 
onyme piths), people, and signifying one of the people, is 
retained in the Latin la icus, from which laity is derived. 
In the Sept. A« 6^ is used as the synonyme of the Hebrew 
C V, people, As svnonymes of these Scripture terms we 
may also cite the words “faithful,” “saints,” and “idi-< 
otic” (q. v.). Comp. Biddle, Christian A iniquities, p. 188 
sq., 274, 275; Vinet, Pastoral Theology (N. Y. 1854), p. 
345. In the O.-T. Scriptures we find allusions to the 
laity in Dent. xviii, 3, where upon them is laid the ob- 
ligation to pay a tithe to the priest when offering sacri- 
fice; and in Ezekiel’s vision of the new Temple, where 
“ the ministers of the house” (ot Xeirovpyovvre c) are to 
boil the sacrifices of the laity (Ezek. xlvi, 24). So also 
in 1 Chron. xvi, 36, “ all the laity said Amen, and praised 
the Lord,” when Asaph and his brethren had finished 
the psalm given to them by David ; see likewise 2 Kings 
xxiii, 2, 3; Neb. viii, II , Isa. xxiv, 2; llos. iv, 9. In 
the N.-T. Scriptures this distinction seems to have been 
ignored by Christ and his apostles, for, although there 
are passages in which the laity are spoken of as a class, 
it is nowhere intimated that they were not allowed to 
exercise the prerogatives of the clergy in a great meas- 
ure. Coleman ( The Apostolical and Primitive Church 
[Phila. I860, 12mo], p. 230; compare p. 226 [6]), one of 
the best authorities on Christian antiquities, holds that 
in the early stages of Christianity “all were accustomed 
to teach and to baptize,” a practice to which Tertullian 
(born about A.D. 160) soon objected ( De Prescript, eh. 
xli). From the writings of the early fathers, it is evi- 
dent, moreover, that only in the 2d and 3d centuries, 
after the general establishment of the churches, a stricter 
distinction was inaugurated. The introduction of the 
episcopal office, however, first definitely settled the po- 
sition of the layman in the Church. As early as A.D. 
182, or thereabouts, we find Clement of Borne pointing 
to the laity as a distinct class. In a letter of his to the 
Corinthians respecting the order of the Church, after 
defining the positions of the bishops, priests, and dea- 
cons respectively, he adds, 6 A a'iicog dvSpioTroi; roig A a- 
7fco«c Trpoorayfiaoiv oideTai, “ the layman is bound by 
the laws which belong to laymen” (.Id Corinth, i, 40). 
A little later, Cyprian (born about the beginning of the 
3d century) uses the words “elerus” and “plebs” as of 
the two bodies which make up the Christian Chureh 
(Ep. lx). But the idea that the priesthood formed an 
intermediate class between God (Christ) and the Chris- 
tian community first became prevalent during the cor- 
ruptions that ensued upon the establishment of the prel- 
acy. Gradually, as the power of the hierarchy increased, 
the influence which the laity had exercised in the gov- 
ernment of the Church was taken from them, and in 
502 a synod held at Borne under Symmaehus finally de- 
prived the layman of ail activity in the management 
of any of the affairs of the Church (compare Coleman, 
Ajiostolic and Primitive Church , p. 118). 

In the Church of the Beformers a very different spirit 
prevailed. All Christians were looked upon as consti- 
tuting a common and equal priesthood. Still the desire 
of making a visible distinction often led even the Prot- 
estant Church astray, and to this day the question re- 
mains unsettled in some churches how far the laity 
ought to share in the government of the Church; and 
hence the depth of the distinction implied in the use of 


the word “clergy” and “ laity” varies with the “Chureh” 
views of those employing them. Some very strict Prot- 
estants prefer the words “minister” and “people” in- 
stead of clergy and laity. 

Farrar (in his Eccles. Did . p. 349 sq.) thus draws the 
line of distinction between the clergy and laity of the 
Protestant Chureh: “It is for the sake of the people 
that the ordinances of religion, and the clergy as the 
dispensers of them, exist; they are called to bear the 
burdens of the Church, as they receive its benefits. It 

is, however, questioned by some how far the professional 
distinctions between clergy and laity are desirable. As 
religious teachers, the clergy may be expected to be 
more especially occupied in fitting themselves for that 
office in qualifying themselves to explain, and to en- 
force on others, the evidences, the doctrines, and the 
obligations; but they are not to be expected to under- 
stand more of things surpassing human reason than God 
has made known by revelation, or to be the depositories 
of certain mysterious speculative doctrines; but i stuc- 
ards of the mysteries of God,’ rightly dividing (or dis- 
pensing, opSoTQfiovvTtQ) the word of the truth. The la- 
ity are in danger of perverting Christianity, and making 

it, in fact, two religions, one for the initiated few, and one 
for the mass of the people, who are to follow implicitly 
the guidance of the others, trusting to their vicarious 
wisdom, and piety, and learning. They are to beware 
of the lurking tendency which is in the hearts of all 
men to that very error which has been openly sanction- 
ed and established in the Romish and Greek churches — 
the error of thinking to serve God by a deputy and rep- 
resentative; of regarding the learning and faith, the 
prayers and piety, and the serupidous sanctity of the 
‘priest’ as being in some way or other transferred from 
him to the people. The laity are also to be constantly 
warned that the source of these errors lies in the very 
fact of thus regarding the clergyman as a qiriest (in the 
sacerdotal sense of that term), as holding a kind of me- 
diatorial position, one which makes him something dis- 
tinct from, and therefore no rule for themselves; a view 
which, while it unduly exalts the clergy, tends most 
mischievously to degrade the tone of religion and mor- 
als among the people, by making them contented with 
a less measure of strictness of fife and seriousness of de- 
meanor than they require in their ministers. Laymen 
need also to be reminded that they constitute, though 
not exclusively, yet principally, ‘the Church;’ the cler- 
gy being the ministers of ‘ the Church’ (1 Cor. iii, 5) ; 
that it is for the people’s sakes that the ordinances of 
religion, and the clergy, as dispensers of the same, ex- 
ist ; that they are the ‘body of Christ;’ that on them 
rests the duty of bearing the burdens, as they receive 
the benefits of the Church; and, finally, that there is no 
difference between them and the clergy in Church 
standing, except that the clergy are the officers of each 
particular church, to minister the Word and sacraments 
to that portion of its members over whom they are 
placed.” See Clergy; Lay Representation; Lay 
Breaching; Mediator; Ministry; Bastoral Of- 
fice; Briest. (J.II.W.) 

Lake (A ipvij, a pool), a term used in the N. T. only 
of the Lake of Gennesareth (Luke v,l,2; viii, 22, 23, 33), 
and of the burning sulphurous pool of Hades (Bev. xix, 
20; xx, 10, 14, 15; xxi, 8). The more usual word is sea 
(q. v.). The principal lakes of Balestine, besides the 
above Sea of Tiberias, are the Dead Sea and the Wa- 
ters of Merom. See each in its place. 

Lake, Arthur, a distinguished English prelate, was 
born at Southampton about 1550, and was educated at 
Winchester School, and at New College, Oxford, of which 
latter he was chosen fellow in 1589. lie became suc- 
cessively archdeacon of Surrey in 1605, dean of Worces- 
ter in 1608, and finally bishop of Bath and Wells in 1616. 
He died May 4, 1626. Lake made important donations 
to the library of New College, and founded a chair for 
Hebrew and for mathematics in that institution. He 
was a very learned man, especially versed in the ancient 


LAKE 


19S 


LA LUZERNE 


fathers, and very successful as a preacher. After his 
death there were published several volumes of his ser- 
mons : Exposition of the First Psalm; Exposition of the 
Fifty-first Psalm ; and Meditations — all of which were 
collected and published in one volume, under the title 
Ninety -nine /Sermons, with some Religious and Divine 
Meditations (Lond. 1629, fol.) r — Theses de Sabbat o (at the 
end of Twisse on the Sabbath) : — On Love to God (Tracts 
of Angl. Fat hers, 4, 39). See Wood, A theme Oxonienses ; 
Chalmers, General Diogr. Dietionary ; Walton, Life of 
dip. Sanderson ; Hook, Ecclesiastical Biography , vi, 509 : 
Darling, Cyclopaedia Bibl iograph ica, ii, 1755; Allibone, 
Diet . Engl . and A mer. Authors, ii, 1048. 

Lake, John, P.D., a noted English prelate, flour- 
ished in the second half of the 17th century. He was 
bishop of Sodor and Man in 1682; was transferred to 
Bristol in 1684, and in 1685 to Chichester. In 1689 he 
was ejected for nonconformity. He died about the close 
of the 17th century. Lake published only a few sermons 
(1670, 4to; 1671, 4 to, etc.). See Defence of Bp. Lake's 
Profession , etc. (1690, 4to). — Allibone, Diet. English and 
American Authors, ii, 1048. 

Lakemaclier, Joiiann Gottfhied, a Herman the- 
ologian and Orientalist, was born at Osterwvck, near 
Ilalberstadt.Xov. 17, 1695, and was educated at the uni- 
versities of llelmstiidt and Halle. In 1724 he was ap- 
pointed professor of Greek, and in 1727 of Oriental lit- 
erature at Halle. He died March 16, 173G. His works 
are, Element a linguee A rabicee (Helmst. 1 7 18,4to), a work 
■which has been highly commended for its intrinsic value 
as an introduction to the study of the Arabic language: 
— Observations philologies, quibus raria pracipue S. 
Cod ids loca ex antiquit at ibus illustrantur (pars i -x, ibid, 
1725-33, 8vo, and often): — Antiquitates Graeco rum Sa- 
eree (ibid, 1734, 8vo). — During, Gtlchrte Theol. Deutsch- 
lands, ii, 223. 

Lakin, Benjamin, a Methodist minister, was born 
in Montgomery Co., Mel, Aug. 23, 1767 ; was converted 
in 1791, and shortly after entered the ministry. 1 1 is first 
station was Pinkston Circuit (Nov. 6, 1794); he joined 
Holst on Conference in 1795, and was appointed to Green 
Circuit. “ Diligently and successfully Mr. Lakin labored 
in the Lord's vineyard until 1818, when his health and 
strength so far failed him that he was obliged to retire 
from the active ranks of the ministry. ... He was at 
first placed on the list of supernumerary preachers, but 
soon after on the superannuate roll. This relation to 
his Conference he sustained until his death,” Feb. 5, 1849. 
See Prof. Sam. Williams, in Sprague, Annals A mer. Pul- 
pit. vii, 267 sq. 

Lakshmi is the name of a female Hindu deity, the 
consort of the god Vishnu (q. v.). According to the 
mystical doctrine of the worshippers of Vishnu, this god 
produced the three goddesses Brahmi,. Lakshmi, and 
Chandika, the first representing his creating, the second 
his preserving, and the third his destroying energy. - 
This view, however, founded on the superiority of Visli- J 
nu over the two other gods of the Hindu triad — Brah- 
mi or Saraswati being generally looked upon as the en- 
ergy of Brahma, and Chandika, another name of Durga, 
as the energy of Siva — is later than the myth, relating 
to Lakshmi, of the epic period ; for, according to the lat- 
ter, she is the goddess of Fortune and of Beauty, and 
arose from the Ocean of Milk when it was churned by 
the gods to procure the beverage of Immortality, and it 
was only after this wonderful occurrence that she be- 
came the wife of Vishnu. When she emerged from the 
agitated milk-sea, one text of the L’amayana relates, 
‘‘she was reposing on a lot us-tlowcr, endowed with tran- 
scendent beauty, in the first bloom of youth, her body 
covered with all kinds of ornaments, and marked with 
every auspicious sign. . . . Thus originated, and adored 
by the world, the goddess, who is also called Padma and 
Sri, betook herself to the bosom of 1 lari — i. e. Vishnu.” J 

A curious festival is celebrated in honor of Lakshmi 
on the fifth lunar day of the light half of the month Ma- | 


gha (February), when she is identified with Saraswati, 
the consort of Brahma, and the goddess of learning. In 
his treatise on festivals, Baghunandana, a great modern 
authority, mentions, oil the faith of a work called Sam- 
watsara-sandipa, that this divinity is to be worshipped 
in the forenoon of that day with flowers, perfumes, rice, 
and water; that due honor is to be paid to inkstand and 
writing-reed, and no writing to be done. Wilson, in his 
essay on the Religious Festivals of the JJ Indus ( 1 1 'orks, ii, 
188 sep), thus describes the celebration : “On the morn- 
ing of the 2d of February the whole of the pens and ink- 
stands, and t be books, if not too numerous and bulky, 
are collected, the pens or reeds cleaned, the inkstands 
scoured, and the books, wrapped up in new cloth, are ar- 
ranged upon a platform or a sheet, and strewn over with 
flowers and blades of young barley, and that no flowers 
except white are to be offered. After performing the 
necessary rites ... all the members of the family as- 
semble and make their prostrations — the books, the pens 
and ink, having an entire holiday; and, should any emer- 
gency require a written communication on the day ded- 
icated to the divinity of scholarship, it is done with 
chalk or charcoal upon a black or white board.” There 
are parts of India where this festival is celebrated at dif- 
ferent seasons, according to the double aspect under 
which Lakshmi is viewed by her worshippers. The fes- 
tival in February seems originally to have been a ver- 
nal feast, marking the commencement of the season of 
spring. — Chambers, Cyclopaedia, s. v. 

La'kum (lleb .Lakkum', E*p2, according to Gese- 
nius, way-stopper, i. e. fortified place ; Sept. Aacovp v. r. 
AioCeig and*Affpoi', Vulg. Lecum), a place on the north- 
eastern border of Naphtali, mentioned after ,1 allied in 
the direction of the Jordan (Josh, xix, 88), and tin re- 
fore probably situated not far south of Lake Mcrom. The 
Talmud {Mcgilloth, lxx, 1) speaks of a Lnkim fZ-p*?), 
perhaps the same place (see Belaud. Paler st. p. 875). The 
site of Lakkum is possibly indicated by the ruins mark- 
ed on Vail de Velde’s Map adjoining a small pool cast 
of Tell-Akbarah and south-east of Safed. 

Lalita -Vistaiia is the name of one of the most 
celebrated works of Buddhistic literature. It, contains 
a narrative of the life and doctrine of Buddha Sakya- 
rauni [see Buddha], and is considered by the Buddh- 
ists as one of their nine chief works treating of Dharma, 
or religious law. It is one of the developed sutras of 
the Mahayfina system. An edition oi the Sanscrit text, 
and an English translation of this work by Bnbu Bf.- 
jendralal Mitrn, is publishing under the auspices of the 
Asiatic Society of Bengal. A French translation from 
the Thibetan has been made by Ph. Ed. Foueaux. In 
Chinese there are two translations of it. See E. Bur- 
n oil f. Introduction a Vllistcire du Buddhisme Didien (Par. 
1844) ; and W. AVassiljew, Dir Jiuddhismus. seine Dog- 
men, Geschichte uud Literatur (St. Petersburg, I860). — 
Chambers, Cyclopad ia, s. v. 

Lallemant, Jacques Philippe, a French Jes- 
uit. was born near Abbeville about 1G60, and died in 
1748. He published a remarkable work entitled The 
true Spirit of the new Disciples of Saint A ugustine (1706 
sq., 4 vols.). lie also wrote Moral Reflections, with 
Notes, on the New 1 'estanunt (1714, 1 1 vols.). 

Lallemant, Pierre, a mystical French writer, 
wa.; born at Bheims in 1622. and died in 1673. lie pub- 
lished The Spiritual Testament (1672), and other works 
of a like character. 

La Luzerne, Cksau Guillaume di:. a distinguish- 
ed French prelate, was born at Paris July 7. 1738. In- 
tended for the Church by his family, he studied at the 
seminary of St.Magloire. and while yet quite young had 
several 'benefits bestowed upon him through family in- 
fluence. In 1754 he was made canon in miuoribus of 
the cathedral of Paris, and in 1756 abbot of Mortemer. 
In 1762 he graduated with distinction, and was imme- 
i diately appointed grand vicar to the archbishop of Nar- 


LAMA 


199 


LAMAISM 


bonne, and in 1770 (June 24) was finally raised to the 
bishopric of Langres. This position securing him a seat 
in the States with the nobility, he took an active part 
in political events, and tried to conciliate the claims 
of the third estate with those of the nobility and cler- 
gy. He subsequently opposed the declaration of rights 
placed at the head of the new constitution, and spoke 
in favor of making the right of veto granted to the 
king more decisive. At the close of August, 1789, he 
became president of the Assemblee Constituante, but, 
after witnessing the excesses of the 5th and 6th of Oc- 
tober, he retired to his diocese. Here he strenuously 
opposed the civil constitution of the clergy, and was 
obliged in 1791 to leave France. He went successively 
to Switzerland and Austria, and finally settled at Venice 
in 1799, and remained there until the restoration of the 
Bourbons to the throne of France. He was made car- 
dinal July 28, 1817, and minister of state. The see of 
Langres having been restored, La Luzerne was reap- 
pointed to it, but legal difficulties prevented his assum- 
ing its direction. In 1818 he was the only bishop called 
to the council of ministers to contrive the ratification of 
the concordat of the preceding year. Although strongly 
attached to the liberties of the Galilean Church, La Lu- 
zerne earnestly advocated a strict compliance with the 
letter of the Concordat. He died June 21, 1821. Be- 
sides the 0 raison / tinebre de Charles Emmanuel III , roi 
de Sardaigne (1773, 4to and 12mo), and the Oraisonfu- 
n'ehre de Louis XT, roi de France (1774, 4to and 12mo), 
he wrote a number of pastoral instructions, etc., and po- 
litical pamphlets. Most of his writings were collected 
and published under the style ( Euvres de M. de La Lu- 
zerne (Lyons and Paris, 1842, 10 vols. 8vo). See Le 
Moniteur, July 26, 1821 ; Ami de la Religion et du Roi , 
xxviii, 225-233-, Mahul, A nnua ire Xecrologigue , 1821, 
p. 239; Querard, La France Litteraire; Hoefcr, Four. 
Biog. Generale , xxix, 38. (J. X. P.) 

La 'ma (A apa, Matt, xxvii, 46, which is also read 
in the best MSS. at Mark xv, 34, where the received 
text has A aj.tj.ia ; the Ileb. has both forms, »TS^, lam ah \ 
and J“l *27 , lam'mah, for what; the Syriac version has 
lemono ), a term signifying whg (as the context explains 
it, \vari, by which also the Sept, interprets), quoted by 
our Saviour on the cross from Psa. xxii, I [2 in the He- 
brew]. 

Lamaism (from the Thibetan h-Lama [pronounced 
Lama], spiritual teacher or lord) is the Thibetan form 
of Buddhism (q. v.), blended with and modified by the 
religions which preceded it in that portion of China. 
Among these was the belief in the “Mystic Cross,” 
which originated in the circumstance that an Indian 
prince of the Utsabyi or Liehhavyi race, being conquered 
in war, sought refuge in Thibet, where he became king. 
The Lichhavyis of Vaisili professed belief in “ Swasti.” 
Swasti is a monogrammatic sign formed of the letters 
Su and 77, and “Suti” is the Pali form of the Sanskrit 
“Swasti,” a compound of su (well) and asti (it is); so 
that “swasti” implies complete resignation under all cir- 
cumstances, which was the chief dogma of the fatalists 
who called themselves Swastikas, or followers of the 
Mystic Cross. These people were also annihilationists; 
hence their Thibetan name of Mu-stegs-pa or Finiti- 
mists. They were grossly atheistical and indecent in 
dress, but called themselves “ Pu re-doers,” and the sy- 
nonymous title Punya, “the pure,” was carried with 
them into Thibet, and became modified into Ron or the 
“Bons.” This form of faith continued for nine centu- 
ries, until Buddhism was generally introduced about the 
middle of the 7th century. Even then the followers of 
the Mystic Cross were still powerful. 

Jlistorg . — Buddhism was probably introduced into 
Thibet during the reign of Asoka, who propagated that 
religion with ardor upwards of two thousand years ago. 
In B.C. 240, at the close of the third synod, numerous 
missionaries were dispatched to all surrounding coun- 
tries to spread the doctrines of Sakyamuui. But the 


more formal history of Buddhism in Thibet begins with 
king Srongtsan Gampo (born A.D. 617, died 698), who 
sent to India his prime minister Thutni Satnbhota, with 
sixteen companions, to study letters and religion. He 
had the sacred books translated into Thibetan, and issued 
laws abolishing all other religions, and directing the es- 
tablishment of this one. Ilis wives, the one a Xepau- 
lese, the other a Chinese, greatly assisted him in these 
enterprises. He met, however, with only tolerable suc- 
cess, and the religion did not greatly flourish. Under 
king Thisrong-de-tsan (A.D. 728-786) Buddhism was 
more successful in Thibet, overcoming the efforts of the 
chiefs to crush the “new religion.” This prince in- 
duced great teachers from Bengal and Kafiristan to re- 
side in Thibet. They superseded the Chinese priests, 
who were the earliest Buddhist missionaries. A public 
disputation on religions, which w r as ordered by the king, 
greatly increased the influence of the Indian priests. 
Large monasteries were erected, and a temple at Samye, 
and the translation of sacred books into the vernacular 
was more energetically conducted. King Laugdar or 
Langdharma tried to abolish Buddhism, and in his ef- 
forts to do so commanded the destruction of all temples, 
monasteries, images, and sacred books pertaining to that 
religion. The indignation against these efforts was so 
intense that it resulted in the murder of the king in 
A.D. 900. His son and successor was also unfavorably 
disposed towards Buddhism, and gradually the new- re- 
ligion lost many adherents, and those still remaining 
faithful even suffered persecution. 

From A.D. 971 dates the revival of Buddhism, or the 
second general effort to propagate this religion in Thi- 
bet, under Bilamgur Tsan, who rebuilt eight temples, 
and under whom the priests who had tied the country 
returned, and fresh accessions were made from the priest- 
hood of India. Among those from India came in A.D. 
1041 the celebrated priest Atislia. In the I2th or 13th 
century the modification of Buddhism known as the 
Tantrika mysticism was introduced. Consideral •’/ later 
a great impetus was given to Buddhism by the cele- 
brated reformer Tsonkhapa (born A.D. 1357), who en- 
deavored, about the opening of the 1 5th century, to unite 
the dialectical and mystical schools, and to put an end 
to the tricks, pretended miracles, and other corruptions 
of the priesthood. He published new r w-orks on relig- 
ion; but, so far as regards the marked similarity be- 
tween the ceremonial of the Chinese Buddhists and 
some Christian sects, Schlagintweit says that “we are 
not yet able to decide t he question as to how f far Buddh- 
ism may have borrowed from Christianity, but the rites 
of the Buddhists enumerated by the French missionary 
(Hue) can for the most part either be traced back to 
institutions peculiar to Buddhism, or they have sprung 
up in periods posterior to Tsonkhapa” (q. v.). 

Sects . — According to Schlagintweit, there v'as no di- 
vision of Lamaism into sects previous to the 11th cen- 
tury. Subsequently, however, there arose numerous 
subdivisions of the people, nine of which still exist, 
which are reputed orthodox, though there is not much 
knmvn about them. In distinction from the other sects 
which Tsonkhapa labored energetically to supersede, he 
ordered his disciples to wear a yellow dress instead of 
red, the color of the older religionists, and, to make the 
distinction still greater, lie provided a peculiar pattern 
for a cap, also to be made of yellow’ cloth. 

I. The eldest of the primitive sects is the Nyigmapa. 
The lamas of Bhutan and Ladak belong to this sect, 
and they adhere to ancient rites, ceremonies, and usages 
such as obtained among the earliest Chinese priests. 
They acknowledge some sacred books not included in 
the Kanjur or Tanjur hereinafter mentioned. 2. Anoth- 
er ancient sect is the Frggenpa. or the disciples of Ur- 
gven, who differ from the tirst in their worship of Ami- 
tabha as Padma Sambhava. 3. A sect founded by Brom- 
ston (born A.D. 1002) observe only “ precepts” and not 
“ transcendental wisdom.” This sect wear a red dress. 
4. The Sakgapa, whose particular tenets are not know n, 


LAMAISM 


200 


LAMAISM 


but who wear a red dress also. 5. The Gelukpa (Gal- ' 
danpa or Geldampa) adhere to the doctrines of Tson- 
khapa, and this sect is now the most numerous in Thibet. 
G. The Kargyutpa , leave Prajna Parimita, resting in their 
observance of the Aphorisms (Sutras) and in the ‘’suc- 
cession of precepts.” 7. The Karimipa , and, 8. Brikung- 
pa, are not much known. 9. The Brugpa (Dugp or Dad 
Dugpa) have a particular worship of the thunderbolt 
(Dorge) which fell from heaven in Eastern Thibet. This 
sect observe the Tantrika mysticism. 

In addition to the above there is the “Bon" religion, 
the followers of which arc called Bonpas. They own 
many wealthy monasteries. They are probably the de- 
scendants of those who did not originally accept Buddh- 
ism, but preserved the ancient rites and superstitious 
of the country. 

Sacred Books . — Lamaism has a voluminous sacred lit- 
eral ure. Originally it consisted almost wholly of trans- 
lations, but after this it developed rapidly an indigenous 
element, especially after the 14th century, under the im- 
pulse given to it by Tsonkhapa. The commentaries on 
the sacred text are frequently in the vernacular. But 
the great works are a compilation of Sanskrit translators, 
containing sacred and profane publications of different 
periods. These are respectively translations of “ the 
commandments” and of the doctrines of Sakyaniuni, in 
which are embraced philosophy, logic, rhetoric, and Sans- 
krit grammar. The principal of these translations date 
from about the 9th century. Elinor ones are probably 
of later origin, but the modern arrangement of the works 
is probably not older than the present century. These | 
collections were printed in 1728-4G, by order of the re- 
gent of Lhassa, and are now printed at many of the 
monasteries. They arc entitled “Kanjur and Taijur 
according to Muller, the proper spelling is Bkuh-hgyur 
and Bstan-hggur . 

“The Kanjur consists of the following sections: 1. 
Dulva (Sanscrit, Yinuyu), or discipline; 2. Sher-phjm 
(Sans. Prajnapdramitd), or philosophy and metapliyies; 
3. Phalchhen (Sans. Baddhavata Sangha ), or the doc- 
trine of the Buddhas, their incarnations, etc.; 4. i/Kon 
brTsegss (Sans. Ratnakuta), or the collection of precious 
things ; 5. mDo ssDe (Sans. Silt rant ra ), or the collection 
of Sutras : (5. Mjang dass (Sans. Xircdna), or the libera- 
tion from wordily pains; 7. rGjnd (Sans. Tantras), or in- 
cantations, etc.” (Chambers). There are many editions 
of the Kanjur, varying from 100 to 108 volumes folio. It 
embraces 1083 distinct works. Massive as this code is, 
editions of it have been printed at Pekin, Lhassa, and 
other places. These have been sold for sums ranging 
as high as £G00, or, when rnen deal in kino, for 7000 
oxen. A most valuable analysis of this immense Bible 
is given in the Asiatic Researches, vol. xx, by Alexan- 
der Csbrnii tie Kbrbs, a Hungarian who made his way 
to Thibet on foot for other purposes, but became an en- 
thusiastic student of the Thibetan Scriptures. 

The Tanjnr is “a collection of treatises in 225 vol- 
umes, elegantly printed at Pekin, containing transla- 
tions from Sanskrit and Prakrit, on dogmas, philosophy, 
grammar, medicine, and ethics, with Amara’s Bosha or 
vocabulary, and fragments of the Mahabharaia and of 
other epic poems. The work of the great reformer, the 
history of Buddhism, lives of saints, and all sorts of 
works on theology and magic, till the libraries. But 
the Thibetans also possess annals, genealogies, and laws, 
as, for instance, the ‘Mirror of Kings’ (translated into 
Mongolic by Ssanang Ssetsen, and into German by 
Schmidt), or Bodhimor (* Way to Wisdom’), and works 
on astronomy and chronology” (Appleton). 

Among the native sacred literature of Thibet is the 
historical book called Muni Kambuin, containing the 
legendary tales of Padmapani’s propagation of Buddh- 
ism in Thibet, and the origin and application. of the sa- 
cred formula “ Om Maid Padma Hum” It contains a 
description of the wonderful region Sukhavati, where 
Amitabha sits enthroned, and where those are who most 
merit blissful existence; a history of creation; prayers 


to Padmapani, and the advantages of frequent repetition 
of Om Maui; the meaning of that sacred sentence; an 
account of the figurative representations of Padmapani, 
and ofhis images, which represent him with faces vary- 
ing from three to one thousand. It contains, moreover, 
the ethics and religious ordinances of Buddhism ; biog- 
raphy; a description of the irresistible power of “Om 
Mani,” etc., and tells how it secures deliverance from 
being reborn ; legends, translations of sacred books, etc. 
This has been translated into Mongolian. 

Grades of Initiation . — The Buddhist community is 
divided into three classes. The first or highest is known 
in Thibet as True Intelligence, or Chang Chhab, mean- 
ing “ the perfect” or “accomplished;” and Chang Chhnb 
Sempuli, or “Perfect Strength of Mind,” because the 
graduate has accomplished the grand object of life, which 
is the perfect suppression of all bodily desire and com- 
plete abstraction of mind. These are the Bodhisatwas 
of Sanskrit (or, in Chinese, Pusas ), who are incipient 
Buddhas, rising by self-sacrifice and their good influence 
over their fellow-men to the highest goal. Every age 
produces a number of these Bodhisatwas. The second 
class comprises those having “individual intelligence” 
or self-intelligence, the Pratyeka , who turn not out of 
the way. The third is the Sravaka or auditor (lis- 
tener). 

Orders of Beings . — The self-existent Adi Buddha, by 
five spontaneous acts of divine wisdom, and by five ex- 
ertions of mental reflection ( dhyan ), projected from his 
own essence five intelligences of the first order, known 
as the Punch a, Dhydni- Buddha, or “Five celestial 
Buddhas,” whose names are Pair och ana, Aksliobya, 
Ratna Sambhara, Amitabha, and Amogha Siddha . 
These five intelligences of the first order created “five 
intelligences” of a second order, or Bodhisatwas, who 
“become creative agents in the hands of God, or serve 
as links uniting him with all the lower grades of crea- 
turely existence.” The Lokeswaras (Jigtcn Baugeliuk), 
or “ Lords of the World,” are also acknowledged in Thi- 
betan Buddhism. All these are celestial beings, the 
spontaneous emanations from the Deity, who have never 
been subject to the pains of transmigration. 

Inferior to these are the created or mortal beings, di- 
vided into six classes, named Droba Rikdruk, or “ Six 
advances or progressors,” because their souls advance 
by transmigration from one state to a better one, until 
they finally attain absorption, and are no longer subject 
to transmigration. These six are: 1. Lhd, or gods; 2. 
Lha ma yin, Titans; 3. Mi, which equals man; 4. l)u- 
dro. brutes, 5. Yidok, goblins; G. My alba, the damned. 

The hells are eight cold and sixteen hot, and are fa- 
vorite subjects of Chinese and Thibetan painters. The 
punishment is not everlasting, but after expiation the 
person may be born again. 

Objects of Worship * — In early periods Lamaism con- 
fined its worship to the triad Buddha, Dharma, and 
Sangha ; and pious reverence was shown to the relics of 
former Buddhas, as well as to those of Sakva himself 
and his principal disciples; but there is no mention of 
the elaborate system of Dhyani Buddhas, Padmapani, 
etc., earlier than about A.D. 400. Primitive Buddhism 
is now stated to have been undoubtedly atheistic, but 
was in later ages greatly modified. 

Sakyaniuni is worshipped in Ladak as “ Shakya Thub- 
ba,” yet there is a legend to the dlect that at the end 
of twenty-five centuries from the present time he is to 
be superseded by a more benign Buddha, called Mat- 
trey a, or Mile. The people, however, worship others 
equally with Sakva, though there is reason to believe 
that the worship is of later date, as Fa Ilian is the first 
who makes mention of it. lie speaks of it as extant at 
the time of his visit in A.D. 400. These other deities 
are Padmapani, Jamya, and Chanrazik (or Padmapani, 
Maujn Sri, and Ava Lokiteswara) ; and though the peo- 
ple still confirm an oath by appealing to the three su- 
premacies of the Buddhist triad, yet, when they under- 
take any enterprise or begin a journey, their prayers for 


LAMAISM 


201 


LAMAISM 


success are almost invariably addressed to Fadmapani. 
The mystic sentence “ Oni Muni Padma Hum ” is re- 
peated in worship, and is constantly heard as one moves 
through the country. It has been variously translated 
as “Oh, the jewel in the lotus!” and “Hail to him of 
the jewel and the lotus!” and “ Glory to the lotus-bear- 
er Hum !” 

Padmapani is a “Dhyani Bodhisattna,” and of all the 
gods is most frequently worshipped, because he is a rep- 
resentative of Sakyamuni, and guardian and propagator 
of his faith until the appearance of the Buddha Mai- 
treya. lie is the patron deity of Thibet, and manifests 
himself from age to age in human shape, becoming Da- 
lai Lama (see below) by the emission of a beam of light, 
and ultimately is to be born as the most perfect Buddha 
— not in India, where his predecessors became such, but 
in Thibet. Jle has a great many names, and is repre- 
sented in various figures, sometimes having eleven faces 
and eight hands, the faces forming a pyramid ranged in 
four rows, each series being of a different complexion, 
as white, yellow, blue, red; sometimes he is represented 
as having one head and four arms. 

Co-regent with Padmapani is Manju Sri, who diffuses 
religious truth, bearing a naked sword as symbolic of 
power and acumen; he is lord of the intellect, and the 
author of the joy of the family circle, and is deputy 
governor of the whole earth. The representations of 
him in Thibet, as in Mongolia, make him to have innu- 
merable eyes and hands, and even ten heads, crowned, 
and rising in the form of a cone, one above another ; he 
is often represented as incarnate in the person of some 
Dalai Lama as Padmapani. 

it must not be supposed, however, that these are the 
only objects of worship in Thibet. The earliest wor- 
ship of that country was a species of nature or element 
worship; and, as Lamaism ingrafted the aneieut gods 
and spirits of the former inhabitants on itself, the poorer 
people still make offerings to their old divinities, the 
gods of the hills, the woods, the dales, the mountains, the 
rivers, anil have field, family, and house divinities. La- 
maism was, besides this, greatly affected by its contact 
with the Shamanism (q. v.) of the Mongolians. 

These gods are particles of the Supreme Intelligence, 
and, though they are many, they are all a multiplica- 
tion of t he one God. The Thibetan name for deity is 
Sha, the equivalent of the Sanskrit Dcva. They assist 
man, each having his own sphere, within which he 
reigns supreme. These gods are both male and female. 

There are, besides these, malignant gods, called “ Da,” 
or enemy, and “ Geg,” deed. The most malignant of 
them are, 1. Lliamayin, to whom many ill-natured spir- 
its are subject. They cause untimely death. 2. The 
Diulpos, or judges of the dead. These try to prevent 
the depopulation of the world by prompting evil desire, 
by becoming beautiful women. They disturb devout 
assemblies. They are, of course, antagonized by the 
more benevolent deities, among whom some become 
specially famous, as the Drag-sheds , “the cruel hang- 
men,” who are subdivided into eight classes. Legends 
concerning them abound. 

Doctrines . — According to Csomii (in the Bengal Soci- 
ety Journal, vii, 145"), the higher philosophies are not 
popularly understood, yet the people of Thibet are in 
general tolerably familiar with the doctrine of the Three 
Vehicles (Triyana), a dogma of the Mahayani school, 
explained in the Thibetan Compendium called Lamrim, 
or “The gradual Way to Perfection.” The argument 
of the book is to the effect that the Buddha dogmas are 
intended for the lowest, middle, and highest people, and 
they are graded accordingly. In the matter of creeds, 
for instance, there is the following order. 'Fhe lowest 
people must believe in God, future life, and that the 
fruit of works is to be earned in this life, while the mid- 
dle class are to know (1) that every compound is per- 
ishable ; (2) that all imperfection is pain, and that de- 
liverance from bodily existence is the only real happi- 
ness. A person of the highest class, in addition to all 


the foregoing, must know that from the body to the 
Supreme Soul nothing is existent but himself; that he 
will not always be, nor ever cease absolutely from being. 

In moral duties there is a like gradation. The vul- 
gar are to practice ten virtues, to which the middle class 
are to add meditation, wisdom, etc.; while the supe- 
rior class must, in addition to the foregoing, practice 
the six transcendental virtues. In their ultimate des- 
tiny this gradation pursues these classes, the lowest be- 
ing admitted to become men, gods, etc., the next hav- 
ing hope of rebirth in Sukhavati, without pain or bodily 
existence, ami the best expecting to reach themselves 
Nirvana, and to lead others thereunto also. The priests 
who take the vows called Dorn can alone hope for this. 

A more popular code, however, is necessary for sim- 
pler people, and hence the following eight precepts com- 
monly obtain: 1. To seek to take refuge only with 
Buddha. 2. To form in one’s mind the resolution to 
strive to attain the highest degree of perfection, in order 
to be united with the Supreme Intelligence. 3. To pros- 
trate one’s self before the image of Buddha to adore 
him. 4. To bring offerings before him, such as are 
pleasing to any of the six senses, as lights, flowers, gar- 
lands, incense, perfumes, all kinds of edibles and drink- 
ables, stuffs, cloth, etc., for garments, and hanging or- 
naments. 5. To make music, sing hymns, and utter the 
praises of Buddha, respecting his person and doctrines, 
love or mercy, perfections or attributes, and his acts or 
performances for the benefit of all animal beings. G. 
To confess one’s sins with a contrite heart, to ask for- 
giveness for them, and to resolve sincerely not to com- 
mit the like hereafter. 7. To rejoice in the moral mer- 
its of all animal beings, and to wish that they may 
thereby obtain final emancipation or beatitude. 8. To 
pray and entreat all Buddhas that are now in the world 
to t urn the wheel of religion (or to teach their doctrines), 
and not to leave the world too soon, but to remain here 
for many ages or ka /pas. 

Buddhism in Thibet, as elsewhere, accepts the doc- 
trine of metempsychosis. The forms under which any 
living beings may be reborn are sixfold, enumerated 
previously as among the inferior objects of worship. 
Good works involve rebirth, just as bad ones do. Sliinje, 
“ the Lord of the Dead,” determines the end of life and 
the form of the rebirth. Jle has a wonderful mirror, 
which reflects the good and bad actions of men, and a 
balance in which to weigh them. When being in any 
one form must cease, he sends his servants to bring the 
soul before him for the announcement of the form it 
shall next assume. If the servant bring the wrong per- 
son the mirror shows it, and the soul is dismissed. 

The object of rebirth being the expiation of sins, 
atonement for them may lessen these if made in this 
life, as will also the subduing of evil desires, the prac- 
tice of virtue, and confession. The Mahay ana school 
says that confession confers entire absolution from sins. 
So also Thibetan Buddhism now considers it. Confes- 
sion, however, includes repentance and promises of 
amendment. Various ceremonies accompany the avow- 
al. Consecrated water must be used, which, however, 
can only be rendered fit by the priests by a ceremony 
called Trisol, or “Entreaties for ablution.” Abstinence 
from food and recitation of prayers are also observed, 
but the commonest form is that of a simple address to 
the gods. The confessors who deliver from sins are 
generally Buddhas who preceded Sakyamuni, or holy 
spirits equal in power to Buddhas. There are thirty- 
five of these eminent in this work, known as the “thirty- 
five Buddhas of Confession,” beautifully colored images 
of whom are found in the monasteries, and to whom 
prayers are made in the Thibetan liturgy. 

Begarding the future abode of the blessed, Lamaism 
differs from other Buddhism. Nirvana (annihilation) 
is not carefully pointed out, and the sacred books say 
it is impossible to define its attributes and properties. 
But to those failing to obtain Nirvana, or unconscious 
existence, the next best state that can be offered is Suk- 


LAMAISM 


202 


LAMAISM 


havnti , entrance upon which exempts trom rebirth, but I 
not from absolute existence. Thibetans do not now | 
generally distinguish between the two, tlie great stress [ 
being laid on the deliverance from rebirth. This region j 
is located towards the west, in a large lake, the surface 
of which is covered with lotus-Howers of rare perfume, ■ 
and of red and white color. Devotion is kindled by ^ 
birds of Paradise, food and clothing being had for the ' 
wishing. Human forms may be assumed and laid aside 
at pleasure. These arc on their way to be Buddhas. I 
Priesthood. — The first organization of the Thibetan I 
clergy dates from A.D. 720-780, and the present hicrar- J 
ehieal system from about the loth century. In A.D. 
1417 the Lama Tsonkhapa founded the Golden Monas- j 
tcry, but the Dalai Lama at Lliassa and the Panchen j 
Einpoehe, both credited with divine origin, gained 
greater influence than that of Golden. The Dalai La- 
ma (Grand Lama) is an incarnation of the “ Dhyani 
Bodhisattwa” Chenrisi, who becomes reincorporated by 
a beam of light which leaves him and enters the person 
selected for the descent. The “Panchen,” on the other 
hand, are incorporations of the father of Chenrisi, who 
was named Amitabha. The first to assume the title of 
“ His precious Majesty,” and the first Dalai Lama, was 
Gedun Grub (1389-I47o). With the fifth Dalai Lama 
the temporal government was extended over all Thibet. 
These Dalai Lamas are elected by the priests, but since 
A.D. 1792 these elections have been greatly influenced 



by the Chinese government at Pekin. Next below the 
Dalai Lamas are the superiors of monasteries, called 
Khaupos. They are appointed bv the Dalai Lamas for 
a term of three or six years, and some of them are con- 
sidered to be incarnations. The third in grade are the 
superintendents of choral songs and the music of the 
divine services, and are termed Budzad. Next succeed- 
ing are the ( lebkoi , who are elected by the monks to 
maintain order; below the Gcbkoi are the abbots. The 
sixth in order is the Lama , a title which literally per- 
tains only to “superior” priests, but, by courtesy, is now 
applied to all lluddhist priests. The Tsilhan arc astrol- 
ogers, who marry, are fortune-tellers, conjure evil spirits, 
etc. Their instruments are an arrow and triangle. 

In the organization of the orders there is a code of 
some two hundred and fifty rulers. Celibacy and pov- 
erty have had much to do in the formation of the char- 
acter of the priesthood. The vow to lead a life of celi- 
bacy is rarely revoked. While the priests personally 
must continue poor, the monasteries may be wealthy, 
and they actually have great revenues. Living on alms, 
most is collected about harvest time. Pecs from funer- 
als, marriages, illness, etc., are among their resources. 
The property of the monasteries is free from taxation. 


The elder son generally becomes a lama. In 1855 
the total number of lamas, as estimated in the Bengal 
Society Journal , was 18,500, in twelve monasteries of 
Eastern Thibet. In Western Thibet Cunningham esti- 
mates one to every thirteen laymen, while in .Spiti they 
number one to seven of the population. 

These priests till the gardens attached to the monas- 
teries, revolve prayer cylinders, carve blocks, and paint. 
They are often illiterate, and, though most of them know 
how to read and write, they do not care to acquire knowl- 
edge. Their dress and caps are of double felt, with 
charms between the folds, or they wear large straw hats. 
The head lama's cap is generally low and conical, though 
some are hexagonal, and others like a mitre. They wear 
also a gown, which reaches to the calves of their legs; 
this has a slender girdle and an upright collar. They 
wear also trowsers, and boots of stiff felt. They carry 
rosaries containing 108 beads, made of wood, pebbles, or 
bones. Their amulet boxes contain images of deities, 
relics, and objects dreaded by evil spirits. 

Buildings and Monuments. — The priests live in mon- 
asteries, each of which receives a religious name. The 
architecture is similar to that, of the houses of the 
wealthy. The entrance faces either the south or east. 
They are always decorated with flags. They sometimes 
consist of one large house, several stories high, and in 
other cases of several buildings with temples attached. 
In their exterior appearance they are much inferior to 
those of other countries. 

The temples have nothing imposing about them. 
The roofs are fiat or sloping, with square holes for win- 
dows and skylights. The walls are towards the quar- 
ters of the heavens. The north side should be colored 
green, the south side yellow, the east, side white, the 
west red. They are not always, however, in this order. 
The interior of the building is generally one large room, 
with side halls decorated with paintings, images, etc. 
The side halls contain the library, the volumes of which 
are on shelves, and sometimes wrapped in silk. In the 
corners are statues of deities, the religious dresses of the 
priests, musical instruments, and other articles of sacred 
appointment. “The Lamaic temples are of Indo-Chinese 
form, square, fronting the east in Thibet and the south 
in Mongolia. They are often cruciform. There arc 
three gates, and three interior divisions, viz., the en- 
trance-hall, the body of the edifice with two parallel rows 
of columns, and the sanctuary with the throne of the 
high lama” (Appleton), For a description of two of the 
largest lama temples in China, see Doolittle, Social Life 
of the Chinese, ii, 457 sq. 

The Chodtens are monuments from eight, to fifteen 
feet, or even sometimes forty feet high. They arc re- 
ceptacles for the offerings of the people, and reposito- 
ries of relics, and are very much revered by the lamas. 
They are set up in the temples, and arc moulded from 
metals, or even of clay and straw. 

The Man is a wall six feet long and four or five feet 
broad, of sacred use. Derchoks and lapehas arc sacred 
Hags and heaps of stones. Prayers are inscribed on the 
flags, and the people seem ever eager to make new lap- 
ehas. 

Images , etc. — The representations of deities and other 
sacred personages are copied everywhere. From the 
earliest period relics and images of Ihuldha have been 
honored and worshipped with simple ceremonies, as pros- 
trations, presentation of flowers, perfumes, prayers, and 
hymns. At the present day, Buddhas preceding Sakva- 
muni, .as well as the Dhyani Buddhas, a host of gods, 
spirits deified, priests of local reputation, are all repre- 
sented in images or pictures. The “ Gallery of Por- 
traits” has drawings of over three hundred saints. 

The lamas have a monopoly of the manufacture of 
these, as they are efficacious only after the performance 
of certain ceremonies at many junctures in their prepa- 
ration, and these the lamas alone know how to perform. 
Pictures must be commenced on prescribed days; ou 
certain other days the eyes must be painted, etc. Draw- 


LAMAISM 


203 


LAMAISM 


ings and paintings are traced with pinholes, through 
which powder is sifted; they are bordered by several 
strips of silk, of bine, yellow, red, and other colors. Stat- 
ues and bass-reliefs of clay, papier-mache, bread-dough, 
or metals, or even of butter run in a mould, are made. 
The best executed contain relics, as ashes, bones, hair, 
rags, and grain ; these are sometimes contained in a hole 
in the bottom of the image. 

The images and statues of the Buddha, Bodhisat- 
twas, and the Dragsheds differ greatly from each other. 
Sakyumuni is represented in many attitudes, with one 
hand uplifted or holding an alms-bowl, as sitting, or as 
recumbent. Padmapani has sometimes eleven faces 
and a thousand hands. “ Melhci , the god of tire, when 
driving away evil spirits, rides a red ram, and has a hor- 
rible countenance but he is represented in many other 
attitudes. The Bodhisattwas have a shining counte- 
nance, and are seated on a lotus-flower. The Dragsheds 
who protect against evil spirits are tierce-looking, of 
dark complexion, and sometimes have a third eye in the 
forehead, to represent their wisdom. They are almost 
naked, but wear a neeklace of human skulls, and have 
rings on their arms and ankles. They have in their 
hands various instruments symbolic of their power. The 
Dorje , or thunderbolt, <{ may best be represented by four 
or eight metallic hoops joined together so as to form 
two halls,” which are on a staff, with points projecting. 
The Phurbu , or ‘'nail,” the Beckon , ‘•club,” and Zaypa, 
or “snare” to catch evil spirits, and the Kapdlu , or 
drinking-vessel, which is a human skull, are among these 
sacred instruments. 

Forms of Worship . — The religious services consist of 
singing, accompanied with instrumental music, offerings, 
prayers, etc. The offerings are of clarified butter, dour, 
tamarind- wood, flowers, grain, peacock leathers, etc. 
There are no blood-offerings, as any sacrifices entailing 
injury to life are strictly forbidden in the Buddhistic 
faith. Drums, trumpets made of the human thigh-bone, 
cymbals, and flageolets, are among the sacred musical 
instruments. 

The Prayer cylinder is an instrument peculiar to the 
Buddhists. It is called “khorben” (Hardy says hG arias 
or Tchukor , according to Hue = turning-prayer). It is 
generally of brass, enveloped, in wood or leather. A 
wooden handle passes through the cylinder, forming its 
axis, around which is rolled the long strip of cloth or 
paper on which is the prayer of printed sacred sentences. 
A small pebble or piece of metal, at the end of a short 
chain, facilitates the rotation of the cylinder in the hand. 
Large cylinders near the monasteries are kept in motion 
by persons employed for the purpose, or by being at- 
tached to streams of running water like a mill-wheel. 
Each revolution, if made slowly, and from right to left, 
is equivalent to the repetition of the sentences inclosed. 
Generally the inscription is only a repetition of the sen- 
tence “Om mani padma hum.” There is also a sacred 
drama. 

G acred Days and Festivals . — The monthly festivals 
are four, and are connected with the phases of the moon. 
No animal food must be eaten, but ordinary avocations 
need not be discontinued. There are particular festi- 
vals for each month, and three great annual festivals. 
“The Loy ytisur, or t He festival of the new year, in 
February, marks the commencement of the season of 
spring, or the victory of light and warmth over dark- 
ness and cold. The Lamaists, like the Buddhists, cele- 
brate it in commemoration of the victory obtained by 
the Buddha Sakyamuni over the six heretic teachers. 
It lasts fifteen days, and consists of a series of feasts, 
dances, illuminations, and other manifestations of joy; 
it is, in short, the Thibetan Carnival. The second fes- 
tival, probably the oldest festival of the Buddhistic 
Church, is held in commemoration of the conception or 
incarnation of the Buddha, and marks the commence- 
ment of summer. The third is the water-feast, in Au- , 
gust and September, marking the commencement of au- ( 
tumn” (Chambers). I 


Ceremonies . — Tvisol, or prayer for ablution, is among 
the most sacred of Buddhist rites. The “ ceremony of 
continued abstinence” is performed once or twice a year, 
and occupies four days, prayers being read in praise of 
Padmapaui. 

Bites are also observed for the attainment of super- 
natural faculties called Siddhi , of which eight classes are 
distinguished: the power to conjure; longevity; water 
of life; discovery of hidden treasures; entering into In- 
dra’s cave; the art of making gold; the transformation 
of earth into gold; the acquiring of the inappreciable 
jewel. 

This siddhi, however, cannot be obtained without cer- 
tain austerities, observances, and incantations. The lat- 
ter must be repeated a fixed number of times, as, for in- 
stance, 100,000 times a dav. Meditation is always nec- 
essary. 

Peculiar ceremonies are observed for securing the as- 
sistance of the gods: these are the rite Dnbjed, or mak- 
ing ready a burnt-offering, which has various names and 
is differently observed, as the “sacrifice for peace,” the 
“rich sacrifice,” to secure good harvests; the sacrifice 
for power, to obtain influence or success; the “fierce sac- 
rifice,” to secure protection from untimely death, etc. 
Incantation of Lungta, or “the horse of the wind,” is 
powerful for good, as is also the talisman Changpo, 
which protects from evil spirits. The evil spirits are 
limited in their mischief by the magical figure Phurbu, 
a triangle drawn on paper covered with charms. Among 
the multitudinous ceremonies are those performed in 
cases of illness. Eaeh malignant spirit causes some par- 
ticular disease : Bahu inflicts palsy, others cause chil- 
dren to fall sick, etc. Charms, noisy music, and pray- 
ers accompany what rude medicine is administered. 

“ Baptism and confirmation are the two principal sac- 
raments of Lamaism. The former is administered on 
the third or tenth day after birth ; the latter, generally 
when the child can walk or speak. The marriage cere- 
mony is to Thibetans not a religious, but a civil act ; 
nevertheless, the lamas know how to turn it to the best 
advantage, as it is from them that the bridegroom and 
bride have to learn the auspicious day when it should 
be performed; nor do they fail to complete the act with 
prayers and rites, which must be responded to with 
handsome presents” (Chambers). 

“The bodies of rich laymen are buried, and their 
ashes preserved, while those of the common people are 
either exposed to be devoured by birds or eaten by sa- 
cred dogs, which are kept for the purpose, and the bones 
are pounded in mortars, and given to the animals in the 
shape of balls. Bich persons about to die are assisted 
by lamas, who let out the soul by pulling the skin from 
the skull and making a hole in it. Religious services 
for departed souls are said in the ratio of payment re- 
ceived. The mode of the funeral is determined by as- 
trology” (Appleton). 

Great importance is attached to astronomy, and ta- 
bles of divination are in high esteem, as are soothsayers’ 
formulas. 

Holy Places . — “The principal holy place in Thibet is 
Lassa, with the monasteries Lha-brang, the cathedral; 
Ba-mo-tshhe (great circuit), wherein is the Chinese 
idol of Fo; and Morn (pure), having a celebrated print- 
ing-office. Near the city is Gar-ma-khian (mother clois- 
ter), wherein bad spirits arc personated, and about a 
mile distant a three-pointed hill, with the chief of all 
monasteries and palaces, called Botala (Buddha’s Mount), 
occupied by about 10,000 lamas in various dwellings. 
Several line parks and gardens adorn the environs of the 
holy city. Among the thirty great lamaseries in the 
neighborhood are Sse-ra (golden), on the road to Mon- 
golia, with Buddha’s sceptre floating in the air, and 
15,000 lamas; ’Brass ssl’ungss (branch-heap), founded 
by the reformer, with a Mongolic school, SOU sorcerers, 
and 15,000 lamas; and dGal Dan (Joy of heaven), also 
built by the reformer, whose body sometimes converses 
with the SOOO lamas. On the road to Ssu-tchuan is 


LAMAISM 


204 


LA MARCIv 


Lha-ri (god mountain), with a tine temple; there is an- 
other sacred place in the metropolis of Kham; others 
at Jssha-mDo (two ways), Djava, etc., with printing- 
offices; many others on the roads to Pekin, besides the 
northern monastery; all containing an incredible num- 
ber of monks, under Ivhutnkhtus and lower lamas; so 
that father line counts 3000 monasteries in U alone; 
others 84.000 monks in U, Tsang, and Kham, of the 
yellow sect, hermits, beggars, and vagabonds not in- 
cluded. About 120 miles south-west from Lassa, near 
the confluence of the Painom with the great gTsang- 
po-tshlm (Sanpn), is the second metropolis of Lamaism, 
viz. bKra-Shiss-Lhun-po (mount of grace), also called 
bLabrang, with five great cenobies, many temples, pal- 
aces. mausoleums, pyramids, and the like. In the neigh- 
boring city there is a Chinese garrison. About midway 
between the two bLa-brangs there are three rocky isl- 
ands in a lake, called gYang-brog (happy desert; Yam- 
bro on English maps), which contain temples, a mag- 
nificent palace, and thousands of monks and nuns, sub- 
ject to the rDo-rDje-Phag-mo (saint, or adamantine 
sow), a female Khutukhtu, who becomes incarnated with 
a figure of a sow’s snout on her neck, in consequence of 
her having escaped from Lassa during the troubles of 
the regency in t lie shape of that animal. The Chinese 
believe her to be the incarnate Ursa Major. On the 
road to Nepaul there are the sNar-thang monastery, 
where the Kanjur was printed; and Ssaskya, mentioned | 
above, now the see of the red-eapped Gong-rDogss (high i 
lord) Pin-po-tshhe, who is hereditary. On the road to j 
Bhutan are the monasteries Kisu and Gantum Gumba [ 
of Turner, and many others, swarming with lamas, some 
filled with Ami is (nuns). Bhotan is subject to the Da- 
lai, but there are also three red-capped Rin-po-tslihe. 
The metropolis is blvra-Shiss Tslioss rDsong (gloria sa- 
lutis fideique arx, Turner’s Tassisudon), under an incar- 
nate great lama and a seeular I)harma-raja, who rules 
over six districts, with about 10,000 lamas and 45,000 
families. In Sikkim the aboriginal Leptchas have many 
mendicant lamas who practice magic, the other tribes 
being pure Buddhists. Buddhism flourished in Nepaul 
as early as the 7th century of our (era. It now exists 
there with Brahniinism and Mohammedanism, so that 
Nepaul lias also a double literature. In Kunawar, and 
elsewhere on the Upper Sutlej, there are many great 
monasteries of both the yellow and the red caps, living 
in peace with each other. At Sungnam there is a great 
library, a printing establishment, and a gigantic statue 
of lhiddha. Ladakh became Buddhist before our (era; 
its history is even less known than that of Thibet. Al- 
though invaded by Moslems (about 1050), it has many 
lamas, both male and female. In China there are two 
Buddhistic sects, viz. that of Fo, since A.D. 65, fostered 
by the government, very numerous, but without hierar- 
chy, each monastery being under an abbot, who is a cit- 
izen <>f the 12th class; and the Lamaists, organized, as 
in 'Thibet, under the ministry of foreign affairs, with 
three Klmtukhtus at Pekin, one of whom is attached to 
the court, while another’s diocese is in South Mongolia, 
ami the third governs the central one of their great 
monasteries. The most celebrated temples in the eigh- 
teen provinces are one on the U-tai-shan (five-topped 
mountain), in Shau-si, and one in Yunnan. In Si-fan, 1 
or Taugut, about the Koko-Nor, Lamaism flourished 
under the Ilia at the close of the 9th century. The 
great reformer was incarnated in Amdo. The great 
eeuoby of ssKulmm was visited and endowed by Khang- ! 
hi, and has a celebrated university. Mongolia is the ' 
paradise of lamas, they forming about one eighth of its 
population. Its patriarch, the Gegen - Khutukhtu, a 
Bodhisattwa of Maitreya, is equal in rank to both Thi- 
betan iKipcs, resides at Urga, on the road between Tekin 
and Kiachta, lat. 48° 20'. with about 20,000 monks, and 
has attained the highest Khuhilghanism by sixteen 
incarnations, having been first the son of Altan Kha- 
khan of the Khalkas, and having once died (1839), after 
a visit to Pekin, either by poison or from licentiousness. 


The Urgan cenobv owns about 30,000 families of slaves. 
The cathedral at Kuku Khotun, among the Turned, is 
under an incarnate patriarch, now second to the pre- 
ceding, Most cenobies and temples now extant in Mon- 
golia were built or restored after the second conversion. 
A Khutukhtu rules over the celebrated establishment 
of the ‘five towers.’ Dvo Naiman Ssuma, the summer 
residence of the second Pekin Khutukhtu, contains 108 
temples and a famous manufactory of idols. Many 
other abodes of lamas are scarcely inferior to those we 
have mentioned. The desert of Gobi contains many 
such establishments. Sungaria contains numerous ruins 
of Lamaism, on the Irtish and elsewhere, among which 
those of Ablai-Kiit, near Usk-Kamenogorsk. are most 
renowned, because the first fragments of the holy canon 
were brought thence to Europe about 1750. The Tor- 
guts have built many sacred places since their return 
from the west. A few lamas were found among the 
Buryats (in Russia), near Lake Baikal, about 160 years 
ago, as missionaries from Urga. Now almost all of 
them south of the lake are. Lamao-Shamanites, and have 
wooden temples. The Cahnucks between the Don, 
Volga, and Ural arc forbidden to maintain intercourse 
with the Delai, although they keep up a Lamaic wor- 
ship in Shitlini-urgas (church tents)!’ 

Government . — “Since the restoration of the power of 
the Dalai by the emperor Khian-hing, all the decrees 
of government are issued in the name of each of the two 
high lamas, in their respective dioceses ; but the real 
power is in the hands of the emperor, whose two Ta- 
tebin (great mandarins) reside at Lassa, with Chinese 
garrisons in the neighborhood, to watcli both the ocean 
of holiness and the Tsang-vang, who, as vicar of the em- 
peror, administers the allairs of the country. The lower 
offices only are hereditary. The annual tribute of the 
two high lamas is carried every third year to Pekin by 
caravans” (Appleton, Cyclopaedias s. v.). 

Literature. — »See, besides the sacred books mentioned 
above, and the works cited under Buddhism, A. Cun- 
ningham, Ladok, Physical. Statistical , and Historical 
(London, 1854); Csomii dc Koros, in the Journal of the 
Asiatic Society , Bengal, i, 121-269; ii, 57, 201, 388; iii, 
57; iv, 142; v, 264, 384; vii (pt. i), 142; xx, 553-585; 
Hardwick, Christ and other Masters, ii. 88 sq. ; Hue et 
GabetjXotfemVs d'un Yoyaye dans la Tartanefe Thibet , 
et la Chine (Paris, 1852); Hodgson, Illustrations of the 
Literature and Religion of the Buddhists (Serampore, 
1841); Koppen (Fr.), Die Lamaische Hierarchies etc. 
(Berlin, 1859); Schlagintweit, Buddhism in Tibet (Lpzg. 
and London, 1863). See Thibet. (J. T. G.) 

La Marck, Evrard de, cardinal bishop and lord 
of Liege, was born about 1475. His personal qualities, 
as well as the services rendered to the Church of Liege 
by his ancestors, caused him to be chosen bishop of that 
city in 1506. He at once applied to Rome for approba- 
tion, and, on the reception of the papal bull of installa- 
tion by pope Julius II, repaired to Liege, where he was 
received with great enthusiasm. lie confirmed the 
privileges of the city, which he governed with such 
wisdom that, while war was raging outside, his diocese 
continued to enjoy undisturbed peace, lie restored the 
old discipline of St. Hubert, first bishop of Liege, and 
devoted himself to the spiritual and temporal improve- 
ment of his charge. In acknowledgment of services 
he had rendered to Louis Nil in the aftairs of Italy, lie 
was made bishop of Chartres. Francis I even promised 
to procure him a cardinal’s hat, but a protege of the 
duchess of Angouleme obtaining it in his stead, he en- 
tered in 1518 into the league of Austria against France, 
and even warred against his own brother, Robert de la 
March, who had made peace with Francis I. In the 
I )iet of F rankfort he advocated the nomination of Charles 
V as emperor of Germany, and was rewarded with the 
archbishopric of Valencia. In 1521 lie was created car- 
dinal, and thereafter became a zealous opponent of the 
Reformation. According to Abraham Bzovius, he ap- 
pointed in each district men on whom he could rely to 


LA MARCK 


205 


LAMB 


ferret out and punish all heretics. A great many were 
found and punished by exile or death, while their pos- 
sessions were sequestered. lie is said to have cruelly 
tortured Protestant theologians. lie had at first wel- 
comed Erasmus, who dedicated to him his paraphrase 
on the Epistle to the Romans, but turned about and 
called him a heathen and a publican when he saw him 
incline towards the new doctrines. In 1520 he was 
called to Cambrai, where the Ladies' Peace was con- 
cluded. In 1532 he equipped at his own expense a body 
of troops to war against the Turks. Appointed legate 
a latere in 1533, lie labored with new zeal to uproot all 
heresy. For this object he assembled a synod at Liege 
in 1538, but the priests, dissatisfied with his austerity, 
declared against him. He hoped to subdue their oppo- 
sition, but suddenly died, Feb. 1G, 1538. See Chapeau- 
ville, Hist, des Cardinaux , vol. iii, eh. v and vi ; Auber, 
Ilistoire des Cardinaux, iii, 331, Louis Doni d’Attichv, 
Flores Cardinalium, vol. iii ; Iloefer, Nouv . Biog. Gene- 
rule, , xxix, 52. (J. N. P.) 

La Marck, Jean Baptiste Pierre Antoine 
de Monet, Chevalier de, a very distinguished 
French naturalist, deserves a place here on account of 
his connection with the celebrated theory of the “ Va- 
riation of Species,” lately so generally made known by 
the English naturalist Darwin. See Man, Origin of. 
La Marck was born at Barenton, in Picardy, Aug. 1 , 1744, 
and was intended for the Church ; he entered, however, 
the army, but accidental injury led him to adopt the 
mercantile profession. During his leisure hours he 
studied the natural sciences, and in 1778 finally came 
before the public with a work on botany, which secured 
him the position of botanist to the king. In 1793 he 
was made a professor of natural history in the “ Jardin 
des Plantes.” He died Dec. 20, 182*9. His greatest 
work is his Ilistoire dcs Animaux sans Vertebrcs (Paris, 
1815-22, 7 vols. 8vo; 2d ed. Paris, 1835, etc.). In Phi- 
losophic Zoologique (Laris, 1809, 2 vols. 8vo), and some 
other ofhis productions, he advanced extremely specu- 
lative views, which, since Darwin’s rise, have become 
the consideration of scientific scholars. So much is cer- 
tain, that La Marck was the first (if we except a few 
obscure words of Buffon towards the close of his life) to 
advocate “Variation of Species.” For a more detailed 
account and a complete list of his works, see Iloefer, 
Four. Biog. Generate , xxix, 55-G2). (J. 1 1. W.) 

Lamb is the representative of several Hebrew and 
Greek words in the A. V., some of which have wide and 
others distinctive meanings. See Ewe. 

1. The most usual term, b23, ke'bes (with its trans- 
posed form 2 b 3, ke'seb, and the feminines ST-22, kib- 
sah', or ST-23, kabsah', and n2 — 3? kisbdh '), denotes a 
male lamb from the first to the third year. The former, 
perhaps, more nearly coincide with the provincial term 
hog or hogget , which is applied to a young ram before he 
is shorn. The corresponding word in Arabic, according 
to Geseiiius, denotes a ram at that period when he has 
lost his first two teeth and four others make their ap- 
pearance, which happens in the second or third year. 
Young rams of this age formed an important part of al- 
most every sacrifice. They were offered at the daily 
morning and evening sacritice (Exod. xxix, 38-41), on 
the Sabbath day (Numb, xxviii, 9), at the feasts of the 
new moon (Numb, xxviii, 1 1), of trumpets (Numb, xxix, 
2), of tabernacles (Numb, xxix, 13-40), of Pentecost 
(Lev. xxiii, 18-20), and of the Passover (Exod. xii, 5). 
They were brought by the princes of the congregation 
as burnt-offerings at the dedication of the tabernacle 
(Numb, vii), and were offered on solemn occasions like 
the consecration of Aaron (Lev. ix, 3), the coronation 
of Solomon (l Citron, xxix, 21), the purification of the 
Temple under Hezekiah (2 Citron, xxix, 21), and the 
great Passover held in the reign of Josiah (2 Citron, 
xxxv, 7). They formed part of the sacrifice offered at 
the purification of women after childbirth (Lev. xii, G), 
and at the cleansing of a leper (Lev. xiv, 10-25). They 


accompanied the presentation of first-fruits (Lev. xxiii, 
12). When the Nazarites commenced their period of 
separation they offered a lie-lamb for a trespass-offering 
(Numb, vi, 12), and at its conclusion a lie-lam b was 
sacrificed as a burnt-offering, and a ewe-lamb as a sin- 
offering (v, 14). A ewe-lamb was also the offering for 
the sin of ignorance (Lev. iv, 32). See Sacrifice. 

2. The corresponding Chaldee term to the above is 

immur' (Ezra vi, 9, 17; vii, 17). In the Targum 
it assumes the form 

3. A special term is taleh 7 (1 Sam. vii, 9; Isa. 

lxv, 25), a young sucking lamb; originally the young 
of any animal. The noun from the same root in Arabic 
signifies “a faivn,” in Ethiopic “a kid,” in Samaritan 
“ a boy,” while in Syriac it denotes “a boy,” and in the 
feminine “a girl.” Hence “ Talitha kumi,” “Damsel, 
arise !” (Mark v, 41), The plural of a cognate form oc- 
curs (T?2, teli') in Isa. xl, 11. 

4. Less exact is *13, car, a fat ram, or, more probably, 
“wether,” as the word is generally employed in opposi- 
tion to agil, which strictly denotes a “ram” (Dent, 
xxxii, 14; 2 Kings iii, 4; Isa. xxxiv, G). Mesha, king 
of Moab, sent tribute to the king of Israel 100,000 fat 
wethers; and this circumstance is made use of by 11. 
Joseph Kimchi to explain Isa. xvi, 1, which he regards 
as an exhortation to the Moabites to renew their trib- 
ute. The Tyrians obtained their supply from Arabia 
and Kedar (Ezek. xxvii, 21), and the pastures of Ba- 
shan were famous as grazing-grounds (Ezek. xxxix, 18). 
See Ram. 

5. Still more general is h |i<b, tsdn, rendered “lamb” in 
Exod. xii, 21, properly a collective term denoting a 
“ flock” of small cattle, sheep and goats, in distinction 
from herds of the larger animals (Eccles. ii, 7 ; Ezek. 
xlv, 15). See Flock. 

G. In opposition to this collective term the word iTJ, 
seh, is applied to denote the individuals of a flock, 
whether sheep or goats; and hence, though “lamb” is 
in many passages the rendering of the A.V., the mar- 
ginal reading gives “ kid” (Gen. xxii, 7, 8 ; Exod. xii, 
3; xxii, 1, etc.). — Smith, s. v. See Kid. 

7. In the N. T. wo find apvtov (strictly the diminu- 
tive of dptjv, which latter once occurs, Luke x, 1), a 
lambkin, the almost exclusive word, dprog being only 
employed in a few passages, directly referring to Christ, 
as noticed below. 

It appears that originally the paschal victim might 
be indifferently of the goats or of the sheep (Exod. xii, 
3-5). In later times, however, the offspring of sheep 
appears to have been almost uniformly taken, and in 
sacrifices generally, with the exception of the sin-offer- 
ing on the great clay of atonement. Sundry peculiar 
enactments are contained in the same law respecting 
the qualities of the animal (Exod. xxii, 30; xxxiii. 19; 
Lev. xxii, 27). See Passover. 

In the symbolical language of Scripture the lamb is 
the type of meekness and innocence (Isa. xi, G; lxv, 
25; Luke x, 3; John xxi, 15). See Sheep. 

The hypocritical assumption of this meekness, and 
the carrying on of persecution under a show of charity 
to the souls of men, and bestowing absolutions and in- 
dulgences on those who conform to its rules, appears to 
have given rise to the application of this otherwise sa- 
cred title to Antichrist (Rev. xiii, 11): “And I beheld 
another beast coming up out of the earth, and he had 
two horns like a lamb, and he spake as a dragon.” This 
evidently has reference to the ostensibly mild and toler- 
ant character of the pagan forms of religion, which nev- 
ertheless, in the end, were found co-operating with the 
relentless secular power. It finds a fit counterpart in the 
Jesuitical pretensions of Romanism. See Antichrist. 

Lamb (as a Christian emblem'), the symbol of Christ 
(Gen. iv, 4; Exod. xii, 3; xxix, 38; Isa. xvi, 1 ; Jer. liii, 
7; John i, 3G; 1 Pet. i, 19; Rev. xiii, 8), who was typi- 
fied by the paschal lamb, the blood of which was sprink- 


LAM I 


20G 


LAMBERT 


led on the door-posts and lintel of the doors like a Tau- | 
cross, to preserve the Hebrews from destruction. In 
very old sepulchres the lamb stands on a hill amid the 
four rivers of Paradise, or in the Baptist’s hand. It 
sometimes carries a milk-pail and crook, to represent | 
the. Good ►Shepherd. In the 5th century it is encircled 
with a nimbus. In the 4th century its head is crowned 
with the cross and monogram. In the t‘»th century it 
bears a spear, the emblem of wisdom, ending in a cross ; 
or appears, bleeding from five wounds, in a chalice. At 
last it is girdled with a golden zone of power and jus- 
tice (Isa, xi, 5), bears the banner-cross of the resurrec- 
tion, or treads upon a serpent (Bev.xviii, 14). At length, 
in the 8tli and 9th centuries, it lies on a throne amid 
angels and saints, as in the apocalyptic vision. When 
fixed to a cross it formed the crucifix of the primitive 
Church, and therefore was afterwards added on the re- 
verse of an actual crucifix, as on the stational cross of 
Yclletri. In G92 the council in Trullo ordered the im- 
age of the Saviour to be substituted for the lamb. Je- 
sus is the Shepherd to watch over his flock, as he was 
the Lamb, the victim from the sheep. Walafrid Strabo 
condemns the practice of placing near or under the al- 
tar on Good Friday lamb’s flesh, which received bene- 
diction and was eaten on Easter day. Probably to this 
custom the Greeks alluded when they accused the Lat- 
ins of offering a lamb on the altar at mass in the 9th 
century. In ancient times the pope and cardinals ate 
lamb on Easter day. — Walcott, tittered A rchvcolotjy , s. v. 

LAMB OF GOD (a/tvog Geof», John i,29, 3G; so of 
the Messiah, Test, xii Pair. p. 724, 725, 730), a title of 
the Pcdeemer (compare Acts viii,32; 1 Pet.i, 19, where 
alone the term apvog is elsewhere employed, and with 
a like reference). This symbolical appellation applied 
to Jesus Christ, in John i, 29, 30, does not refer merely 
to the character or disposition of the Saviour, inasmuch 
as he is also called ‘-the Lion of the tribe of Judah” 
(Bev. v. 5). Neither can the appellation signify the 
most excellent lamb, as a sort of 1 Icbrew superlative. T he 
term lamb is simply used, in this case, to signify the 
sacrifice, i. e. the sacrificial victim, of which the former 
sacrifices were typical (Numb, vi, 12 ; Lev. iv, 32; v, G, 
18; xiv, 12-17). So the prophet understood it: “lie is 
brought as a lamb to the slaughter” ( Isa. liii, 7) ; and 
Paul : “For even Christ, our Passover,” i. e. our Passover 
lamb, “is sacrificed for us” (1 Cor. v, 7 ; comp. Pet. i, 18, 
19). As the lamb was the symbol of sacrifice, the Bc- 
deemer is called “the Sacrifice of God,” or the divine 
Sacrifice (John i, 14; comp. 1 John xx, 28; Acts xx, 28; 
Bom. ix, 5; 1 Tim. iii, 1G; Tit. ii, 13). As the Baptist 
pointed to the divinity of the Bcdcemer’s sacrifice, he 
knew that in this consisted its efficacy to remove the 
sin of the world. The dignity of the Sacrifice, whose 
blood alone has an atoning efficacy for the sin of the 
world, is acknowledged in heaven. In the symbolic 
scenery. John beheld *‘a Lamb, as it had been slain, hav- 
ing seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven 
spirits of God. n i. e. invested with the attributes of God, 
omnipotence and omniscience, raised to the throne of 
universal empire, and receiving the homage of the uni- 
verse (I Cor. xv, 25, Phil, ii, 9 11; I John iii, 8; Ileb. 
x, 5 17; Bev. v, 8-11). Sec the monographs on this 
subject cited by Volbeding, Index Proyram niaium, p. 52. 



In the Bomish Church the expression is blasphemous- 
ly applied in its Latin form to a consecrated wax nr 
dough image bearing a cross, used as a charm by the 
superstitious. See Agnus Dei. 

Lamb, John, D.D., an English divine and anti- 
quary, was born about 1790. Me was made master of 
Corpus Christi College in 1822, and in 1837 was honored 
with the deanery of Bristol. He died in 1850. Lamb 
published Hist. Account of the XXX JX Articles , 1553- 
1571 (Cambridge, 1829, 4to ; 2d ed. 1835, 4to); etc. See 
Lmul. Gentl. Mat/. 1848, pt. ii, p. 55; 1850, pt. i, p. CG7 ; 
Christian Remembrancer, June, 1829. 

Lamb, Thomas, an English Baptist minister and 
strict Calvinist, flourished in the second half of the 17th 
century. lie died about 1G72. lie is noted as the op- 
ponent of John Goodwin, the bold defender of Armin- 
ianism, whose Redemption Redeemed (London, 1651, fol.) 
Lamb answered in a work entitled Absolute Freedom 
from, tiin by Christ's Death for the World, etc. (London, 
1G5G, 4to), 

Lambdin, Wuxi am, a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church .South, was horn in Talbot Co., Md., 
June 4,1784; was converted at sixteen; removed to 
Pittsburg in 1805; joined the Baltimore Conference in 
1808; was on various circuits and stations until 1815; 
then local till 1822. then in Pittsburg Conference until 
1830; then local at Wheeling until 1842; then in Mem- 
phis Conference, Tennessee, where he labored until he 
was superannuated in 1848. lie died in Henry County, 
Tenn., May 22, 1854. Lambdin was an able and faith- 
ful minister of the Word, and served the Church long 
and successfully. — Annals of the Methodist Episcopal 
Church tiouth, i855, p. 348, 

Lambert von IIersfeld, or Asciiaffenburg, an 
eminent German historian of the 11th century, was horn, 
it is supposed by some, at Asciiaffenburg, about 1034. 
In 1058 he entered the convent of Hersfeld, the school 
of which was at that time one of the most celebrated in 
Germany, and in the same year, 1058. was ordained 
priest. Shortly after lie went on a journey to Jerusa- 
lem, without the consent or knowledge of the abbot of 
his convent. After his return in the following year, 
Lambert devoted himself to literary pursuits, yet as an 
inmate of the convent which lie had entered before his 
departure for the Holy Land. lie was in great favor 
among his superiors, as is evinced by the fact that he 
was sent to visit the convents of Sigebcrg and Saalfcld, 
newly-established institutions. The precise date of his 
death is not ascertained — probably about 1080. His 
works, which are numerous, are especially valuable as 
giving a clear perception of the state of letters in his 
times. His first work was a heroic poem, which is now 
lost. He then wrote a history of the Convent of llcrs- 
feld, which contains valuable information for the history 
of the 11th century, but unfortunately we possess only 
fragments of this work. These were published by Ma- 
der from a WolIcnbiUtel Codex: comp. Yctustas, saneti - 
monin, potent ia atque maiestas elueum Prunsricensittm ae 
Lpnebnrtjensium damns (Ilelmstadt, IGG1-4), p. 150 ; and 
again in .1 ntiqq. Prnnsric. p. 150. This same codex was 
also published by M. G. Waitz, vii. 138-141. His third 
work is a history of Germany in two parts. The second 
part is the most complete, as well as the most interest- 
ing: it begins with the reign of Henry TV, ami extends 
to the election of king Budolf. it is believed by some 
that this work, treating contemporary events, was writ- 
ten at different periods, whenever anything occurred 
which seemed to the author important enough to be 
mentioned. It appears, however, to have been concluded 
about 1084. Lambert’s works are remarkable for purity 
of style and elegance- of diction, as well as for learning 
and accuracy. Milman (Ldf. Christianity, viii.333) says 
that he occupies as a historian, “if not the first, nearly 
the first place in mediivval history.” Hase (Ch. History, 
p. 182), however, thinks that Lambert was too little ac- 
i quainted w’itli the ways of the world to make a proper 


LAMBERT 


207 


LAMBERT 


chronicler. Speaking of his German history, Hase says 
that it is “just such a picture of society as might be ex- 
pected from a pious monk who had made a pilgrimage 
to the holy sepulchre, and looked out upon the world and 
his nation from the small stained window of his cell.” In 
his allusions to the difficulties which occurred between 
the temporal and ecclesiastical powers, Lambert shows 
a rare degree of impartiality, although necessarily yield- 
ing to some extent to the effects of his position as a 
monk, as well as of the troubles of the times. Some of ( 
his writings were translated into German by Hegcwisch, 
and his whole works by F. B. v. Bucholz (Frank!. 1819) ; 
also, more recently, by Hesse, in the Gcsch ichtsch reiber 
cleutscher Yorzeit. d. XI Jahrh. (Bcrl. 1855, 6 vols.). See 
Frisch, Comparatio critica cle Lamberti Sch. annul., etc., 
Diss. inane/. Monachii (1830, 8vo) ; Stenzel, Frdnkiscke 
Kaiser, i, 495; ii, 101 sq. ; Piderit , Comment, de Lamb. 
Schafnab. (Uorsf. 1828, 4to); Hesse, Recension. Jen. Lit. 
Zeitg. 1830, No. 130; Wilman, Otto III Exhirs, vi, p. 214; 
llirsch and Waitz, Chr.Corbej. p. 3G -, Giesebrecht, An- 
miles A Itahenses (Berlin, 1811); Kioto, Kaiser Heinrich 
J V; Grunhagen,AJtf/5erCc. Bremen, 1854; Banke, Abhh. 
d. Berlin. Akad. von 1854, p. 43G sq. ; Witt,£A5er Benzo 
(Marburg, 1S5G); Herzog, Real - Encyklopadie, viii, 
1GG sq. 

Lambert of jMaestricht, a martyr and a saint of 
the Bomish Church, commemorated on Sept. 17, was born 
at Macstricht, Holland, towards the middle of the 7th 
century; was educated by Theodard, bishop of that see, 
whom he succeeded in office when that prelate died a 
martyr in GG8. The major domus Ebroin was then in 
war with the Merovingian dynasty, and persecuted all 
its supporters. Upon Lambert also fell his displeasure, 
and he deprived him of his bishopric, and appointed 
Faramund in his place. Lambert remained for seven 
years (674-81) in the Convent of Stablo, where he led a 
life of penitence and humiliation. When Pepin d’Hcr- 
istal, after killing Ebroin, became the head of the king- 
dom, Lambert was restored to his bishopric. The an- 
cient historians relate that he was killed by a Frankish 
chieftain named Dodo, out of revenge. Two relatives 
of Dodo attempted to seize on the goods of the Church, 
and were killed by Lambert’s nephew ; Dodo, in return, 
caused Lambert himself to be murdered at Liege. Sub- 
sequent writers attempted to render this history more 
interesting. They say that he was murdered by Dodo 
on account of the freedom with which he reproved Pe- 
pin d’lleristal for his improper intimacy with Alpa’is, a 
sister of Dodo. Siegbert of Gemblours and others say 
that (Mi one occasion he refused at the king’s table to 
bless Alpa'is’s cup with the sign of the cross, and, seeing 
that he would be killed for this, he forbade his followers 
defending him, and said to them, “ If you truly love me, 
love Jesus, and confess your sins to him ; as for me, it is 
time that I should go to live in communion with him.” 
After saying which, he knelt down, and, while praying 
for his enemies, was killed with a spear. It was on the 
17th of September, 708 (709 according to the Bollan- 
dists; others say' 697 or G98). So great was the venera- 
tion in which Lambert was held by' his contemporaries, 
that in 714 a church was built in commemoration of him 
at Liege. His successor in the bishopric was Hubert. 
Biographies of Lambert were written by Godeschalk, 
deacon of the Church of Liege in the middle of the 8th 
century, Stephan, bishop of Liege in 903, a canon call- 
ed Nicholas, about 1120, and a monk named Beiner. 
Sec A. Butler, Lives of the Saints ; F. W. Bettberg, K. 
Gesch. Deutschlands, i, 558 sq.; llerzog, Real-Encgklop. 
viii, 105; Wctzer und Welte, Kirchen-Lex. vi, 823, 324. 

Lambert, Chandley, a Methodjst Episcopal min- 
ister, was born in Alford, Berkshire County', Mass., in 
1781, and converted at Lansingburg, N. York, March 27, 
1801. lie entered the Black Biver Conference in 1807, 
labored with great zeal and success for twenty years, 
was superannuated in 1827, and died at Lowville, *N. Y., 
March 1G, 1845. Lambert was a man of great integrity 


and usefulness. His mind was superior and well stored 
with information, and his preaching eminently practical 
and full of the Holy Ghost. Many souls were convert- 
ed through his labors. — Black River Conference Memo- 
rial, p. 128. (G. L. T.) 

Lambert, Francis (generally known as Lambert 
of A ric/non, the name of his native place), also called 
John S err ax us, a French theologian, and one of the 
early apostles of the Beformation, was born in- 1487. 
At the age of sixteen he became a Gray Friar, was then 
ordained priest, and preached for a while with great 
success, lie soon, however, tired of the world, and, 
thinking to find peace of mind in stricter seclusion, he 
asked permission to join the Carthusians. Bcfused by 
his superiors, he left his order in 1522, and embraced the 
doctrines of Luther, whose writings he had secured and 
carefully studied. On a visit to Switzerland he was re- 
ceived by' Sebastian de Monte Falcone, prince-bishop of 
Lausanne, and went to Berne and Zurich, where he had 
a public conference with Zwingle. lie thereupon cast 
aside the dress of his order, took the name of John Scr- 
ranus, and began preaching the reformed principles in 
the several cities of Switzerland and Germany’. In 1522 
he held public conferences at Eisenach, and was greatly' 
instrumental in propagating the Beformation in Thu- 
ringia and Hesse. In January', 1523, he joined Luther 
at Wittenberg, where he wrote his commentaries on 
Hosea and other books. In 1524 he went to Metz, and 
afterwards to Strasburg, where he remained until called 
to Ilombourg by the landgrave, Philip of Hesse, in 152G. 
Here, in a synod held in October of the same year, he 
argued in Latin, and Adam Craton,or Crafft, in German, 
against the tenets of the Homan Catholic Church as de- 
fended by Nicholas Ilerborn and John Sperber. The 
latter were declared vanquished and driven out of Hesse. 
The convents were closed up, and their revenues em- 
ployed to establish four hospitals and a Protestant acad- 
emy at Marburg. Lambert became its first professor of 
theology'. In 1529 he took part in the Conference of 
Marburg between the theologians of Switzerland, Sax- 
ony, Suabia, and other southern German provinces. lie 
died April 18,1530. All the writers of his time agree 
in calling him a learned, industrious, and upright man. 
Ilis numerous works are now very scarce; among the 
most important are Commentarius in Evangelium Lu- 
cre (Wittembcrg, 1523, 8vo; Nuremberg and Strasburg, 
1525, 8 vo ; Frankfort, 1G93, 8vo): — In Cantica cauti co- 
mm Salomonis libellus, etc. (Strasburg, 1524, 8 vo): — De 
ftdelium rocatione in regmtm Christi, id cst Ecclesiam, 
etc. (Strasburg, 1525, 8vo): — Farrago omnium fere re- 
rum theologicarum (1525?), consisting of 385 proposi- 
tions arranged into thirteen chapters, and which con- 
tain the whole theological system of the author: — In 
Johelem prophetam , etc. (Strasb. 1525, 8vo): — In Amos, 
A bdiam, et Jonam, ft Allegoriie in Jonam (Strasburg, 
1525, 8vo) : — In Micheum, Xaum et Abacnc (Strasburg, 
1525, 8vo) : — Theses thcologicce in synodo llomburgensi 
disputatm (Erfurt, 1527, 4to and 8vo) : — Exegcseos in 
Apoculipsim libri vii (Marburg, 1528, 8 vo) : — De Sym- 
bolo feedet'is numquam rumpendi quam comnnmionem ro- 
cant ; Fr. Lamberti Confessio, etc. (1530, 8 vo ; translated 
into German, 1557, 8vo) : — Commentarii in quatuor libros 
Regum et in Acta Apostolorum (Strasb. 1526; Frankft. 
1539) : — De Regno, Ciritate et Domo Dei ac Domini vos- 
tri J.-C., etc. (Worms, 1538, 8vo). See J. G. Sclielhorn, 
Amcenitates Litterarice , iv, 807, 312, 324, 328, x, 1235; 
Scekendorf, Commentarius de Lvtheranismo, lib. ii, sect, 
viii ; Frchcr, Theatmm Yirorum Doctorum, i, 104; IJayle, 
I list. Diet, iii, 708 sq. ; J. Tilemann, Yitce Professorum 
theologice Marpurgensium ; Abraham Seultct, Annales 
Evangelii, aim. 1526; Le Long, Biblioth. Sacra; J. F. 
Ilckelius, Epistolce Singular . manip. primus; Nice'ron, 
Memoires, xxxix, 234 sq. ; Hoefer, Xour. Biog. Generate, 
xxix, 132 ; Baum (Johann \\.\ Lambert r. A rignon nach 
seinem Leben , etc. (1840) ; Schrbckh, Kirchengeschichte 
s. d. Ref. i, 380, 434; ii, 219. 

Lambert, George, a Presbyterian minister, was 


LAMBERT 


208 


LAMBRUSCIIINI 


born Jan. 31, 1742, at Chelsea, England. In 1707 he I 
became a student at the theological school under the | 
charge of Kev. James Scott, at fleckmondwicke, Eng- 
land. lie pursued his studies there for five years, and 
then accepted the charge of a church at Hull, April 9, 1 
1709, where he continued his ministrations until his 
death, March 17, 1816. Mr. Lambert was a minister of 
more than ordinary power and success, attaching to 
himself, by his intellectual vigor, moral worth, and 
Christian excellence, not only his own people, but also 
numerous members and ministers of other denomina- 
tions. lie published two volumes of his sermons, On 
various useful and important Subjects, adapted to the 
Family and the Closet. Lambert was one of the found- 
ers of the London Missionary Society, and preached its l 
first anniversary sermon in May, 1796. See Morison, j 
Missionary Fathers , p. 375 sq. 

Lambert, Johann Heinrich, a noted German 
philosopher and mathematician, was born Aug. 29, 1728, 
at Miihlhausen, Alsace, of a French Protestant family. 
His talents and application to study having gained him 
friends, he obtained a good education, making remark- 
able progress in mathematics, philosophy, and Oriental i 
languages. In 1756-58 he visited Holland, France, and 
Italy, and while residing in the first-named country ap- 
peared in print with his Sur les proprietes remarquables 
de la route de la lumiere , etc. In 1764 Frederick the 
Great summoned him to Ilerlin, and made him a mem- 
ber both of the Council of Architecture and of the Acad- 
emy of Sciences. He died in that city Sept. 25, 1777, 
leaving behind him the renown of having been the 
greatest analyst in mathematics, logic, and metaphysics j 
that the 18th century had produced. Lambert was the | 
first to lay a scientific basis for the measurement of thej 
intensity of light in his Pyrometrie (Augsburg, 1760). 
and he discovered the theory of the speaking-tube. In 
philosophy, and particularly in analytical logic, he 
sought to establish an accurate system by bringing 
mathematics to bear upon these subjects, in his Xeues 
Organon, oder Gedanken iiber die Erforschung and Be - 
ziehnng des Wahren (Lpzg. 1764, 2 vols.). Of his other 
works, we may mention his profound Kosmologisehe 
Brief e iiber die Einrichtung des Weltbaus (Augsb. 1761), 
and his correspondence with Kant. See 1 1 oefer, Xouv. 
Biog. Generale , xxix, 151 sq. ; Chambers, Cyclop, s. v. ; 
Graf, Lambert's Leben (1829) ; lluber, Lambert nach s. 
Leben u.Wirken (1829). 

Lambert, John, an English reformer, lived in the 
reign of Henry the Eighth, and was for a time minister 
of an English company at Antwerp. After his return 
to England he was charged with heresy because he re- 
jected the dogma of transubstantiation. lie was tried 
before the king and bishops, and, upon refusing to recant, 
was burned at Smithfield, Nov. 20, 1538. Lambert was 
distinguished for his learning, lie wrote a Treatise on 
the Lord's Supper (edited by John Ball, London, 1538, 
16mo): — Treatise on Predestination and Election (Can- 
terbury, 1550, 8 vo). See Burnet, Hist, of the h Reforma- 
tion, i, 406 ; Allibone, Diet. Brit, and A met'. A uthors, ii, 
1051. 

Lambert, Joseph, a French ecclesiastic and mor- 
alist, was born in Paris in 1654. lie took sacred or- 
ders when thirty years old, and flourished afterwards as 
prior of Saint-Martin-do-Palaiseau. lie died January 
31, 1722. Among his best works are L'Annee emngel- 
iqtte, on homilies sur les Evangiles (Paris, 1693-1697, 7 
vols. 12mo, and often) : — Instruction sur le symbole (Par. 
1728, 2 vols. 12mo, and often). See, for a full list of his 
writings, llocfer, .Xouv. Biog. Generale , xxix, 150. 

Lambert, Ralph, D.D., a prelate of the Church of 
England, lived in the latter part of the 18th century, 
lie was successively dean of Dawn, and bishop of Dro- 
more and of Meath. lie is noted especially for his plea 
in favor of depriving Presbyterian ministers of all power 
to celebrate marriage. Some of his Sermons -were pub- 
lished in 1693, 1702, and 1703. The date of his death, 


or other particulars of his life, are not at hand. — Alli- 
bone, Diet. Brit, and A mer. A uthors, ii, 1052 , lieid, Hist . 
Irish Presb. Church, iii,38. 

Lambert, St., de, Charles Francois, man pi is, 
a noted French infidel and poet, a contemporary and co- 
laborer of Voltaire on the French Encyclopedia (q.v.), 
was born at Yezelise, in Lorraine, in 1716 or 1717. 
About 1750 lie went to Paris, and soon found associates 
in Jiousseau, Voltaire, Grimm, and other celebrated 
French infidels of Voltaire’s day. lie became especially 
celebrated as a poet, Ills productions were greatly lauded 
by Voltaire, and, finally, he was made a member of the 
French Academy. As a philosopher, however, lie did 
not really appear before the public until 1797, when he 
published Les Prineipes des Alee it rs chez Unites les na- 
tions, ou Cutechisme universel (1797-1800). lie died 
Feb. 9, 1803. St. Lambert’s personal history fully coin- 
cides with the doctrines he espoused. Ignoring all need 
of religion, his morals were truly Epicurean, and we 
need not wonder to find that his celebrity was first 
gained by the publication of his criminal intercourse 
with a woman, and the birtli of an illegitimate child. 

As to a more detailed description of St. Lambert’s 
philosophical system, it may suffice to say here that it 
very much resembles that of Helvetius, whom St. Lam- 
bert slavishly followed. Thus he teaches, in treating 
of man’s nature, and his duties with regard to human 
nature, that “man, when he first enters upon the stage 
of life, is simply an organized and sentient mass, and 
that, whatever feelings or thoughts he may afterwards 
acquire, still they are simply different manifestations of 
the sensational faculty, occasioned by the pressure of 
his various wants and necessities. With regard to eth- 
ics, he maintains that, as man possesses only sensations, 
his sole good must he personal enjoyment, his only duty 
the attainment of it ; and that, as we may be mistaken 
as to what objects are really adapted to promote our 
pleasure, the safest rule by which we can judge of duty 
in particular cases is public opinion.” Ia his Catechisme 
Universel he divides the whole mass of man’s duty into 
three classes — his duty to himself, to his own family, 
and to society at large; while the duties of religion are 
never mentioned, and the very name of God is alto- 
gether excluded. Condorcet’s fundamental doctrine of 
ethics — the present perfectibility of mankind, both in- 
dividually and socially, by means of education — St. 
Lambert proposed to substitute in place of the sanctions 
both of morality and religion, as the great regenerating 
principle of human nature (compare Morell, History of 
Modern Philosophy, p. 111). See Puymaigre, Saint - 
Lambert (1840) ; II oefer, Xouv. Biog. Generale. s. v. (J. 
II. W.) 

Lambeth Articles. See Articles. Lambeth. 

Lambruschini, Louis, an eminent Italian prelate 
and statesman, was horn at Genoa May 16, 1776. Hav- 
ing entered the Order of Bamabites, he became bishop 
of Sabine, then archbishop of Genoa ; was sent to France 
as papal nuncio during the reign of Charles X. and final- 
ly created cardinal Sept. 30, 1831. l*opc Gregory XVI 
appointed him abbot of Santa Maria di Farfa, secretary 
of state for foreign affairs, librarian of the Church, grand 
prior of the order of St.John of Jerusalem, grand chan- 
cellor of the order of St. Gregory, and prefect of the con- 
gregation of studies. Opposed to all innovations, Lam- 
bruschini took an active part in all the religious and 
political persecutions which marked the pontifical career 
of Gregory XVI, and became consequently very unpop- 
ular. In 1.S45 he surrendered the direction of public in- 
struction to cardinal Mezzofante. On the death of Greg- 
ory XVI in 1846, Lambruschini came very near being 
elected pope. Pius IX appointed him member of the 
states council, and restored him to the secretaryship and 
librarianship of t lie Vatican. In 1847 he was also made 
bishop of Porto de San Rufina and of Civita Vecchia, 
chancellor of the pontifical orders, and subdean of the 
, sacred college. When the revolution broke out in lta- 


LAMECH 


209 


LAMECII 


ly Lambraschini was in danger, and fled to Civita Yec- 
chia,lmt, not finding more security there, he returned to 
Kome. In 1848 lie fied first to Naples, and afterwards 
joined Pius IX at Gaeta. He re-entered Rome with 
the pope in 1850, and was appointed cardinal ot the pa- 
pal household. lie is said to have then advised meas- 
ures of moderation, which were rejected by cardinal An- 
tonelli. He died May 12, 1854. His principal works 
were translated into French, under the title Meditations 
sur les Vert ns de Saint e Therese, precedees d'un abrege de 
sa vie (Paris, 1827, 18mo ) Sur FImmacuUe Conception 
de Marie , dissertation polemique (Paris and Besaiuyui, 
1843, 8vo ) : — Devotion au Sucre Coeurde Jesus , etc. (Par. 
1857, 18mo). See Uict.de la Conversation ; Bourquclot 
ct Maury, La IAtterature Frangaise Conte mp. ; Iloefer, 
Xouv. Biog. Generate , xxix, 175. (J. N. P.) 

La'mech (Ileb .Le'mek, Tfi 1 ?., taster , otherwise a vig- 
orous youth, in pause La'mel *, Tj 5 Septuag. and N. T. 
A«/.(6 x; Josephus AafUxoe t Ant.i,%2), the name of two 
antediluvian patriarchs. 

X. The fifth in descent from Cain, being the son of 
Methusael, and father of Jabal, Jubal, Tubal-cain, and 
Naani ah (Gen. iv, 18-24). B.C. cir. 377G. lie is re- 
corded to have taken two wives, Adah and Zillah ; and 
there appears no reason why the fact should have been 
mentioned, unless to point him out as the author of the 
evil practice of polygamy. The manner in which the 
sons of Lamech distinguished themselves as the inven- 
tors of useful arts is mentioned under their several names 
(q. v.). The Targum of Jonathan (ad loc.) adds, that 
his daughter was ,l the mistress of sounds and songs,” i. 
e. the first poetess; which Jewish tradition embellishes 
by saving that all the world wondered after her, even 
the sons of God, and that evil spirits were born of her 
(j\ fid rash on Ruth, and Zohar ). Josephus (Ant. i, 2, 2) 
relates that the number of Lamech’s sons was seventy- 
seven, and Jerome records the same tradition, adding 
that they were all cut off by the Deluge, and that this 
was the seventy-and-sevenfold vengeance which La- 
mech imprecated. 

The most remarkable circumstance in connection with 
Lamech is the poetical address which he is very abrupt- 
ly introduced as making to his wives, being, indeed, the 
only example of antediluvian poetry extant (Gen. iv, 23, 
24): 

Adah and Zillah, hear my voice ; 

Wives of Lamech, listen to my say ! 

For a man I slew for my wound, 

Even a youth for my bruise: 

If sevenfold Cain was to be avenged, 

Then Lamech seventy and seven. 

It has all the appearance of an extract from an old poem, 
which we may suppose to have been handed down by 
tradition to the time of Moses. It is very difficult to 
discover to what it refers, and the best explanation can 
be nothing more than a conjecture. It is the subject 
of a dissertation by Hilliger in Thesaurus Theologico- 
Philol. i, 141, and is discussed at length by the various 
commentators on Genesis. See also Hase, De Oraculo 
Lamechi (Brem. 1712); Schroder, De Lainecho homicida 
(Marb. 1721). The following is a synopsis of ancient 
and modern views. “ Chrysostom (Horn, xx in Gen.) re- 
gards Lamech as a murderer stung by remorse, driven 
to make public confession of his guilt solely to ease his 
conscience, and afterwards (Horn, in Psa. vi) obtaining 
mercy. Theodoret (Qua>st. in Gen. xliv) sets him down 
as a murderer. Basil (Ep. 200 [317], § 5) interprets 
Lameeh’s words to mean that he had committed two 
murders, and that he deserved a much severer punish- 
ment than Cain, as having sinned after plainer warn- 
ing; Basil adds, that some persons interpret the last 
lines of the poem as meaning that, whereas Cain’s siu 
increased, and was followed after seven generations by 
the punishment of the Deluge washing out the foulness 
of the world, so Lamech’s sin shall be followed in the 
seventy-seventh (see Luke iii, 23-38) generation by the 
coming of him who taketli away the siu of the w.orld. 
X.-Q 


I Jerome (Ep. xxxvi, ad Damasum , t. i, p. 1G1) relates as 
I a tradition of his predecessors and of the Jews that Cain 
was accidentally slain by Lamech in the seventh gener- 
ation from Adam. This legend is told with fuller de- 
tails hv Jarchi. (See Kitto, Daily Bible Illust. ad loc.) 
According to him, the occasion of the poem was the re- 
fusal of Lamech’s wives to associate with him in conse- 
quence of his having killed Cain and Tubal-cain; La- 
mech, it is said, was blind, and was led about by Tubal- 
cain; when the latter saw in the thicket what he sup- 
posed to be a wild beast, Lamech, by his son’s direction, 
shot an arrow at it, and thus slew Cain ; in alarm and 
indignation at the deed, he killed his son ; hence his 
wives refused to associate with him; and he excuses 
himself as having acted without a vengeful or murder- 
; ous purpose. Onkelos, followed by Pseudo- Jonathan, 
paraphrases it, ‘I have not slain a man that I should 
bear sin on his account.’ The Arab.Ver. (Saadi as) puts 
I it in an interrogative form, ‘Have I slain a man?’ etc. 
These two versions, which are substantially the same, 
are adopted by De Dieu and bishop Patrick. Aben- 
Ezra, Calvin, Drusius, and Cartwright interpret it in 
the future tense as a threat, ‘I will slay any man who 
wounds me.’ Luther considers the occasion of the poem 
to be the deliberate murder of Cain by Lamech. Light- 
foot (Decas Chorogr . Marc, proem. § iv) considers La- 
mech as expressing remorse for having, as the first po- 
lygamist, introduced more destruction and murder than 
Cain was the author of into the world” (Smith). Shuck- 
ford, in his Connection , supposes that the descendants of 
Cain had lived for a long time in fear of vengeance fur 
the death of Abel from the family of Adam ; and that 
Lamech, in order to persuade his wives of the ground- 
lessness of such fears, used the argument in the text, i. e. 
if any one who might slay Cain, the murderer of his 
brother, was threatened with sevenfold vengeance, sure- 
ly they must expect a far sorer punishment who should 
presume to kill any of us on the same account. Others 
regard Lamech’s speech as a heaven-daring avowal of 
murder, in which he had himself received a slight 
wound. Some have even sought to identify Lamech 
with the Asiatic deity Lemus or Lames (see Movers, 
Phon. 477 ; Nork, Bibl. Mythol. i, 235). Herder, in his 
Hebrew Poetry , supposes that the haughty and revenge- 
ful Lamech, oveijoyed by the invention of metallic weap- 
ons by his son Tubal-cain, breaks out in this triumphal 
song, boasting that if Cain, by the providence of God, 
was to be avenged sevenfold, lie, by means of the newlv- 
invented weapons, so much superior to anything of the 
kind known at that time, would be able to take a much 
heavier vengeance on those who injured him. This hy- 
pothesis as to the occasion of the poem was partly an- 
ticipated by Hess, and has been received by Rosenmiil- 
ler, Ewald, and Delitzsch. Pfeiffer (Diff. Scrip. Loc. p. 
25) collects different opinions up to his time with his 
usual diligeuce, and concludes that the poem is Lamech ’s 
vindication of himself to his wives, who were in terror 
for the possible consequences of his having slain two of 
the posterity of Seth. This judicious view is substan- 
tially that of Lowth (De S.Poesi Heb. iv, 91) and Mi- 
chaelis, who think that Lamech is excusing himself for 
some murder which he had committed in self-defence 
(“ for a wound inflicted on me”), and he opposes a hom- 
icide of this nature to the wilful and inexcusable fratri- 
cide of Cain. Under this view Lamech would appear 
to have intended to comfort his wives by the assurance 
that he was really exposed to no danger from this act, 
and that any attempt upon his life on the part of the 
friends of the deceased would not fail to bring down 
upon them the severest vengeance (compare Dathe and 
Rosen m filler, ad loc.; see also Turner’s Companion to 
Genesis, p. 209). “ That he had slain a man, a young 

man (for the youth of one clause is undoubtedly but a 
more specific indication of the man in the other), and 
this not in cool blood, but in consequence of a wound or 
bruise he had himself received, is, if not the only possi- 
ble, certainly the natural and obvious meaning of the 


LAMENNAIS 


210 


LAMENNAIS 


words; and oil the ground apparently of a difference lie- ' 
tween his case and that of Cain’s — namely, that he had 
done under provocation what Cain had done without it — 
he assures himself of an interest in the divine guard- 
ianship and protection immeasurably greater than that 
granted to Cain. This seems as plainly the. import of 
Lamech’s speech as language could well make it. lint ’ 
if it seems to imply, as it certainly does, that Lamech 
was not an offender after the type and measure of Cain, 
it at the same time shows how that branch of the hu- 
man family were becoming familiar with strife and 
bloodshed, and, instead of mourning over it, were rather ' 
presuming on the. divine mercy and forbearance to brace 
themselves for its encounters, that they might repel 
force with force. The prelude already appears here of 
the terrible scenes which, after the lapse of a few genera- 
tions, disclosed themselves far and wide — when the earth 
was tilled with violence, and deeds were every day done 
which cried in the ear of heaven for vengeance. Such 
was the miserable result of the human art and the earth- 
ly resources brought into play by the Cainite race, and 
on which they proudly leaned for their ascendency ; nor 
is it too much to say that here also, even in respect to 
the poetic gift of nature, the beginning was prophetic 
of the end” (Fairbairn). See Antediluvians. 

2. The seventh in descent from Seth, being the son 
of Methuselah, and father of several sons, of whom ap- 
parently the oldest was Noah (Gen. v, 25-31 ; 1 Chron. 
i,3; Luke iii,3G). B.C. 3297-2520. He was 182 years 
old at the birth of Noah, and survived that event 595 
years, making his total age 707. Ilis character appears 
to have been different from that of bis Cainite name- 
sake (see Hettinger, in the Tub . Zeitschr.f Thcol. 1835, 
i. 11 sq.). ‘“Chrysostom (>S 'erm. ix in Gen., and Horn. 
xxi in Gen.), perhaps thinking of the character of the 
other Lamech, speaks of this as an unrighteous man, 
though moved by a divine impulse to give a prophetic 
name to his son. Bultman and others, observing that 
the names of Lamech and Enoch arc found in the list 
of Seth’s, as well as of Cain’s family, infer that the two 
lists arc merely different versions or recensions of one 
original list — traces of two conflicting histories of the 
first human family. This theory is deservedly repudi- 
ated by Dclitzsch on Gen. v” (Smith). 

Lamennais, Felicite Robert, Abbe de, a Ho- 
man Catholic theologian and philosopher, occupies a dis- 
tinguished place in the ecclesiastical, political, and lit- 
erary history of France of the 19th century. 1 Tc was 
born of a noble family at St.Malo, in Bretagne, June 6, 
1782. In his boyhood, his clerical tutor having fled 
to England on the outbreak of the devolution, be and 
his brother continued their studies together with singu- 
lar independence. It is said that when only twelve 
vears old he was aide to read Livy and Plutarch with 
ease. “ In 1794, having been sent to live with an uncle, 
this relation, not knowing what to do with a wilful boy, 
used to shut him up for whole days in a library consist- 
ing of two compartments, one of which, called ‘ Nell,’ 
contained a large number of prohibited books, which 
little Robert was enjoined not to read. But the lad al- 
ready cared for none but books of reflection, and finding 
some of these on the prohibited shelves, that division 
became his favorite. Long hours were thus spent in 
reading the ardent pages of Rousseau, the thoughtful 
volumes of Malebrauche, and other writers of sentiment 
and philosophy. Such a course of reading, far from pro- 
ducing its usual effects of precocious vainglory and un- 
belief oil so young a mind, served rather to ripen his 
judgment, and to develop that religions fervor which 
was a part of his nature” (English (\ 'yclopmlui ). He 
soon took a decidedly religious course, and, though of- 
fered a mercantile career by his father, chose the’ clerical 
profession. Before, however, entering upon the studies 
of the sacred ollice, he accepted in 1807 the position as 
teacher of mathematics in the college of his native place. 

To promote practical piety, lie published in 1808 a 
translation of the ascetic Guide tSpirituel of Louis de 


Blois. In reference to the Concordat of Napoleon, he 
wrote Rejlexions sur Vetcit de Veglise en France pendant 
le dix-huitieme si'eele et sur la situation actuelle (1808). 
lie here denounces the materialism propagated by the 
philosophers of the 18th century, bitterly deplores the 
apathy thence induced to religion, and expresses much 
hope from the beneficent influence of the Concordat, and 
declares the laws of religion and morality to be the su- 
preme laws of life. The imperial censorship, however, 
detected a dangerous independent tendency in this work, 
especially in the demand for ecclesiastical synods and 
conferences, and the issue of the first edition was sup- 
pressed. After having received the clerical tonsure (in 
1811), he published, in defence of the papal authority 
and against Napoleon, Tradition de Veglise sur Vinstitu- 
tion des eveques (Baris, 1814). From retirement in Eng- 
land, whither he had been obliged to llcc during the 
Hundred Days, Lamennais returned to France (in 1810) 
in full sympathy with the Restoration, and entered 
more, ardently than ever upon the work of disseminating 
his earlier opinions. lie was ordained priest in 1817, 
and in this year began the publication of his Essai sur 
V indifference en mature de religion (Baris, 1817-1820, 4 
vols.). This work, of which Lacordaire said that it 
caused its author to rise, in a single day, like a new Bos- 
j suet above the horizon, thoroughly aroused public at- 
tention to the author and his principles, attracted many 
readers by the eloquence of its style, and has passed 
through many editions. The work belongs to the Cath- 
olic reactionary school of philosophy, to which Joseph 
j de Maistre had given the leading impulse. The author 
first points out certain perilous tendencies of the age 
which seem to threaten another revolution, and notices 
the various systems of religious indifference. lie next 
asserts the absolute importance of religion to the indi- 
vidual and the state. The inquiry concerning the ground 
of certainty in matters of religion is then met by postu- 
lating authority — that is, the consenting testimony of 
mankind as the only ground. This testimony finds its 
interpretation by divine appointment in the Catholic 
Church, and finally in the pope. This whole scheme 
proceeds upon the basis of sceptical philosophy, which 
j denies to the individual reason the possession of certain- 
ty concerning any truth, whether scientific, philosophic, 
or religious, and which takes refuge for the attainment 
of religious certainty in a common consent divinely 
guided. It thus becomes the duty of the state, for the 
security of its own welfare and that of the individual, to 
enforce by every moral and physical means the decisions 
of this authoritative Church. Here was an attempt to 
win back both prince and people to the absolute submis- 
sion demanded by Gregory VII and Innocent 111. The 
French Church was alarmed at so extreme a position, and 
disavowed its own champion. A Defense de V Essai sur 
Vimlifferenee was issued hv the author. In 1818 Lamcn- 
nais joined hands for a brief period with certain Royal- 
j ists in founding the *• Conscrvateur;” but afterwards, in 
sympathy with another coterie called the drape an blanc, 
his severity in writing against the management of the 
university invited the attention of the police authorities. 
In 1824 he visited Koine, and was received with distinc- 
tion by pope Leo XII; he is said to have declined a 
' cardinalship. as he had previously declined a bishopric 
which had been urged upon him by the ministry at 
Baris. In La Religion a nmleree dans scs rapports arcc 
Vordre cicil et politique (Baris, 1825-20, 2 vols.) he first 
began to exhibit that freedom of thought, reaching to 
'the last boundary of revolution (blit which, howevt r, 
independent of Church interests, abandons nothing in 
spiritual faith\ It contained an attack upon Galliean 
principles, and upon some measures of the king, which 
brought him again before the courts. Defended by the 
legal skill of Berry er, be was let oft’ with a tine of thirty 
francs. There is a manifest prognostication of the coin- 
ing disturbance, of the breach between the hierarchical 
authority and the spirit of the times in his Progres de 
I la revolution et de la guerre contre Veglise (1829). 


LAMENNAIS 


211 


LAMENNAIS 


The July revolution completed, the Church must now 
be saved by bringing it into harmony with the demands 
of civil liberty, and to serve such an end Lamennais 
enters upon the second period of his career. With the 
co-operation of Lacordaire (q. v.) and Montalembert (q. 
v.) he founded the journal V Avenir, which had lor its 
motto ‘‘ God and Freedom,” and for its guiding thought 
concerning the Church that the latter can save itsell 
from the ruin which waits on political absolutism only 
by freeing itself from all relations with the state, and 
from the corruptions of hierarchical luxury, while it is 
to flourish only through the voluntary devotion of its 
adherents, and in harmony with laws which secure for 
the people freedom of education and worship. lie 
preached such a doctrine enthusiastically, and believed 
that Home would receive it. He was present at Home 
in 1831 with Laeordaire and Montalembert, and sought 
to win the representatives of the French, Russian, Aus- 
trian, and Prussian courts to his views. An audience 
was granted by the pope only on condition of silence 
concerning the matters agitated. When, however, La- 
cordaire had presented a scheme of these views in writ- 
ing, the French bishops, on April 22, 1832, presented an 
outspoken opposition to them. A few extracts from an 
encyclical letter condemnatory of such principles whieli 
was issued by Gregory XVI on Aug. 15, 1832, best ex- 
plains the peculiar position assumed by the writers of 
L' Avenir: " From this infectious source of indifferent- 
ism,” says the encyclical, ‘Glows that absurd and erro- 
neous maxim, or, rather, that madness, which would 
insure and guarantee to all liberty of conscience. The 
way is prepared for this pernicious error by the free and 
unlimited liberty of opinion which is spreading abroad, 
to the misfortune of civil and religious societ} r , some 
asserting with extreme imprudence that it may be pro- 
ductive of certain advantages to religion.” And after- 
wards it adds : With this is connected that lamentable 
liberty which we cannot regard with too much horror, 
the liberty of the press to publish all sorts of writings, 
a liberty which some persons dare to demand and extol 
with so much noise and ardor.” A copy of it was sent 
with special explanations to Lamennais by cardinal 
Pacca, who urged him to render submission to the au- 
thority he had himself so highly extolled, and, as if to 
make even more explieit the meaning of the encyclical 
af which he was the transmittent, added, “ The doc- 
trines of the V A venir upon the liberty of worship and 
the liberty of the press are very reprehensible, and in 
opposition to the teaching, the maxims, and the policy 
of the Church [the italics are ours]. They have ex- 
ceedingly astonished and afflicted the holy father; for 
if, under certain circumstances, prudence compels us to 
tolerate them as lesser evils, such doctrines can never 
be held up by a Roman Catholic as good in themselves, 
or as things desirable.” Strangely enough, as it must 
appear to Protestant ideas, the three editors of V Avenir 
— Lamennais and his two younger coadjutors, Lacor- 
daire and Montalembert — submitted to the papal see, 
and, of course, to evince their sincerity, discontinued the 
publication of VA venir . lint Lamennais having after- 
wards, in certain smaller articles, expressed himself in a 
spirit contrary to the views of the encyclical, he received 
a letter from the pope on the subject, and thereupon, in 
a formal way. subscribed a submission, Dec. 11, 1833, at 
the palace of the archbishop of Paris. In the Affaires 
de Rome (see below), however, he declared that this sub- 
mission on his part had been made only for the sake 
of peace, and that, in truth, the welfare of the people 
must be considered before that of the Church. In 1834 
Paroles (Vun croyant appeared, which passed in a few 
years through 100 editions, and was translated into 
many languages. In this work a new spirit is mani- 
fest. In earnest language the former and existing evils 
of soeiety are deplored, while in a style of prophetic ar- 
dor the future is anticipated. A new Christianity, 
based on the principles of the New Testament, in a rev- 
olutionized democratic state is sought. A certain ideal 


external form was still Lamennais’ hope. lie had ideal- 
ized the Church, and would now seek a like panacea in 
a social reorganization (see Brit, and For. Evangel. Re- 
view , Oct. 1803, p. 731). this work was severely con- 
demned by a special decree of Gregory XVI, Aug. 7, 1834. 

In the Affaires de Rome (Paris, 183G) Lamennais en- 
ters fully upon the final period of his life, lie lure 
breaks copipletely and irrevocably with the Church; de- 
clares the Roman hierarchy, of which he had long been 
the champion, to be incompatible with a true Christian- 
ity and a true humanism, and hereafter Lamennais was 
regarded by the Church authorities as an apostate. 
Like Luther, Ulrich von Hutten. and many other great 
men, Lamennais had been completely disenchanted by 
the sight of the corruptions of Rome in her very strong- 
hold. u ilis strong and clear vision saw in her but a 
corpse which it was vain to attempt to resuscitate;' a 
conglomerate religion made up of Christianity perverted 
by Jewish symbolism, and degraded and sensualized by 
Oriental and classical mythology and philosophy. Yet 
he hesitated long before he could make up his mind ti) 
deny his whole previous life, to forsake and repudiate 
what he had formerly defended, to become an antago- 
nist of the Church of which he had formerly been the 
bulwark and the champion; and it required a year’s 
meditation and self-examination, amid the woods of his 
paternal domain of La Chesnave, before he resolved Anal- 
ly and forever to break with the Church of Rome. In 
a worldly point of view, he had everything to lose and 
nothing to gain by the course which he pursued, and it 
required no ordinary courage, no small portion of the 
martyr-spirit to aet as he acted” (For. and Brit.Evang. 
Review, Oct. 18G3, p. 730). In 1837 he began to edit a 
daily journal, Le livre da Peitple. Ilis work, Le Pays et 
le Gouvernement (1840), was obnoxious to the authorities, 
and caused the author two years' imprisonment and a 
fine of 2000 francs. The most important and elaborate 
work of the latter days of Lamennais is his Esquisse d'une 
Philosophic , in 4 volumes (Paris, 1840-4G) ; a w»*i .c elo- 
quent and religious in tone, and exhibiting the author’s 
general philosophical conceptions in this later period of 
his life. Here the authoritative ground of certainty is 
found, not in the common testimony of mankind, but in 
the common reason. Philosophy is understood in a broad 
sense, having for its range the facts of general being; it 
is not merely a matter of psychology or metaphysics. 
The method of this philosophy is the assumption of cer- 
tain foundation truths which all mankind admit. Ab- 
solute existence is not capable of proof, and in like man- 
ner God and the world are two fundamental assump- 
tions. God has in his own essence necessity and varie- 
ty. He is an eternal conscious Ego. He has the tri- 
une attributes of power, intelligence, and love, which in 
Scripture language are expressed as the Father, Son, and 
Holy Spirit. God has society w ithin himself, is the type 
of all soeiety, and the three attributes produce and ex- 
plain the law s of whatever is outside of God. These 
attributes are recognised as controlling tdements through 
every development of this philosophical system. Crea- 
tion is not emanation, but the original divine ideas are 
made real by God’s free power. This is not Pantheism 
or Dualism. Matter arises under the mysterious powder 
of God in the limitation of individuals. Properly speak- 
ing, matter is not a distinct entity ; it is but a limitation 
of that which exists, 'rime and space, the modes of 
our existence, are the limitations of eternity and im- 
mensity, which are the modes of God’s existence. The 
nature of the universe is to be determined by the aid of 
the disclosures of science, but the laws of its existe nce 
and operation in the forms of inorganic, organic, and in- 
tellectual being arc determined by the application of the 
principles inherent in the three divine attributes. Man 
is the most elevated of the beings known to us. I he 
great problem concerning man is the origin of moral 
evil. This is to be explained as a limitation of the free 
moral agent in his communion with God. Ihus, al- 
though hurtful to the subject, the actuality of moral evil 


LAMEXXAIS 


LAMEXXAIS 


212 


does not introduce any positive disorder into the uni- 
verse regarded as a realization of the divine ideas. The 
true purpose of man’s life is to free himself from this 
state of isolation, of negation in self, and come into en- 
tire harmony with the divine will. The application of 
this svstem to the several faculties and pursuits of man 
is developed at large. Hope for the world thus lies in 
the development of the people. Keligion and nature 
will issue in one when fully disclosed. Everything in 
the work seems to proceed from a religions, but no lon- 
ger ehurchly stand -point. 

Lamennais 1 Discussions Critiques et pensees diverges 
sur la Religion et la 1 7t ilosoph ie (Paris, 1841) gives the 
author’s views on social questions. In place of the 
Church authority whose claims he formerly advocated, 
he would now have the democratic theocracy honored. 
This is in great measure a retraction of his work Sur 
V indifle renee en mat'd re de Religion . Of similar im- 
port is La Religion du passe et de Varemr du Peuple 
(1842). It is no longer the future of the Church of 
which he speaks, but of the people. II is Church is now 
the religion of brotherly love, and he will have it rise 
upon the ruins of both Homan ism and Protestantism. 
A mschaspands et Darvans (1843), and Les evangiles, tra- 
duction nouvelle avec des notes et des reflexions (184G), 
were issued professedly as a defence for the people 
against a mythological and superstitious credulity. La- 
mennais was greatly interested in the February Revolu- 
tion, and exerted his influence to prevent acts of vio- 
lence against the Church and religious interests. Grat- 
itude for his services in this regard led to his election 
to the Assembly from the department of the Seine, and 
in his seat he ahvays sided with the Left. He is said to 
have spoken but once, and that in opposition to the dic- 
tatorship of Cavaignac. He undertook the editorship, 
conjointly with Pascal Duprat, of the journal Le Peuple 
Constituant. He was grieved by the violence of the IJcd 
Kepublicans, though still steadfast in his hope of the 
democracy; and was forced into retirement by the coup 
d’etat, meeting with disappointment in this direction 
likewise. Nothing, however, availed to change the 
views he had in later years adopted, and the Church 
sought in vain, through the influence of relatives, to re- 
call him to her faith on his dying bed. He died at Par- 
is, in the Hue du Grand Chartres, Feb. 27, 1854. He had 
refused to see a minister, and his will ordered that no j 
fonnal ceremony should attend his burial. He wished ! 
his body to be placed in the corbillard des pauvres, or I 
pauper’s hearse, and this direction was complied with. 
His remains were followed by a few friends, as Beran- 
ger and Gamier Pages, and also, notwithstanding the 
police prohibition, by a large number of the people, who 
gathered at the cemetery Fere la Chaise. No prayer 
was uttered, nor last word said, and the remains were 
placed in the common grave, without cross or stone to 
mark their resting-place. Lamennais was small of 
stature, though of attractive physiognomy; somewhat 
slow and hesitating in speech, with something of the 
Bretagne dialect ; less able with his tongue than with 
liis pen. Ilis family had lost most of their property in 
the lirst Hevolution, and he himself a large part of his 
own through misplaced contidence. In later years he 
resided mostly on a small estate in Lachcsnaye, near 
Dinan, in Bretagne. 

As a literary character, Lamennais occupied a promi- 
nent place in the revival of style under the Best oration. 
His era succeeds that of Chateaubriand, and corresponds 
with that of Madame de Staid and Joseph de Maistre. 
He was an earnest if not profound thinker, but especial- 
ly brilliant .as a writer. He had the culture of art com- 
bined with the vehemence of passion, though tjie latter 
element perhaps too often expressed itself in the manner 
of declamation. As a theorist in social philosophy lie 
had a counterpart in Benjamin Constant, who took his 
stand-point in individual liberty, while Lamennais set 
out from the assumption of a consenting unity in society 
and religion. It has been claimed that his steadfastness 


to this primary principle explains the variation of posi- 
tion which changed political circumstances seemed to 
necessitate, causing him to be at one time all for the 
Church, at another all for the people. There were, at 
all events, three distinct periods in his career, in the 
first of which lie was Ultramontane ; in the second he 
sought to mediate between the Church and democratic 
ideas; while at the last he cast off all ehurchly control, 
and became a ehiliastic prophet of the democracy. 

M. Guizot, in the second series of his Meditations on 
the Actual State of Christianity , thus portraitures La- 
mennais; “This apostle of universal reason was at the 
same time the proudest worshipper of his own reason. 
Under the pressure of events without, and of an ardent 
controversy, a transformation took place in him, marked 
at once by its logical deductions and its moral inconsist- 
ency ; he changed his camp without changing his prin- 
ciples; in the attempt to lead the supreme authority of 
his Church to admit his principles lie had failed; and 
from that instant the very spirit of revolt that he had 
so severely rebuked broke loose in bis soul and in bis 
writings, finding expression at one time in an indigna- 
tion full of hatred levelled at the powerful, the rich, and 
the fortunate ones of the world; at another time in a 
tender sympathy for the miseries of humanity. The 
lUorJj? of a Believer are the eloquent outburst of this 
tumult in his soul. Plunged in the chaos of sentiments 
the most contradictor}', and yet claiming to be always 
consistent with himself, the champion of authority be- 
came in the state the most baited of democrats, and in 
the Church the haughtiest of rebels. It is not without 
sorrow that 1 thus express my unreserved opinion of a 
man of superior talent — mind lofty, soul intense; a man 
in the sequel profoundly sad himself, although haughty 
in his very fall. One cannot read in their stormy suc- 
cession the numerous writings of the abbe de Lamen- 
nais without recognising in them traces, I will not say of 
his intellectual perplexities — his pride did not feel them 
— but of the sufl'orings of his soul, whether for good or for 
evil. His was a noble nature, but full of exaggeration in 
his opinions, of fanatical arrogance, and of angry asper- 
ity in his polemics. One title to our gratitude remains 
to the abbe de Lamennais — he thundered to purpose 
against the gross and vulgar forgetfulness of the great 
moral interests of humanity. His essay on indifference 
in religious questions inflicted a rude blow upon that 
vice of the time, and recalled men’s souls to regions 
above. And thus it was, too, that he rendered service 
to the great movement and awakening of Christians in 
the 19th century, and that he merits his place in that 
movement, although he deserted it.” 

One of Lamennais’ last and most earnest injunctions 
was that certain papers, which contained his latest sen- 
timents, should be published without alteration or sup- 
pression ; but the religious advisers of his niece (who 
was also his housekeeper) so far wrought on her suscep- 
tibility as to cause her to refuse to give up the papers to 
the persons whom Lamennais had authorized to super- 
intend their publication. The matter was in conse- 
quence brought, before the proper legal tribunal, when 
the judges directed (August, 185G) that the papers should 
be handed over for publication in their integrity. 

The first edition of Lamennais’ collected works was 
published under the title (Euvres completes (Paris, 1836- 
37, 12 vols. 8vo). Several editions have appeared since. 
See Paganel, Kxamen critique des Opinions de VAhhe de 
Lamennais (2d edit. 1825, 2 vols. 8vo) ; 11. Lacordaire, 
Considerations sur le Sgsteme Philosophique de M. de 
Lamennais (1834, 8vo) ; E. Lerminier, Les Advevsaircs 
de Lamennais (in the Revue des Deux Mondes, 1834); 
Hobinct, Etudes sur Vahhe de Lamennais (1835) ; Ala— 
drolle, Ilistoire secrete du Partie et de V A pastas ie de M. 
de Lamennais (1843) ; Lomenie, 3F.de Lamennais (1840); 
Sainte-Beuve, Critique et Portraits Litteraires , v (Paris, 
1840); and, by the same author, Portraits Contemporains 
(1846), i, 134-191 ; E. Henan, Lamennais et ses ecrits (in 
the Rerue des Deux Mondes^ August, 1857) ; Morell, Hist. 


LAMENNAIS 


Modem Philosophy, p. 527-37 ; Dam iron, Essai sur Vhis- 
toire de la Philosophic en France au 1 deme siecle (1828), 
p. 105-197 ; Haag, Les Dogmes Chretiens , i, 419 sq. ; For- 
eign Quar. Rev . April, 1838; Brit, and For . Rev. 1843, p. 
382 sq. ; Westminster Review, April, 1859; 18G6, p. 174; 
Revue Chretienne , vol. xiv, No. 3, p. 173. See also the ex- 
cellent articles in Ilerzog, Real-Encyklop. viii, 178-184 ; 
Hoefer, Xouv. Biog. Generate, xxix, 182 sq. (E. B. 0.) 

Lamennais, Jean Marie Robert de, a French 
theologian, brother of the preceding, born at St.Malo 
about 1775, flourished as canon of the diocese of Kennes, 
and was the founder of the order known as Les fr'eres 
de Lamennais de Ploermel (compare Ilerzog, Real-Ency- 
klop. iv, 509). He wrote several works on religious sub- 
jects, but they are of no particular value. In the prep- 
aration of Tradition de Veglise sur V institution des evcques 
he greatly assisted his brother. He died in I860. — 
Thomas, Biographical Dictionary, p. 13G2. 

Lament (represented by numerous Heb. and sev- 
eral Gr. words, of which the principal are abaV, to 
mourn; ft}i<,anah', to sigh; ilHD, nabob', to wail; 
saphad', to smite the breast in token of violent grief; 
•j^p,Dz«,to strike a mournful tune; £, bakah', to weep; 
Spjjvtio, to wail aloud ; kowtoj, to cut , i. e. beat the bo- 
som, etc., in violent bursts of grief; with their deriva- 
tives). The Orientals are accustomed to bewail the 
dead in the most passionate manner, and even hire pro- 
fessional mourners, usually women, to perform this cere- 
mony more effectually at funerals. See Burial; Grief, 
etc. 

The kinah', elegy, or dirge, is not mentioned in 

the earliest Hebrew writings. The first example of it 
which we meet with, and also one of the most beautiful 
and pathetic, is the lament of David over Saul and Jon- 
athan (2 Sam. i, 17-27). Notwithstanding, it is natural 
to suppose that, from an early period, and not on rare 
occasions, the Hebrew poetic spirit found utterance in 
this class of compositions. The kinah is mentioned as 
a frequent accompaniment of mourning in Amos viii, 10: 
“I will turn your feasts into mourning, and all your 
songs into lamentation” (ns^p). Jeremiah wrote a la- 
ment on the death of Josiali, which, as we are informed, 
was added to the collection of kinoth or dirges existing 
at that time (2 Chron. xxxv, 25; compare also Jer. vii, 
29 ; ix, 9, 1G, 19). In 2 Sam. iii, 33, 34, is preserved the 
brief but touching lament of David over Abner (q. v.). 

The kinah was of two sorts, historical and prophetical. 
The laments of David and Jeremiah already mentioned 
are of the former sort. In the prophetic writings, and 
especially in Ezekiel, we meet with the prophetic la- 
ment, which had reference to some calamity yet future, 
but vividly anticipated and realized. Thus Ezek. xxvii, 
2, “ Son of man, take up a lamentation for Tvrus,” etc. 
In this case the prophet himself is told to raise his la- 
ment, as if the city had already been overthrown. In 
others he gives to his prophecy the form of a lament, to 
be used when the predicted calamity lias actually taken 
place. The calamity is so inevitable that the prepara- 
tions for bewailing it may be now begun. (Comp. Ezek. 
xix, 1,14; xxvi, 17; xxvii, 32; xxviii, 12; xxxii, 2, 1G. 
So Amos v, 1.) 

The only other passage in which fl^p, or its cognate 
verb "(Sip ( konen ), is found, is Ezek. ii, 10, where we read 
of a “ roll of a book,” ( niegillath sepher), be- 

ing spread out before the prophet ; “■ and there was writ- 
ten therein lamentations, “>p (kinini), and mourning, 
and woe.” It is a remarkable coincidence, but probably 
nothing more, that immediately before the book of Eze- 
kiel there stands in most of the versions of the Hebrew 
Scriptures a or roll, which answers quite to this 

description. Those who regard the book of Lamenta- 
tions as belonging to the class of prophetic laments 
might probably find in this coincidence a confirmation 
of their views. 


213 LAMENTATIONS, BOOK OF 

[ The opinion just mentioned, that the book of Lamen- 
' tations was written proleptically in view of the destruc- 
tion of Jerusalem, and belongs to the class of prophetic 
kinoth, as intended to describe that event prophetically, 
is an ancient opinion, held and defended by critics of no 
mean reputation, is not now so generally entertained 
as formerly. The prophetic laments are usually very 
brief; or, if they include more than a few verses, always 
tend to pass into distinct prophecy, and rarely keep up 
to the close their character as laments (Ezek. xxvii, 27, 
etc.). Perhaps the most perfect example is the lament 
in Ezek. xxviii, 12-19; but even there we meet with a 
“ Thus saith the Lord” (ver. 12). It is therefore, prinui 
facie , improbable that an elegiac composition so length- 
ened and elaborate as the book of Lamentations should 
bear a distinctively prophetic character ; though, on the 
other hand, its assumed prophetical character might be 
said to justify this extended wail. Moreover, in the 
book itself there is not the slightest indication that it 
does bear such a character; and the most ancient tradi- 
tion — that contained in the Sept. — gives to it a histori- 
cal foundation. It is, indeed, an old conjecture, that the 
book of Lamentations is identical with the lament which 
Jeremiah composed on the death of Josiah (2 Chron. 
xxxv, 25) ; but this, if its main or only purpose, is quite 
inconsistent with the fact that throughout the entire 
book there is not a single allusion to the death of Josiah. 
Only once is mention made of the king, “ the anointed of 
the Lord” (iv, 20), and the reference is evidently not to 
Josiah.— Fairbairn, s. v. See Lamentations, Book of. 

LAMENTATIONS, Book of, one of the books of the 
O.T. commonly assigned to Jeremiah, and consisting of 
a remarkable series of threnodies. In the following 
treatment of it we largely follow the articles in Smith 
and lvit to, s.v. 

I. Title. — The Hebrew name of this book, Ey- 

kah', “Ilow,” is taken, like those of the five books of 
Moses, from the Hebrew word with which it opens, and 
which appears to have been almost a received formula 
for the commencement of a song of wailing (compare 2 
Sam. i, 19-27). The Babbins remark upon this title, 
“Three prophets have used the word with refer- 

ence to Israel : Moses, Isaiah, and Jeremiah. To what 
are they to be likened ? To three bridesmen ("pj^E will! 
=Mvpri]<popoi) who have seen the afterwards widowed 
wife in three different stages. The first has seen her in 
her opulence and her pride, and he said, “ Oh, how shall 
I bear alone your overbearing and your strife?’ (Dent, i, 
2). The second has seen her in her dissipation and dis- 
soluteness, and he said, ‘Oh, how has she become a har- 
lot!’ (Isa. i, 21 ). And the third has seen her in her ut- 
ter desolation, and he said, ‘ Oh, how does she sit soli- 
tary !’ (Lam. i, 1)” (Introduction to Echa Rabathi). 

Later Jewish writers usually designate the book by 
the more descriptive title T\i^p, Kinoth' , “ lamenta- 
tions” = dirge, a term which they found in Jer. vii, 29; 
ix, 10,20; 2 Chron. xxxv, 25, and which already had 
probably been applied familiarly to the book itself. See 
Lament. 

The Septuagint translators found themselves obliged, 
as in the other cases referred to, to substitute some title 
more significant, and adopted Spijvoi ’lepeptov as the 
equivalent of the latter Hebrew term. The Vulgate 
gives the Greek word, and explains it ( Thrcni , id esi , 
Lamentationes Jeremice- Prophetaf). Luther and the A. 
V. have given the translation only, in “ Klagelicder”' and 
“ Lamentations ” respectively. 

II. Position. — In the present Hebrew Bible the hook 
of Lamentations stands in the Ilagiographa (Kethubini) 
between Kuth and Ecclesiastes. The Jews believe that 
it was not written by the gift of prophecy, but by the 
Spirit of God (between which they make a distinction), 
and give this as a reason for not placing it among the 
prophets. In the arrangement adopted for synagogue 
use, anti reproduced in some editions, as in the Bomberg 
Bible of 1521, it stands among the five Megilloth after 


LAMENTATIONS, BOOK OF 214 LAMENTATIONS, BOOK OF 


the books of Moses, or books of Ruth, Esther, Ecclcsi- I 
astes, and Solomon’s Son#. This position of the book 
probably had a liturgical origin, as it is read in their 
synagogues on the ninth of the month Ab, which is a 
fast for the destruction of the holy city. In the ancient 
Hebrew copies, however, this book is supposed to have 
occupied the place which is now assigned to it in most 
versions, namely, after Jeremiah. Indeed, from the man- 
ner in which Josephus reckons up the books of the Old 
Testament ( Contra Apion, i, 8), it has been supposed 
that Jeremiah and it originally formed but one book 
(Prideaux, Connection , i, 332). The Septuagint groups 
the writings connected with the name of Jeremiah to- 
gether, but the book of Baruch comes between the 
prophecy and the Lamentation. On the hypothesis of 
some writers that Jer.lii was originally the introduction 
to the poem, and not the conclusion of the prophecy, 
and that the preface of the Sept, (which is not found 
Other in the Hebrew or in the Targum of Jonathan) 
was inserted to diminish the abruptness occasioned by 
this separation of the book from that with which it had 
been originally connected, it would follow that the ar- 
rangement of the Yulg. and the A. V. corresponds more 
closely than any other to that which we must look upon 
as the original one. 

III. Form . — The structure of this book is peculiarly 
artificial, being strictly poetic, and in many portions 
acrostic. 

(1.) Ch. i, ii, and iv contain 22 verses each, arranged 
in alphabetic order, each verse falling into three nearly 
balanced clauses (Ewald,Poe/. JJiicIi. p. 147) ; ii, 19 forms 
an exception, as having a fourth clause, the result of an 
interpolation, as if the writer had shaken off for a mo- 
ment the restraint of his self-imposed law. Possibly 
the inversion of the usual order of V and 5 in ch, ii, iii, 
iv. may have arisen from a like forgetfulness. Grotius 
(ad loc.) explains it on the assumption that here Jere- 
miah followed the order of the Chaldcean alphabet. 
Similar anomalies occur in Psa. xxxvii, and have re- 
ceived a like explanation (De Wette, Psa. p. 57). It is, 
however, a mere hypothesis that the Chaldiean alpha- 
bet differed in this respect from the Hebrew; nor is it 
easy to see why Jeremiah should have chosen the He- 
brew order for one poem, and the Chakkean for the oth- 
er three. 

(2.) Ch. iii contains three short verses under each let- 
ter of the alphabet, the initial letter being three times 
repeated. 

(3.) Ch. v contains the same number of verses as ch. 
i, ii, iv, but without the alphabetic order. The thought 
suggests itself that the earnestness of the prayer with 
which the book closes may have carried the writer be- 
yond the limits within which lie had previously con- 
lined himself; but the conjecture (of Ewald) that we 
have here, as in Psa. ix and x, the rough draught of 
what was intended to have been finished afterwards in 
the same manner as the others, is at least a probable 
one. 

IV. Author . — The poems included in this collection 
appear in the Hebrew canon with no name attached to 
them, and there is no direct external evidence that they 
were written by the prophet Jeremiah earlier than the 
date given in the prefatory verse which appears in the 
Septuagint, which is as follows: “And it came to pass, 
after Israel had been carried away captive, and Jerusa- 
lem had become desolate, that Jeremiah sat weeping, 
and lamented with this lamentation over Jerusalem, and 
said.” This has been copied into the Arabic and Vul- 
gate versions; but as it does not exist in the Hebrew, 
Chaldee, or Syriae, it was regarded by Jerome as spuri- 
ous, and is not admitted into his version. This repre- 
sents, however, the established belief of the Jews after 
the completion of the canon. The Talmud, 'embodying 
the earliest traditions, has ; “Jeremiah wrote his book, 
the book of Kings, and the Lament at ions” (Baba liathra , 
15, a). Later Jewish writers are equally explicit (. Echa 
Rail, introd.). Josephus (.1 nt. x, 5, 1) follows, as far 


as the question of authorship is concerned, in the same 
track, and the absence of any tradition or probable con- 
jecture to the contrary leaves the concensus of critics 
and commentators almost undisturbed. (See below.) 
An agreement so striking rests, as might be expected, 
on strong internal evidence. The poems belong unmis- 
takably to the last days of the kingdom or the com- 
mencement of the exile. They are written by one who 
speaks, with the vividness and intensity of an eye-wit- 
ness, of the misery which he bewails. It might almost 
be enough to ask who else then living could have writ- 
ten with that union of strong passionate feeling and en- 
tire submission to Jehovah which characterizes both the 
Lamentations and the Prophecy of Jeremiah. The evi- 
dences of identity are, however, stronger and more mi- 
nute. Tn both we meet, once and again, with the pic- 
ture of the ‘■Virgin-daughter of Zion” sitting down in 
her shame and misery (Lam. i, 15; ii, 13 ; Jer, xiv, 17). 
In both there is the same vehement outpouring of sor- 
row. The prophet’s eyes How down with tears (Lam. 
i, 1G; ii, II; iii, 48, 49 ; Jer. ix, 1 ; xiii, 17; xiv, 17). 
There is the same haunting feeling of being surrounded 
with fears and terrors on every side ( Lam. ii, 22 ; Jer. vi, 
25; xlvi, 5). In both the worst of all the evils is the 
iniquity of the prophets and the priests (Lam. ii, 14 ; iv, 
13 ; Jer. v, 30, 31 ; xiv, 13, 14). The sufferer appeals for 
vengeance to the righteous Judge (Lam. iii, 64-66 ; Jer. 
xi, 20). He bids the rival nation that exulted in the 
fall of Jerusalem prepare for a like desolation (Lam, iv, 
21 ; Jer. xlix, 12). The personal references to Jere- 
miah’s own fate, such as we know it from his book of 
Prophecies and Kings, are not wanting (comp. Lam. ii, 
1 1, and iii, with Jer. xv, 15 sq.; xvii,13sq.; xx,7; Lam. 
iii, 14 with Jer. xx, 7; iii, G4-66 with Jer. xvii, 18; v 
with iv, 17-20). As in the Prophecies, so here, the in- 
iquities of the people are given as the cause of the exile 
and the destruction of Jerusalem and the Temple (com- 
pare i, 5, 8, 14,22; iii, 39. 42; iv, G, 22: v, 1G with Jer. 
xiii, 22-2G ; xiv, 7 ; xvi, 10 sq. ; xvii, 1 sq.), their sinful 
trust in false prophets and iniquitous priests, their rely- 
ing on the safety of Jerusalem, and on the aid of power- 
less and treacherous allies, etc. What is more, his poet- 
ical and prophetical individuality pervades the whole so 
unmistakably that it seems hardly necessary to refer to 
the numerous parallel passages adduced by Eichliorn, 
Bertholdt, Keil, De Wette, Jahn, Bleek, and others. If 
contents, spirit, manner, individuality, are any guaran- 
tee at all, then Jeremiah is the author, and sole author 
of the book before ns. He even seems to refer to his 
other book (comp, ii, 14; Jer. xiv, 13). But were any 
further proof needed, we would certainly find it in the 
very diction and phraseology common to both works, 
and peculiar to them alone (comp. "jH. Lam. i, 22, and 
Jer. viii, 18; msi Lam. iii, 47, and Jer. xxiv, 17 ; 
xlviii,43; **2? P- “C-, Lam. ii, 1 1, and Jer. vi, 14, and 
viii, 11 ; - “YY2, Lam. ii, 22, and Jer. vi. 25, and 

frequently the very frequent use of 

in both; phrases like “I became a mockery all 
day long,” Lam. iii, 14, and Jer. xx, 7, etc.: the use of 
the “i parag., and other grammatical peculiarities. See 
Keil, Einleit. in das A . T, § 129). 

The only exceptions to this unanimity of opinion as 
to the authorship of Lamentations are Hard t, who, for 
reasons of his own, ascribed the five different elegies to 
Daniel, Sliadrach, Meshach, Abednego, and king Jchon- 
ja respectively, and, in our own time, (’onz and Thenius. 
The last holds that only Lam. ii and iv belong to Jere- 
miah (the former written in Palestine, the latter in 
Egypt), the three others, however, having been written 
by Jeremiah’s contemporaries and disciples. II is rea- 
sons for this assumption are, that Jeremiah could not 
have treated the same subject five times; that ii and iv 
are different from i, iii, v, which arc less worthy of Jere- 
miah’s pen; that the three latter do not quite fit Jere- 
miah’s own circumstances; and, finally, because there is 


LAMENTATIONS, BOOK OF 215 LAMENTATIONS, BOOK OF 


a difference in the alphabetical structure (see above) of 
i and of ii-iv. These objections to Jeremiah's exclu- 
sive authorship seem about as tenable as Hardt’s Sha- 
dracli, Mcshach, Abcdnego, and consorts, 'flic first two 
points arc not worth consideration; the third is an- 
swered by the simple proposition that they are poems, 
and not a historical narrative which we have before us, 
and that therefore a certain license must be given to 
the poet in the use of broad similes in his gencralizings, 
and in his putting himself sometimes in the place of the 
whole people as its spokesman and chief mourner. And 
if, finally, the structure differs in i from ii and iv, then it 
may as well be asked why iii, which is not supposed to 
be written by Jeremiah, is like ii and iv, which are al- 
lowed to be written by him ? If somebody has imitated 
the structure in iii, why has it not been also imitated in 
i and v? A further refutation of this attempt to take 
away two fifths of Jeremiah’s authorship — supported by 
no investigator as wo said — has been given by Ewald, 
and we have indeed only mentioned it for the sake of 
completeness. Bunsen, it is true (Gott in der Gesch. i, 
42G), indicates Baruch as probably the author, in part at 
least, of Lamentations; but this is evidently a mere con- 
jecture. 

V. Occasion. — The earliest statement on this point is 
that of Josephus (A nt. x, 5, 1). lie finds among the 
books which were extant in his own time the lamenta- 
tions on the death of Josiali, which arc mentioned in 2 
Chron. xxxv, 25. As there arc no traces of any other 
poem of this kind in the later Jewish literature, it has 
been inferred, naturally enough, that ho speaks of this. 
This opinion was maintained also by Jerome, and has 
been defended by some modern writers (Usher, Dathe, 
Miehaelis, Notes to Lowth , Prad. xxii [Michaclis and 
Dathe, however, afterwards abandoned this hypothesis, 
and adopted that of the later date] ; Calovius, Prolegom. 
ad Thren . ; Do Wette, Einl. in das A . Test., Klagl.). It 
does not appear, however, to rest on any better grounds 
than a hasty conjecture, arising from the reluctance of 
men to admit that any work by an inspired writer can 
have perished, or the arbitrary assumption (Dc Wette, 
l.c.) that the same man could not, twice in his life, have 
been the spokesman of a great national sorrow. (The 
argument that iii, 27 implies the youth of the writer 
hardly needs to be confuted.) Against it we have to 
set (1) the tradition on the other side embodied in the 
preface of the Septnagiut ; (2) the contents of the book 
itself. Admitting that some of the calamities described 
m it may have been common to the invasions of Necho 
and Nebuchadnezzar, we yet look in vain for a single 
word distinctive of a funeral dirge over a devout and 
zealous reformer like Josiali, while we find, stop by step, 
the closest possible likeness between the pictures of mis- 
ery in the Lamentations and the events of the closing 
years of the reign of Zedekiah. The long siege had 
brought on the famine in which the young children 
fainted for hunger (Lam. ii, 1 1, 12, 20; iv, 4, 0; 2 Kings 
xxv, 3). The city was taken by storm (Lam. ii, 7 ; iv, 
12; 2 Chron. xxxvi, 17). The Temple itself was pol- 
luted with the massacre of the priests who defended it 
(Lam. ii, 20, 21 ; 2 Chron. xxxvi, 17), and then destroy- 
ed (Lam. ii, G ; 2 Chron. xxxvi, 10). The fortresses 
and strongholds of Judah were thrown down. The 
anointed of the Lord, under whose shadow the remnant 
of the people might have hoped to live in safety, was 
taken prisoner (Lam. iv, 20 ; Jer. xxxix, 5). The chief 
of the people were carried into exile (Lam. i, 5; ii, 9; 2 
Kings xxv, 11). The bitterest grief was found in the 
malignant exultation of the Edomites (Lam. iv, 21 ; Psa. 
cxxxvii, 7). Under the rule of the stranger the Sab- 
baths and solemn feasts were forgotten (Lam. i,4; ii, CD, 
as they could hardly have been during t lie short period 
in which Jerusalem was in the hands of the Egyptians. 
Unless we adopt the strained hypothesis that the whole 
poem is prophetic in the sense of being predictive, the 
writer seeing the future as if it were actually present, 
or the still wilder conjecture of Jarehi that this was the 


roll which Jchoiachin destroyed, and which was re- 
written by Baruch or Jeremiah (Carpzov, Int rod. <td lib . 
U. T. iii, c. iv), we arc compelled to come to the conclu- 
sion that the coincidence is not accidental, and to adopt 
the later, not the earlier of the dates. At what period 
after the capture of the city the prophet gave this ut- 
terance to his sorrow we can only conjecture, and the 
materials for doing so with any probability are but 
scanty. The local tradition which pointed out a cavern 
in the neighborhood of Jerusalem as the refuge to which 
Jeremiah withdrew that he might write this book (Del 
Rio, Proleg. in Thren., quoted by Carpzov, Jntrod. 1. c.\ 
is as trustworthy as most of the other legends of the 
time of Helena. lie may have written it immediately 
after the attack was over, or when he was with Geda- 
liah at Mizpch, or when he was with his countrymen 
at Tahpanhes. Pareau refers cli. i to Jer. xxxvii, 5 so. ; 
eh. iii to Jer. xxxviii, 2 sq. ; ch. iv to Jer. xxxix, 1 sq., 
and 2 Kings xxv, 1 sq. ; ch. ii to the destruction of the 
city and Temple; ch. v is admitted to be the latest in 
order, and to refer to the time after that event. Ewald 
says that the situation is the same throughout, and only 
the time different. “In chaps, i and ii we find sorrow 
without consolation; in ch. iii consolation for the poet 
himself; in chapter iv the lamcntatiou is renewed with 
greater violence; but soon the whole people, as if urged 
by their own spontaneous impulse, fall to weeping and 
hoping” (Die Poetischen Pitcher'). De Wette describes 
the Lamentations somewhat curtly, as “five songs re- 
lating to the destruction of the city of Jerusalem and its 
Temple (ch. i, ii, iv, v), and to the unhappy lot of the 
poet himself (chap. iii). The historical relation of the 
whole cannot be doubted; but yet there seems a grad- 
ual ascent in describing the condition of the city” (Ein- 
leitung , § 273). 

There can hardly be any doubt, however, as to the 
time to which these threnodies refer. A brief glance at 
the corresponding portions in the books of Kings and 
Chronicles affords decisive evidence that they speak, 
one and all, of the whole period from the beginning of 
the last siege by Nebuchadnezzar to its terrible eml. 
This lias also, from the Sept, and the Midrash down- 
wards, been the almost unanimous opinion of investiga- 
tors (Carpzov, Eichhorn, Jalm, Bcrtlioldt, Bbnnelius, 
Ilorrer, Riegler, Parcan, etc.). It would seem to be 
equally clear that these poems belong, broadly speaking, 
to no particular phase of the great epoch of terrors, hut 
that, written probably within a very brief space of time 
(more especially does this appear to be the case with 
the first four), they portray indiscriminately some woe- 
ful scene that presented itself “ at the head of every 
street^” or give way to a wild, passionate outcry of ter- 
ror, misery, despair, hope, prayer, revenge, as these in 
vehement succession swept over the poet’s soul. 

Yet it has been suggested (and the text lias been 
strained to the utmost to prove it) that the successive 
elegies are the pictures of successive events portrayed in 
song; that, in fact, the Lamentations are a descriptive 
threnody — a drama in which, scene after scene, the on- 
ward march of dread fate is described, intermixed with 
plaints, reflections, prayers, consolations, such as the 
chorus would utter in grave and measured rhythms, ac- 
companied by the sighs and tears to which the specta- 
tors would be moved by the irredeemably doomed he- 
roes and actors. Thus, for instance, it has been main- 
tained that the first chapter speaks of Jehoiachin’s cap- 
ture and exile (Horrer, Jahn, Riegler, etc.), upon which 
there is this to he observed, that a mere glance at 1 
Kings xxiv shows that such scenes as arc described in 
this first elegy (famine, slaughter of youths, etc.) do not 
in the least agree with the time and circumstances of 
Jchoiachin, while they do exactly correspond with the 
following chapter of Kings, in which the reign under 
Zedekiah, with all its accompanying horrors, to the 
downfall of the city and empire, are related with the se- 
vere calmness of the historian, or rather t lie dry minute- 
ness of the annalist. Neither can we, for our own part, 


LAMENTATIONS, BOOK OF 21G LAMENTATIONS, BOOK OF 


see that “ gradual change in the state of the city” which 1 
Dc Wette sees in tlie consecutive chapters; nor can we 1 
trace the gradual progress in the mind of the people — 
that is. in the first two chapters, heaviest, forever incon- 
solable grief; in the third, the turning-point (the clas- 
sical peripety ); in the fourth and fifth, the mind that 
gradually collects itself, and finally finds comfort in fer- 
vent prayer — which is Ewald’s ingenious suggestion, to 
which Keil assents, as far as “a general inner progress 
of the poems*’ goes. To our, and, we take it, to every 
unbiassed view, each of the elegies is complete, as far 
as it goes, in itself, all treating the same, or almost the 
same, scenes and thoughts in ever new modes. In this 
respect they might, to a certain degree, be likened to 
the “ In Memo Ham'' and the second movement of the 
Eroica ” — the highest things to which we can at all 
compare them in the varied realms of song. The gen- , 
cral state of the nation, as well as of the poet, seem not 
much different from the first to the last, or, at all events, 
the fourth poem. It would certainly appear, moreover, 
as if, so far from forming a consistent and progressive | 
whole, consciously leading onward to harmony and su- 
preme peace, they had not even been composed in the 
order in which they are before us now. Thus, e. g., the 
fourth chapter is certainly more akin to the second than 
to the third. Accident, more than a settled plan, must 
have placed them in their present order. Hut the his- 
tory of this collection and redaction is one so obscure 
that we will not even venture on a new speculation con- 
cerning it. 

AT. Contents . — The book is a collection of five elegies 
sung on the ruins of Zion ; and the fall of J uchva, the de- 
struction of the sanctuary, the exile of the people, and 
all the terrors of sword, tire, and famine in the city of 
Jerusalem, are the principal themes upon which they 
turn in many varied strains. We may regard the first 
two chapters as occupied chiefly with the circumstances 
of the siege, and those immediately following that event : 
in the third the prophet deplores the calamities and 
persecutions to which he was himself exposed ; the 
fourth refers to the ruin and desolation of the city, and 
the unhappy lot of Zedekiah ; and t lie fifth and last 
seems to be a sort of prayer in the name, or on behalf, 
of the Jews in their dispersion and captivity. More 
particularly, 

1. Chap. i. The opening verse strikes the key-note 
of the whole poem. That which haunts the prophet’s 
mind is the solitude in which he finds himself. She 
that was “ princess among the nations’* (1) sits (like the 
JUD.EA capta of the Homan medals), “ solitary,” “ as a 
widow.” Her “ lovers” (the nations with whom she had 
been allied) hold aloof from her ('J). The heathen have 
entered into the sanctuary, and mock at her Sabbaths 
(7, 10). After the manner so characteristic of Hebrew 
poetry, the personality of the writer now recedes and 
now advances, and blends by hardly perceptible transi- 
tions wiili that of the city which he personifies, and 
with which he, as it were, identifies himself. At one 
time it is the daughter of Zion that asks, “ Is it nothing 
to you, all ye that pass by?” (12 ). At another, it is the 
prophet who looks on her, and portrays her as “spread- 
ing forth her hands, and there is none to comfort her” 
(17 ). Mingling with this outburst of sorrow there are 
two thoughts characteristic both of the man and the 
time. The calamities which the nation suffers .are the 
consequences of its sins. There must he the confession 
of those sins: “The Lord is righteous, for I have rebelled 
against his commandment” (18). There is, however, 
this gleam of consolation that Judah is not alone in her 
sufferings. Those who have exulted in her destruction 
shall drink of the same cup. They shall be like unto 
her in the day that the Lord shall call (21). 

2. Chap. ii. As the solitude r>f the city was the sub- 
ject of the first lamentation, so the destruction that had 
laid it waste is that which is most conspicuous in the 
second. Jehovah had thrown down in his wrath the 
strongholds of the daughter of Judah (2). The rampart 


and the Avail lament together (8). The Avails of the 
palace are gi\'en up into the hand of the enemy (7). 
The breach is great, as if made by the inrushing of the 
sea (13). AVith this there had been united all the horrors 
of the famine and the assault — young children fainting 
for hunger in the top of eA'erv street (10) ; Avomen eating 
their own children, and so fulfilling the curse of Deut, 
xxviii, 53 (20); the priest and the prophet slain in the 
sanctuary of the Lord (ibid.). Added to all this, there 
Avas the remembrance of that which had been all along 
the great trial of Jeremiah's life, against which he had 
to Avage continual Avar. The prophets of Jerusalem had 
seen vain and foolish things, false burdens, and causes 
of banishment (14). A righteous judgment had fallen 
on them. The prophets found no vision of Jehovah (9). 
'fhe king and the princes who had listened to them 
Avere captive among the Gentiles. 

3. Chap. iii. The difference in the structure of this 
poem, Avhich has already been noticed, indicates a corre- 
sponding difference in its substance. In the two pre- 
ceding poems Jeremiah had spoken of the misery and 
destruction of Jerusalem. In the third he speaks chief- 
ly, though not exclitsh'ely, of his OAvn. lie himself is 
the man that has seen affliction (1), who has been 
brought into darkness and not into light (2). lie looks 
back upon the long life of suffering Avhich he has been 
called on to endure, the scorn and derision of the people, 
the bittemess as of one drunken Avith Avorrmvood (14, 
15). But that experience Avas not one Avhich had ended 
in darkness and despair. Here, as in the prophecies, we 
find a Gospel for the Avearv and heavy-laden, a trust, not 
to be shaken, in the mercy and righteousness of.lelio- 
A-ah. The mercies of tlie Lord are new every morning 
(22, 23). He is good to them that Avail for him (25). 
The retrospect of that sharp experience shoAved him 
that it all formed part of the discipline which Avas in- 
tended to lead him on to a higher blessedness. It was 
good for a man to bear the yoke in his youth, good that 
he should both hope and quietly Avait (2G, 27). AYitli 
this, equally characteristic of the prophet’s individual- 
ity, there is the protest against the Avrong which had 
been or might hereafter be committed by rulers and 
princes (34-3G), the confession that all that had come 
on him and his people AA*as but a righteous retribution, 
to be' accepted humbly, Avith searchings of heart, and 
repentance (39-42). The closing verses may refer to 
that special epoch in the prophet’s life when his oavh 
sufferings had been sharpest (53-5G), and the cruelties 
of his enemies most triumphant. If so, A\e can enter 
more fully, remembering this, into the thanksgiving 
Avith Avhich he acknowledges the help, deliverance, re- 
demption, Avhich he had received from God (57, 58). 
Feeling sure that, at some time or other, there would be 
for him a yet higher lesson, Ave can enter Avith some 
measure of sympathy even into the terrible earnestness 
of his appeal from tlie unjust judgment of earth to the 
righteous Judge, into his cry for a retribution without 
which A seemed to him that the Eternal Kighteousness 
Avonkl fail (G4-GG). 

4. Chap. iv. It might seem, at first, as if the fourth 
poem did but reproduce the pictures and the thoughts 
of the first and second. There come before us once 
again the famine, the misery, the desolation that had 
fallen on the holy city, making all faces gather black- 
ness. One new element in the picture is found in the 
contrast between the past glory of the consecrated fam- 
ilies of kingly and priestly stock (A.A'ers. “Nazarites”), 
and their later misery and shame. ►Some changes there 
are, lioAvever. not Avithout interest in tluir relation to 
the poet's own life and to tlie history of his time. All 
the facts gain a ucav significance by being seen in the 
light of the personal* experience of the third poem. The 
declaration that all this had come “for the sins of the 
prophets and the iniquities of the priests” is clearer and 
sharper than before (ver. 13). There is the giving up 
of the last hope Avhich Jeremiah had cherished when he 
urged on Zedekiah the wisdom of submission to the 


LAMENTATIONS, BOOK OF 217 LAMENTATIONS, BOOK OF 


Cbakkeans (verse 20). The closing words indicate the 
strength of that feeling against the Edomites which 
lasted all through the captivity (ver. 21, 22). She, the 
daughter of Edom, had rejoiced in the fall of her rival, 
and had pressed on the work of destruction, lint for 
her, too, there was the doom of being drunken wit h the 
cup of the Lord’s wrath. For the daughter of Zion 
there was hope of pardon when discipline should have 
done its work, and the punishment of her iniquity 
should be accomplished. 

5. Chap. v. One great difference in the fifth and last 
section of the poem has already been pointed out. It 
obviously indicates either a deliberate abandonment of 
the alphabetic structure, or the unfinished character of 
the concluding elegy. The title prefixed in the Vul- 
gate, “ 0 ratio Jeremim Prophet# ,” points to one marked 
characteristic which may have occasioned this differ- 
ence. There are signs also of a later date than that of 
the preceding poems. Though the horrors of the fam- 
ine are ineffaceable, yet that which he has before him is 
rather the continued, protracted suffering of the rule of 
the ChakUeans. The mountain of Zion is desolate, and 
the foxes walk on it (ver. 18). Slaves have ruled over 
the people of Jehovah (ver. 8). Women have been sub- 
jected to intolerable outrages (verse II). The young 
men have been taken to grind, and the children have 
fallen under the wood (ver. 13). But in this also, deep 
as might be the humiliation, there was hope, even as 
there had been in the dark hours of the prophet’s own 
life. He and his people are sustained by the old thought 
which had been so fruitful of comfort to other prophets 
and psalmists. The periods of suffering and struggle 
which seemed so long were but as moments in the life- 
time of the Eternal (verse 10), and the thought of that 
eternity brought with it the hope that the purposes of 
love which had been declared so clearly should one day 
be fulfilled. The last words of this lamentation are 
those which have risen so often from broken and con- 
trite hearts: “Turn thou us, O Lord, and we shall be 
turned. Renew our days as of old” (ver. 21). That 
which bad begun with wailing and weeping ends (fal- 
lowing Ewahi’s and Michaelis’s translation) with the 
question of hope: “Wilt thou utterly reject us‘? Wilt 
thou be very wroth against us?” 

VI 1. General Character, — 1. It is well to be reminded 
by the above survey that we have before us, not a book 
in five chapters, but five separate poems, each complete 
in itself, each having a distinct subject, yet brought at 
the same time under a plan which includes them all. 
It is clear, before entering on any other characteristics, 
that we find, in full predominance, that strong personal 
emotion which mingled itself, in greater or less measure, 
with the whole prophetic work of Jeremiah. There is 
here no “ word of Jehovah,” no direct message to a sin- 
ful people. The man speaks out of the fulness of his 
heart, and, though a higher Spirit than his own helps 
him to give utterance to his sorrows, it is yet the lan- 
guage of a sufferer rather than of a teacher. There is 
this measure of truth in the technical classification 
which placed the Lamentations among the llagiogra- 
pha of the Hebrew Canon, in the feeling which led the 
Rabbinic writers (Ivimchi, Prcrf. in Psalm.) to say that 
they and the other books of that group were written in- 
deed by the help of the Holy Spirit, but not with the 
special gift of prophecy. 

2. Other differences between the two books that bear 
the prophet’s name grew out of this. Here there is 
more attention to form, more elaboration. The rhythm 
is more uniform than in the prophecies. A complicated 
alphabetic structure pervades nearly the whole book. 
It will be remembered that this acrostic form of writing 
was not peculiar to Jeremiah. Whatever its origin, 
whether it had been adopted as a help to the memory, 
and so fitted especially for didactic poems, or for such as 
were to be snug by great bodies of people (Lowth, Pnel. 
xxii), it had been a received, and it would seem popu- 
lar, framework for poems of very different characters, 


and extending probably over a considerable period of 
time. The 1 19th Psalm is the great monument which 
forces itself upon our notice ; but it is found also in the 
25th, 34th, 37th, 111th, 112th, 145th — and in the singu- 
larly beautiful fragment appended to the book of Prov- 
erbs (Prov. xxxi, 10-31). Traces of it, as if the work 
had been left half finished (I)e Wette, Psalmen , ad loc.), 
appear in the 9th and 10th. In the Lamentations (con- 
fining ourselves for the present to the structure) we 
meet with some remarkable peculiarities. 

It has to be remembered, too, that in thus speaking 
the writer was doing what many must have looked for 
from him, and so meeting at once their expectations 
and their wants. Other prophets and poets had made 
themselves the spokesmen of the nation’s feelings on 
the death of kings and heroes. The party that contin- 
ued faithful to the policy and principles of Josiah re- 
membered how the prophet had lamented over his 
death. The lamentations of that period (though they 
are lost to us) had been accepted as a great national 
dirge. Was he to be silent now that a more terrible 
calamity had fallen upon the people? Did not the ex- 
iles in Babylon need this form of consolation? Does 
not the appearance of this book in their canon of sacred 
writings, after their return from exile, indicate that 
during their captivity they had found this consolation 
in it? 

The choice of a structure so artificial as that which 
has been described above may at first sight appear in- 
consistent with the deep, intense sorrow of which it 
claims to be the utterance. Some wilder, less measured 
rhythm would seem to us to have been a fitter form of 
expression. It would belong, however, to a very shal- 
low and hasty criticism to pass this judgment. A man 
true to the gift he has received will welcome the disci- 
pline of self-imposed rules for deep sorrow as well as for 
other strong emotions. In proportion as he is afraid of 
being carried away by the strong current of feeling will 
he be anxious to make the laws more difficult, the dis- 
cipline more effectual. Something of this kind is trace- 
able in the fact that so many of the master-minds of 
European literature have chosen — as the fit vehicle for 
their deepest, tenderest, most impassioned thoughts — * 
the complicated structure of the sonnet; in Dante’s se- 
lection of the terza rima for his vision of the unseen 
world. What the sonnet was to Petrarch and Alilton, 
that the alphabetic verse-system was to the writers of 
Jeremiah’s time, the most difficult among the recognised 
forms of poetry, and yet one in which (assuming the 
earlier date of some of the Psalms above referred to) 
some of the noblest thoughts of that poetry had been 
ntterfed. We need not wonder that he should have em- 
ployed it as fitter than any other for the purpose for 
which he used it. If these Lamentations were intended 
to assuage the bitterness of the Babylonian exile, there 
was, besides this, the subsidiary advantage that it sup- 
plied the memory with an artificial help. Hymns and 
poems of this kind, once learned, are not easily forgot- 
ten, and the circumstances of the captives made it then, 
more than ever, necessary that they should have this 
help afforded them. 

De Wette maintains ( Comment . liber die Psalm, p. 5G) 
that this acrostic form of writing was the outgrowth of 
a feeble and degenerate age dwelling on the outer struc- 
ture of poetry when the soul had departed. His judg- 
ment as to the origin and character of the alphabetic 
form is shared by Ewald (Poet. Buck, i, 140). That this 
is often the case cannot be doubted ; the 1 19th Psalm is 
a case in point. It is hard, however, to reconcile this 
sweeping estimate with the impression made on us by 
such Psalms as the 25th and 34th; and Ewald himself, 
in his translation of the Alphabetic Psalms and the Lam- 
entations, has shown how compatible such a structure is 
with the highest energy and beauty. With some of 
these, too, it must be added, the assignment of a later 
date than the time of David rests on the foregone con-» 
elusion that the acrostic structure is itself a proof of it 


LAMENTATIONS, BOOK OF 31 

(comp. Delitzsch , Commentar ubtrden Psalter, on Psa. ix, 
x). I)e Wottc, however, allows, condescendingly, that I 
the Lamentations, in spite of their degenerate taste. 

“ have some merit in their way.” Other critics have 
been more enthusiastic in their admiration of this book. , 
Pr. Blarney remarks, “ We cannot too much admire the ! 
How of that full and graceful pathetic eloquence in which 
the author pours out the effusions of a patriotic heart, 
ami piously weeps over the ruins of his venerable conn- ; 
try” {Jeremiah, p. 376). “Never,” says an unquestion- 
able judge of these matters, “ was there a more rich and j 
elegant variety of beautiful images and adjuncts ar- j 
ranged together within so small a compass, nor more 
happily chosen and applied” (Lowth, De Sacra Poesi 
JJebr. Project. xxii). The poet seizes with wonderful 
tact those circumstances which point out the objects of 
his pity as the subjects of sympathy, and founds his ex- 
postulations on the miseries which are thus exhibited. 
II is book of Lamentations is ail astonishing exhibition 
of his power to accumulate images of sorrow. The 
whole series of elegies has but one object — the expres- 
sion of sorrow for the forlorn condition of his country; 
and yet he presents this to us in so many lights, alludes 
to it by so many figures, that not only are his mournful 
strains not felt to be tedious reiterations, but the reader 
is captivated by the plaintive melancholy which per- 
vades the whole. 

3. The power of entering into the spirit and meaning 
of poems such as these depends on two distinct condi- 
tions. We must seek to see, as with our own eyes, the 
desolation, misery, confusion, which came before those 
of the prophet. W e must endeavor also to feel as he 
felt, when he looked on them. The last is the more dif- 
ficult of the two. Jeremiah was not merely a patriot- 
poet, weeping over the ruin of his country. He was a 
prophet who had seen all this coming, and had foretold 
it. as inevitable. He had urged submission to the Chal- 
dtcans as the only mode of diminishing the terrors of 
that “ day of the Lord.” And now the Chahheans had 
come, irritated hv the perfidy and rebellion of the king 
and princes of Judah; and the actual horrors that he 
saw, surpassed, though he had predicted them, all that 
lie had been able to imagine. All feeling of exultation 
in which, as a mere prophet of evil, he might have in- 
dulged at the fulfilment of his forebodings, was swal- 
lowed up in deep, overwhelming sorrow. Yet sorrow, 
not less than other emotions, works on men according 
to their characters, and a man with Jeremiah's gifts of 
utterance could not sit clown in the mere silence and 
stupor of a hopeless grief. lie was compelled to give 
expression to that which was devouring his heart and 
the heart of his people. The act itself was a relief to 
him. It led him on (as has been seen above) to a 
calmer and scrcner state. It revived the faith aiul hope 
which had been nearly crushed out. 

4. There are, perhaps, few portions of the O. T. which 
appear to have done the work they were meant to do 
more effectually than this. It has presented hut scanty 
materials for the systems and controversies of theology. 
It has supplied thousands with the fullest utterance for 
their sorrows in the critical periods of national or indi- 
vidual suffering. We may well believe that it soothed 
the weary years of the Babylonian exile (comp. Zech. i, 
(i with Lam. ii,17). When the Jews returned to their 
own land, and the desolation of Jerusalem was remem- 
bered as belonging only to the past, this was the l ook of 
remembrance. < >n the ninth day of t lie mouth of Ah 
(July), the Lamentations of Jeremiah were read, year by 
year, with fasting and weeping, to commemorate the 
misery out of which the people had been delivered. It 
has come, to be connected with the thoughts of a later 
devastation, and its words enter, sometimes at least, into 
the prayers of the pilgrim Jews who meet at the “place 
of wailing” to mourn over the departed glorv of their 
city. It enters largely into the nobly-coiisl meted order 
of the Latin Church for the services of Passion-week 
(Breviar. Horn. Feria Quinta. *• In Coma Domini”). If 


S LAMENTATIOXS, BOOK OF 

it has been comparatively in the background in times 
ivhen the study of Scripture had passed into casuistry 
and speculation, it has come forward, once and again, in 
times of danger and suffering, as a messenger of peace, 
comforting men, not after the fashion of the friends of 
Job, w'ith formal moralizing?, but by enabling them to 
express themselves, leading them to Icel that they might 
give utterance to the deepest and saddest feelings by 
which they were overwhelmed. It is striking, as we 
east our eye over the list of writers who have treated 
specially this book, to notice how many must have pass- 
ed through scenes of trial not unlike in kind to that of 
which the Lamentations speak. The book remains to 
do its work for any future generation that may be ex- 
posed to analogous calamities. 

VIII. Commentaries. — The following are the special 
exegetical helps on the whole book of Lamentations ex- 
clusively, to a few of the most important of which wc 
prefix an asterisk : Origen, Scholia (Greek, in Opp. iii, 
320); Eplirem Syrus, Explunatio (Syr., in Opp.x, 105); 

! Jerome, hi Lam. (in Opp. [ SupposI\ xiv, 227); Tlieod- 

■ oret, Interpretatio (Greek, iu Opp. ii, 1) ; Pasohalius Rat- 
bertus, In Threnos (in Opp. p. 1307) ; Hugo a St. Victor, 

I nnotationes (in Opp. i, 103) ; Aquinas, Commentaria (in 

■ Opp. ii); Bona vent ura, Expliccitio (in Opp. i, 428); Al- 
bertus Magnus, Commentarii (in Opp. viii) ; (Eeolampa- 
dius, Enarrationes [including Jer.] (Argent. 1533. 4to) ; 
Clenard, JV edit at tones (Paris, 1530, 8vo); Bugenliagen, 
Adnotationes (Vitemb. 1540, 4to); Quinquaboreus, A d- 

\ notationes (Paris, 1556, 4to); Palladius, Enarratio (Vi- 
[ temb. 1560, 8vo) ; Pintus, Commentarius [including Isa. 
and Jer.] (Lugd. 1561, etc., fol.) ; Strigel, Commentarius 
(Lips, et Brem. 1564, 8vo) ; Sclnecker, Auslegung (Lpz. 
1565. 4to) ; Calvin, Pretlectiones [inelud. Jer.] (Frankft. 
1581, 8vo; in French, Spires, 1584, 8 vo pin English, Lon- 
! don, 1587, 12mo, etc.); Taillepied, Commentarii (Paris, 
1582. 8vo) ; Panigarola, Adnotationes (Verona, 1583; 
Rome, 1586, Svo); Agellns. Catena (Kom. 1580, 4to) ; J. 
Ibn-Shoeib, (Veil. 1589, 4to); Sam. de Vi- 

das, S (Thossalon. 1596. 8 vo); Figuero, Commenta- 
ria (Lugd. 1596, 8 vo); Makshan, zb (Cracow’, s. a. 
[about 1600], 4to) ; Alscheich. (Venice, 

1 GO 1 , 4to) ; Navarret to, Commentaria (Cordub. 1 602, 4 to) ; 
Bachmcistcr, Explicatio (Rost. 1603, 8vo); Broughton, 
Commentarius [inelud. Jer.] (Genev. 1606, 4to; also in 
1 ) r orks, p. 314); A Jesu Maria, Interpretatio (Neap. 1608, 
Col. Agrip. 1611, 8vo) ; Delrio, Commentarius (Lugdun. 
1608, 4 to); Polan, Commentarius [including Jer.] (Basil. 
1(508. 8vo) ; A Costa de Andrada, Commentarii (Lugd. 
1609. 8vo); De Castro, Commentarii [including Jer. and 
Bar.] (Par. 1609. fol.) ; Topsell, Commentarius (London, 
1613, 4to): Sanetius, Commentarius [inelud. Jer.] (Lugd. 
1618, fol.) ; Hull, Exposition (Loud. 1618, 4 to); Ghislcr, 
Commentarius [inelud. Jer.] (Lugd. 1623, fol.) ; *Tarno- 
vius, Commentarius (Rostoelc, 1G27, 1642; Ilamh. 1707, 
4to): Peter Martyr, Commentarius (Tigur. 1629. 4to); 
Cdall, Comment a vie (Lend. 1637, 4to); Dc Lcmos. Com- 
mentarius (Madrit. 1649, fol.); Tayler, Commentarii [Rab- 
binical] (London. 1651, 4to) ; Fowler, Conan entail us [in- 
chul. Jer,] (Vitemb. 1672, 1699, 4to): Hulsemann, Com- 
mentarins [inelud. Jer.] (Rudolph. 1696, 4to) ; Benjamin 
Allcssandro, r ; , = 2 “pbx (Venice, 1713, Ito): C. B. Mi- 
chaelis, Xotie (in Admit, phil. exig. Halle, 1720, 3 vols. 
4to) ; Riedel, Vebersetz. (Wien, 1761. 8vo): Lessing, Ob- 
servation's (Lipsi;e, 1770, 8vo); Bbrmel, I nun r Lump n 
(Weimar, 1781, 8vo); Sehlcusner, Curie (in Eichhorn’s 
Pi-pert. pt. xii. Lips, 1783); Ilorvcr, Bearbi ltung (Hallo, 
1781, 8vo) ; Blarney, Xotes [including Jer.] (Ox I’. 1784, 
3vo. etc.); Lowe and Wolfssohn, Anmerkungen (Berlin, 
1 790, 8vo) ; 1 liimon, Commentaire ( Par. 1 790, 8vo) ; *Pa- 
reau, Hitt strath (L. Bat. 1790, 8vo) ; Libowitzor 

(Korez. 1791, 8vo) ; Sehnurrer, Observations (Tub. 
1793, 4to) ; J. 11. Michaelis, Observation's [inelud. Jer.] 

, (Ceitting. 1793, 8vo); Gaab, Be it rage [inelud. Cant, and 
' Ectles.1 (Tiihing. 1795. Svo); Volborth, Vebersetz. (Celle, 


LAMFPJDUS 


219 


LAMOMIAIX 


1795, 8vo); Otto, Dissertatio (Tub. 1705, 4to) ; Wetzlcr, 
•ji^ bnN (Sklon, 1797, 8vo) ; Lundmark, Dissertatio 
(Upsal. 1790, 4to) ; llasselhuhn, Dissert ationes (Upsal. 
1 S()4, 4 to) ; Deresir, Erkldrung [including Jer. and Bar.] 
(Frkl't. a. M. 1809, 8vo); Hartmann, Uebersetz. (in Jus- 
ti’s Blumeii , etc., Giess. 1 809, ii, 51 7 sq.) ; Welcker, Uebers. 
[metrical] (Giess. 1810, 8vo), Bjorn, Threni [including 
Nali.] (Havn. 1814, 8vo) ; *Riegler, Anmerkungen (Er- 
langen. 1814, 8vo) ; Jaeob-Lissa, “w]? [including 

Cant.] (Dyrhenf. 1815-19, 4to) ; Erdmann, Specimen, etc. 
(Host. 181*8, 8vo); Conz, Klaglieder (in Bengel’s .1 rchiv, 
iv ['Pub. 1821 ], p. 14G sq.) , Fritz, Exegesis [on chap, i] 
(Argent. 1825, 4to) ; * Rose inn idler, Scholia (Lpz. 1827, 
8vo)j Goldwitzer, Anmerk. (Sulzb. 1828, 8vo); Wieden- 
feld, E riant. (Elberf. 1830, 8vo); Koch, Anmerk. (IMenz, 
1835, 8 vo) ; Kalkar, Jllust ratio ( Havn. 183(1, 8 vo) ; Lo- 
wenstein, Erkldrung [metrical] (Frkft. 1838, 8 vo) ; Cure- 
ton, ed. Tanclmm Jerus. PiS^p, etc. (Loud. 1843, 8vo) ; 
Pappenheim, Uebersetz , (Bresl. 1844, 8vo) ; Iletzel, An- 
merk. (Lpz. 1854, 8vo) ; *Neumann, .4 nslegnng [includ. 
Jer.] (Lpz. 1858, 8vo) ; *Engelhardt, .1 nslegnng (Lpzc. 
18G7, 8vo); *Von Gerlach, Erkldrung (Berl. 1868, 8vo) ; 
♦Henderson. Commentary [includ. Jer.] (London, 1851; 
Arnlov. 18G8, 8vo). See Poetry, Hebrew; Commen- 
tary. 

Lamfridus. See Lantfredus. 

Lami. See Lamy. 

Lami, Giovanni, an Italian writer of note, was born 
at Santa Croce, Tuscany, in 1697. lie studied law at 
the University of Pisa, and for a time practiced his pro- 
fession at Florence. But his fondness for literature, and 
especially classical and ecclesiastical erudition, interfered 
with his professional pursuits, and he became an author, 
lie first wrote in defence of the Nieene Creed concern- 
ing the Trinity, and against Leelorc and other Soeinian 
writers, lie contended that the Nieene dogma con- 
cerning the Trinity was the same as that held by the 
early promulgators of Christianity in the apostolic times. 
Ilis work is entitled De recta patrum Xicenornm jide 
(Venice, 1730). In 1732 he was made librarian of the 
Eiccardi Library, and professor of ecclesiastical history 
in the Florence Lyceum, and while in this position he 
published De Enalitione Apostolorum (1738), a sort of 
continuation of his former work. In 1740 Lami began 
to publish a literary journal, entitled Xovelle Letter a ne , 
which he carried on till 1760, at first with the assistance 
of Targioni, Gori, and other learned Tuscans of his time, 
with whom he afterwards quarrelled, and he then con- 
tinued the work alone. During his position as librarian 
he made a selection of inedited works, or fragments of 
works, from the manuscripts of the Riccardi Library, 
which he published in a series entitled Delicice Erudito- 
rum (Florence, 173G-G9, 18 vols. 8vo). He also edited 
the works of the learned John Meursius, in 12 vols. folio. 
He wrote short biographies of many illustrious Italians 
of his age, under the title of Memorabilia Italorum eru- 
ditions pea slant him qnibus prwsens sieculum gloriutur 
(Florence, 1742-48,2 vols. 8vo), and published in Greek 
the letters of Gabriel Severus, archbishop of Philadel- 
phia, in Asia Minor, and of other prelates of the Greek 
Church : Gabrielis Sereri et aliorum Gr acorn m recenti- 
orum Epistolie (Flor. 1754. 8 vo). A History of the East- 
ern Church, from the Council o f Florence to 1439, he left 
unfinished. Lami died in 1770. lie was a great hater 
of the Jesuits, and wrote many satires against them. 
Memoirs of his life were published by Fabroni (17/re 
Italorum , vol. xvi) and Fontanini (Flor. 1789, 4to). See 
Engl. Cyclop, s. v.; Iloefer, Xouv. Blog. Generate, xxLx, 
21G sq. ; Sax, Onomasticon, vi, 490. 

Lamiletiere, Theoimiile Braciiet de, a noted 
French theologian, was born about the year 159G. lie 
studied at the University of Heidelberg, and afterwards 
practiced law at Paris. He soon, however, tired of the 
bar, and devoted himself to theology. Having become 
elder of the Protestant Church at Charenton, he took an 


active part in all the religious controversies of the times, 
and was one of the most prominent members of the po- 
litical assembly of La Rochelle in 1690, whither he had 
been sent by the Consistory of Paris. 1 le subsequently 
went with La Chapelliere to Holland, to ask aid of the 
states-general for the Protestants of France. We next 
find him at the Assembly of Milhau in 1G25, and in 1627 
at Paris, where he was arrested as an agent of the duke 
of Bohan. I Ie was condemned to death, but his life was 
spared on account of the threatening attitude which 
the inhabitants of La Kochelle assumed, in retaliative, 
towards the person of one of their prisoners, a relation 
of P. Joseph (the confessor and secret agent of Riche- 
lieu). He was finally released, and even received a pen- 
sion from Richelieu on the condition of using every ex- 
ertion to reunite the different Protestant churches, lie 
now became the pliant tool of Richelieu, and was ex- 
communicated by the Church of Charenton in 1641 for 
not having partaken of the Lord’s Supper in twelve 
years. He- finally joined the Roman Catholic Church, 
April 2, 1645. The remainder of his life was employed 
in writing against Protestantism. He died in 1GG5, de- 
spised alike by Protestants and Romanists. Ilis princi- 
pal works are. Discours des vrayes raisons pour lesquelhs 
ceux de la religion en France peuvent et doivent resister 
par annes a la persecution ouverte (1G22, 8vo) ; very 
scarce, as it was condemned to be burned by the public 
executioner : — Lettre a M. Rcnnbours pour la reunion des 
evangeliques aux catholiques (Paris, 1628, 12mo) : — De 
universi orbis Christiani pace et concordat per cardiua- 
lem ducem Richelium constituenda (Par. 1634,8vo ; transl. 
into French, lG35,4to): — Le Moyende la paix Chretienne 
(Par. 1637, 8vo) : — La Xecessite de la Puissance du Pape 
en PEglise (Paris, 1640, 8vo) : — Le Catholique reforme 
(Paris, 1642, 8vo ) : — Le Pactfique veritable (Paris, 1644, 
8vo) — condemned by the Sorbonne; etc. See Benoit, 
Histoire de V Edit de A "antes, ii ; De Marches, Me moires ; 
Grotius, Epistolee ; Bayle, Dictionnaire II istorique ; Tal- 
lemant, Historiettes ; Haag, La France Protestante ; Iloe- 
fer, Xouv. Eiog. Generate, xxix, 222. (J. N. P.) 

Lammas-day is the name of a festival observed 
by Roman Catholics on the 1st of August, in memory of 
the imprisonment of St. Peter, and otherwise called St. 
Peter's chains. The word is of doubtful meaning: some 
refer it to a Saxon term signifying contribution. Braude, 
in his “ Antiquities,” says, ‘‘Some suppose it is called 
Lammas-day, quasi Lamb-masse , because on that day the 
tenants that held lands of the cathedral church at York 
were bound by their tenure to bring a live lamb into 
the church at high mass on that day.” More probably, 
however, is its derivation from ‘■loaf-mass,” it having 
been the custom of the Saxons to oiler on this day (Au- 
gust 1) an oblation of loaves made of new wheat. Like 
many other Church festivals, it seems to have been ob- 
served already in pagan times, and, like the 1st of May, 
was a festive day with the Druids. Yallancey, in his 
Collectanea De Rebus Ilibernicis , says the Druids cele- 
brated the 1st of August as the day of the oblation of 
grain. See Farrar, Eccles. Diet. s. v. ; Taylor, A ncient 
Christianity, Gen. Suppl. p. 92 , Eadie, Eccles. Diet, s, v. 

Lammermann. See Lamoumain. 

Lammists, a sect of Remonstrant Baptists. See 
Mennonitks. 

Lamont, David, D.D., a Scotch Presbyterian di- 
vine, flourished as minister of Kirkpatrick, Durham, 
lie died in 1837. This is all we know of his personal 
history. Ilis Semnons were published at Loudon from 
1760-87, in 2 vols, 8vo (new edit. 1810, 3 vols. 8vo). 

Lamormain, Guillaume Geimeau de, a 
noted Belgian Roman Catholic theologian of the Order 
of the Jesuits, was born in the duchy of Luxemburg 
about 1570; entered the Jesuitical order in 1590, and 
then became professor of theology and philosophy at 
the University of Gratz. In 1624 he was appointed 
confessor of the emperor of Austria, Ferdinand II, and 
over this thoroughly monkish ruler Lamormain is said 


LAMORMAIN 


220 


LAMP 


to nave exercised perfect sway. He and John Wein- 
giirtner, another Jesuit confessor, Vehsc (see below) tells 
us, ‘-constantly kept near him, and never let him (Fer- 
dinand) out of their sight;” and it is due to this Jes- 
uitic influence, no doubt, that Ferdinand became such 
a fanatical adherent of the Church of Home, and a most 
cruel persecutor of Protestantism. See Austria. Of 
Lamormain himself, it is said that he was so devoted to 
the Romish cause that he made upwards of 100,000 con- 
verts to the Church of Home, lie died Feb. 22, 1648. 
lie wrote a life of Ferdinand II, which abounds in flat- 
tering terms to the emperor, who had been a pliant tool 
in the hands of the crafty Jesuit. See Iloefer, Xouv. 
Biog. Generate, xxix, 245; Paquot, Me moires pour ser- 
vir a Vhistoire littera ire des Pays- Bus, v, 98-100; Vehse, 
Memoirs of the Court , A ristocracy , and Diplomacy of 
Austria (transl. bv F. Demmler, Lond. 1856, 2 vols. sm. 
8vo), i, 287 sq., 319. (J.Il.W.) 

Lamormain, Henri de, a Belgian Jesuit, brother 
of the preceding, and, like him, a native of Luxemburg, 
entered the Order of the Jesuits in 159G,but exerted lit- 
tle influence on account of feeble health. He died Nov. 
2G, 1647. He translated and wrote several works*, 
among them are, Tractatus amoris dir ini constans , libri 
xii (from the French of Francisco de Sales, Vienna, 1643, 
4to ; 2d edit., with life of the author [Sales], Col. 1657, 
8vo) : — De Virtute Panitentae , etc. (Vienna, 1614, 4to). — 

- — Iloefer, Xouv. Biog. Generate , xxix, 245. 

Lamothe, Pierre Lambert de, a French Roman 
Catholic missionary, was born at Bucherie, in the dio- 
cese of Lisieux, Jan. 18, 1624. After being for some 
time connected with the chancellery of the Parliament 
at Rouen, he entered the Church. His talents caused 
him to be distinguished among a number of priests who 
had formed in 1652 the plan of Christianizing China 
and neighboring countries. In 1660 he was consecra- 
ted bishop of Berythe. He embarked at Marseilles for 
China November 27, 1660, and, passing through Malta, 
Antioch, Aleppo, Bassora, Chalzeran, Shiraz, Ispahan, 
Lara, Surat e, Masulipatam. Tenasscrim, Yalinga, Pram, 
and Pikfri, arrived at Jutlica, the capital of Siam, April 
22, 1662. Here he found some 1500 Christians of differ- 
ent nations and two churches, the one administered by 
the Dominicans, the other by the Jesuits. He was at 
first well received, but had subsequently to submit to 
many annoyances from the archbishop of Goa, who 
claimed the primacy of the whole East Indies, and La- 
mothe finally sailed for Canton in July, 1663, with two 
other missionaries. A severe tempest obliged them, 
however, to return to Siam. Here they were exposed 
to all sorts of ill treatment at the hands of the Portu- 
guese, and owed their safety only to the aid of the Co- 
chin Chinese. Lamothe sent to the pope and to Paris 
for more missionaries and other assistance. Alexander 
VII, in consequence, extended the jurisdiction of apos- 
tolic vicars over the kingdom of Siam, Japan, and other 
neighboring countries, which action freed Lamothe from 
the control of the archbishop of Goa. He was now 
joined by Palin du Tare, bishop of Heliopolis, who 
reached Siam January 27, 1664, with other missionaries. 
The two apostolic vicars held a synod, and Lamothe re- 
ceived permission from the king to establish a Church 
at Siam, which he intended should become the centre 
of communication between the extreme Eastern mis- 
sions. He also established a seminary for the education 
of native priests and instructors, a college, and a hospi- 
tal. Lamothe died June 15, 1679. — Iloefer, Xouv. Biog. 
Generate , xxix, 250 sq. 

Lamourette, Adrien, ahhe , a noted French eccle- 
siastic, was born in Picardy in 1742. During the Rev- 
olution in France he became an auxiliary of Mirabeau 
in 1789, and wrote the address or the civil constitution 
of the clergy which that orator pronounced.' In 1791 
he was chosen, under the new Church regime enacted 
by the Assembly in opposition to the Roman see, bishop 
of Rhone-et-Loire, and deputed to the National Assem- 


bly, Having resisted the extreme measures of the dom* 
inant party, he was guillotined Jan. 10, 1794. He pub- 
lished Pensees sur la philosophic et Vincredulite (1786, 
8vo) : — Pensees sur la philosophic de lafoi (1789, 8vo) : 
— Les Delices de la Religion (1789, 12mo) : — Considera- 
tions sur V esprit et les devoirs de la vie religieuse (1795, 
12mo) ; etc. — Iloefer, Xouv. Biog. Generate , s. v. 

Lamp (properly TE lappid ', a fame, Gen. xv, 17 ; 
Exod. xx, 18, Job xli, 11; Nah.ii,5, Dan. x,G , Isa.lxii, 
1; Ezek. i, 13; lamp-torch, Jiulg.vii,16,20; xv,4,5, Job 
xii, 5 ; Zeeh. xii, 6 ; in some of which passages it is ren- 
dered “lightning, v “brand,” “ torch,” etc. Gr.Xa/iTrde, 
a torch - u light" or lantern, Acts xx,8; Rev.iv,5; “ torch ,” 
John xviii, 3 ; Rev. viii, 10, oil-lamp, Matt, xxv, 1-8; 
also *“P3, jieyr, or nir, a light, in various senses, espe- 
cially for domestic purposes, the Gr. Xoyroc;) is a term 
of frequent occurrence in a literal sense in the Scrip- 
tures, such a utensil being often really meant where the 
A. V. gives the rendering “ candle” (q. v.). The primary 
sense of light (vJen. xv, 17) also gives rise to frequent 
metaphorical usages, indicating life, welfare, guidance, 
as, e. g. 2 Sam. xxi, 17; Psa. cxix, 105; Prov.vi, 23; xiii, 
9. See Light. The following are the cases in which 
the use of lamps is referred to in the Bible. In their 
illustration we freely avail ourselves of the articles in 
iKitto’s and Smith’s Dictionaries. 

1. That part of the golden candlestiek belonging to 
the tabernacle which bore the light; also of each of the 
ten candlesticks placed by Solomon in the Temple be- 
fore the Holy of Holies (Exod. xxv, 37 ; 1 Kings vii,49; 

2 Cliron. i v, 20 , xiii, 1 1 ; Zecli. iv, 2). The lamps were 
lighted even- evening, and cleansed every morning 
(Exod. xxx, 7, 8; Reland, Ant. ffehr. i, v, 9, and vii, 8). 
It is somewhat remarkable, that while the golden can- 
dlestick, or rather candelabrum, is so minutely described, 
not a word is said of the shape of the lamps (Exod. xxv, 
37). This was probably because the socket in which it 
was to be inserted necessarily gave it a somewhat cy- 
lindrical form adapted to the purpose; for it is hardly 
to be presumed that the insecure cup-form usually rep- 
resented in engravings would have been adopted. This 
shape is aptly illustrated by an instance occurring on 
Egyptian monuments. 
(_Z\ } Wilkinson gives ( Ancient 

v LA VY/t Pgyptians, v, 37 6) what he 

J^v/I ^ a ^ es the represent- 
at ion of a lamp made of 
glass, with a hand holding 
separately an erect wick, 
as if the bearer were about 
Ancient Egyptian Cylindrical to place it in the vase pre- 
amp * vious to its being lighted. 

The lines, he thinks, may represent the twisted nature 
of the cotton wick, as they do the watering of the glass 
vase. 

Almost the only other fact we can gather in this con- 
nection is, that vegetable oils were burnt in them, and 
especially, if not exclusively, olive -oil. This, of the 
finest quality, was the oil used in the seven lamps of the 
tabernacle (Exod. xxvii, 20). Although the lamp-oils 
of the Hebrews were exclusively vegetable, it is proba- 
ble that animal fat was used, as it is at present by the 
Western Asiatics, by being placed in a kind of lamp, and 
burnt by means of a wick inserted in it. See Oil. Cot- 
ton wicks are now used throughout Asia, but the He- 
brews, like the Egyptians, probably employed the outer 
and coarser fibre of flax (Pliny, J/ist.Xat. xix, 1), and 
perhaps linen yarn, if the rabbins are correct in alleging 
that the linen dresses of the priests were unravelled 
when old, to furnish wicks for the sacred lamps. 

As to the material, the burners were in this instance 
doubtless of gold, although metal is scarcely the best 
substance for a lamp. The golden candlestick may also 
suggest that lamps in ordinary use were placed on 
stands, and, where more than one was required, on stands 
with two or more branches. The modern Orientals, who 



LAMP 


221 


LAMP 


are satisfied with very little light in their rooms, use I specimens from neighboring nations that have come 
stands of brass or wood, on which to raise the lamps to down to us. In the British Museum there are various 
a sufficient height above the floor on which they sit. j forms of ancient Egyptian lamps, which were employed 
Such stands are shaped not unlike a tall candlestick, ( for lighting the interior of apartments, some of terra- 
spreading out at the top. Sometimes the lamps are cotta and others of bronze, with various ornaments in 
placed on brackets against the wall, made for the pur- bas-relief, 
pose, and often upon stools. Doubtless similar contriv- 
ances were employed by the Hebrews. The Romans 
are known to have employed them. See Candlestick. 



Bronze Lamp and Stand. From Pompeii. 

2. A torch or flambeau, such as was carried by the 
soldiers of Gideon (Jiulg.vii, 10,20; comp.xv,4). From 
the fact that these were at first enclosed in pitchers, 
from which, at the end of the march, they were taken 
out and borne in the hand, we may with certainty infer 
that they were not ordinary lamps, open at top, from 
which the oil could easily be spilled. See Touch. 

3. It seems that the Hebrews, like the ancient Greeks 
and Romans, as well as the modern Orientals, were ac- 
customed to burn lamps overnight in their chambers; 
and this practice may appear to give point to the ex- 
pression of “outer darkness,” which repeatedly occurs in 
t lie New Testament (Matt.viii, 12, xxii, 13); the force 
is greater, however, when the contrast implied in the 
term li outer” is viewed with reference to the effect pro- 
duced by sudden expulsion into the darkness of night 
from a chamber highly illuminated for an entertain- 
ment. This custom of burning lamps at night, with the 
effect produced by their going out or being extinguish- 
ed, supplies various figures to the sacred writers (2 Sam. 
xxi, 17, Prov. xiii,9, xx, 20). On the other hand, the 
keeping up of a lamp’s light is used as a symbol of en- 
during and unbroken succession (l Kings xi,3G, xv, 4, 
Psa. cxxxii, 17). (See Wemvss’s Symbol. Diet. s. v.) 

The usual form of these domestic utensils may prob- 
ably be inferred from the prevailing shape of antique 




Ancient Assyrian Lamps in the British Museum. 

1, Bronze from north-west palace, Nimrond. 2, Bronze 
from Kouyunjik. B, 4, Terra-cotta from Warka. 5,Ter- 


ra-cotta from Kouyunjik. 






Common Forms of Ancient Egyptian Lamps. 


4. It appears from Matt, xxv, 1, that the Jews used 
lamps and torches in their marriage ceremonies, or rath- 
er when the bridegroom came to conduct home the bride 
by night. This is still the custom in those parts of the 
East where, on account of the heat of the day, the bridal 
procession takes place in the night-time. The connec- 
tion of lamps and torches with marriage ceremonies of- 
ten appears also in the classical poets (Homer, TAW, vi, 
492; Phi rip. Phomiss. 340; Medea, 1027; Virgil, Ecloy. 
viii, 29), and, indeed, Hymen, the god of marriage, was 
figured as bearing a torch. The same connection, it 
may be observed, is still preserved in Western Asia, even 



LAMP 


222 


LAMP 


whore it is no longer usual to bring home the br'ule by 
night. During two, or three, or more nights; preceding 
the wedding, the street or quarter in which the bride- 
groom lives is illuminated with chandeliers and lanterns, 
or with lanterns and small lamps suspended from cords 
drawn across from the bridegroom’s and several other 
bouses oil eaeli side to the houses opposite; and several 
email silk flags, each of two colors, generally red and 



If the Egyptians had lamps of glass, there is no reason 
why the Jews also might not have had them, especially 
| as this material is more proper for lamps intended to be 
bung up, and therefore to cast their light down from 
I above. 

The Jews used lamps in other festivals besides those 
of marriage. The Homan satirist (Persius, fiat, v, 170) 
expressly describes them as making illuminations at 
their festivals by lamps lmng up and arranged in an or- 
derly manner; and the scriptural intimations, so far as 
they go, agree with this description. If this custom had 
not been so general in the ancient and modern East, it 
might have been supposed that the Jews adopted it from 
the Egyptians, who. according to Herodotus (ii. G2), had 
a “ Feast of Lamps,” which was celebrated at Sais, and, 
indeed, throughout the country at a certain season of 
the year. The description which the historian gives of 
the lamps employed on this occasion strictly applies to 
those in modern use already described, and the concur- 
rence of both these sources of illustration strengthens 
the probable analogy of Jewish usage. lie speaks of 
them as “small vases filled with salt and olive-oil, in 
which the wick floated, and burnt during the whole 
night.” It does nut, indeed, appear of what materials 
these vases were made, hut we may reasonably suppose 
them to have been of glass. The later Jews had even 
something like this feast among themselves. A “ Feast 
of Lamps” was held even' year on the twenty-fifth of 
the month Kislen. See Dedication. It was founded 
by Judas Maccalxeus, in celebration of the restoration 
of the Temple worship (Josephus, Ant. xii, 7, 7). and has 
ever since been observed hv the lighting up of lamps or 
candles on that day in all the countries of their disper- 
sion (Maimonides, Bosh. Ilashctnah, fol. 8). Other Ori- 
entals have at this day a similar feast, of which the 
“Feast of Lanterns” among the Chinese is perhaps the 
best known (Davis, Chinese, p. 188). See Lanteiix. 

LAMP, a strange ceremony of the Maronite Church. 
A wafer of some size, having seven pieces of cotton 
stuck into it, is put into a flask or basin of oil; a relig- 
ious service is then read, the cotton is set lire to, and 


green, are attached to other cords (Lane, Mori. Egypt. i, 
201; 31 rs. Poole, Englishwoman in Eggpt , iii, 131). A 
modern lantern much used on these occasions, with lamps 
hung about it. and suspended from it, is represented in 
the preceding cut. The lamps used separately on such 
occasions are represented in the following cut. Figs. 1. 
8, and 5 show very distinctly the conical receptacle of 



the sick person for whose recovery the rite is intended 
is anointed with the oil, and prayer is repeated over 
him. — Eatlic. Eccles. Diet. s. v. 

LAMPS (their use in the Christian Church). Among 
the Jews lamps were freely used in the synagogue fur 
various purposes. In fact, all the ancient nations had 
them in their temples; hut how soon they were made 
use of by Christians, and what significance they had in 
symbolism, remains a matter of dispute between the 
Romish and Protestant churches. The Protestants gen- 
erally hold that there is no evidence that lamps were 
used in the early Church fur any other purpose than to 
light up the dark places where they were obliged to 
congregate for worship, while Romanists claim that 
they were used as symbols. (Compare, on the Roman 
Catholic view, Martignv, Diet, des Ant'nputcs C'hre- 
tiennes , p. 151, s. v. Ciorges; see also the art. Lights.) 
Several of the fathers, among them Chrysostom, con- 
demn in strong terms the custom of setting up lamps on 


Small Oriental hanging Lamps, 
wood which serves to protect the flame from the wind. 

Lamps of this kind are sometimes 
hung over doors. The shape in 
tigure 3 is also that of a much- 
used indoor lamp, called kandil 
(Lane, Modern Egyptians, chap, 
v. p. 151). It is a small vessel of 
glass, having a small tube at the 
bottom, iu which is stuck a wick 
formed of cotton twisted round a 
piece of straw' : some water is 
poured in Jirst, and then the oil. 
Enlam-.t View of the I^mi« very nearly of tins shape 
KandV and its vecep- appear on the Egyptian momi- 
tncle for oil. ments, and they seem, also, to he 

o r glass (Wilkinson, Ancient Egypt iuns> iii, 101 ; v, 37G). 



days of festival — as the relic of some pagan rite. In 
the days of Jerome, it is true, lights were freely used in 
churches, hut Romish theologians forget to tell that the 
propriety of the custom was much questioned even then. 
In graves of the Catacombs “lamps were often placed.” 
says Walcott (Sacred Archaeology, s. v.), “as a symbol 
of the eternal light which the departed, it is hoped, en- 
joy — as memorials of their shining lights before men, 
and their future glory” (Matt, xiii, -43). Rut it is evi- 
dent that even this custom was early disapproved of, for 
the Council of Flibaris forbade the faithful, on pain of 
excommunication, lighting wax candles iu the day- 
time in cemeteries or other burial-places of the martyrs 
(compare Fadic, Eccles. Diet. p. 867). Iu our day it is 
the custom in the Roman Catholic churches to keep a 
lamp (eternal light) constantly burning before or by the 
side of the tabernacle. (J. II. W.) 


LAMPADARY 


223 


LAMY 


Lampadary is the name of an officer in the East- 
ern Church whose duty it is to carry before the patri- 
archs in all processions a lighted candelabrum, called 
Xctfiiracovxov, as a badge of distinction among bishops. 
It is the business of the lampadary also to see that the 
lamps of the church are lighted, and to carry a taper on 
days of great processions. See Farrar, Eccles. Did. s. v. 

Lampe, Friei>uicii Adoi.it, an eminent German 
Protestant theologian, was born at Detmold (Lippe- 
Petmold) Feb. 19, 1683. He entered the University of 
Franeker, and later that of Utrecht, to study theology, 
lie was successively pastor at Wees, Duisburg, and Bre- 
men. In 17*20 he became professor of theology at 
Utrecht, and in 1727 removed to the University of Bre- 
men in the same capacity. He died December 8, 1729. 
Lampe is one of the most prominent German theolo- 
gians of the Deformed Church, who introduced into the 
German Church the Coccejanian doctrines, and measu- 
rably also the principles of Labadism. Lampe’s principal 
works are, Commentarius ana lytico-exegeticus Evangelii 
secundum Johannem{ Amsterd. 1724-25, 3 vols. 4to) ; this 
work Orme commends as “ both extensive and valua- 
ble.” Waleh ranks it among the best expositions of 
the apostle’s Gospel: — De Cymbal is reternm Libri tres 
(Utrecht, 1703, 12mo) : — Exercitutionum sacrarium Do - 
decas, quibus Psalmus xlv perpetuo commentario explana - 
tur (Bremen, 1715, 4to) : — Geheimniss des Gnadenbundes 
(Bremen, 1723, 12mo ; translat. into Dutch, Amst. 1727, 
8vo) ; this work is nothing more nor less than his sys- 
tem of theology : — Ddineatio Thelogiee active (Utrecht, 
1727, 4to) : — Rudiment a Theologies elcnchticce (Bremen, 
1729, 8vo). Lampe published also a large number of 
sermons and devotional treatises in German, which were 
nearly all translated into Dutch; he rearranged and ed- 
ited an edition of the Historiu Ecchsice Refonnatee in 
Hungaria et Transylvania , attributed to Paul of De- 
brezin (Utrecht, 1728, 4to). Together with llase, he 
published the lirst three volumes of the Bibliotheca Bre- 
mensis, for which he wrote a number of theological arti- 
cles. Other treatises which he published in various pa- 
pers were collected and published by D. Gerdes, togeth- 
er with his discourses and programmes (Amsterd. 1737, 
2 vols. 4to). See Schumacher, Memoria Lampii , in Mis- 
cellanea Dnisburgensia , vol. ii; Acta Eruditorum , ann. 
1722; Klil'ker, Bibl. Eruditor , Pnecocium • Burmann, 
Trajedum eruditnm ; Jocher, A llgem. Gel. Lexihm ; Hoe- 
fer, Xouc. Biog. Generate , xxix, 284; Gobel (Maximil- 
ian), Gesch.d. Christlichen Lebens, vol. ii (see Index). 

Lampetians is the name of one of the heretical 
sects which, on pretence of promoting sanctity by *an 
ascetic life, made the Christian Sabbath a fast-day. 

There was also another sect of this name in the I7th 
century, the followers of Lampetius, a Syrian monk, 
who pretended that, as a man is born free, a Christian, 
in order to please God, ought to do nothing by necessi- 
ty; and that, therefore, it is unlawful to make vows, 
even those of obedience. To this doctrine he added the 
views of the Arians, Carpocratians, ami other sects. The 
Lampetians formed a branch of the Messaliaxs (q.v.). 
— Farrar, Eccles. Did. s. v. 

Lampillas, Francis Xavier, a Spanish Jesuit, 
was born in Catalonia in 1731. After the expulsion of 
the Jesuits from Spain in 1767 he went to Genoa, where 
he died in 1810. His principal work is a defence of 
Spanish literature against Bettinelli and Tiraboschi, 
Baggio storico-apologdico della Leteratura Spagnuola. 
See Iloefer, A 'our. Biog. Generate, xxix, 285. 

Lamplugh, Thomas, D.D., an English prelate of 
note, in the days of king James II, was born in York- 
shire in 1615. But little is known of his early personal 
history, lie was dean of Bocliester in 1676, when he 
was promoted to the episcopate as bishop of Exeter. In 
this position he became one of the most conspicuous di- 
vines of the day, securing, in particular, t he favor of the 
king by his partisanship, especially in 1688. In this year, 
just before the exit of king James from the English 


throne, Lamplugh called on the king, was graciously 
received, praised for his loyalty, and awarded with the 
archbishopric of York, which had been vacant for more 
than two years and a half. William III, whom Lamp- 
lugh, strangely enough, recognised as the rightful sover- 
eign of England, after the flight of James, confirmed 
the appointment, hence some writers’ statement that 
William of Orange appointed Lamplugh to the arch- 
bishopric. The archbishop died in 1691. See Debarv, 
History of the Church of England, p. 167; Macaulay, 
History of England, ii, 382. (J. II. W.) 

Lampronti, Isaac, a Jewish Babbi of some note 
as an author, flourished in Ferrara in the first half of 
the 18th century. He died about 1756. He commenced 
the preparation of a large encyclopedia of Itabbinism, 
of which he himself completed twelve volumes, bringing 
the work, excellent in its character, down to the letter 
Mem. It was published at Venice between 1750 and 
1813. See Jost, Gesch. d. Judenth. u. s. Sekten, hi, 230. 

Lamson, Alvax, D.D., a Unitarian minister, was 
born in 1792 at Weston, Mass. ; was educated first at 
Phillips Academy, Andover, and then at Harvard Col- 
lege, where he graduated in 1814. lie was immediately 
appointed tutor in Bowdoin College, but left in 1816, 
and entered the Divinity School at Cambridge. In 1818 
he became pastor of the First Church in Dedham, Mass., 
where he officiated for over forty years. Jle died July 
18, 1864. He wrote much for the Christian Examiner, 
and in 1857 published a volume of sermons (Host. 12mo). 
The Christian Register says of him: “Dr. Lamson has 
succeeded in uniting the acutest moral wisdom with the 
most unpretending and childlike modes of exhibiting it. 
His style is clear as crystal, sometimes almost quaint in 
its simplicity, and not without touches of poetic feeling 
as well as fane}*, though a calm, shrewd judgment char- 
acterizes all his opinions.” — Allibone, Did. of Authors, 
vol. ii; American Annual Cgclopeedia, 1864, p. 612. 

Lamy (or Lami), Bernard, an eminent priest of 
the French Oratory, was born at Mans in June, 1640; 
studied under the Oratorians, joined their order in 1658, 
and completed his studies at Paris and at Saiitnnr. lie 
next taught belles-lettres at Vendome and Juilly, and 
philosophy at Saumur and at Angers. In 1676 he was 
deprived of his professorship for his zealous advocacy 
of the Cartesian philosophy. His enemies, the Thom- 
ists, even obtained a lettre de cachet against him under 
the accusation that he opposed the principle of royal 
authority. lie was banished to Grenoble, where cardi- 
nal Le Camus, who had established a seminary for the 
education of ecclesiastics, and who held Lamy in high 
estimation, appointed him professor of divinity. In 
1686, his sentence having been revoked in its most es- 
sential charges, he was recalled to Paris, and remained 
for a while in the Seminary of St.Magloire , but, having 
violated the rules of the establishment by publishing 
without the knowledge of the superior a work ( Lettre 
an P. Fourre, de VOratoire), which, besides, was consid- 
ered to contain objectionable teachings (viz. as that 
Christ did not celebrate the Jewish Passover with his 
disciples [a view adopted by some of the soundest schol- 
ars] ; that John the Baptist was imprisoned twice, by 
the Sanhedrim and by Herod ; and that the three Marvs 
mentioned in the Gospels arc identical), he was again 
exiled, this time to Bouen. He died in the latter city 
Jan. 29, 1715. Lamy was a very prolific writer, and 
his works are generally distinguished for clearness of 
thought and expression. The most important are, Ap- 
paratus Biblicus ad intelligenda Sacra Biblia (originally 
[Grenoble, 1687] no more than tables of the chief facts 
of Scripture, witli rules for its study, and compiled sim- 
ply for his pupils , he subsequently enlarged and pub- 
lished it at Lyons, 1696, sm. 8vo, and it was in its day con- 
sidered the best “introduction” to the Bible extant; an 
English edition was prepared by B. Bundy, Lond. 1723, 
4to) : — Entretiens snr les Sciences (1684), a work which 
was highly esteemed by J. J. Bousseau : — Introduction 


LAMY 


224 


LAN CELLOT (T) I 


a VEcriture Sainte , ou Von traite de tout ce qui conceme 
les Juifs, etc. (Lyons, 1700, 4to) : — I larmonia , sire Con- 
cordia quatuor Evangelist arum , editio novissima (Paris, 
1701, 12 1 no) : — Comment arias in harmonium , sire concor- 
diam quatuor Evangelistarum (Paris, 1090, 4 to) : — Dis- 
sertatio de Levitis cantoribus (Ugol.32, .571) : — De taber- 
naculo foederis, dc sancta civitate Jerusalem , et de templo 
ejus (Paris, 1720, fol.). To this last-named work Lamy 
is said to have devoted the last thirty years of his life 
It was published (after his death) under the editorship 
of pore Desmoulins. See Ellies Dupin, Bibl, des A uteui's 
cedes, vol. xix. 4 to ed. ; Journal de tout ce qui s'est passe 
en r Universite <FA tigers, 1679, 4to; F. Bouillier, Hist, du 
Cartesianisme , vol. ii ; B. Haurean, Hist. Litter, du Maine, 
ii, 117-105, llook, Eccles. Biog. vi, 515; Kit to, Biblical 
Cyclopaedia , ii, 779, 780. (J. 11. W.) 

Lamy, Dom. Francois, a French Roman Catholic 
priest, was born at Montereau, in the diocese of Char- 
tres, in 1030. lie entered the congregation of St.Maur, 
of the Order of St. Benoist, in 1685, and was in relation 
with some of the most important men of the time, Fe- 
nelon among others. He died in 1711. Lamy wrote 
largely in defence of Christianity, and against Spinoza; 
the most important of his works are, Traite de la verite 
evidente dc la religion Clirktienne (1694, 12mo ) : — De la 
connuissance de soi-meme (Paris, 1694-98, 6 vols. 8vo , 
augmented, Paris, 1700), the ablest and most celebrated 
work of F ran is Lamy (comp, the art. Malebkanche) : 
— Lc Xouvel A theisme renverse, ou refutation du systeme 
de Spinosa, etc. (Anon., Paris, 1696, 12mo ): — Sentiments 
de piete sur la profession religieuse (Paris, 1697, 12mo), 
which gave rise to much controversy : — Lcgons de la 
Sagesse et de I'engagement au service de Dieu (Par. 1703, 
12mo ) : — Finer edule amene a la religion par la raison 
(Paris, 1710, 12mo) : — Traite de la connuissance et de 
V amour de Dieu (Paris, 1712, 12mo); this work, pub- 
lished after his death, is very scarce. Some of his let- 
ters are contained in the Correspondance dc Fenelon 
(Paris, 1827-29, 11 vols. 8vo). See Le Cerf, Biblioth. des 
Auteurs de la Congreg. de St.Maur ; Nice'ron, Memoires, 
vol. x ; Iloefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate, xxix, 298 sq. 

Lancaster, Joseph, an English Quaker, was bom 
in London in 1778. lie acquired great distinction as 
the promulgator of the mutual system of education first 
introduced by Dr. Bell at Madras, but afterwards known 
both in England and America as the Lancasterian Sys- 
tem. lie is recognised as having given an impulse, by 
his writings and lectures, to the cause of popular educa- 
tion in many countries. He first opened a school for 
poor children in St. George’s Field, and soon rendered 
his method very popular. For the characteristics of his 
system, see Watts, Bibl. Brit., and his works (London, 
1854) ; Loud. Quart. Rev. vi, 24 ; North A mer. Rev. xviii, 
184 ; Living Age, April, 1845; Allibone, Diet, of British 
and A mer. A ut hors , ii, 1052 ; Thomas, Biog. Diet. p. 1365. 

Lancaster, Lydia, a female Quaker minister, 
daughter of Thomas Rawlinson, was horn at Graith- 
waite, Lancashire, England, in 1684. In the course of 
her ministry she visited several times the greater part 
of England, Ireland, and Scotland, building up her soci- 
ety with great zeal and efficacy. In 1718 she came to 
the United States, and was here especially instrumental 
in the extension of the Quaker cause. She retained her 
zeal and activity to extreme old age, laboring almost to 
the close of her days, May 30, 1761. See Janney, J/ist. 
of Frit ■ nds , i i i , 21 *6. 

Lancaster, Nathaniel, D.D., a minister of the 
Church of England, was born in England in 1698, Dur- 
ing a portion of his ministry he was rector of Stamford 
Rivers, but he is better known as a literary man than as 
a pastor. He died in 1775. II is published works are, 
Sermons (1746 ): — Esso g on Delicacg (1748, 8vo) : — The 
Old Serpent , or Methodism Triumphant — a Poem (1770, 
4 to).- — Allibone, Diet. Engl, and A mer. Authors, ii, 1052. 

Lance (“pT ' t Z,hidon', so called from its destructive 


use, Jer. 1, 42; elsewhere usually “spear”), a javelin or 
smaller kind of missile weapon, in distinction from the 
long-handled spear (rPSH, chanith '), and the simple dart 
(PIplT, she'luch). See Armor. 

Lance, The Holy (1), is the name of a knife very 
much in the form of a lance, used in the Greek Church 
to imitate the spear by which Christ was pierced. With 
this “holy lance” the priest, at communion, cuts the 
bread, while reading the corresponding passages of the 
N. T. Scriptures. See Martignv, Diet, des A ntiquites , p. 
353. 

Lance, The Holy (2), was given by king Rudolph 
of Burgundy to king Henry I of Germany, as a present, 
through the influence of Luitprand, bishop of Cremona. 
It came to be considered as one of the chief insignia of 
the empire, and a powerful talisman. The earlier tra- 
dition represents the lance as having been chiefly made 
of the nails with which Christ was crucified; later ac- 
counts assume that it was the identical lance with which 
the Roman soldier pierced the Saviour’s side. Under 
the emperor Charles IV this lance was brought to Prague, 
and m 1354 pope Innocent VI, at the emperor’s request, 
instituted a special festival, De lancea, which was cele- 
brated in Germany and Bohemia on the first octave af- 
ter Easter. Another holy lauce w r as discovered by the 
empress Helena, and kept first in the portico of the 
Church of the Holy Sepulchre, and afterwards at Anti- 
och, where it was found in 1093 by a French priest, Pe- 
ter Bartholomew ; its appearance cheered the discour- 
aged Crusaders, who gained a brilliant victory over the 
Saracens. It was subsequently brought to Constanti- 
nople, then to Venice, and afterwards came into the pos- 
session of St. Louis, king of France. It was, however, 
afterwards taken back again to Constantinople, and it is 
said that the iron of it was brought to Rome as a pres- 
ent to pope Innocent VIII, and is preserved at the Vat- 
ican. The genuineness of both lances lias, however, 
been doubted even in the Roman Catholic Church, and 
their authenticity w’as never officially proclaimed. — Her- 
zog, Rtal-Encyhlop. viii, 197. (J. N. P.) 

Lancece et Clavorum Festum. See Lance, 
the Hoi.y (2). 

Lancel!ot(t)i (Lancelotus), Giovanni Paoli 
(1), a noted Italian worker on canon law, v\as born in Peru- 
gia in 1511, w’as professor of canon law in the university 
of his native place, and died there in 1591. lie is par- 
ticularly knowm as the author of I nstitutiones juris ca- 
nonici, which are generally published with the Corpus 
juris canoniei; yet it w’as not adopted in the “editio 
Romana,” and therefore Richter omitted it in his edi- 
tion. Laneellotti appears to have for a long time con- 
templated writing an elementary text-book for the study 
of canon law, after the model of Justinian’s Institutes 
[see Corpus Juris Civilis], for w’e find already in 1555 
pope Paul IV encouraging him in his plans. Two years 
after Laneellotti presented his w’ork to the papal censure, 
and it w’as examined by a committee composed of Fabi- 
an us Atorombonus, Julius Oradinus, and Antonins Mas- 
sa, all officers of the court Della Rota. They approved 
strongly of it, and their recommendation was printed in 
several editions of the Commentarii Institutionum subse- 
quently added by Laneellotti himself to his liber i. The 
book w'as afterwards published, and immediately adopt- 
ed as a text-book in the University of Cologne. On 
the other hand, the pope steadily refused his approval, 
and some other censors raised objections against it on 
the ground that it contained principles opposed to the 
then recent decisions of the Council of Trent. The au- 
thor, however, w’as disinclined to alter the obnoxious 
passages, and resolved to continue to publish the work 
as a private enterprise, which he did tow’ards the close 
of the Council of Trent, in August, 1563, at Perugia, 
dedicating it to Pius IV. In the following years it was 
repeatedly reprinted and commended; Petrus Matthii us 
even appended it to his edition of the Corpus juris ca~ 
nvnici (Fraiikf. ad M. 1591). Soon after it w’as included 


LANCELLOTTI 


225 


LANDED ESTATE 


in the edition of the Corpus juris eqpon. published at 
Lyons, and continued to be printed in that manner, it 
having tin ally obtained the approval of pope Paul Y 
(1605-21) by the intercession of cardinal Scipio Cobel- 
lutius and others. Still the lustitiitiones were never 
considered as an official work. Their value consists 
chiefly in the insight it affords into what was considered 
as law before the Council of Trent, and, the common 
practice of that time. Subsequent editions carefully 
indicate the differences between it and the new laws. 
(See Caspar Ziegler, Xotce ex ipsis anHquitatum ecclesi- 
ast ic< mini font ibus deduct ie, Wittemb. 1699, 4to; repro- 
duced in Thomasius’s edition, Hake, 1716, 1717, 4to; also 
that of Doujat, Venetiis, 1750, 2 vols. 8vo). A French 
translation, with a comparison of the Romish and Gallican 
practice, was published by Durand de Maillane (Lyons, 
1710, 10 vols. 12mo). — Herzog, Real-Encyklop. viii, 187. 

Lancellotti (or Lancelotti), Giovanni Paoli 
(2), an Italian author and priest, was born at Perugia in 
1575, and died in Paris in 1640. He is noted as the au- 
thor of a successful work entitled To-day (“ L’Hoggidi”), 
intended to prove that the world was not morally or 
physically worse than it had been in ancient times. lie 
wrote also other learned works. 

Lancelot, Dom. Claude, a noted French theologian 
and writer of the Romish Church, was born at Paris in 
1615. In 1610 he was appointed presiding officer of the 
noted school of Port Iloyal, and, after its discontinuance 
in 1660, lie became instructor of prince Conti ; then lived 
in the convent. St. Cy ran until its destruction in 1679. 
He died at Qniraperle April 15, 1695. ITis works are 
mainly on the grammar of the classical and Homan lan- 
guages. He also published historical annotations on the 
Bible of Vitre, and left in MS. form memoirs of the life 
of Du verger de Ilauranne, of the St. Cyran convent. See 
Sainte-Beuve, Port Iioyal; Vigneul Mar vi lie, Melanges, 
i, 132 ; Niceron, Mem. pour serrir a Vhistoire des Ifommes 
III. xxxv; Iloefer, Xour. Biog. Gen. xxix, 322 sq. 

Lancet, (n*9“l, ro'much , from its piercing, 1 Kings 
xviii, 28, elsewhere usually “spear”), the iron point or 
head of a lance. See Armor. The incisive implements 
of the most ancient Hebrews, as of other peoples, were 
of stone (ExoJ. iv, 25; JosIl v, 2; compare Abieht, l)e 
cultis sctxeis, Lipske, 1712 ; and generally Oreuzer, Com- 
ment. Herod, i, 22. The testa samia with which the 
priests of Cybele emasculated themselves [Plinv, xxxv, 
46], and the stone knives of the Egyptian embalmers 
[Herod, ii, 86], are parallel cases). The Hebrews used 
no knives at table (although one term for knife, rbsxia, 
is so named from eating ), since the meat was brought on 
ready cut into pieces, and the bread was so thin as to 
be easily broken with the fingers. See Eating. The 
same is the case at present in the East, even in princely 



Egyptian Knives and Lancets. Collected from various 
Sculptures. 

V.— P 


feasts. See Meal. Knives were regularly employed 
by mechanics (q. v.), and in slaughtering animals (Gen. 
xxii, 6, 10 ; comp. Judg. xix, 29 ; see Philo, Opp. ii, 570), 
and for preparing food (Josephus, 117//’, i, 33,7; A lit. 
xvii, 71, etc.). The sacriticial knife, in particular, was 
called (Ezra i, 9), and a room in the (second) Tem- 

ple was appropriated to such cutlery (mB^TO n"Q, 
Mishna, Middoth , vi, 7). A penknife was called 
(Jer. xxvi, 23; Ezek. v, 1), originally in Aramiean 
135;, which in the Talmud ( Chelim , xiii, 1) likewise 
denotes a razor. The pruning-knife was called 
(Isa. ii, 4; xviii, 5, etc.). — Winer, ii, 88, See Knife. 

Lancet Style. See English Style. 

LANCET-WINDOW is an architectural term for a 
narrow window with acutely-pointed arch head. This 
form was much used in England and Scotland during 
the early pointed period of Gothic architecture. Sev- 
eral lancet-windows are frequently grouped together, so 
as to produce a pleasing effect. In Scotland, the lancet- 
window was, like many other features of Scotch Gothic, 
retained to a much later period than in England. — 
Chambers, Cydojxedia , s. v. 



Lancet-window. From Glasgow Cathedral. 


Land (represented by several ITeb. and Gr. -words*, 
properly e'rets, usually rendered “ earth," Gr. yij ; 

and iT2nx, adamah usually the “ground;” sometimes 
1YTIJ, sadeh elsewhere a “field,” Gr. dypug \ also yw- 
p«, a tract of land; etc.). This word in the Old Testa- 
ment often denotes emphatically the country of the Is- 
raelites, at other times some particular country or dis- 
trict, as the land of Canaan, the land of Egypt, the land 
of Ashur, the land of Moab. In several places of our 
Authorized Version the phrase “all the earth” is used, 
when the more restricted phrase “ the land,” or “ all the 
land,” would be more proper. Sec Agriculture; 
Farm ; Landed Estate. 

Landau, Jeciieskel, a German Rabbi of note, was 
born about 1720. He flourished first as Rabbi of Jam- 
pol, Poilolia, and later as chief Rabbi of Prague, lie 
died in 1793. While yet a young man Landau gave 
promise of great ability as a polemic, and be displayed 
this quality to great advantage in the Sabbatarian con- 
troversy which raged between Eibeschiitz [see Jona- 
than Eiresciiutz] and Emden. See ( iriitz, Gesch. der 
Juden , vol. x, ch. xi, especially p. 409, 415, 438; Furst, 
Biblioth. Jud. ii, 216 sq. 

Landed Estate. It has been the custom to re- 
gard the Hebrews as a pastoral people until they were 
settled in Palestine. In a great degree they doubtless 
were so, and when they entered agricultural Egypt, the 
land of Goshen was assigned to them expressly because 
that locality was suited to their pastoral habits (Gen. 
xlvii, 4-6). These habits were substantially maintain- 
ed; but it is certain that they became acquainted with 
the Egyptian processes of culture, anil it is more than 


LANDED ESTATE 


226 


LANDED ESTATE 


probable that they raised for themselves such products | 
of the soil as they required for their own use. We may, j 
indeed, collect that the portion of their territory which 
lay in the immediate vicinity of the Nile was placed by j 
them under culture (Dent, xi, 10), while the interior, | 
with the free pastures of the desert beyond their imme- 
diate territory, sufficed abundantly for their cattle (1 
Chron. vii, 21). This partial attention to agriculture 
was in some degree a preparation for the condition of 
cultivators, into which they were destined eventually to 
pass. While the Israelites remained in a state of sub- 
jection in Egypt, the maintenance of their condition as 
shepherds was highly instrumental in keeping them dis- 
tinct and separate from the Egyptians, who were agri- 
culturists, and had a strong dislike to pastoral habits 
(Gen. xlvi. 34). Hut when they became an independ- 
ent and sovereign people, their separation from other 
nations was to be promoted by inducing them to devote 
their chief attention to the culture of the soil. A large 
number of the institutions given to them had this ob- 
ject of separation in view. Among these, those relating 
to agriculture — forming the agrarian law of the Hebrew 
people — were of the first importance. They might not 
alone have been sufficient to secure the end in view, but 
no others could have been effectual without them; for, 
without such attention to agriculture as would render 
them a self-subsisting people, a greater degree of inter- 
course with the neighboring and idolatrous nations must 
have been maintained than was consistent with the pri- 
mary object of the Mosaic institutions. The common- 
est observation suffices to show how much less than 
others agricultural communities are open to external in- 
fiuences, and how much less disposed to cultivate inter- 
course with strangers. Sec Husbandry. 

It was, doubtless, in subservience to this object, and 
to facilitate the change, that the Israelites were put in 
possession of a country already in a high state of culti- 
vation (Deut.vi, II) , and it was in order to retain them 
in this condition, to give them a vital interest in it, and 
to make it a source of happiness to them, that a very 
peculiar agrarian law was given to them. In stating 
this law, and in declaring it to have been in the high- 
est degree wise and salutary, regard must be had to its 
peculiar object with reference to the segregation of the 
Hebrew people; for there are points in which this and 
other Mosaic laws were unsuited to general use, some 
by the very circumstances which adapted them so ad- 
mirably to their special object. When the Israelites 
were numbered just before their entrance into the land 
of Canaan, and were found (exclusive of the Levitcs) 
to exceed 600,000 men, the Lord said to Moses. “Unto 
these the land shall be divided for an inheritance, ac- 
cording to the number of names. To many thou shalt 
give the more inheritance, and to the few thou shalt 
give the less inheritance; to every one shall his inher- 
itance be given according to those that were numbered 
of him. Notwithstanding the land shall be divided by 
lot: according to the names of the tribes of their fathers 
shall they inherit” (Numb, xxvi, 33-54). This equal 
distribution of the soil was the basis of the agrarian law. 
By it provision was made for the support of 600,000 
yeomen, with (according to different calculations) from 
sixteen to twenty-five acres of land to each. This land 
they held independent of all temporal superiors, by di- 
rect tenure from Jehovah their Sovereign, by whose 
power they were to acquire the territory, and under 
whose protection they were to enjoy and retain it. “The 
land shall not he sold forever, for the land is minc,saith 
the Lord: ye are strangers and sojourners with me” 
(Lev. xxv, 23). Thus the basis of the constitution was 
an equal agrarian law. But this law was guarded by 
other provisions equally wise and salutary. The ac- 
cumulation of debt was prevented, fir&t, by prohibiting 
every Hebrew from accepting interest from any of his 
fellow-citizens (Lev. xxv, 35, 36) ; next, by establishing 
a regular discharge of debts every seventh year ; and, 
finally, by ordering that no lands could be alienated for- 


ever, but must, on each year of Jubilee, or every seventh 
Sabbatic year, revert to the families which originally 
possessed them. Thus, without absolutely depriving in- 
dividuals of all temporary dominion over their landed 
property, it re-established, even* fiftieth year, that orig- 
inal and equal distribution of it which was the founda- 
tion of the national polity; and as the period of this re- 
version was fixed and regular, all parties had due notice 
of the terms on which they negotiated, so that there 
was no ground for public commotion or private com- 
plaint. See Jubilee. 

This law, by which landed property was released in 
the year of Jubilee from all existing obligations, did not 
extend to houses in towns, which, if not redeemed with- 
in one year after being sold, were alienated forever (Lev. 
xv, 29,30). This must have given to property in the 
country a decided advantage over property in cities, and 
must have greatly contributed to the essential object of 
all these regulations, by affording an inducement to ev- 
ery Hebrew to reside on and cultivate his land. Fur- 
ther, the original distribution of the land was to the 
several tribes according to their families, so that each 
tribe was, so to speak, settled in the same county, and 
each family in the same barony or hundred. Nor was 
the estate of any family in one tribe permitted to pass 
into another, even by the marriage of an heiress (Numb, 
xxvii) ; so that not only was the original balance of 
property preserved, but the closest and dearest connec- 
tions of affinity attached to each other the inhabitants 
of every vicinage. See Inheritance. 

It often happens that laws in appearance similar have 
in view entirely different objects. In Europe the cn- 
tailmont of estates in the direct line is designed to en- 
courage the formation of large properties, lu Israel the 
effect was entirely different, as the entail extended to 
all the small estates into which the land was originally 
divided, so that they could not legally be united to form 
a large property, and then entailed upon the descend- 
! ants of him by whom the property was formed. This 
division of the land in small estates among the people, 
who were to retain them in perpetuity, was eminently 
, suited to the leading objects of the Hebrew institutions. 
It is allowed on all bands that such a condition oflaiul- 
etl property is in the highest degree favorable to high 
I cultivation and to increase of population, while it is 
less favorable to pasturage. The first two were objects 
which the law had in view, and it did not intend to af- 
I ford undue encouragement to the pastoral life, while the 
large pastures of the adjacent deserts and of the com- 
mons secured the country against such a scarcity of cat- 
i tie as the division of the land into small heritages has 
already produced in France. 

For this land a kind of quit-rent was payable to the 
sovereign Proprietor, in the form of a tenth or tithe of 
the produce, which was assigned to the priesthood. See 
Tithes. The condition of military service was also at- 
tached to the land, as it appears that every freeholder 
(Dent, xx, 5) was obliged to attend at the general mus- 
ter of the national army, and to serve in it, at his own 
expense (often more than repaid l>y the plunder), as 
long as the occasion required. In this direction, there- 
fore, the agrarian law operated in securing a hotly of 
600,000 men, inured to labor and industry, always as- 
sumed to be ready, as they were bound, to come forward 
at tlicir country’s call. This great body of national yeo- 
manrv, every one of whom had an important stake in 
the national independence, was officered by its own he- 
reditary chiefs, heads of tribes and families (comp. Exod. 
xviii and Numb, xxxi, 14), andnnusf have presented an 
insuperable obstacle to treacherous ambition and polit- 
I ical intrigue, and to every attempt to overthrow the 
Hebrew commonwealth and establish despotic power. 
Nor were these institutions less wisely adapted to secure 
the state against foreign violence, and at the same time 
prevent offensive wars and remote conquests. For while 
this vast body of hardy yeomanry were always ready to 
j defend their country, when assailed by foreign foes, yet, 


LANDELIN 


227 


LANE 


as they were constantly employed in agriculture, attach- 
ed to domestic life, and enjoyed at home the society of 
the numerous relatives who peopled their neighborhood, 
war must have been in a high degree alien to their tastes 
and habits. Religion also took part in preventing them 
from being captivated by the splendor of military glory. 
On returning from battle, even if victorious, in order to 
bring them back to more peaceful feelings after the rage 
of war, the law required them to consider themselves as 
polluted by the slaughter, and unworthy of appearing 
in the camp of Jehovah until they had employed an en- 
tire day in the rites of purification (Numb, xix, 13-16; 
xxxi, 19). Besides, the force was entirely infantry; the 
law forbidding even the kings to multiply horses in 
their train (Deut. xvii, 16) ; and this, with the ordinance 
requiring the attendance of all the males three times 
every year at Jerusalem, proved the intention of the 
legislator to confine the natives within the limits of the 
Promised Land, and rendered long and distant wars and 
conquests impossible without the virtual renunciation 
of that religion which was incorporated with their whole 
civil polity, and which was, in fact, the charter by which 
they held their property and enjoyed all their rights 
(Graves, Lectures on the Pentateuch , leet. iv; Lowman, 
Civil Gov. of the Ileh. eh. iii, iv; Michaelis, Mos. Rccht, 
i, 240 sq.). — Kitto. 

Landelin and Landoald, two saints of the Ro- 
man Catholic Church, are said to have flourished as 
preachers of the Gospel in Belgium in the 7th century. 
We have no trustworthy information as to their lives and 
proceedings. Among the aids which St.Amandus pro- 
cured from Rome in 651 to help him in his missionary 
labors is mentioned the presbyter Landoald, probably an 
Anglo-Saxon. According to the history of Landoald, 
written in the 10th century by abbot Ileriger von 
Lobbes, Landoald was especially supported in his mis- 
sions by king Childeric II, who furnished him with all 
the necessary means. Me is also said to have had Lam- 
bert of Maestrieht for a pupil, and to have been nine 
years bishop as successor of St. Amandus. This latter 
assertion, however, is contradicted by the fact that Re- 
maclus was the successor of Amandus; and it appears 
also a matter of doubt whether Lambert of Maestrieht 
was indeed a pupil of Landoald. 

Concerning Landelin, the Bollandists give, under date 
of June 15, an old biography, according to which he had 
been a pupil of Andebert, bishop of Cambray and Arras, 
had lied from his tutor, ami supported himself for a while 
by highway robbery. The sudden death of one of his 
band, and a dream, in which he saw his former compan- 
ion carried to hell by the devil, caused his conversion, 
and he subjected himself to striet penance in a convent, 
and made a pilgrimage to Rome. Subsequently conse- 
crated deacon and presbyter, he made two more journeys 
to Rome, the last time accompanied by his pupils Ade- 
lenus and Domitianus. He is said to have founded the 
two convents of Lobbes and Crepin. According to the 
same account, Landelin died in 686, continuing his pen- 
ances to the last. — Doric, Landelin , Apostel d. Deutschen 
(Augsb. 1838), Wetzer und Welte, Kirclicn-Lexikon, vi, 
335; Ilerzog, Real-Encyklcgmdie, viii, 187. (J. N. P.) 

Land-mark (5*123, gebul', or hbsisa, gebnlah', usu- 
ally rendered “border” or *• coast”), a boundary-line as 
indicated by a stake, stone, or other monument (Deut. 
xix, 14; xxvii, 17 ; Prow xxii, 28; xxiii, 10; Jobxxiv, 
2). It was the manifest intention of Jehovah, in bring- 
ing the Hebrews into Canaan, to make them a nation 
of agriculturists. For this purpose the land was divided 
bv lot and measurement among the tribes, families, and 
individuals of the nation. Thus every citizen had al- 
lotted to him a pieee of ground, which he was to culti- 
vate and leave to his descendants. The importance of 
preserving accurately the boundaries of individual or 
family possessions is very obvious-, and, to prevent mis- 
takes and litigation, the fields were marked off by stones 
set up ou the limits, which could not be removed witlv- 


out incurring the wrath of heaven. The custom had 
doubtless prevailed long before (Job xxiv, 2), it was thus 
confirmed by express statute (Deut. xix, 14*, xxvii, 17), 
and it appears to have been strictly perpetuated in later 
times (Prov. xxii, 28; xxiii, 10). Similar precautions 
were in use among the Romans, who had images or posts, 
called Ilernuti or termini, set up on the line between dif- 
ferent owners, which were under the patronage of a 
deity especially designated for that care (see Smith’s 
Piet, of Greek and Roman Biog. s. v. Terminus). Land- 
marks were used in Greece even before the age of Ilo- 
mer fluid, xxi, 405) ; and they are still used in Persia, 
and in various parts of the East. Even to this day fields 
in the East have no fences or hedges, but a ridge, a 
stone, or a post occasionally marks the boundary, con- 
sequently, it is not very difficult to encroach on the 
property of another (see Hackett, Illustra . of Script, p. 
167). See Hedge. 

Lando or Landon, a Roman pontiff, was a native 
of Sabina, but the date of his birth is not known. In- 
deed, but little is accessible as to his personal history 
until he came to the pontifical chair in 913. lie held 
the pontificate only about six months, for he died about 
April 27, 914. See Bower, History of the Popes , v, 89 sq. 

Landoald. See Landeein. 

Landon, Whittington, D.D., a clergyman of the 
Church of England, was for some time provost of Worces- 
ter College, Oxford. In 1813 he was appointed dean of 
Exeter, and in 1821 prebendary of Salisbury. He died 
in 1839. Some of his sermons were published in Lon- 
don (1812, 8vo, and in 1835, 8vo). — Alliboue, Piet ionary 
of English and American Authors , ii, 1053. 

Landsborough, David, D.D., a Scotch Presbyte- 
rian minister, was born at Dalvv, Galloway, Scotland, 
in 1782. He was pastor of the parish of Stevenson from 
1811 to 1843, and of a Free-Church congregation at Salt- 
coats from 1843 until his death in 1854. Mr. Landsbor- 
ough was very eminent as a naturalist, and wrote sev- 
eral treatises on botany and zoology. He also contrib- 
uted frequently to Dr. Harvey’s Psychologia Britannica , 
and published papers in the Annals and Magazine of 
Natural History. — Allibone, Pictionury of British and 
American Authors , ii, 1056. 

Landsperger, Johann, a Carthusian monk, who 
obtained distinction by his voluminous ascetic writings, 
was born in Landsperg, Bavaria, in the latter part of the 
15th century; studied in Cologne, was made prior of his 
order near Julieh, and died about 1534. On aeeount of 
his marked and severe piety, he was called the Just. 
Among his works, which were published in many edi- 
tions at Cologne, are, Sermones capitulares in prascipuis 
anni festivitatibus : — Vita Servatoris N.T.X.: — Para- 
phrases in dominicales Ejnstolas et Evangel ia : — Allo- 
quia Jesu Christiad fdelem animam: — Enchiridion ritee 
spirituals ad perfeclionem: — Pharetra divini amoris, 
Landsperger was the first to publish the Revelations of 
the Hob) Gertrude. — Wetzcr u. Welte, Eire hen- Lexikon, 
vi, 342. 

Landulph. See Fatarians. 

Lane (pvptj, so rendered in Luke xiv, 21 ; elsewhere 
“street”), a narrow passage or alley in a city, in dis- 
tinction from a principal thoroughfare (TrXarao). See 
Street. 

Lane, George, a Methodist minister of considera- 
ble note, was horn in the State of New York April 13, 
1784. He was admitted to the Philadelphia Conference 
in 1805, and located in 1810; w'as readmitted in 1819, 
and again located in 1825 ; but was readmitted once 
more m 1834. In 1836 he was elected assistant agent 
of the Methodist Book-Concern at New York. In this 
capacity first, and later in that of principal agent, he 
served until 1852, when he retired from all active du- 
ties \n the Church. He died May 0, 1859. Under his 
prudent management, the publishing house, then at 200 
Mulberry Street, assumed almost gigantic proportions, 


LANE 


228 


LAN FRANC 


his industrious and economical business habits having 
gained him the confidence both of the Church and of 
the general public. For about twelve years he was also 
treasurer of the Missionary Society of the M. E. Church, 
By his energy and business tact this society was re- 
lieved of a debt of about sixty thousand dollars, which 
had long crippled its powers of usefulness. Such was 
his earnestness in the missionary cause that lie was fre- 
quently entitled the “ father of the Missionary Society.” 
‘•As a preacher, Mr. Lane was thoroughly orthodox, 
systematic, and earnest, and often overwhelmingly elo- 
quent; his language unstudied, but chaste, correct, sim- 
ple, and forcible.” — Peck. Earl// Methodism, p. 492 sq. ; 
Sprague, Annals of the Amer . Pulpit, vii. 

Lane, John, an eminent minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church South, was born in Virginia about 
1789. II is early life was spent in Georgia, and he was 
some time a student of Franklin College, In 1814 he 
entered the South Carolina Conference; in 1815 was 
sent to the “Natchez Circuit,” and was thrown much in 
contact with the Creek and Cherokee Indians, where his 
heroism and success were alike conspicuous; in J8IG he 
assisted in organizing the Mississippi Conference, then 
a vast and almost trackless region, now constituting four 
Conferences and part of a fifth. In 1820 he was dele- 
gate to the General Conference at Baltimore, and pre- 
siding elder on the Mississippi District. During this 
year his father-in-law, Lev. Newit Vick, died, and Mr. 
Lane was obliged to locate, to care for bis large estate 
and numerous family, lie remained located for eleven 
years, during which he successfully founded the city of 
Vicksburg on Ins father-in-law’s estate, and so saved 
it, and educated the orphan children. He was also an 
extensive merchant, probate judge of the county, and 
director of the Railroad Bank, and one of the most com- 
petent and influential business men of the state, while 
at the same time be preached continually, and filled 
Vicksburg station one year. In 1831 lie re-entered the 
Conference, and spent most of his subsequent career in 
the presiding eldership. For many years he was presi- 
dent of the Board of Trustees of Centenary College, and 
was still longer president of the Conference Missionary 
Society. He died in 1855. lie was a man of large ca- 
pacities and indomitable vigor. His piety was genial 
and earnest, and his great delight was in preaching the 
Word of Life. He will long be remembered as one of 
the founders of Methodism in the South-west. — Summer, 
Jtiog. Sketches, p. 220 , Sprague, A nneds of the A inerican 
J'uipit, vii. (G. L. T.) 

Laney, Benjamin, D.D., a prelate of the Church of 
England, was bishop of Peterborough from 1050 to 1003 ; 
was then transferred to Lincoln, where he remained un- 
til 1007, when lie was transferred to the bishopric of Ely. 
lie died about 1075. Some of bis sermons were pub- 
lished in 1002 and 1075. He was considered a very 
learned divine, and of great acumen, — ABibone, Diet, of 
A uthors, ii, I05C. 

Lanfranc, the most noted foreign churchman who 
rose to distinction in the English Church of the Middle 
Ages, was born of a senatorial family in Pavia, Italy, 
about 1005; studied law in Bologna, but not without 
attention to other subjects; returned to Pavia, where he 
taught jurisprudence, and also the liberal arts, with 
great success. I Ic soon gave his attention exclusively to 
the latter, the liberates discipline, and especially to dia- 
lectics, and, leaving his own country, he travelled over 
a large, part of France, until, induced perhaps by the 
fame of William, duke of Normandy, lie settled in Av- 
ranches with some of bis old pupils. lie there won 
great distinction as a teacher, but in 1042, having de- 
termined upon a more private and contemplative life, 
he betook himself to Rouen, where, in fulfillment of 
such a purpose, according to his biographer Crispinus, 
he proposed to reside. On his way thither he was fall- 
en upon by robbers, bound to a tree, and there, stricken 
in conscience for wliat lie deemed a too selfish fear, and 


for his unfitness to find consoling communion with God 
in t lie hour of peril, lie made a vow, should he escape 
with his life, to enter a monastery. Delivered from the 
hands of the robbers by some passing travellers, lie en- 
tered the cloister of Bee, of the Benedictine Order. After 
three years of quiet, he began again, at the instance of 
llerluin, the abbot of Bee, to give instruction, and Bee 
became the resort of students from every class, both 
clergy and laity, and from many lands. Made prior of 
the monastery in 1040, he established a more extensive 
and systematic course of study, sacred as well as secular, 
unusual attention being given to grammar and dialec- 
tics. In respect to the former, Lanfranc’s influence con- 
tributed greatly to revive the general study of Latin, 
and in dialectics he is a forerunner of the schoolmen. Ex- 
egesis, and patristic, but especially speculative theology, 
were pursued. Anselm was among his pupils at Bee, 
and also the future pope Alexander II. During this 
period, about 1040, occurred Lanfranc’s first dispute with 
his former friend Berengar, then archdeacon at Angers, 
on the subject of the Lord’s Supper. The latter, while 
defending the opinions of Scot us Erigena, sought in a 
letter to persuade Lanfranc; but the letter, fading into 
the bands of others, gave rise to such charges of hereti- 
cal fellowship against Lanfranc that he was provoked, 
in defending himself at Rome and Vercelli in 1050, to a 
violent attack upon Berengar. The learning which he 
displayed in this controversy greatly increased Lan- 
franc’s fame for scholarship, and lie was now invited to 
the position of abbot in various cloisters, and was treat- 
ed with special favor by William of Normandy. It is 
related that, on occasion of some false charges, the duke 
fell out with him, and banished him from his dominions, 
A lame horse was given him for the journey, and, seated 
on it, he happened to meet the duke, who could not help 
noticing the laughable hobbling of tlie animal, when 
Lanfranc took occasion to sav to him, “You must give 
me a better horse if you wish me out of the country, for 
with this one 1 shall never get over the border.” The 
jest won the duke’s attention, and an explanation fol- 
lowed, which established Lanfranc in a position of per- 
manent favor, lie was employed by William in 1000 
to secure from the pope Nicholas II liberty to marry a 
near relative, a princess of Flanders. This allowance 
was obtained on the condition that William should found 
two cloisters, one for monks and another for nuns. Over 
the monastery of St. Stephen, at Caen, which was there- 
upon established, Lanfranc was installed in 1003 as ab- 
bot, Anselm succeeding him in that capacity at Bee. 
The dispute with Berengar meanwhile continued. The 
latter, though constrained at Rome in 1050, through 
fear, to recognise the. doctrine of Pasehasius Radbertus, 
nevertheless afterwards sought to spread his former sen- 
timents, and was bitterly opposed by Lanfranc in bis 
work, Dc corpora et sanguine Dorn. .Jesu Christ i, aur. 
Berengar Turouensem . published between the years 1004 
and 1009. In this work the doctrine of transubstantia- 
tion is clearly contained. Berengar issued a reply, l)e 
sacra ccena adv. Lunfruncmn (an edition of which was 
published hv Yischcr in Berlin in 18341. The ability 
with which this controversy was conducted on both sides 
has been confessed. Severe personal charges are min- 
gled with argument, and, whatever fault may have been 
established against Berengar, his opponent was not with- 
out blame nor without prejudice in dealing with patris- 
tic authorities. While at Caen, Lanfranc steadfastly 
refused the archbishopric of Rouen, but, upon the ad- 
vice of his old abbot llerluin, he accepted in J070, with 
much reluctance, the archbishopric of Canterbury, which 
was urged upon him bv William of Normandy, at this 
time on the throne of England. His task in the areh- 
bisliopric was by* no means light, inasmuch as he was 
obliged not only to control and amend the rudeness and 
ignorance of his own clergy, hut to defend also the au- 
thority of his primacy against the other prelates, espe- 
cially Thomas of York and Odo of Bayeux and Kent. 
The self-will of the king also gave him much trouble, 


LANG 


220 


LANG 


ami lie was frequently tempted to retrace his steps to 
the cloister, but was urged by pope Alexander 11 to con- 
tinue his public labors. The violent disposition of Wil- 
liam Rufus, who ascended the throne in 1087, was a fur- 
ther annoyance. Notwithstanding all these difficulties, 
he labored perseveringlv in the erection of churches and 
cloisters, in multiplying correct copies of the fathers 
and of the holy Scriptures, in the extension of learning 
and improvement of manners in clergy and people, and 
in care for the sick and the poor. 4i Under his spiritual 
rule,” says a noted Church historian, the Church of 
England received as strong an infusion of the Norman 
element as was forced upon the political system of Eng- 
land by the iron hand of the Conqueror.” His active 
and prudent influence was also often employed in state 
affairs. 

Lanfranc’s relation, while archbishop of Canterbury, 
to the papal chair forms an important feature of his life. 
He was on a friendly footing with Alexander 11, his for- 
mer pupil, and went to receive at his hands the pallium 
of his oflice, though he had at first desired, in accord- 
ance with the king’s wishes, that it should be sent to 
him to England. Gregory VII, greatly displeased with 
William’s independent conduct, and his inclination to 
restrain the bishops from visiting Rome, sharply com- 
plained to Lanfranc that he had also lost his former 
spirit of obedience to papal authority. Lanfranc pro- 
tested his continued affection for the Church, and de- 
clared that he had sought to win the king to conformity 
in certain particulars (as specially in the matter of Pe- 
ter’s pence), but said little concerning his general rela- 
tion to the king, or that of the latter to the pope. lie 
seems to have known that a certain degree of consider- 
ation, more than he liked definitely to express, must be 
allowed to the rov.al wishes. The pope’s command to 
Lanfranc to appear in Lome within four months under 
threat of suspension lie openly and without answer dis- 
obeyed. A letter of Lanfranc to an unknown corre- 
spondent (. Ep . 59), who sought to gain his adhesion to 
the rival pope, Clement II, places him in a neutral po- 
sition as between the two popes, and as awaiting, with 
the government of England, further light on the subject. 
Something of Lanfrane’s coldness towards Gregory may 
perhaps he explained by the fact that he saw in this 
pope (as is apparent in a letter cited by Gieseler) a pro- 
tector of his enemy Berengar. Lanfranc died May 28, 
1080, two years after the death of William the Con- 
queror. 

Besides his work against Berengar maybe mentioned 
his Dec ret u pro online, S’ ain't i Benedict i: — Epistolariim 
Liber, containing 00 letters, 41 written by him and 10 
addressed to him: — De cehinda confessione, a fragment 
of an address in defence of his primatical authority,- and 
Commentaries on tit. Paul's Epistles. His biography of 
William the Conqueror has been lost. The first com- 
plete edition of Lanfranc’s writings was published by 
D’Acherv, a Benedictine (Paris, 1048, fob); the earliest, 
edition is entitled B. Lanfranci Opera (Paris, 1508, fob) ; 
the latest edition is by Giles (Ox. 1844-45, 2 vols. 8vo). 

Sec Mih> Crispinus, Vita B. Lanfranci; Cadmer, Vita 
A nselmi; Chronicon Biccense; Malmesbury, (Jest a . I ng/o - 
rum, book iii; Acta tianctonnn, Mail, tom. vi ; M older, 
Gesa incite tichriftev , voh i; Hasse, Anselm, vol. i; Su- 
demlorf, Berengarius Turonensis (Hamburg and Gotha. 
1850) ; Gieseler, Ch. I list, ii, 102; Churton, Early English 
Church , p. 200, 201 sq., 302; Palmer, Ch. Hist. p. 10(1 sq. ; 
Milman, Latin Christianity, iii. 438-440 : Hook, Lives of 
the Archbishops of Canterbury, voh ii (1801); Hill, Mo- 
nasticism in England, p. 337 sq.; Herzog, Ileal- Encyklop. 
s. v. ; \\ etzer u.Welte, K irchen- Lcxihon, s. v. (E. B. ( ).) 

Lang, Graorg Heinrich, a distinguished German 
theologian, was horn Nov. 28, 1740, at Oettingen. lie 
received a scientific education in his native town, and 
pursued theology at the University of Jena. In 1705 
he assumed a pastorate at Biihh and in 1770 accepted a 
call to Ilohen-und-Nieder-Altheim. From 1774 to 1779 
he filled the position of superintendent and pastor at 


Troclitelsingen, and in the latter year returned to his 
late pastorate. In 1780 he became court preacher and 
ecclesiastical counsellor to the reigning princess at Rat- 
isbon. He died March 15, 1800. Lang exerted no little 
influence in the progress and culture of religious learn- 
ing. His Dictionary of the N. T. ( Worterbuch des neuen 
Testcxmentes ), which appeared in 1778, placed him in the 
front rank of writers on the theory and history of the 
Christian religion. His intense zeal for the practical in 
later life directed his literary activity to the popular 
treatment of religious truth ; hence appeared Katechet- 
isches Magazin; Xeues Magazin; A scetische Bibliothek , 
and numerous sermons and liturgical writings. In his 
homiletical writings he developed many new and happy 
ideas, peculiarly adapted to the exigencies of the times. 
Many estimable traits of character botli adorned his pri- 
vate life and enhanced his merits as a teacher of relig- 
ious truth. For a list of his works, see During, Gelehrte 
Theol. Beutschlands, ii, 229. 

Lang, Joseph, a German Jesuit, was born in 1746 
at Briinn, in Bohemia, and was educated at his native 
eitv. The Jesuits then sent him to Olmutz to pursue 
philosophy, and finally to the University of Prague, 
where he completed a course of theology. He was or- 
dained in 1773. In 1780 he accepted a call to a Catho- 
lic Church in Leipzie, and in 1783 was chosen court 
preacher at Dresden. In 1802 lie received the office of 
superintendent of the Catholic infirmary at the latter 
place. He died Dec. 28, 1806. Lang acquired the rep- 
utation of a popular and eloquent pulpit orator. Be- 
sides frequeut contributions to journals, he published 
several sermons. See During, Gelehrte Theol. Deutsch - 
lands, ii, 233. 

Lang, Lorenz Johann Jakob, a German theo- 
lugian, born in Selb, in the principality of Baireuth, on 
May 16, 1731, was the son of a stocking-maker, and be- 
ing destined by his father to follow the same trade, 
he contended in his desire fur study, which he early 
manifested, with many difficulties. By the assistance 
of his pastor, however, lie acquired a thorough knowl- 
edge of the Latin and Greek, and entered in 1743 the 
lyceum at Culmbach. Indefatigable in his industry, 
he became thoroughly versed in philosophy and the- 
ology, as is evinced in the disputations De preestan- 
tia philosophic \V of fame, and De pontifee calesti. Novi 
Testament i, after the defence of which he entered the 
University of Erlangen in 1751. After quitting Erlan- 
gen, he went to Baireuth in 1756 as tutor. A few 
months later he became subrector in Baireuth. In 1758 
he was appointed professor of the Oriental languages 
and of the fine arts at the Gymnasium of Baireuth. In 
1767 he was appointed court librarian, and in 1789 the 
first professor and inspector of the alumni, and in 1795 
the first counsellor. He died Sept. 18, 1801. Lang wrote 
extensively, but most of his writings are in the form of 
dissertations. A complete list is given by During, Ge- 
lehrte Theol. Deutschlamls , vol. ii, s. v. 

Lang (of Wkllknbuhg), Matthaus, a noted Ger- 
man prelate of the Roman Catholic Church, an acknowl- 
edged natural brother of the emperor Maximilian I, was 
born in Augsburg in 1469, and educated at the Univer- 
sity of Ingolstadt. He was secretary first to Frederick 
HI and later to Maximilian I. At the same time he 
held positions in the Church. 1 1 e was successively priest 
at Augsburg and Constance until 1505, when he was ap- 
pointed bishop of Gurk. Inclined towards the schis- 
matics of the Council of Pisa, and feared on account ot 
his influence over the emperor, who was following the 
lead of Lang, the youthful bishop received the cardinals 
hat from pope Julius II in 1511. Of course the eonterred 
honor made the trusted adviser of Maximilian an obe- 
dient servant of the pontiff. Lang rested not until peace 
was restored between emperor and pope, so long at va- 
riance. See Latkkan, Council of. 1513 ; Pisa. Coun- 
cil of; Julius II. In 1514 he was made coadjutor of 
the archbishop of Salzburg, and iii 1519 sole incumbent 


LANGBAIXE 


230 


LANGE 


of that archiepiscopal see. In 1518 he attended the I Lange, Joachim, a noted German Lutheran tlie- 
diet at Augsburg, and was active both for the election | ologian, one of the heads of the so-called Pietistic school, 
of Charles V as king of Home, and the submission of Lu- was born at Gardelegen, in Saxony, Oct. 26, 1670. He 


ther. First inclined to liberal action towards those who 
clamored lor reform, threatening to quit the Church un- 
less their wishes were heeded, he changed front sudden- 
ly after he had gained over Johann Staupitz (q. v.); 
crushed the revolutionary movements of the Salzburgers 
in 1523 ; in the year following joined the Komish League 
(q. v.) ; and in 1525, assisted by Bavaria, suppressed the 
peasant insurrections. At the Diet of Augsburg in 1530 
lie openly declared himself a bitter opponent of Luther, 
lie died in March, 1540. A narrative of cardinal Lang’s 
travels in Austria, Hungary, and the Tyrol was publish- 
ed by his chaplain Bartholinus, under the title Odepor- 
icon de Matthcei cardinalis (Vienna, 1511, 4to). This 
work is now very rare (comp. Gdtz, Dresdener Bibliothek, 
lii, 37). Vehse ( Memoirs of the Court , A nstocracy and 
Diplomacy of Austria [transl. by Demmler, Lond, 1856, 

2 vols. sra. 8vo], i, 31) thus comments on his character : 
‘•Lang was an exceedingly eloquent and adroit man, 
yet he was just as famous for his elasticity of conscience 
as for cleverness. lie surpassed in splendor all the car- 
dinals and archbishops of his time, and in this respect 
certainly did not belie his Caesarean descent.” See also 
Hansitz, Germania Sacra, vol. ii ; Dtieker, Chronik v. 
Salzburg; Braun, Gesch. d. B. B. V. Augsburg , vol. iii ; 
Yeith, Bibliotheca Augustana, Alphabet v, p. 25-116; 
Wetzcr und Welte, Kirchen-Lex. vi, 348. See also the 
article Maximilian. (J. 11. W.) 

Langbaine, Gerard, D.D., an English divine and 
philologist, was born at Bartonkirke, in Westmoreland, 
about i608. lie studied at Blencow, Cumberland, then 
became successively a servitor, scholar, and fellow of 
Queen’s College, Oxford, and held the places of keeper 
of archives to the university and provost of Ids college 
for a good many years before his death, which happened 
in 1658. He was a studious and timid man, who con- 
trived to steer through the political storms of his time 
without giving serious offence to any party. He edited 
Longinus, and published several works of his own, chief- 
ly oil Church questions. The most important of them 
arc, Episcopal Inheritance , etc. (Oxford, 1641, 4to ) : — A 
Bedew of the Covenant (Oxford, 1644 ; Lond. 1661, 4to) : 
— Qucestiones pro more solenmi in Vesperiis propositie 
amt. 1651 (Oxf. 1658, 4to). He also worked on Usher’s 
Chronologia Sacra , transl. from the French into Eng- 
lish an account of the Council of Trent (Oxford, 1638, 
fol.), and is considered the author of ,4 View of the Xew 
Directory , and a Vindication, of the ancient Liturgy oj 
the Church of England (Oxford, 1615, 4to). lie left also 
some imprinted collections, including several catalogues 
of MSS., which have often been referred to by War ton 
and others. See Wood, A theme O.ron . vol. ii; Chaufe- 
pie, Xouveau Dictionnaire Historique ; English Cyclopes - 
dia ; lloefer, Xour. Biog. Gen. xxix, 384. (J. N. 1\) 

Langdon, Samuel, D.D., a Congregational minis- 
ter, was horn in 1722 in Boston. lie graduated at Har- 
vard College in 1740, and was ordained colleague pas- 
tor in Portsmouth. X. 11., Feb.4, 1747. In 1774 he was 
elected president of Harvard College, which position he 
resigned Aug. 30. 1780, and was ordained, Jan. 18, 1781, 
pastor at Hampton Falls. He died in the last-named 
place Nov. 20, 1707. Langdon published J « impartial 
Examination of Mr. Robert Sandeman's Letters on The - 
ron and . 1 spado ( 1 7 65 ) : — . I Summary oft 'hristian Faith 
and Practice, drawn up principally in Scripture language 
( 17t>*S ) : — Dudleian Lecture in Harvard College (1775); 
— Observations on the Revelations of Jesus Christ to St . 
John (1791, 8 vo ): — Corrections of some grand Mistakes 
committed by Rev, John Cozens Ogden (1702 ): — Remarks 
on the leading Sentiments of Rev. Dr. Hopkins's System of 
Doctrines in a Letter to a Friend (1704); and several 
occasional sermons. He also published, in company with 
Cob J. Blanchard, a map of New Hampshire (1761). — 
Sprague, A rmals, i, 455. 


entered the University of Lcipzic in 1680 to study the- 
ology. Here he became intimate with H.A. Franke, 
and, besides other subjects, applied himself especially 
to the study of the Eastern languages. In 1600 he ac- 
companied Franke to Erfurt, and in 1601 to Halle. In 
1606 he was made corector of Kdslin, Teetor of the Gym- 
nasium of Friedrieliswerder, at Berlin, in 1607, and final- 
ly professor of theology at Halle, May 7, 1744. His con- 
troversies against the philosopher Christian Wolff, in 
whose banishment from llalle lie was greatly instru- 
mental, and against all philosophical systems, whether 
atheistical, Jewish, or Mohammedan, prove him to have 
been fond of controversy, more learned than profound, 
and greatly wanting in method. The part he played in 
the Pietistic controversies was not very brilliant. It is 
not certain, but appears probable, that lie was the au- 
thor of the Orihodoxia vapulans (1701) against the the- 
ologians of Wittenberg (see G. Walch, Lehrstreitt. inner- 
halb d. evang. luth. Kirche , i, 844 sq.). His A ntibarbanis 
orthodoxiee (1709-11), written in answer to Sehelwig’s 
Synopsis Controversiurum sub pieiat is pra- text u mot arum , 
is a good specimen of his system, which generally at- 
tached itself to particular points of a subject instead of 
the whole. G. Walch (see above) gives an extensive 
list of his other works on this topic. His controversy 
with Christian Wolff, the distinguished pupil of Leib- 
nitz, is the most important. The school of the latter 
had produced the Bible of Wertheim, which Lange at- 
tacked in his Der philos. Religionsspotter im ersten Theile 
d.Werthheimischen Bibelicerkes verkappt (1735; 2d edit. 
1736). In that work he advanced his favorite theory, 
which he further developed in his later writings against 
Wolff and others, that their philosophical system was 
purely mechanical. This was followed by his Darstd- 
lung d. Gmndsdtze d.Woljjischen Philosophic (Lpz. 1736, 
4to), and the 150 Eragen aus der neuen mechanischai 
Philosophic (llalle, 17344. He had already given some 
inklings of his views of this system in his Caitssa Dei 
adversus Aiheismum et Pse u d oph ilosoph iam, prase rt im 
Stoicam , Spinoz. ad Wo/Jianam (2d cd. Halle, 1727, 8 vo) 
(sec H. Wuttke, Christian Wolff's eigene Lcbensheschrei - 
bung, Lpz. 1841, Preface). Some of Lange’s exegetieal 
works are yet in use ; such are Comm, hi&t.-herm. de vita 
et epistolis Pauli (llalle, 1718, 4to); — Mosaisehes IAcht 
u.Recht (llalle, 1732, fob), a sort of commentary on all 
the books of the O.T. Also commentaries on various 
other books of Scripture, published at different times, 
and collectively under title Biblia parenthetica (Lcipzic, 
1743, 2 vols. fob). Also Exegesis epp. Petri (Halle, 1712): 
— Joannis (1713, 4to). Among his Historical works wc 
notice Gestalt d. Kreuzreichs Christ i in seiner Vnschuld. 
(Halle, 1713, 8vo): — Erlunternng d. ncueshn JEistorie d. 
evang. Kirche v. 1689 bis 1719 (Halle, 1719, 8vo). Among 
his doctrinal works the most important is his LEconomia 
sulutis evangeliew (2d edition, Halle, 1730, 8vo; German 
translation 1738, often reprinted), against predestination; 
which met with great success. Finally he published 
also a Latin Grammar, which was for a long time very 
popular, and went through a great many editions; and 
an Autobiographic, to which is appended a list of his 
works (Haile and Lpz. 1744). See Herzog, Real-Ency- 
Hop. viii, 194; I hiring, Gelehrte Theol. Deutschlands, ii, 
251 sq. ; Boterinund, Gelehrten Lexikon. s. v.; Dorner, 
Doctrine and Person of Christ, II, ii, 369. 6. ( J. IT . 4\ .) 

Lange, Johann Michael, a German Protestant 
theologian and philologist, was bora at Etzehvangcn, 
near Sulzbaeli, 31 arch 9, 1GG4. lie became successively 
pastor of 1 1 ohenstrauss, llalle, Altdorf, and Prenzlow, 
where he died Jan. 10, 1731. lie wrote fifty-six differ- 
ent works (sec the list in liotermund.Aor. iii, 1227), of 
which the principal arc A phorismi Theoloyici (Altdorf, 
1087) : — De Eabulis Mohamedicis (Altdorf, 1697. 4to): — 
Excrcitatio Philologica de differentia lingua ? Gracorum 
| ceteris el novee seu burbaro-Grcecce (2d edit. Altd, 1702): 


LANGEAIS 


231 


L ANGLE 


— Decas I disputatt. theolog . exegeticarum cum positivo 
polemicarum numero sacro (Altd. 1703, 4to): — De Alco- 
rani prima inter Europceos editione A rabica per Pagani- 
num Brixiensem, sedjussu Pontif. Rom. abolita (Altdorf, 
1703) : — Be Alcorano A rubico et variis spedminibus atque 
novissimis successibns doctorum quorumdum virorum in 
edendo Alcorano A rubico (Altdorf, 1704) : — Be Alcorani 
versionibus variis, tarn oriental, quam occidental, impres- 
sis et avtKOoGHQ (Altdorf, 1705) : — Octo Bissertationes de 
Versione N. T. barbaro-Grceca (Altd. 1705) : — Institutiones 
Pastorales (Nurcmb. 1707) : — Philologia barbaro-Grceca, 
etc. (Nuremb. 1707-8, 2 parts, 4to). See Zeltner, Vitas 
Theolog. (Altd.), p. 468-488; Will, Lexicon, ii, 394-405; 
Kotermund, Suppl. z. Jocher ; Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Gene- 
rale, xxix, 391. (J. N. P.) 

Langeais, Raoul de, a French prelate, was born in 
the beginning of the 11th century. He was brother of 
Fulchredus, abbot of Charroux. Raoul became succes- 
sively dean of the Church of Tours and bishop of that 
diocese in 1072. His election, however, caused great 
disturbances. Ilis enemies having accused him of in- 
cest before Alexander II, the latter deposed and excom- 
municated him. Raoul immediately set out for Rome, 
justified himself, and was restored to his bishopric. 
When Gregory VII succeeded Alexander II the accusa- 
tion was taken up again, but with like result. Still the 
whole Church of France was at the time in a state of 
complete anarchy, and the bishop of Tours was treated 
with the utmost disrespect by his clergy, and especially 
by the monks, in spite of the evident favor of the pope. 
In 1078 he was accused of simony before the Council of 
Poitiers, and unable, it is said, to clear himself other- 
wise, he broke up the council by main force (compare 
Labbe, Concil. x, 366 ; Landon, Manual of Councils, p. 
497). Still Gregory VII merely appointed a committee 
to inquire into the case. IIow this committee decided 
is not known, but all trouble was at an end in 1079, for 
we then find Gregory writing to Raoul inviting him to 
recognise Gebuin, archbishop of Lyons, whom he had 
appointed primate of Gaul, and about the same time 
Raoul was invited to the Council of Badeaux by the 
legate Amat, who calls him “ religionis ecclesiastical ca- 
put honorabilius.” Shortly afterwards he excommuni- 
cated Foulques Recliin, count of Anjou, and Gebuin ap- 
proved his proceedings; but king Philip, angered at 
Langeais for siding with Gregory VII on the question 
of investiture, took the part of the count. Langeais 
was driven from his see, and excommunicated by the 
canons of St. Martin ; the pope, in return, excommuni- 
cated the count of Anjou and all his partisans, while 
Hughes and Amat, legates of the council of Poitiers, 
excommunicated the canons of St. Martin. It is diffi- 
cult to form a correct judgment of these events. It is 
likely, however, that all the trouble resulted from the 
fact that Langeais had entered zealously into the plans 
of reformation of Gregory VII, and therefore, while 
praised by this pope and his adherents, became necessa- 
rily, as a leader of his party in France, an object of ha- 
tred to the opposite faction. Documents show that he 
was governing his diocese again in 1084 and 1086. The 
exact time of his death is not ascertained, but he must 
have died previous to the year 1093. See J. Maan, 
Sacr. et Metr. eccl. Turon.; Gallia Christ, vol. xiv, col. 
63-, Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Gen. xxix, 394 sq. 

Langeland (Gangland or Longland), John, a 
distinguished prelate of the Church of England, was 
born at Henley, England, in 1473, and was fellow ofMag- 
dalcn College, Oxford, and principal of Magdalen Hall 
in 1507. In 1520 he became bishop of Lincoln, and 
confessor to Henry VIII, whom he counseled to divorce 
queen Catharine, lie died in 1547. He published a 
number of sermons and theological treatises from 1517 
to 1540. — Allibone, Bid. of Brit, and Amer. A utkors, ii, 
1057; Thomas, Biographical Bictlonary, p. 1452. 

Langham, Simon of, an English prelate, was born 
about 1310, probably at Langham, in Rutlandshire. In 


1335 he entered the convent of St. Peter, 'Westmin- 
ster, of which he became abbot in 1349, and showed 
great zeal in the reformation of monastic abuses. As a 
reward for his talents Edward III appointed him lord 
treasurer in 1360, and chancellor in 1364. In the mean, 
time (1361) he had been appointed bishop of Ely. In 
1366 he was transferred to the see of Canterbury. The 
principal act of his administration was the deposing of 
the celebrated Wvcliffe (whom his predecessor had ap- 
pointed head of Canterbury Hall, Oxford) on the plea 
that a secular priest was not suitable for the position. 
This injustice perhaps first suggested to Wyclille an in- 
quiry into papal abuses. His proceedings on that occa- 
sion gave great offence to Edward III, and when the 
pope, as a reward, created Langham cardinal of St. Six- 
tus, the king seized on his temporalities, as, by the law, 
the see of Canterbury had become vacant by the pro- 
motion. Langham now went to join the pope, who 
loaded him with favors. He continued to take a part 
in the political affairs of England, vainly trying to rec- 
oncile that country to France. During the last years 
of his life Gregory XI intrusted him with the care of 
the papal affairs at Avignon, where he died July 22, 
1376. His body was taken back to England, and buried 
at Westminster. See Wharton, Anglia Sacra ; Moser, 
Life of Simon of Langham, in the European Magazine , 
1797; Th. Tanner, Biblioth. Britannica ; Baluze, Vitce 
Pap. Aven. vol. i; Hoefer, Nouv . Biog. Generate, xxix, 
409; Collier, Eccles. Ilist. (see Index in vol.viii); Nean- 
der, Church Hist, v, 136. 

Langhorne, John, a minister of the Church of 
England, was born in Westmoreland, England, in 1735; 
obtained a curacy in London in 1764; in 1767 he was ap- 
pointed to the living of Blagden, Somersetshire, in 1777 
became prebendary of Wells, and died in 1779. Lang- 
horne published several works both in prose and poetry ; 
also a volume of his Sermons, preached before the honor- 
able Sodety of Lincoln's Inn (3d ed. Loud. 1773, 2 vols. 
small 8vo). “ His sermons are short, florid, and super- 

ficial.” His most famous work was his translation of 
Plutarch's Lives, on which his brother assisted. See 
Darling, Cyclop. Bibliog. ii, 1765; Allibone, Dictionary 
of British and American Authors, ii, 1057. 

Langhorne, William, M.A., an English divine,, 
was born in 1721. He was presented to the rectory of 
Ilakinge, and received the perpetual curacy of Folke- 
stone in 1754. lie died in 1772, He assisted his broth- 
er, John Langhorne, D.D., in the translation of a popu- 
lar version of Plutarch's Lives, and wrote himself Ser- 
mons on practical Subjects, and the most useful Points of 
Bivinity (2d edition, Loud. 1778, 2 vols. 12mo): — Job, a 
poem ; and a paraphrase in verse of a part of Isaiah. 
See Thomas, Biog. Bid. (Phila. 1871, 8vo), p. 1368. 

Lanigan, John, D.D., an eminent Irish Roman 
Catholic priest, was born at Cashel, Ireland, in 1758, and 
received his scientific and theological education at the 
Irish College in Rome, where he also took his orders.. 
Soon after he was appointed to the chair of Hebrew, 
divinity, and the Scriptures in the University of Pavia. 
In 1796 he was elected to a similar position at May- 
nooth, Ireland, but declined it, and accepted an appoint- 
ment in Dublin Castle, in connection with which lie as- 
sumed in 1799 the duties of editor, librarian,. and trans- 
lator for the Dublin Society. In 1821, becoming insane, 
he was placed in an asylum at Finglas,. near Dublin, 
where he died, July 7, 1828. Among his works are 
the following important ones: Institutionum BUMcarum 
pars prima (Paviaj, 1794, 8vo) : — Protestant's Apology 
for the Roman Catholic Church ( 1809, 8vo) v — Ecclesias- 
tical History of Ireland to the 13 th Century (Dublin,. 1822, 
4 vols. 8vo ; 1*829, 4 vols. 8vo), a work much valued for 
its extensive learning, deep research, and critical acu- 
men. See New Amer. Cyclop, x, 304; Allibone, Diet, 
of British and American Authors, ii, 1058. 

Langle, Jean Maximilian de, a French Protes- 
tant writer, was born at Evreux in 1590, and was made 


LAN GRES 


232 


LANGTON* 


pastor at Rouen in 1015. He died there in 1074. Re- 
sides a dissertation in defence of Charles 1 of England, 
he wrote Les joyes inenarrnbles ft ylorieuses de Vame 
fidele, represented en qvinze Sermons sur le hnitieme 
chap, de VEpitre de Saint Paul aux Romains (Sanmur, 
1001), 8vo) ; and Sermons sur dirers textes de Pecriture. 
— Iloefer, Xouv. Bioy. Generate, xxix, 414. 

Langres, Synod of. From the acts of the Concil- 
ium Tullensc of June, 850, it appears that another (Con- 
cilium IJnyonense) had a short time before been held at 
Langres by the bishops of Charles the Young, king of 
Provence, nephew of Charles the Paid, and son of Lo- 
thairl,to whom Langres belonged as part of Purgundy. 
\Vc find sixteen canones adopted at Langres still extant. 
These were read again in the Synod of Toul (Savon- 
nieres), and incorporated in the acts of that synod’s ses- 
sion held in the early part of June, 850. The canones 
refer partly to political and canonical points, partly to 
dogmas. 'Flic assembled clergy availed themselves of 
the opportunity afforded them by the synod to obtain 
from the princes Charles the Paid, Lothair 1 1, and Charles 
the Young the convocation of yearly provincial synods, 
and two yearly general synods (can. 7). An attempt 
was also made to take the election of bishops out of 
the hands of the laity, wherever these still retained this 
right, and to leave it exclusively with the clergy, under 
the plea that the metropolitan and bishops ol the dio- 
cese were alone able to judge of the qualifications of 
candidates (can. 8). Great opposition was also mani- 
fested against the independence of convents from the 
episcopacy, the interest of discipline requiring that such 
institutions should be visited by the bishops (can. 0). 
They only maintained the right of the convents to ap- 
point their superiors themselves (can. 9 and 12). Much 
was also done in regard to the building of churches, the 
administration of Church property, etc. (can. 13); the 
establishing of schools (can. 10), and the restoration of 
h os pita lia, pererjrinoru m videlicet, et aliornm pro remedio 
animarum receptacula (can. 14). The intervention of 
the temporal power was invoked against raptores, adul- 
ter i rel rapaces, which latter were to be also punished by 
the Church with the full severity of her discipline. Put 
the most important of the decrees adopted by this synod 
are those which refer to the dogma of predestination. 
It is in this Synod of Langres that the bishops of Prov- 
ence appear to have prepared the whole matter, so as 
to have it ready to be submitted to the Synod of Toul 
for the three Carolinian kingdoms (Neustria, Lorraine, 
and Provence). King Charles was himself present, with 
a view to prevent the proceedings becoming a basis 
for the decrees of the future Synod of Toul. In the 
kingdom of Charles the Paid the scmi-Pelaginn views 
of llincmar on that dogma were most generally held, 
whilst in the ancient provinces of Lothair I the Augus- 
tinian views were still officially retained. As the coming 
Synod ol 'Foul was intended to settle all disputes between 
the two kingdoms in regard to political and religious 
questions, the preparatory Synod of Langres had either 
to recall the Augustinian resolutions of the Synod of 
Valence, or to alter them in such a manner that they 
might no longer give offence. They could not agree to 
do the former, and the six canones of Valence were en- 
dorsed; but the expressions against the Synod of Kiersy, 
which offended llincmar and his followers (capitula 
quatuor qiue a eoneilio fratrum nostrorum minus pros- 
peete suseepta sunt propter inutilitatem vel etiam nox- 
ietatein et errorem contrarimn veritati [a pio auditu 
lidelium penitus explodimus]) were omitted from the 
fourth canon. That this was but a half-way and ineffi- 
cient measure had already been sufficiently established 
by llincmar himself in bis work on predestination, cap. 
30: if the canons of Valence were retained.it should be 
done openly, and they should be -courageously .defended, 
and then t lie protestation against the four principles of 
Kiersy could not be considered omitted; but if these 
were omitted, then it. would be consistent to drop the 
resolutions of the Council of Valence (comp. 1 lineman 


Opp. ed. Sirm. i, 23 1 ). Its inefficiency was subsequently 
made evident in the proceedings of the Concilium Tul - 
lense 1 apud Saponarias. Sec Mansi, xv, 537; Ilar- 
douin, v, 481 ; Gieseler, Kirchenyesch. 4th edit. ii. 1, 137 ; 
Gfrorer, K.-G. iii, 2, 881 ; Herzog, Real- EncyHop. viii, 
196. (J.N.R.) 

Langton, Stephen, one of the greatest prelates of 
the early English Church, celebrated alike in ecclesias- 
tical and secular history, was born in the earlier half of 
the 12th century, according to one account in Lincoln- 
shire, according to another in Devonshire, and was edu- 
cated at the Lniversitv of Paris, where he was the fel- 
low-student and associate of Innocent III. Immediate- 
Iv after the completion of his studies he was appointed 
teacher in the. university, and, by successive advances, 
finally rose to the office of its chancellor. On his visit 
to Home about the year 1206, pope Innocent III hon- 
ored him with the purple by the title of Cardinal q/'St. 
Chrysoyonus ; and when, by the rejection for the arch- 
bishopric of Canterbury of the claims both of Reginald, 
the subprior of Christchurch, whom his brother monks, 
without consultation of the king, had in the first in- 
stance appointed to succeed the last archbishop, Hubert, 
and of John dc Gray, bishop of Norwich, whom they 
had afterwards substituted in deference to the com- 
mands of king John, another choice had to be made, 
Innocent 111 favored his old school-associate rather than 
the appointment of John dc Gray, and Langton was 
consequently elected by the English monks who were 
then at Rome, and was consecrated by Innocent at Vi- 
terbo June 27, 1207. John’s determined resistance to 
tliis nomination gave rise to the contest between him 
and the pontiff which had such important results. See 
Innocent 111; John, king of England. The conse- 
quence, in so far as Langton was concerned, was, that he 
was kept out of his see for about six years; till at last, 
after the negotiation concluded by the legate Pamlulf, 
John and the cardinal inet at Winchester in July, 1213, 
and the latter was fully acknowledged as archbishop. 
In the close union, however, that now followed between 
John and Innocent, Langton, finding his own interests 
and those of the clergy in general, in so far as they were 
opposed to those of the king, disregarded by the pope, 
joined the cause of the English barons, among whom 
the eminence of his station and the ascendency of his 
talents soon gave him a high influence, and in whose 
councils lie at once took a prominent part. At the meet- 
ing of the heads of the revolters and the king at Runny- 
mede he was present, and it was through his efforts that 
the charter of Henry I was renewed. Among the sub- 
scribing witnesses to the Mayna Churta his name stands 
first; and from henceforth we find him devoted to the 
cause of the national liberties, which he had just joined, 
without swerving throughout the rest of the contest, a 
course by which lie greatly offended the pope. Indeed, 
so sincerely devoted to the interests of his native coun- 
try was Stephen Langton that he hesitated not to net 
not only in direct opposition to the wishes of his friend, 
the Roman pontiff, but be even refused to comply with 
his demand to publish the document containing the. an- 
nouncement of excommunication of the barons who had 
rebelled against the king, a punishment which Innocent 
sought to inflict in order to please John, whose warm 
partisan he had become after P213. Langton did not 
waver even when threatened with expulsion from the 
archiepiscopal see; he was suspended in 1215, but was 
restored in the year following (in February), and was in 
bis place in 1218 on the accession of Ilcnry 111. From 
this time forward Langton busied himself chiefly with 
the affairs of the Church, instituted many reforms, caused 
the translation of Rocket's relics into a magnificent 
shrine of gold, set with precious stones, and introduced 
into England the mendicant orders. Ik* attended the 
Eateran Council convened at Rome in 1215. Tic died 
July 9, 1228. 

Langton is generally considered one of the most il- 
lustrious men of the age in which he lived. Potli as 


LANGUAGE 


233 


LANIADO 


an ecclesiastic and a writer he has exerted great in- 
fluence. Unfortunately, however, his writings, which 
displayed great learning and ability, are hardly accessi- 
ble. They have hitherto found no editor, nor has any 
one, as far as wc are aware, ever taken the trouble to 
ascertain how much t he commentaries of Langton differ 
from the works of that class by mediaeval Church writ- 
ers. A few of his theological tracts have been printed, 
and lists of all the productions known as his are given 
by Cave and by Tanner. The principal are, De Bene - 
diettombus : — be M aledictionibus : — Summit Theologies : 
— Summit de diver sis : — Repet itiimes ledionum: — Docu- 
ment a Clericorum: — De sacerdotibus Deum nesdentibus: 
— De vent Pcenitentia: — De Similiiuilinibus : — A dam ubi 
es ; and more particularly his Commentary (on a large 
portion of the O.Test,). Dean Hook (in his Lives of the 
A rchbishops of Canterbury, vol. ii [1861], cli. xii) gives 
references to libraries where some of Langton’s writings 
are still preserved-, and wc may add that the library of 
Canterbury Cathedral contains his M orals on Joshua, 
Judges, Until, Samuel, Kings, Tobit, Esther, Ezra, Mac- 
cabees, Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, and the lesser proph- 
ets (comp. Todd [11. J.], Catalogue [Lond. 1802], p. 11 1 
sip). See Fabrieius, Bibl. Med. sEt'i ; Tanner, Billiot h. 
Britannico-IIibern . ; Oudin, Comment, de Script. Eccles. 
vol. ii ; Cave, Script, eccles. Ilist. Litterar. vol. ii ; Ciaco- 
liius, Vital Pont if c. et Cardin, vol. ii; Godwin, De Pra- 
sulibus A nglia Comment arias ; English Cyclop.; Hook, 
Eccles. Biography , vi, 538 sq. ; Milman, Latin Christian- 
ity. v, 25 sq. ; I nett, Hist, of English Church , vol. iii (see 
Index); Cliurton, Early Engl. Ch. p. 355; Collier, Led. 
Hist, (see Index in vol. viii); Hume, Hist, of England , 
vol. i, eh. xi; and the authorities already cited in the 
articles Innocent III, and John, king of England. 

... 

Language (*}VJJ [Chald. tongue; lip). 
An indication of the manner in which man may have 
been led to the formation of a vocabulary is thought to 
be given in Gen. ii, 19. But it is evident from the 
whole scriptural account of creation that speech was co- 
eval with the formation of our first parents. At a later 
date the origin of the various languages on the earth 
(see Van den llonert, De lingua primava, L. B. 1738) is 
apparently given in connection with the building of the 
tower of Babel (comp. Bonier, De linguar. in extruenda 
turri Babyf. ortu, Viteb. 1782) and the dispersion of men 
(Gen. xi); but it is probable that the diversities of hu- 
man speech have rather resulted from than caused the 
gradual divergence of mankind from a common centre 
(Diod. Siculus, i, 8; comp. Jerusalem, Lodges. Betracht. 
Brsehw. 1773, p. 263 sq. ; Eiclihorn, Diversitatis linguar. 
cx tradit. Semii. origines , Gutting. 1788 ; Abbt, Vermisch. 
Sch rift, vi, 96 sq.). See Tongues, Confusion ok. The 
later Jews inferred from Gen. x that there were gener- 
ally on earth seventy (nations and) languages (compare 
Wagenseil, Sota , p. 699; Light foot, Hor. Heb. p. 751, 
1031, 1089: see a list in the Jerusalem Talmud, Megill. 
fob 71, ch. ii). Individual tongues are only mentioned 
incidentally in the Bible, as follows: the Canuunitish 
Isa. xix, 18), the Chaldtean (E^bS *)T-b, 
Dan. i,4), the Aramaian (r^^N, familiar to the Assyr- 
ians [2 Kings xviii, 26], the Magians [Dan. ii, 4], and 
the Persian officials [Ezra iv,7]), the Jewish (r^T-n^, 
i.e. Hebrew; 2 Kings xviii, 26 ; Neb. xiii, 24; compare 
Esther viii, 9; Josephus, Apian , ii, 2), the Ashdodite 
(mTITi'N, Neh. xiii, 24); in the N. T. the Hebrew, i. 
e. Syro-Chaldee ('E fioaic, ‘ E/3p atari, Acts xxii, 2, etc.), 
the Greek (?) 1 EXAi/i'ik/;, ' EAAi/fkjti, John xix, 20 ; Acts 
xxi, 37 ; Rev. ix, 11), rhe Latin (Voyidiari, John xix, 
20; Luke xxiii, 38), and the Lycaonian (Aiucaorurri, 
Acts xiv, 11). It. is remarkable that, in all the inter- 
course of the Hebrews with foreign nations, mention is 
very rarely made of an interpreter (Gen. xiii, 23); but 
the passages in 2 Kings xviii, 26: Isa. xxxvi, 11. prove 
that the common Jews of the interior at least did not 
understand the Aramaean dialect. That the Jews of 


later times, especially the bigoted citizens of Palestine, 
despised heathen languages, is notorious (Josephus, Ant. 
xx, 11, 2); that they made use of the Greek, however, 
is evident from the Talmud (Sota, ix, 14; comp. Jada - 
im, iv, 0, where Homer is mentioned), to say nothing of 
theN.T. — Winer. ii, 498. See Hellenist. The ques- 
tion as to the common language of Palestine in the time 
of onr Lord and his apostles lias been keenly discussed 
by learned writers with very opposite conclusions. On 
the one hand, Du Pin (Dissert, ii), Mill (A 7 . T. p. 8), Mi- 
ehaelis (Jut rod. iii), Marsh (ibid, notes), Weber (Enter- 
such. iib. d. Ev. der Hibriter, Tub. 1806), Kuinbl (Com- 
ment. i, 18), Olsliansen (Echtheit der Evany. Kdnigsberg, 
1823, p. 21 sq.), and especially De Rossi (Della lingua 
propria di Cristo, Parma, 1772), and Pfannkuche (in 
Eichhorn’s Allgem. Bibliothelc , viii, 365 sq.) contend lor 
the exclusive prevalence of the Arauuean or Syro-Chal- 
dee at the time and in the region in question. On the 
other hand, Capped (Observittt.in N. T. p. 110), Basnagc 
(Annul, ad an. 64), Masch (Tow der Grundspntche Mat- 
thcei ), Lardner (Supplement to Credibility, etc., i, c. 5), 
Wakeus (Comment a r ins. p. 1), and more particularly 
Yossius (De Oraculis Sibyll. Oxon. I860, p. 88 sq.), and 
Diodati (De Christo Grace loquenie, Neap. 1767, London, 
1843), insist that the Greek alone was then and there 
spoken. Between these extremes Simon (Hist. Crit. du 
X. T. Rotterd. 1689, c. 6, p. 56), Fabricy (Litres primi- 
tifs de lit, Revelation , Rome, 1773, i, 1 16), Ernesti (Xeuste 
t'heol. Bibliothelc, i [ 1771], 269 sq.), Hug (Einleit. in d. X. 
T. Tub. 1826, ii, 30 sq.), Binterim (De liny, original i X. 
T. non Latina. Dusscld. 1820, p. 146 sq.), Wiseman flo- 
ra Syriitca. Rom. 1828, i, 69 sq.), and the mass of later 
writers, as Credner (Einleit. in d. X. Test. Halle, 1836), 
Bleek (id. Berk 1862), anil (though with more reserve) 
Roberts (Language of Palestine, London, 1859) hold the 
more reasonable view that both languages were concur- 
rently used, the Aramaean probably as the vernacular at 
home and among natives, and the Greek in promiscuous 
and public circles. For additional literature on this 
question, see Fabrieius, Biblioth. Graca, iv, 700; Bibli- 
cal Repository, 1831, p. 317 sq., 530 sq. ; and the mono- 
graphs cited bv Volbeding, Index Programme turn, p. 18. 
On the Greek of the N.T., see New Testament. On 
the tongues cognate with the Hebrew, see Shemitic 
Languages. 

Languet de Gergy, Jean Joseph, a distinguish- 
ed French prelate, noted for his opposition to the Jan- 
senists, was born at Dijon August 25, 1677. A compa- 
triot anil friend of Bossuet, he was influenced to dedicate 
himself early to the service of the Church. After having 
filled various minor positions, he became bishop of Sois- 
sons in 1715; later (in 1730) lie was promoted to the 
archbishopric of Sens, where, by his zeal and ultramon- 
tane opinions, he brought upon himself several contro- 
versies with the Jansenists, and by his extreme course 
made himself very unpopular. In 1721 the French Acad- 
emy honored him with membership, lie died May 3, 
1753. Languet wrote very extensively. A complete 
list of his works is given by Iloefer, Xouv. Blog. Gene- 
rale. xxix, 441. The most important of his writings are 
Memoir?. pour Vevcque de Soissons contre les religieuses 
du Vul de Grace et les benedict ines de Suint-CorneWe de 
Compi'egne (Baris, 172G, fok): — Opera omnia pro defen- 
sible Const it utionis Unigenitus et adrersus ith ea appelan- 
tes successive edita ; in Latina m linguam conrersit a vit- 
riis doctoribus et ab anctore recognita et emendata (Sens, 
1752, 2 vols. folio). — Hoefer, Xouv. Biog. Generate, xxix, 
441 sq. 

Laniado (or Lanapo), Abraham ben-1 saac, an 
Italian rabbi and commentator, flourished in the latter 
half of the 16th and the first half of the 17th century. 
He wrote a work on the mysteries of the Mosaic law. 
entitled tmEN The Shield of Abraham, which 
consists of seventeen treatises and discourses on circum- 
cision, marriage, almsgiving, confession of sins, repent- 
ance, and mourning for t lie dead. It was printed in 
Venice in 1603, and is very highly esteemed by the 


234 


LANTERN 


LANIADO 


Jews:— A commentary on the Song of Songs, entitled 
~0-n nnpD, Studs of Silver , which was edited by Clo- 
ses Laniado, with the Hebrew text, the Commentary of 
Kashi, the Chaldee Paraphrase, with a Spanish transla- 
tion by the editor, printed in Hebrew characters (Ven- 
ice, 1619), He also wrote a commentary on the Penta- 
teuch, and a commentary on Ruth, Lamentations, Ec- 
clesiastes, and Esther, which have not as yet been pub- 
lished.— Kitto, Bibl. Cyclop, s. v. 

Laniado, Samuel bex-Aoraiiam, another Ital- 
ian rabbi of note, flourished at Aleppo about 1580. He 
wrote a commentary on the Pentateuch, entitled 
m -n, Delightful Vessel, which was first published in 
Venice in 1594-1595. He explains the Pentateuch ac- 
cording to the Sabbatic Lessons [see H aimitarah] in the 
Midrashic manner: — A commentary on Joshua, Judges. 
Samuel, and Kings, entitled “P" 1 Precious Vessel, 
which was first published in Venice in 1603, and ex- 
cerpts of it are printed in Frankfurter’s Rabbinic Bible 
(q. v.). It consists chiefly of extracts from the exposi- 
tions of Kashi, Aben-Ezra, Kalbag, etc. : — A commentary 
on Isaiah, called TS Vessel of Pure Gold (Venice, 

1657). It is a very lengthy commentary, and, like the 
former, is chiefly made up from the expositions of Kashi, 
Aben-Ezra, Kalbag, etc. See Fiirst, Biblioth. Jlebraica , 
ii, 222; Steinsclmeider, Catalogus Libr. JJtbr. in Bibli- 
otheca Bodleiana, col. 2433 ; Kitto, Bibl. Cyclop, s. v. 

Lanka, the ancient name of the capital of Ceylon, is 
celebrated in Hindu mythology as the chief city of the 
giant Havana (q. v.), who, by carrying off Situ, the wife 
of Kama, caused the conquest of Ceylon by the latter 
personage, who is considered as an incarnation of the 
god Vishnu. — Chambers, Cyclop, s. v. 

Lanneau, Bazile E., a Presbyterian minister, was 
born at Charleston, South Carolina, March 22, 1830, and 
was educated at Charleston College, where he graduated 
in 1848. lie completed a course of theology at Colum- 
bia Seminary, S. 0.. in 1851, and was immediately ap- 
pointed tutor of Hebrew in the same institution. In 
1S54 he was ordained, and made pastor of a Church at 
Lake City, Florida; from 1856 to 1858 he was editor of 
the Southern Presbyterian , at Charleston, and then re- 
turned to Lake City. In October, 1859, he was elected 
to the chair of ancient languages in 'Oakland College, 
Miss., which position he held until his death, July 12, 
1860. Lanneau’s linguistic acquirements were very ex- 
tensive. •* lie was not only a scholar, but an accurate 
and well-read divine. 1 1 is style as a writer was chaste 
and clear.” — Wilson, Presb. Hist. A Imanac, 1861, p. 95. 

Lanneau, John Francis, a Presbyterian minis- 
ter, was born at Charleston, South Carolina. August 14, 
1809; was educated at Yale College, class of 1829, and 
studied theology at the theological seminaries of Prince- 
ton, N. J„ and Columbia, S. C. He was ordained in 1833, 
and labored three years for the cause of foreign mis- 
sions; then went as a missionary to Jerusalem. In 1846 
he returned to America, and was called to Marietta, Ga. 
In 1855 he became pastor at Salem, Va., and in 1861 re- 
turned to Marietta, where he died, Oct. 7, 1867. Air. 
Lanneau is represented as an able minister, and always 
eminently influential and acceptable both as a preacher 
and a citizen.- — Wilson, Presb . Hist. . I Imanac , 1868, p. 340. 

Lannis, Jacob W., a Presbyterian minister, was born 
in Haiti inure Co., Maryland, July 8, 1826; received a col- 
legiate education at Muskingum College, Ohio, and at 
Jeilerson College, Pa., where he graduated in 1852. lie 
studied theology at Alleghany City 'rheological Semi- 
nary, and afterwards with Dr. Edwards, of Fort Wayne, 
Ind. In 1856 he was ordained and installed as pastor 
of a Church at Waveland, hid. Jn 1858 he removed to 
Nashville, Tennessee, and died there Aug. 9, 1859. Mr. 
Lannis was very successful in his brief ministry. — Wil- 
son, Presb . Hist. Almanac, 1861, p. 95. 

Lansing, Nicholas, a minister of the (Dutch) Re- 


formed Church, was bom at Albany in 1748. lie stud- 
ied theology under Dr. Westerlo, of that city, and was 
licensed to preach by a general meeting of ministers 
and elders in 1780. Among the Dutch clergymen of 
the last two generations, this venerable man held a rep- 
utation for piety and individuality of character that re- 
minds ns of Howland Hill, James Patterson, of Philadel- 
phia, and a few others of similar mould. Many curious 
and interesting stories are told of his unique and godly 
life, and of his holy ministry. lie was, while young, 
captain of a small sailing vessel that ran between Al- 
bany and New York, and was converted to Christ while 
in this calling. Immediately he consecrated himself to 
the ministry, although his health was so feeble that Ids 
physician said he would not live to enter the pulpit. 
But God spared him to serve in his sanctuary fifty-live 
years. lie preached regularly until the second Sabbath 
before his death, at the great age of eighty-seven. “ He 
spent much time day and night in his study, fasting 
much and being much in prayer. He usually spent 
much of the night, and sometimes the whole night, in 
praying. 11 is clothing always gave way first upon the 
knees.” Ilis preaching, which was in the Dutch lan- 
guage, was remarkable for its scriptural character, spir- 
ituality, and utter fearlessness. Striking anecdotes are 
told, and many of his peculiar expressions are yet cur- 
rent, illustrative of these features of his ministry. Oil 
one occasion, in a meeting of classis, when called upon a 
second time by the president to make a brief statement 
of the condition of his Church, the old man rose sud- 
denly and said, “Mr. President, Tappan ! Tappan! all 
Tappan is dead, and I’m dead too.” He sat down and 
said no more until he was asked to pray, and then pour- 
ed out his soul in such strains of “power with God” that 
all who heard him felt that whatever might be the state 
of his people, he. at least, was not “ dead ” yet. He ob- 
served family worship three times daily during a part 
of his life. A great revival of religion followed one of 
his most bold and characteristic sermons in a neighbor- 
ing place, where people were given up to worldliness 
and sin. During his last service he sat in the pulpit, as 
his feebleness obliged him to do frequently in his later 
years. Like Baxter, he could have said 

“1 preached as if I ne’er should preach again, 

And as a dying man to dying meu.” 

Referring to the strain of his ministry among them, he 
said to his people, “ I have never preached to you 4 Do 
and live,’ but ‘ Live and do.’ ” That week he was seized 
with his last illness, during which he was constantly en- 
gaged ill prayer, and in speaking for Christ to those 
who were with him. His last end was peace. Mr. Lan- 
sing was settled first in the united churches of what are 
now Greenbnsh, Linlithgo, and Taghkanic, near Albany, 
during 1781-4, and afterwards at Tappan and Clarks- 
town, in Rockland County, N. Y., 1784-1830, and Tap- 
pan alone 1830-35. His home and church in the latter 
place were near the spot on which major Andre was 
hung in the Revolutionary War. See Corwin, Manual 
of the Reformed Church, p. 134 sq. (W. J. R. T.) 

Lantern (<pavoc, so called for its shining) occurs 
only in John xviii, 3, where the party of men which 
went out of Jerusalem to apprehend Jesus in the garden 
of Gethsemane is described as being provided “with lan- 
terns and torches it there probably denotes any kind 
of covered light, in distinction from a simple taper or 
common house-light, as well as from a flambeau (comp. 
Athenams, xv, 58; Philosen. Gloss.). Lanterns were 
much employed by the Romans in military operations; 
two of bronze have been found among the ruins of Her- 
eidancum and Pompeii. They are cylindrical, with 
translucent horn sides, the lamp within being furnished 
with an extinguisher (Smith, Diet, of Class. A nt. p. 568). 
In the article Lami> it has been shown that the Jewish 
lantern, or, if we may so call it. lamp-frame, was similar 
to that now in use among the Orientals. As the streets 
of Eastern towns are not lighted at night, and never 


LANTERNS, FEAST OF 


LANTERN 235 



Ancient Roman Lantern. (On the left is a separate view 
of one of the corner-pieces ; on the right is the extin- 
guisher.) 


Modern Oriental Lantern. 



were so, lanterns are used to an extent not known among 
us. Such, doubtless, was also formerly the ease; and it 
is therefore remarkable that in but a single instance the 



Q 


Egyptian monuments offer any trace of the 
use of a lantern. In this case it seems to 
be borne by the night-watch, or civic guard, 
and is shaped like those in com- 
mon use among ourselves (Wil- 
kinson, A vc. Eg. ii. 72). A simi- 
lar lantern is at this day used in 
Persia, and perhaps does not ma- 
terially differ from those men- 
tioned in Scripture. More com- 
mon at present in Western Asia 
is a large folding lantern of wax- 
ed cloth strained over rings of 
Ordinary Eastern Lan- wire, with a top and bottom of 
terns. tinned copper. It is usually about 



two feet long by nine inches in diameter, and is earned 
by servants before their masters, who often pay visits to 
their friends at or after supper-time. In many Eastern 
towns the municipal law forbids any one to be in the 
streets after nightfall without a lantern. — Kit to. 

Lantern, in Italian or modern architecture, a small 
structure on the top of a dome, or in other similar situ- 
ations, for the purpose of admitting light, promoting 
ventilation, or for ornament. In Gothic architecture 
the term is sometimes applied to louvres on the roofs of 
halls, etc., but it usually signifies a tower which lias the 
whole height, or a considerable portion of the interior, 
open to view from the ground, and is lighted by an up- 
per tier of windows: lantern-towers of this kind are 
common over the centre of cross churches. The same 
name is also given to the light open erections often 
placed on the tops of towers; these sometimes have 
spires rising from them, but in such cases they are less 
perforated with windows. Lanternes ties Marts occur 
only in the ehureh-yards on the Continent ; they were 
simply pillars, with a place for a light on the top simi- 
lar to small light-houses, and it is not improbable that 
something of the kind was adopted in the early Roman 
cemeteries, and so has given origin to some of the Irish 
round towers, which may well have been used, at least 
in some instances, for this purpose. — Parker, Glossary of 
Architecture, s. v. 



Lanterns, Feast of, is a Chinese festival, observed 
in the evening of the 15th day of January by every 
Chinese of respectability, who illuminates, with a great 
number of wax candles, a large lantern, displaying more 
or less splendor, according to the circumstances of the 
owner. Some of them are valued at several thousand 
dollars, on account of the decorations bestowed on them, 
and are from twenty to thirty feet in diameter. The 
Chinese ascribe the rise of this festival to a sail acci- 
dent which happened in the family of a certain man- 
darin, whose daughter, as she was walking one evening 
on the bank of a river, fell in and was drowned. Her 
father, in order to find her, embarked on board a vessel, 
carrying with him a great number of lanterns. The 
whole night was spent in search of her, hut to no pur- 
pose. However, this ceremony is annually kept up in 
memory of the mandarin’s daughter. In some respects 
this festival resembles that observed by the ancients in 



230 


LAODICEA 


LANTFREDUS 


honor of Ceres, when her votaries ran up and down the 
streets with lighted torches in their hands, in imita- 
tion of the hurry and confusion of the goddess when in 
quest of her daughter Proserpine. Others ascribe the 
rise of this Chinese festival to an extravagant project 
of one of their emperors, who shut himself up with his 
concubines in a magnificent palace, which he illumi- 
nated with a great number of splendid lanterns. The 
Chinese, scandalized at his behavior, demolished his 
palace, and hung the lanterns all over the city. Ihit, 
however uncertain its origin, it seems pretty definitely 
established that the lantern-festival was observed as 
early as A. I). 700 (comp. Williams, Middle Kingdom , ii, 
8-2).‘ 

One peculiar eustom of this feast is the grant of 
greater license to married women, who on other even- 
ings, by Chinese custom, arc obliged to confine them- 
selves to their homes. The goddess called Mother (q. j 
v.) is worshipped by them at this time, particularly by 
married but childless women, ‘'expecting or desiring, as : 
a consequence of such devotional acts to ‘Mother,’ to 
have male offspring.” See Broughton. Bibliotheca Hist. 
Sacra, ii, 4; Doolittle, Social Life of the Chinese (New i 
York, 1807, 2 vols. l'2mo), ii, 34 sq. (J. II. W.) 

Lantfredus or Lamfridus, a disciple of bishop 
Etheluold of Winchester, flourished in the latter part of 
the 10th century, lie is known only by his life of St. 
Swithun, which is very interesting, as it affords fine fa- 
cilities for studying the manners and history of his time. 

11 is style is very inflated, and it is rendered obscure by 
the adoption of numerous words formed from the Creek 
language.” The editions of Lantfredus arc those of Ilcn- 
rv Wharton, Anglia Sacra, i (Lond. 1091, folio), 322: — 
Banff redi epistola pnemissa Histories de Miraeulis S wi- 
th ini, Acta Sanctorum Julii, x (Antwerp, 17 19, fob), 328- 
337: — Smith uni Vita ef Miracula, per Lamfrulinn Mo- 
iiachum \V inton. See Darling, Cyclop. Bibliogr. ii, 1707. 

Laodice'a [strictly Laodici 'a] ( Aaoc ’actia. jus- 
tice of the people ), the name of several cities in Syria 
and Asia Minor, but one of which, usually called Laodi- 
cea ad Bycum (from its proximity to the river LyeusY 
is named in Scripture, It lay on the confines of Phrygia 
and Lydia, about forty miles east of Ephesus, and is that 
one of the ‘‘seven churches in Asia” to which John was 
commissioned to deliver the awful warning contained in 
Bov. iii, 14-19. The fulfilment of this warning is to be 
sought in the history of the Christian Church which 
existed in that city, and not in the stone and mortar of 
the city itself; for it is not the city, but “ the Church ol 
the Laodiceans,” which is denounced. It is true, how- 
ever, that the eventual fate of that Church must have 
been involved in that of the city. (See an account of 
the synod at Laodieea, in Phrygia, A.D. 350-389, in 
55m Drey's Theol. Quarfalsehr. 1824, p. 3 sq.) 

Laodieea was the capital of Greater Phrygia (Strabo, 
xii, p. 570; Pliny, v, 29; or Phrygia Pacatiana, accord- 
ing to the subscription of J Tim.), and a very' consider- 
able city (Strabo, p. 578) at the. time it was named in 
the New Testament ; but the violence of earthquakes, 
to which this district has always been liable, demolished. 


transactions and an extensive trade in wood were car- 
ried on (Cicero, ad Fam. ii, 17; iii, 5; Strabo, xii, p. 
577 ; compare Yitruv. viii, 3). The place often suffered 
from earthquakes, especially from the great shock in the 
reign of Tiberius, in which it was completed destroyed; 
but the inhabitants restored it from their own means 
(Tacit. A nn. xiv, 27). The wealth of the citizens crea- 
ted among them a taste for the arts of the Creeks, as is 
manifest from the ruins; and that it did not remain l>e- 
hind-hand in science and literature is attested hv the 
names of the sceptics Antioehus and Theiodas, the suc- 
cessors of ^Enesidemus (Diog. Laert. ix, 11, § 100; 12, § 
110), as well as by the existence of a great medical 
school (Strabo, xii, p. 580). During the I toman period 
Laodieea was the chief city of a Homan conventus (Cic- 
ero, ad Fam. iii, 7 ; ix, 25; xiii, 54, G7 ; xv, 4; ad Aft. 
v, 15. 10, 20, 21; vi, 1, 2, 3, 7; in J err. i, 30). Many 
of its inhabitants were Jews, and it -was probably owing 
to this circumstance that at a very early period it be- 
came one of the chief seats of Christianity [we have 
good reason for believing that when, in writing from 
Home to the Christians of Colossa?, Paul sent a greeting 
to those of Laodieea, he had not personally visited either 
place. But the preaching of the Gospel at Ephesus 
I (Acts xviii, 19-xix, 41) must inevitably have resulted 
in tlie formation of churches in the neighboring cities, 

| especially where Jews were settled. Sec Laodiceans, 
Epistle to the], and the see of a bishop (Coloss, ii, 1; 
iv, 15 sq. ; Hev. i. 11 ; iii, 14 sq. ; Josephus, A nt. xiv, 10, 
20; llierocl. p. GG5). The Byzantine writers often men- 
tion it, especially in the time of the Comneni; and it 
was fortified by the emperor Manuel (Nicet. Chon. .Dm. 
p. 9, 81). During the invasion of the Turks and Mon- 
gols the city was much exposed to ravages, and fell into 
decay; but the existing remains still attest its former 
greatness (sec Smith’s Diet, of Gr. and Rom. Geog. s. v. 
LaodiceiaY Smith, in his Journey to the Si ren Chnrch- 
\ es (1071), was the first to describe the site of Laodieea. 
He was followed by Chandler. Cockerell, and L’ocoeke; 
and the locality lias, within the present, century, been 
visited by Mr. Hartley, Mr. Arundell, Col. Leake, and 
Air. Hamilton. 

“Laodieea is now a deserted place, called by the 
Turks FsH-hissar (“Old Castle”), a Turkish word equiv- 
alent to Paleo-kastro, which the Greeks so frequently 
apply to ancient sites. From its ruins, Laodieea seems 
to have been situated upon six or seven bills, taking up 
a large extent of ground. To the north and north-east 
runs the river Lyons, about a mile and a half distant ; 
but nearer it is watered by two small streams, the Aso- 
pus and Caprus, the one to the west, and the other to 
the south-east, both passing into the Lyeus, which last 
flows into the Marauder (Smith, p. 85). Laodieea pre- 
serves great remains of its importance as the residence 
of the Homan governors of Asia under the tinpirors, 
namely, a stadium, in uncommon preservation, three 
theatres, one of which is 450 feet in diameter, and the 
ruins of several other buildings {Antiq. of Ionia, pt. ii, 
p. 32; Chandler’s Asia Minor, c. 07). Col. Leake says, 
“There are few ancient sites more likely than Laodieea 


some ages after, a great part of the city, destroyed many 
of the inhabitants, and eventually obliged the remainder 
to abandon the spot altogether. The town was origin- 
ally called Diospolis , and afterwards Rhoas (Bliny, v, 
29 ); but Laodieea, the building of which is ascribed to 
Antioclnis Theos, in honor of his wife Lnodiee, was 
probably founded on the old site. It was not far west 
from Colossa?, and only six miles to the west of Ilicrap- 
olis (Hin. Ant. p. 337; Tab. Pent.; Strabo, xiii, p. 029). 
At first Laodieea was not a place of much importance, 
but it soon acquired a high degree of prosperity. It 
suffered greatly during the Mithridatic war (Appian, 
Bell. Mith. 20:* Strabo, xii, p. 578), but quickly recover- 
ed under tiie dominion of Home; and towards the end 
of the republic and under the first emperors, Laodieea 
became one of the most important and flourishing com- 
mercial cities of Asia Minor, in which large money 


to preserve many curious remains of antiquity beneath 
t lie surface of the soil : its opulence, and the earthquakes 
to which it was subject, rendering it probable that val- 
uable works of art were often there buried beneath the 
ruins of the public and private edifices (Cicero. Fjnst. ad 
,1 mic. ii, 17; iii, 5; v, 20; Tacitus. Annal. xiv, 27). A 
similar remark, though in a lesser degree, perhaps, will 
apply to the other cities of the vale ef the M foamier, as 
well as to some of those situated to the north of Mount 
Tmolus; for Strabo (p. 579. 028, 030) informs us that 
Philadelphia, Sardis, and Magnesia of Sipylu^, were, 
not less than Laodieea and the cities of the Marauder as 
far as Apamcia at the sources of that river, subject to 
the same dreadful calamity ( Geography of Asia Minor, 
p. 253)” (Kitto). “ Nothing,” says Air. Hamilton (Re- 
searches in Asia Minor, i, 515), “ can exceed t lie desola- 
tion and melancholy appearance of the site of Laodieea; 


LAODICEA, COUNCIL OF 


237 


LAODICEA, COUNCIL OF 



the lay persons present shall give it 
to each other; and that ended, the 
administration of the holy eucha- 
rist shall proceed. None except the 
priests shall be permitted to ap- 
proach the altar in order to commu- 
nicate. 20. A deacon not to sit in 
the presence of a priest without per- 
mission of the latter. The same con- 
duct is enjoined on subdeacons and 
all inferior clergy towards the dea- 
con. 21, 22. The subdeacon not to 
Undertake any of the functions of 
the deacon, nor touch the sacred vos- 
sels. nor wear a stole. 28. Forbids 
the same to chanters and readers. 
Copper Coin (“medallion’') of Laodieea in Phrygia, with Head of Commodns, 24. No one of the clergy, or of the 
Triumphal Figure, and name of Asiarch. order of ascetics, to enter a tavern. 

25. Forbids the subdeacon to give 

no picturesque features in the nature of the ground on j the consecrated bread and to bless the cup. 62. Pro- 
which it stands relieve the dull uniformity of its undu- hibits persons not appointed thereto by a bishop from 
lating and barren hills; and, with few exceptions, its meddling with exorcisms. 27. Forbids the carrying 
gray and widely-scattered ruins possess no architectural away of any portion of the agapa?. 28. Forbids the cel- 
merit to attract the attention of the traveller. Yet it is ebration of the agapa?, or love-feasts, in churches. 21). 
impossible to view them without interest when we con- | Forbids Christians observing the Jewish Sabbath. 30. 
sider what Laodieea once was, and how it is connected Forbids Christian men, especially the clergy, from bath- 
with the early history of Christianity.” See also Fed- ing with women. 81. Forbids giving daughters in mar- 
lows. Journal written in Asia Minor, p. 251 sq. ; Arun- riage to heretics. 82. Forbids receiving the enlogim of 
dell, Seven Churches, p. 85 sq.; Schubert, R risen, i, 282: heretics. 38. Forbids all Catholics praying with kere- 
S. Stosch, Syntagma dissert. 7 de sept, urbibus A sice in tics and schismatics. 34. Anathematizes those who go 
Apoc. p. 165 sq. ; also in Van Hoven, Odum literar. iii, p. after the false martyrs of heretics. 35. Forbids Chris- 
52; Manner!, VI, iii, 129 sq.; Schultess, in the N. theol. tian persons leaving their church in order to attend 
Annul. 1818, ii, 177 sq. See Asia, Seven Churches of. , private conventicles in which angels were invoked, and 
LAODICEA, Council of ( Concilium Laodicenum), I anathematizes those who are guilty of 'this idolatry, 
an important council held at Laodieea, in Phyrgia, in 36. Forbids the clergy dealing in magic, and directs that 
the 4th century. The year in which this council con- all who wear phylacteries be cast out of the Church, 
veiled is disputed. Baronius and Binius assign the year . 37. Forbids fasting with Jews or heretics. 38. Forbids 
311; Pagi, 368*, Hardouin places it as late as 872, and receiving unleavened bread from Jews. 39. Forbids 
others even in 399. Hefcle thinks that it must have feasting with heathen persons. 40. Orders all bishops to 
had its session between 343 {the Council of Antioch) attend the synods to which they are summoned, unless 
and 381, rather in the second than in the first half of prevented by illness. 41,42. Forbids clergymen leaving 
the 4th century. Beveridge adduces some probabF rea- the diocese to travel abroad without the bishop’s per- 
sons for supposing it to have been held in 365. Thirty- mission and the canonical letters. 43. Forbids the por- 
two bishops were present, from different provinces of ter of the church leaving the gate for a moment, even 
Asia, and sixty canons were published, which were ac- in order to pray. 44. Forbids women entering into the 
cepted by the other churches. 1. Permits the adminis- ( altar. 45. Forbids receiving those who do not present 
tration of communion to persons who have married a sec- themselves for the Easter baptism before the second 
ond time, after their remaining a while in retreat, fasting week in Lent. 46. Orders that all catechumens to be 
and praying. 2. Directs holy communion to he given baptized shall know the Creed by heart, and shall repeat 
to those who have completed their penance. 3. Forbids it before the bishop or priest on the fifth day of the week, 
to raise neophytes to the sacerdotal order. 4. Forbids 47. Those who have been baptized in sickness, if they 
usury among the clergy. 5. Ordination not to be ad- recover, must learn the Creed. 48. Orders that those 
ministered in the presence of those who are in the rank who have been baptized shall be anointed with the holy 
of hearers. 6. No heretics to enter within the church. ( chrism, and partake of the kingdom of God. 49. For- 
7. Any Novations, Photinians, or Quartodeeimani who bids celebrating the holy eucharist during Lent on any 
are to be received into the Church must first abjure ev- days but Saturdays and Sundays. 50. Forbids eating 
cry heresy, be instructed in the true faith, and anointed anything on the Thursday in the last week of Lent, or 
with the holy chrism. 8. All Cataphrygians or Monta- during the whole of Lent anything except dry food. 51. 
nists to be instructed and baptized before being received Forbids celebrating the festivals of the martyrs during 


into the Church. 9. Excommunicates the faithful who 
go to the places of worship or burial-grounds of here- 
tics. 10. Forbids the faithful to give their children in 
marriage to heretics. 11. Forbids the ordination of 
priestesses (TrotaAbriceg) (see below). 12. Bishops to 
be appointed by the metropolitan and his provincials. 
13. Priests not to be elected by the people. 14. Conse- 
crated elements not to be sent into other parishes at 
Easter by way of eulogite. 15. Only those chanters 
named in the Church roll shall ascend the pulpit and 
chant. 16. The Gospels to be read, as well as the other 
books of Scripture, on Saturday. 17. A lesson shall be 
read between each psalm. 18. The same prayer to be 
repeated at nones as at vespers. 19. After the bishop’s 
sermon the prayers for the catechumens shall be said 
separately, then those for the penitents, and, lastly, those 
of the faithful; after which the kiss of peace shall be 
given, and after the priests have given it to the bishop, 


Lent; orders remembrance of them on Saturdays and 
Sundays. 52. Forbids celebrating marriages and birth- 
day feasts during Lent. 53. Enjoins proper behavior at 
marriage festivals, and forbids all dancing. 54. Forbids 
the clergy attending the shows and dances given at wed- 
dings. 55. None of the clergy or laity to club together 
for drinking -parties. 56. Forbids the priests taking 
their scats in the sanctuary before the bishop enters, 
except he be ill or absent. 57. Directs that bishops 
shall not be placed in small towns or villages, but sim- 
ply visitors, who shall act under the direction of rhe 
bishop in the city. 58. Forbids both bishops and priests 
celebrating the holy eucharist in private houses. 59. 
Forbids singing uninspired hymns, etc., in church, and 
reading the uncanonier.l books. 60. Declares which are 
the canonical books of Scripture. In this list the Apoc- 
rypha and the book of Devolution are omitted. See 
Canon of Scripture. Of particular Interest among 


LAODICEAN 


238 


LAOS 


the decisions of this council is canon 1 1, forbidding the 
employment of women as preachers, llefele holds that 
the canon lias hardly been properly translated, and that 
the desire of the council was simply to forbid superior | 
diaevnesses in the Church. But for a detailed discussion 
we must refer to llefele, Conciliengeschichte, i, 731 sq. 
The difficulty as to the meaning arises from the fact 
that the canons were written in Greek, and the question J 
hinges on the meaning intended for TrpeofivTiSeg and , 
TTpoKaSt'ifurai. 

Laodice'an (A aodacevg), an inhabitant of the city j 
of Laodicea, in Phrygia (Coloss, iv, 1G; Rev. iii, 14), 
from which passages it appears that a Christian Church ' 
was established there bv the apostles. See below. 

LAOD1CEANS, EPISTLE TO THE. “ In the con- 
clusion of the Epistle to the Colossians (Colos. iv. 1G), 
the apostle, after sending to the Colossians the saluta- 
tions of himself and others who were with him, enjoins 
the Colossians to send this epistle to the Laodiccans. 
and that they likewise should read the one from Laodi- 
cea (n) v bK Aaolucriac). It is disputed whether by 
these concluding words Paul intends an epistle from 
him to the Laodiccans or one from the Laodiccans to 
him. The use of the preposition tK favors the latter 
conclusion, and this has been strongly urged by Tbcod- 
oret, Chrysostom, Jerome, Philastrius, (Ecumenins, Cal- 
vin, Beza, Storr, and a multitude of other interpreters. 
Winer, however, clearly shows that the preposition here 
may be under the law of attraction, and that the full 
force of the passage may be thus given: ‘that written 
to the Laodiccans, and to be brought from Laodicea to 
you’ (Grammatik d. Xeutestamentl. Sprachidiotns , p. 434, 
Lpz. 1830). It must be allowed that such an interpre- 
tation of the apostle’s words is in itself more probable 
than the other; for, supposing him to refer to a letter 
from the Laodiccans to him, the questions arise, How 
were the Colossians to procure this unless lie himself 
sent it to them? And of what use would such a docu- 
ment be to them? To this latter question it has been 
replied that probably the letter from the Laodiccans 
contained some statements which intlucneed the apostle 
in writing to the Colossians, and which required to be 
known before his letter in reply could be perfectly un- 
derstood. But this is said without the slightest shadow 
of reason from the epistle before us ; and it is opposed j 
by the fact that the Laodicean epistle was to be used by 
the Colossians after they had read that to themselves j 
QWetv drayvioaSy, k. t. A.). It seems, upon the whole, 
most likely that the apostle in this passage refers to an 
epistle sent by him to the Church in Laodicea some time 
before that to the Church at Colossm” (Kit to'). The 
suggestion of Grotius (after Marcion) that it is identical 
with the canonical Epistle to the Ephesians has sub- 
stantially been adopted by Mill and Wctstcin, and many 
modern critics: sec, especially, Ilolzhauscn, l)er Brief 
an die I\ phesen (Hannover, 1834); Banr, Panins (2d ed. 
Lpz. 18GG-7). ii, 17 sq.; Riibiger, lie Christologia Pauli- 
na (Breslau, 1852), p. 48; Bleck, Einhitung in das X. T. 
(2d ed. Berlin, 18GG), p. 454 sq. ; 1 lausrath, l)er A pastel 
Panins (Ilcidelb. 1805), p. 2; Yolkmar, Commentar zur 
OJjhth. doh. (Zurich, 18G2), p. GG; Kicnc, in the Stud. v. 
Krit. 1 8 GO, p. 323 sq. ; Klostermann, in the Jahrh.fur , 
deutsche Theol. 1870, p. 1G0 sq. ; llitzig, Zur Kritilc Pau- 
Hnischen Brief e (Lpz. 1870), p. 27. The only supposi- 
tion that seems to meet all the circumstances of the j 
case is that the Epistle to the Ephesians, although not 
exactly encyclical, was designed (as indeed its character j 
evinces) for general circulation; and that Paul, after 
having dispatched this, addressed a special epistle to 
the Colossians on occasion of writing to Philemon, and 
recommends the perusal of that to the Ephesians, which I 
would by that time reach them by way of Laodi'cea. 
This explains the doubtful reading iv ’E^f'rnp, gild the j 
absence, of personal salutation in the Epistle to the 
Ephesians, and at the same time the allusion to a letter | 
from Laodicea; while it obviates the objectionable by- i 
pothesis of the loss of an inspired epistle, to which par- j 


ticular attention had thus been called, and which was 
therefore the more likely to have been preserved. See 
Ephesians, Epistle to. Wieselcr’s theory (A^post. 
Zeitalter , p. 450) is that the Epistle to Philemon is 
meant; and the tradition in the Apostolical Constitu- 
tions that he w T as bishop of this sec is adduced in confir- 
mation. But this is utterly at variance with the evi- 
dently personal nature of the epistle. Sec Philemon, 
Epistle to. Others think that the apostle refers to 
an epistle now lost, as Jerome and Theodorct seem to 
mention such a letter, and it was also referred to at the 
second general Council of Niciea. But these allusions 
are too vague to warrant such a conclusion. The apoc- 
ryphal epistle, now extant, and claiming to be that re- 
ferred to by Paul, entitled Ejnstolci ad Laodi censes, is 
admitted on all hands to be a late and clumsy forgery. 
It exists only in Latin MSS., from which a Greek ver- 
sion was made by lint ten (in Fabricius, Cod. Apocr. X. 
T. i, 873 sq.). It is evidently a cento from the Galatians 
and Ephesians. A full account of it may be found iu 
Jones {On the Canon, ii, 31—49). The Latin text is given 
by Auger (lit inf), and an English version by Eadie 
( Comment . on Colos.). AYe may remark in this connec- 
tion that the subscription at the end of the First Epistle 
to Timothy ( typcapi ) diro AaodiKtiag, i'jTtg lari pij-po- 
7T o A ( g Qpvyiag rijg llaKariavrjg) is of no authority; but 
it is worth mentioning, as showing the importance of 
Laodicea. On the general subject of the Laodicean 
epistle, see Michaelis, Introd. iv, 124 ; Hug, Introd. ii, 
43G; Steiger, Colosserbr. ad loc. ; Heinrichs, ad loc. ; Ra- 
phel. ad loc.; and especially Credner, Geschichte d.A'.T. 
Kanon (cd. Yolkmar, Berlin, 18G0), p. 300, 313; Auger, 
Ueh. d. Laodicenerhrief (Lpz. 1843) ; Sartori, Ueh. d. La- 
odicenerhrief (Liibeck, 1853) ; Conybeare and Howson, 
Life and Epistles of St. Paul, ii, 395 sq. ; Ilutli, Ep. ex 
Laodicea in Encyclica ad Ephesios adservata (Erlangen, 
1751) ; and other monographs cited by Yolbeding, Index 
Programmatum , p. 85. See Paul. 

Laos, the name of the mountain tribes in Farther 
India who inhabit the country between China, Assam, 
Burinah, Siam, and Tonquin, and are dependent upon 
Siam. Like t he Shaus of Burmah, they belong to the 
race of the Thai, which extends through the Ahom as 
far as Assam. The Laos and their descendants, scat- 
tered through the northern provinces of Siam and their 
own country, are estimated at two to three millions. 
The Laos are divided into two subdivisions. The 
western tribes tattoo themselves like the Burmese and 
the Shaus, and are on that account called Lao-pung- 
dam , or black-bellied Laos ; the eastern tribes, which do 
not tattoo themselves, are called Lao-pung-khao , or 
white-bellied Laos. The western Laos form the princi- 
palities of Labong (founded in 574 after Christ), Lam- 
phun, Lagong, Myang Prch, Myang Nan, Chiengrai. and 
Chiengmai or Ziuimav. The last-named was formerly 
an independent kingdom, which frequently carried on 
wars with Pegu. Of the principalities of the eastern or 
white Laos,Yicngkhan has been almost wholly (1828), 
aiul Myang Phuen for the greater part, destroyed hv 
the Siamese; Myang Lomb pays a tribute to Siam, and 
Myang Luang Phrabang. which was formerly governed 
by three kings, is dependent not only upon Siam, but 
upon Cochin China. As the Laos have no maritime 
coast, they have for a long time remained unknown to 
the Europeans. Chiengmai was for the first time vis- 
ited by the London merchant, Ralph Fitch, who arrived 
there in 158G from Pegu. After the occupation of Maul- 
maiu in 182G by Great Britain, new expeditions were 
sent out, and the meeting with Chinese caravans sug- 
gested the first idea of an overland road to Yunnan, 
'fhe first European who visited the eastern Laos was 
Wnsthof, an agent of .a Dutch establishment in Cam- 
bodia. who in 1G41, amid the greatest difficulties, sailed 
u]) the Mckliong. The Laos possess several alphabets 
which are derived from the Cambodian form of the Pali. 
The name of Free Laos is usually given to the moun- 
tain tribes of the Radeh. Between the language of the 


LAO-TZU 


239 


LAO-TZU 


Laos and that of the Siamese there is only a dialectic I 
difference, which has chiefly been caused by the fact 
that the savage mountaineers neglect or misapply the 
rides of accentuation. On the other hand, the Laos 
surpass the Siamese in musical taste. The religion 
of the Laos is Buddhism, which, however, they do not 
hold so strictly as the Siamese. The first Christian 
mission among the Laos was commenced in 1867 at 
Chicngmai (on the river Quee Ping, 500 miles north of 
Bankok), by the Presbyterian Church in the United 
States of America. The first missionary, Mr. M‘Gil- 
Iivrav, was welcomed on his arrival at Chiengmai both 
by the people and by the princes, who had provided a 
native house for him until he was able to build one more 
suitable to his wants and tastes. In I860 the missiona- 
ries were even presented by the king with a beautiful 
lot, but subsequently a spirit of opposition and persecu- 
tion manifested itself. According to the report of the 
hoard of Foreign Missions of May, 1871, no congrega- 
tion had yet been organized. (A. J. S.) 

Lao-tzu (formerly written Lao-tse), one of the 
most remarkable men of the Chinese Empire, the author 
of the Tao-te-king. and founder of the religious sect 
known as Taoists (or Tauists), was born in the king- 
dom of Tsu li.C. 601. His family name was Le. or Plum ; 
iu his youth he himself was called U rh, or Ear, a name 
given him on account of the size of his ears. When he 
came to be known as a philosopher he was honorably 
called Pe-yang. and was surnamed Lao-tzu (old boy), or 
Lao-kun-tzn (old prince). Tradition asserts that his fa- 
ther was a poor peasant, who remained a bachelor until 1 
he was seventy years old, and then married a woman of 
forty. Lao-tzu was probably a great, student in early 
life, and when yet a youth was promoted to an ofiice 
connected with the treasury or the museum under the 
Chow dynasty. While in the service at the court of 
Chow he visited the western parts of China, and there 
probably became acquainted with the rites and religion 
of Full, or Iluddha. The duration of Lao-tzu’s service 
at the court is entirely uncertain. When the Chow dv- 1 
nasty was hastening to its fall, and the whole country 
torn up into petty states warring with each other, and 
anarchy every where prevailing, Lao-tzu retired into 
obscurity. For this course he has been often and se- 
verely censured ; but when we consider that the corrup- 
tion of the government was too great for him to over- 
come, it does not appear that he was to blame for retiring 
with pure hands from his connection with it. There is no j 
trustworthy account of the time or manner of his death, 
but some writers have assigned the date of B.C. 523 to 
that event. Szu Ma-cliien, in relating his retirement 
from the government, simply says, “ He then went away, 
and no one knows his end.” llis life seems to have 
been that of a contemplative philosopher — far more oc- 
cupied with thoughts of the invisible and the mysteri- 
ous than with sublunary things. He became so cele- 
brated as a philosopher that Confucius went to see him, 
and left him deeply impressed with his extraordinary 
character, and evidently regarded Lao-tzu as something I 
wonderful — divine; yet, while all agree that Confucius I 
was almost carried away by his admiration of Lao-tzu, 
the latter has been accused of jealousy and spite against 
Confucius. His writings, however, give no color to the 
charge; nor is it likely that Confucius himself would 
have always spoken of Lao-tzu in such high terms of , 
esteem and admiration, and even quoted the opinions I 
of his rival as sufficient answers to the queries of his dis- 
ciples, had he not received kind treatment and atten- 
tions at the hands of Lao-tzu, the advocate of a doctrine 
that “man is to be rendered immortal through the con- 
templation of God, the repression of the passions, and 
the perfect tranquillity of the soul,” the author of “a 
moral code inculcating all the great principles found 
in other religions : charity, benevolence, virtue, and the 
free-will, moral agency, and responsibility of man.” 

Lao-tzu has at different periods enjoyed the patron- 
age of the Chinese government, there being, indeed, a 


constant struggle for ascendency between his supporters 
and those of Confucius during several centuries at the 
beginning of our era. Emperors have paid homage to 
him in his temple, and one of them wrote a commentary 
on his book. When we turn aside from definite history 
and give our attention to legends, there is no end to the 
mysteries thrown around his birth and being, llis fol- 
lowers have transferred him from the ranks of ordinary 
mortals into an incarnation of deity, and have clothed 
his philosophic treatise with the authority of a sacred 
book, being probably moved to this course by a desire to 
make their founder equal to Sakyamimi (see Gauta- 
ma), and to give enhanced importance to his works, 
lie is represented as an eternal and self-existing being, 
incarnated at various times upon the earth. One ac- 
count represents him as having been conceived by the 
influence of a meteor, and after being carried in the 
womb for seventy-two (another author says eighty-one) 
years, at last delivering himself by bursting a passage 
under his mother’s left arm. From having gray hairs 
at birth, and looking generally like an old man, he was 
called Lao-tzu — i. e. the old boy. lie is reported to have 
had the gift of speech at birth. It is also said that, as 
soon as he was born, he mounted nine paces in the air, 
each step producing a lotus-flower, and, while poised 
there, pointed with his left hand to heaven and with his 
right hand to earth, saving, “ Heaven above — earth be- 
neath — only Tao is honorable.” The eiglity-one chap- 
ters of the Tao-te-king are said to have been obtained 
from him by Yin-lisi, the keeper of the Han-kn Pass, 
through which he was leaving the country on his re- 
tirement from office. 

The Tao-te-king seems to have received its present 
name about B.C. 160. Before that, it was known as the 
teachings of llwang and Lao— i. e. the emperor Ihvang 
(B.C. 2600) and Lao-tzu; also as the Book of Lao-tzu. 
There is much uncertainty and confusion in regard to 
the text. Some editors, having in view the tradition 
that Lao-tzu wrote a book of 5000 cliaracters, have cut 
down those in excess of that number without much re- 
gard for the sense of the author. Others have added 
characters to explain the meaning, thus incorporating 
their commentary into the text. The occasional sup- 
pression of a negative particle, by some editors, gives an 
exactly opposite meaning to «a sentence from that of 
other editions. To ascertain the true text is in many 
instances impossible. The style is exceedingly terse 
and concise, without any pretension to grace or elegance. 
The work is full of short sentences, often enigmatical or 
paradoxical, and without apparent connection. Quite 
probably the book is composed of notes for philosophical 
discourses, which were expanded and explained by Lao- 
tzu while orally instructing his disciples. As contribu- 
ting to the obscurity of the style, we must consider that 
the topics discussed are exceedingly abstruse, and that 
Lao-tzu labored under the disadvantage of writing in 
the infancy of literary language in China, and was com- 
pelled to use a very imperfect medium for communica- 
ting his thoughts. 

There lias been much discussion and much difference 
of opinion as to what Lao-tzu really intended by Tao. 
The word means a path, a road ; the way or means of 
doing a tiling; a course; reason, doctrine, principle, etc. 
Lao-tzu sometimes uses it in its ordinary senses, but it 
is evident that in general lie uses it in a transcendental 
sense, which can only be ascertained by a careful study 
of his writings. Tao is something which existed be- 
fore heaven and earth, and even before deity. It has 
no name, and never had one. It can not be apprehend- 
ed by the bodily senses ; it is profound and mysterious ; 
it is calm, void, solitary, and unchanging ; yet, in opera- 
tion. it revolves through the universe, acting every- 
where, but acting mysteriously, spontaneously, and 
without, effort. It contains matter, and has an inherent 
power of production; and although itself formless, yet 
comprehends all possible forms. It is the ultimate cause 
of the universe, and is the model or rule for all creatures, 


LAO-TZU 


240 


LAO-TZU 


hut chiefly for man. It represents also that ideal state 
of perfection in which all things acted harmoniously 
ami spontaneously, good and evil being then unknown, 
and tiic return to which constitutes ihe Minimum bo- 
mtm of existence. French and English writers gen- 
erally have translated Tao by “lieason,” some adding 
‘■or Logos/’ There are some striking similarities be- 
tween Tao and Lotjos ; and in all the translations of the 
Scriptures into Chinese the Logos of John is rendered 
by Tao. Julien, decidedly dissenting from t lie common 
translation of Tao, adopts “Yoie” or “Way” — giving 
just cause for his dissent in the fact that Lao-tzu repre- 
sents Tao as devoid of thought, judgment, and intelli- 
gence. Julien’s “Way,” however, is also objected to, 
as implying a way-maker antecedent to it, while Tao 
was before all other existences. The “ Nature” of mod- 
ern speculators probably answers more nearly than any- 
thing else to Tao. although it will by no means answer 
all the conditions of the use of Tao by Lao-tzu. 

Doctrines. — (1.) The teachings of Lao-tzu on specu- 
lative physics maybe summarized as follows : All exist- 
ing creatures and tilings have sprung from an eternal, 
all-producing, self-sustaining unity called Tao, which, 
although regarded as a potential existence, is also dis- 
tinctly denominated non-existence, Lao-tzu considering 
it equivalent to the primeval Nothing or Chaos. Mr. 
Watters (see below) thus combines these apparently con- 
tradictory views: “Though void, shapeless, and imma- 
terial, it yet contains the potentiality of all substance 
and shape, and from itself produces the universe, diffus- 
ing itself over all space. It is said to have generated 
the world, and is frequently spoken of as its mother — 
‘the dark primeval mother, teeming with dreamy be- 
ings.’ All things that exist submit to it as their chief, 
but it shows no lordship over them. All the operations 
of Nature {Tao) occur without any show of effort or vi- 
olence — spontaneously and unerringly. Though there 
is nothing done in the universe which Nature does not 
do, though all things depend upon it for their origin and 
subsistence, yet in no case is Nature visibly acting. It 
is in its own deep self a unit — the smallest possible 
quantity, yet it prevails over the wide expanse of the 
universe, operating unspent but unseen.” Lao-tzu’s ac- 
count of the origin of the universe is, “Tao begot 1, 1 
begot 2, 2 begot 3, and 3 begot the material universe 
which has been explained bv commentators that Tao 
generated the Passive Element in the composition of 
things, this produced the Active Element, and this 
the harmonious agreement of the two elements, which 
brought about the production of all things. The next 
thing to Tao is heaven — i.e. the material heaven above 
11 s. This is pure and clear, and if it should lose its puri- 
ty would be in danger of destruction. The earth is at 
rest, the heavens always revolving over it, producing 
the various seasons, vivifying, nourishing, killing all 
things. Then come the “myriad things” — all ani- 
mate and inanimate existences, that spring from Tao — 
which, although in itself impalpable, bodies itself forth 
in these, objects, and thus becomes subject to human ob- 
servation. 'This manifestation of Tao in each object 
constitutes its TV. Te is generally translated “Virtue,” 
but this rendering is inadequate. It seems frequently 
to refer to the specific nature of the object spoken of, 
which is derived from Universal Nature {Tao). Follow- 
ing the popular ideas of his country, Lao-tzu speaks of 
live colors, live sounds, and five tastes, and regards all 
things as arranged in a system of dualism — e. g. a wood- 
en vessel, in the case of which solidity gives the object, 
and hollowness the utility. In representing pure exist- 
ence as identical with non-existence, he anticipated He- 
gel, of our own century, who says, “Sevn und Nichts ist 
dassolbc” — Being and Non-being are the same. He 
agrees with ihose modern philosophers whp maintain 
tiiat God made all things out of himself, but differs from 
them in never introducing personality into his concep- 
tion, and consequently excluding will and design from 
the primordial existence. 


(2.) In politics he assigns the original choice of a 
sovereign to the people, and holds that he whom the 
people elect is the elect of heaven. He conceives of the 
sovereign as rather the model and instructor than the 
judge and ruler of the people. lie compares the ruling 
of a kingdom to the cooking of a small fish, which is 
easily spoiled by too much cooking. The first duty of 
the ruler is to rectify himself. This done, it will be 
easy for him to regulate his kingdom. He speaks in 
strong terms against military oppression, and lias a poor 
opinion of fire-arms. lie opposes capital punishment 
and excessive taxation, lie thinks the people should 
be kept ignorant — the ruler should empty their minds 
and fill their stomachs; weaken their wills and strength- 
en their bones. 'Flic intercourse of different states with 
each other should be regulated by courtesy and forbear- 
ance. . 

(3.) In ethics, Lao-tzu held that in the beginning 
virtue and vice were unknown terms. Man, without 
effort, constantly lived according to Tao . In the next 
stage, man — though in the main virtuous — was occa- 
sionally sliding into vice, and was unable to retain the 
stability of unconscious goodness. Then came a period 
of filial piety and integrity; and, finally, the days of 
craft, and cunning, and insincerity. He makes no ex- 
press statement as to the moral condition of human 
beings at birth, but it may be inferred from some ex- 
pressions that he regards the spirit as coming pure and 
perfect from the great Mother, but susceptible of bad 
influences, which lead it astray. "With him. Tao is the 
standard of virtue, the guide and model of the universe. 
To meet the desire of men for something more tangible, 
he refers to heaven, earth, and the sages of olden times, 
but nowhere to a personal god, and there is no clear ev- 
idence of his belief in sncli a being. The virtues which 
distinguish the perfect man arc freedom from ostenta- 
tion, humility, continence, moderation, gravity, and 
kindness. Much and fine talking are to be avoided. 
I le assigns a low place to learning, which, he says, adds to 
the evil of existence ; and, if we were to put away learn- 
ing, we would be exempt from anxiety. There is one 
passage that seems to refer to a future life, but it is very 
obscure; and the only future Lao-tzu appears to antici- 
pate is absorption into Tao. Most minds will see little 
difference between absorption into non-existence and 
annihilation. At chap, xvi of his Tao-t e-king, where he 
refers to this subject, lie says, “When things have lux- 
uriated for a while, each returns home to its origin, (ic- 
ing home to the origin is called stillness. It is said to 
be a reversion to destiny. This reversion to destiny is 
called eternity. lie who knows (this) eternity is called 
bright. lie who does not know this eternity wildly 
works his own misery. 1 le who knows eternity is mag- 
nanimous. Being magnanimous, he is catholic. Being 
catholic, he is a king. Being a king, he is heaven. Be- 
ing heaven, he is Tan, Being Tail, he is enduring. 
Though his body perish, he is in 110 danger.” Aral 
again, at chap, xxviii, “lie who knows the light, and at 
the same time keeps the shade, will be the whole world’s 
model. Being the whole world’s model, eternal virtue 
will not miss him, and he will return home to the abso- 
lute.” The attainment, then, of this state of absolute 
vacuity he looks upon as the chief good, and warns such 
as have attained to it to keep themselves perfectly still, 
and to avoid ambition. And, in alluding to the fact 
that emptiness or non-existence is superior to existence, 
he says that the former may be said to correspond to 
use, the latter to gain. “Tau is empty.” “The space 
between heaven and earth may be compared to a bel- 
lows; though empty, it never collapses, and the more 
it is exorcised the more it brings forth.” To enforce 
this theory he draws an illustration from common life, 
and says, “Thirty spokes unite in one nave, and by 
that part which is non-existent (i. e. the hole in the 
centre of it) it is useful for a carriage-wheel. Earth is 
moulded into vessels, and by their hollowness they are 
useful as vessels. Doors and windows are cut out in 


LAPLACE 


LAP 


241 


order to make a house, and by its hollowness it is useful j 
as a house.” 

Since the 2d century A.D. the Taoists have greatly 
spread in China, Japan, Cochin-China, Tonquiu, and 
among the Indo-Chinese nations. In our day they are 
cspeciall} r popular with the common people, and in some 
parts of China their influence rivals that of the Buddh- 
ists. They have, however, greatly corrupted the teach- 
ings of their founder; the worship of original laoism 
has been degraded into the lowest idolatry, while its 
priests are jugglers and necromancers, among whom 
scarcely a trace of the pure spirit of Lao-tzu can be 
found. See J. P. A. Remusat, Memoire sur la Vie et les 
Opinions de Lao-tsen (1820) ; John Chalmers, The Spec- 
ulations on Metaphysics , Polity , and Morality oj the old 


l (1868) , 

2 vols. 8vo), p. 110-120; Stanislas Julien, Le Licre des 
Recompenses (Paris, 1848, 8vo) ; Neumann, Lehrsaal des 
Mittelreichs (Munich, 1856, 8vo) ; Legge, Life and Teach- 
ing js of Confucius (Lond. 1867, 8to), eh. v ; Loomis, Con- 
fucius and the Chinese Classics , p. 278 sq.; Pall Mall 
Gazette (London), Sept. 3, 1860, p. 11 sq. See also arti- 
cles on Lao-tzu in Chambers, Cyclop. ; Thomas, Bioyr. 
Diet. ; and Brockhaus, Conversations- Lex. (S. L, B.) 

Lap (“733, 2 Kings iv, 30, a garment, as elsewhere; 
p*n, Prov. xvi, 33, the bosom, as elsewhere; Neh. 
v. 13, the armful, as in Isa. xlix, 22), the fold of the 
raiment in which Orientals are accustomed to carry ar- 
ticles in lieu of pockets. Instead of the fbula or clasp 
that was used by the Romans, the Arabs join together 
with thread, or with a wooden bodkin, the two top cor- 
ners of their upper garment; and, after having placed 
them first over one of their shoulders, they then fold the 
rest of it about their bodies. The outer fold serves them 
frequently instead of an apron, in which they cam- 
herbs, loaves, corn, and other articles, and may illustrate 
several allusions made to it in Scripture: thus one of 
the sous of the prophets went out into the field to gather 
herbs, and found a wild vine, and gathered thereof wild 
gourds his lap full (2 Kings iv, 39). The Psalmist of- 
fers up his prayers that Jehovah would “ render unto 
his neighbors sevenfold into their bosom their reproach” 
(Psa. xix, 12). The same allusion occurs in our Lord’s 
direction, “Give, and it shall be given unto you, good 
measure, pressed down and shaken together, and run- 
ning over, shall men give into your bosom” (Luke vi, 
38). See Bosom ; Dress. 

Lapide. See Steen. 

Lapithae (Acht/Sw), in mythical geography, a peo- 
ple of Thessaly, chiefly known to us from their fabled 
contests with the Centaurs. The battle between the 
Centaurs and the Lapithte has been minutely described 
by Hesiod and Ovid. — Braude and Cox, ii, 317. 

Laphria (Aatypia), a surname of Artemis or Diana 
among the Calydonians, from which the worship of the 
goddess was introduced at Naupactus and Pat ne, in 
Achaia. At the latter place it was not established till 
the time of Augustus, but it became the occasion of a 
great annual festival (Pausanias, iv, 31, § 6 ; vii, 18, § 6, 
etc.; Sehol. ad Eurip. Orest. 1087). The name Laphria 
was traced back to a hero, Laphrius, son of Castalius, 
who was said to have instituted her worship at Calydon. 
Laphria was also a surname of Athene or Minerva (Ly- 
cophron, 356). — Smith, Diet, of Greek and Roman Bi- 
ography and M ythology , vol. ii, s. v. 

Lapides Judaici ( Jewish Stones). In the chalky 
beds which surround in some parts the summit of Mount 
Carmel are found numerous hollow stones, lined in the 
inside with a variety of sparry matter, which, from some 
distant resemblance, are supposed by the natives to be 
petrified olives, melons, peaches, and other fruit. These 
are considered not only as curiosities, but as antidotes 
agaiust several diseases. Those which bear some re- 
V.-Q 


semblance to the olive have been designated Lapidrs 
Judaici , otherwise “ Elijah’s Melons,” and are supersti- 
tiouslv regarded as an infallible remedy for stone and 
gravel when dissolved in the juice of lemons. Those 
supposed petrified fruits are, however, as Dr. Shaw states, 
only so many different-sized flint-stones, beautified with- 
in by sparry and stalagmitieal knobs, which are fanci- 
fully taken for seeds and kernels. See Carmel. 

Lap'idoth (Hebrew Lappidoth', r.'l’T'Sp, torches ; 
Sept. A a0u"w3r), the husband of Deborah the prophetess 
(Judg. iv, 4). He may have resided with her at the 
time of her public services as female judge (ver. 5), or 
more probably he was deceased, and she is named as his 
widow. B.C. ante 1409. From the fact that the name 
is in the form of a fern, plur., some have taken it to mean 
her place of residence (PwX, woman of, being under- 
stood before it), but without probability (Bertheau, ad 
loc.). By others the term lappidoth has been under- 
stood to denote merely her character (q. d. “ woman of 
splendors,” i.e. noble, brilliant), or even her occupation 
merely (q. d. lamp-trimmer) ; but all these are equally 
nugatory suppositions. See Deborah. 

La Filonniere, Francois de, an eminent French 
writer, was born in the second half of the 17th century. 
After remaining for some time a member of the Order 
of the Jesuits, he was converted to Protestantism, and 
on this account was obliged to flee the country. He 
took refuge first in Holland, then in England, where he 
was welcomed by bishop Hoadlv. The precise time of 
his death is not ascertained. He wrote L'Atheisme de- 
couvert par le P. Hardouin,Jesuite,dans les ecrits de tous 
les Peres de VEglise et- des philosophes modemes (1715, 
8vo ; and in St.IIvacinthe, Memoires Litteraires , 1716) : 
— V A bus des Confessions de Eoi (1716, 8vo): — An A n- 
swer to the R. D. S nape's A ccusation, containing an ac- 
count of his behavior and suffering amongst the Jesuits 
1 (Lond. 1717, 8vo; transl. into Latin in 1718) : it is a sort 
of autobiography: — Defense des Principes de la Tole- 
rance (London, 1718, 8 vo) : — Further Account of himself 
(Lond. 1729, 8 vo). 1 1 e translated also into French Pope’s 
Essay on Criticism (1717) ; Plato’s Republic (1725, 8 vo) ; 
Burnet’s Jlistoire des dernieres Revolutions d'A ngleterre 
(La Ilaye, 1725, 2 vols. 4to ; London, 3 vols. 12mo ; latest 
edit. La Ilaye, 1735) ; and some works of bishop Bau- 
ger and of Steele. See Adelung, Suppl. z. Jdcher; Haag, 
La France Protest ante ,• lloefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate, 
xxix, 527. (J.N.P.) 

Lapis ( the stone), a surname of Jupiter at Rome, as 
is evident from the expression “Jovem Lapidem” (Cice- 
ro, ad Fam. vii, 12 ; Gellius, i, 21 ; Polybius, iii, 26). It 
was formerly believed that Jupiter Lapis was a stone 
statue of the god, or originally a rude stone serving as 
a symbol, around which people assembled for the pur- 
pose of worshipping Jupiter. But it is now generally 
acknowledged that the pebble or flint-stone was regard- 
ed^is a symbol of lightning, and that therefore, in some 
representations of Jupiter, he held a stone in his hand 
instead of the thunderbolt (Arnobius, adr. Gent, iv, 25). 
Such a stone (“lapis Capitolinus,” August. De Civ. Dei, 
ii, 29) was even set up as a symbolic representation of 
the god himself (Serv. adxEn. viii,641 ). When a treaty 
was to be concluded, the sacred symbols of Jupiter were 
taken from his temple, viz. his sceptre, the pebble and 
1 grass from the district of the temple, for the purpose of 
, swearing by them (“per Jovem Lapidem jurare,” Livy, 
I i, 24 ; xxx, 43). A pebble or flint-stone was also used 
j by the Romans in killing the animal when an oath was 
I to be accompanied by a sacrifice, and this custom was 
probably a remnant of very early times, when metal in- 
| struments were not yet used for such purposes. — Smith, 
Diet. Greek and Rom. Biog. and M ythol. s. v. 

Laplace (Places'), Josue de, a distinguished 
French Protestant theologian, was born in Brittany 
about the year 1605. After completing his studies in 
I the University of Saumur, he taught philosophy for a 


LAPLACE 


242 


LAPLAND 


while, and in 1G25 was appointed pastor of the Church 
at Nantes. He left this situation in 1633, to become 
professor of theology in the University of Saumur. 
Here, with L. Cappel and Moses Amyraut, he gave a 
new impulse to theological studies. Laplace, attacking 
the Calvinistic dogma of the imputation of original sin 
to all the descendants of Adam, endeavored to show its 
incompatibility with the divine mercy and justice. Ac- 
cording to him, original sin is only indirectly imputed 
to man, and he has to answer only for his own individ- 
ual sins. The orthodox party in the Calvinistic Church 
strongly opposed this doctrine, and, on the motion of 
Garissoles, the national Synod of Charenton (in 1644) 
formally condemned it, without, however, naming the 
author. The schools of Sedan, Geneva, and Holland de- 
nounced it also as impious and heretical. On the other 
hand, it obtained the approbation of all moderate peo- 
ple. A large number of provincial synods thought the 
national synod had been too hasty in condemning a doc- 
trine before taking time to thoroughly investigate and 
discuss it; they refused to submit to the verdict until 
another national synod should decide. Laplace, for fear 
of increasing the difficulties, patiently submitted to the 
repeated attacks of Desmarets, Bivet, and other ortho- 
dox theologians. He only answered them after waiting 
vainly for ten years for the convocation of the synod 
which was to decide. He died at Saumur Aug. 17, 16G5. 
11 is works are, Discours en forme cle dialogue entre vn 
fere el son fls, etc. (Quevilly, 1629, 8vo) ; often reprint- 
ed, also under title Ent returns (Tun fere et de son fi Is sur 
le changement de religion (Saumur, 1G82, 12mo; translat. 
into German, Basle, 1GG5, 8vo) :—Examen des liaisons 
pour et contre le sacrifce de la Mcsse (Saumur, 1G39, 
8vo) : — Suite de VExamen , etc. (Saumur, 1643, 8vo) : — 
I>e locis Zacharice xi, 13 ; xii, 10 ; Malachia Hi, 1 (Sau- 
inur, 1G50, 4to) : — Exposition et Paraphrase du Cetntique 
des Cantiques (Saumur, lG5G,8vo): — Explication tgpique 
de Vhistoire de Joseph (transl. from the Latin of Laplace 
by Bosel, Saumur, 1G58, Svo) : — De arguments quibus ef- 
feitur Christum prius fuisse quam in utero beatie IV/- 
ginis secundum carnem concipei'etur (Saumur, 1G49, 4to): 
— De Testimonies et A rgumentis ex Veter i Testamento peti- 
tis, quibus probatur Dominum nostrum Jesum-Christum 
esse Dcum,pncditum essentia divina (Saumur, 1651, 4to) : 
— Catechesis pro conversions Judirorum (Saumur, 4to) : 
— Theses Theologicce de statu hominis lapsi ante gratiam 
(Saumur, 1G40, 4to) : this is the work whose doctrines 
were condemned by the Synod of Charenton in 1644: — 
De Imputations primi peccati A da mi (Saumur, lG55,4to) : 
a defence of his opinions: — Opuscnla nonnulla (Saumur, 
1656, 8vo): — Syntagma Thesium theologiceirum (Saumur, 
1660, 3 pts. 4to ; 4th part, 1664). A complete collection 
of Laplace’s works was published under the style Opera 
Omnia (Fran eke r, 1699, and Auhincit, 1702. 2 vols. 4to). 
See Mosheim, Ecclesiastical History , iii, 404; Aymon, 
Synodes des Eglises Reformees de France, ii, 680 ; Weis- 
mann.7 Iistoria Eccles. sa?c. xvii,p.919; llaag, La France 
Protestante; T. Colaui, Revue de Theologie, Oct. 1855; 
Bart holiness, Discours sur la vie ct le caract'ere de J,de 
La Place, in the Pullet in de Ja Soviet c de VPistoire. du 
Protestantisms Franqais (1853); Hook, Eccles. Biogra- 
phy, viii, 97; Iloefcr, Four, Ring. Generals , xxix, 529: 
Herzog, Real- En cgldop. xi, 755 sq. (J. N. F.) 

Laplace, Pierre Simon de, a noted French phi- 
losopher, one of the greatest astronomers and mathema- 
ticians of any age or country, born at Bcnumont-en- 
Auge (Calvados), in France, March 23, 1749. of humble 
parentage, and appointed professor of mathematics in 
the military school at Paris in 1768, and inembre-ad- 
joint of the Academy of Sciences in 1773, first made a 
reputation for himself by his Exposition du Systems du 
Monde, which he published in 1796, and which -was 
simply an outline for popular use of his greater treatise, 
La Mecaniqns celeste, of which the first two Volumes 
were sent fortli in 1798, the third in 1802, the fourth in 
1805, and the fifth in 1825, and still later (1827) a post- 
humous supplement (for a full synopsis ol' the contents 


of this great work on mathematical astronomy, see 
Penny Cyclop, xiii, 326 sq.), a book which will doubt- 
less preserve his memory to the latest posterity. He 
also wrote Theorie Anahjtique sur les Probability (1812), 
and Essai Philosophiqne sur les Probability (1814). He 
died May 5, 1827. Ilis last words were, “Ce que nous 
connaissons est pen de chose ; ce que nous ignorans, est 
immense.” “The author of the Mecanique Celeste, to 
use a common synoiivme for Laplace, must be an object 
of the admiration of posterity as long as any record of 
the 18th century exists. For many years he was the 
head, though not the hand of European astronomy; 
and most of the labors of observation were made in di- 
rections pointed out by him, or for the furtherance of 
Lis discoveries in the consequences of the law of gravi- 
tation. It is sometimes stated by English writers that 
Laplace was an atheist. We have attentively exam- 
ined every passage which has been brought in proof 
of this assertion, and we can find nothing which makes 
either for or against such a supposition An at- 

tempt to explain how the solar system might possi- 
bly have arisen from the cooling of a mass of fluid or 
vapor is called atheistical because it attempts to ascend 
one step in the chain of causes; the Principia of New- 
ton was designated by the same term, and for a similar 
reason. What Laplace’s opinions were we do not know ; 
and it is not fair that a writer who, at a time of perfect 
license on such matters, lias studiously avoided entering 
on the subject, should be stated as of one opinion or the 
other upon the authority of a few passages of which it 
can only be said (as it could equally be said of most 
mathematical works) that they might have been writ- 
ten by a person of any religious or political sentiments 
whatever” ( Penny Cyclop, xiii, 325-328). See Thomas, 
Biographical Dictionary, p. 1372 ; Hoefer, Four. Biog . 
Generals , xxix, 531 sq. 

La Flacette, Je.\x, a distinguished French Prot- 
estant theologian and moralist, was born at Pontac, in 
Beam, Jan. 19, 1639, and studied theology at the Prot- 
estant Academy of Montauban. Appointed pastor of Or- 
thez in 1660, he removed in the same capacity to Na'i in 
1664, and remained there until the revocation of the 
Edict of Nantes, refusing several pressing invitations 
from the important congregation of Charenton. At the 
revocation he obtained leave to go to Holland, from 
whence he afterwards went to Prussia. In 1686 he final- 
ly accepted the office of pastor to the French Church at 
Copenhagen, which he held until 1711. He then re- 
signed and retired to Utrecht, where he died April 25, 
1718. 11 is pri ncipal works are, T raite des Bonnes (Euvrcs 
en general (Amst. 1709, 12mo) : — Traite de la Restitution , 
etc. (Amst. 1696, 12mo): — La mort des justes, ou la via * 
mere de bien mourir (La Have, 1729, 12mo) : — Traite de 
VAumone (Amsterd. 1699, 12mo) : — Divers traites sur les 
mati'ei'es de Conscience (Amst. 1697, 12mo) : — The Death, 
of the Righteous, etc., translated by Thomas Fenton, M.A. 
(Loud. 1725, 2 vols. 12mo) : — Traite de lafoi divine (lioter. 
1716, 3 vols. 12mo): — La communion devote , ou la ma- 
nure de participer saintement et utilement a V Eucharistic 
(Amsterd. 6"‘ e edit. 1706, 12mo) : — La morale Chretienne 
ahregse, etc. (Amst. 2d ed. 1701, 12mo): — Essais de mo- 
rale (Amst. 1716,4 vols. 12mo) : — Fouveau essais de mo- 
rale (La Have, 1715.2 vols.!2mo) : — The incurable Scep- 
ticism of the Church of Rome (Gibson’s Preservative , 
xvi. 176) ; etc. See Vis de La Placctte, by Carrier de St. 
Philippe, in A vis sur la maniere ds prccher ; Nieeron, 
M emoirss, vol. ii ; Europe Savants, vol. xviii ; Fouvelles 
Litteraires, July, 1718, Haag, La France Protestante; 
Quernrd, La France Lifts mire ; Savons, Hist, de la lit- 
ter. Erangaise a V stranger, ii, 211-220; Iloefcr, Four. 
Biog. Generate, xxix, 549; Darling, Cgclopadia Biblio- 
gmphica, ii, 1767. (J, N. P.) 

Lapland (native Sameanda), a territory in the 
northernmost part of Europe, is bounded on the north 
by the Arctic Ocean, on the south by Finland and the 
Swedish province of Norrland, on the east by t lie White 
i Sea, and on the west by Norway. The winter is very long 


LAPLAND 


243 


LAPSE 


and severe ; the summer lasts only nine weeks, but is, in 
consequence of the very long days, almost as hot as in 
Italy, and, owing to the innumerable mosquitoes, most 
oppressive for both man and beast. Only in the south- 
ern part of Swedish Lapland is the soil capable of culti- 
vation; the corn is sown towards the close of May, and 
reaped in the middle of August, but is frequently spoiled 
by night-frosts. The territory is but very thinly set- 
tled, and only a part of it is now occupied by the people 
to which it owes its name, the southern and better por- 
tions having been gradually encroached upon by Nor- 
wegians, Swedes, and Finlanders, till the Laplanders 
proper have in a great measure been cooped up within 
the Arctic Circle. The territory is politically divided 
into three parts: 1. Norwegian Lapland or Finnmark, 
containing ‘27,315.70 square miles and 13,068 inhabitants, 
all Laplanders, or, as they are here called, Finnar. 2. 
Swedish Lapland, containing 49,035.17 square miles, 
with a population of 27,443 inhabitants, of whom only 
5G85 are Laplanders, and all the remainder Swedish col- 
onists, whose number has steadily increased since 17G0, 
when the first two Swedish families settled in the coun- 
try. 3. Russian Lapland, which partly belongs to Fin- 
land and partly to the government of Archangel, and 
embraces Eastern Lapland, with the peninsula of Kola, 
also called the Lapland peninsula. The number of Lap- 
landers in Russian Lapland had in 1852 been reduced to 
2290. The native inhabitants, Laplanders or Laps, call 
themselves Sami or Samelads, and consider Lapland and 
Laplanders as terms of abuse. They are either Fjell- 
Lappar-Finner, mountain Laplanders, who lead a no- 
madic life, and pasture large reindeer herds ; or Skogs- 
Lappar, forest Laplanders, chiefly occupied with hunting 
and fishing, leaving their herds of reindeer in charge of 
the preceding class; or Soe-Finner, sea or shore Lap- 
landers, who, too poor to possess such herds, have been 
obliged to fix their residence upon the coast, and subsist 
chiefly by fishing; or Soekne Lappar, parish Lappars, who 
hire themselves out as servants, chiefly for tending the 
reindeer. They are good-natured, honest, superstitious, 
and patriotic, and, with the exception of an inclination 
to drunkenness, they show neither great vices nor great 
virtues. The origin of the Laplanders is not yet fully 
cleared up, as their physical characteristics point partly 
to the Mongolian and partly to the Caucasian race. The 
prevailing opinion, however, is, that they are only a va- 
riety of Tchude or Finns. The Christianization of the 
Laplanders did not begin until, in 1275, a part of their 
territory was annexed to Sweden. For several centu- 
ries, however, no residts were obtained except the in- 
troduction of Christian baptism and Christian marriage. 
The Norwegian part of Lapland belonged to the arch- 
bishopric of Nidaros (Drontheim); the Swedish to the 
archbishopric of Upsala. Gustavos I, of Sweden, in the 
first half of the 16th century, established the first Lap- 
pish school in the town of 1‘ikea. Charles IX and Chris- 
tina made great efforts for bringing them over to the 
Lutheran Church, while in Norwegian Finnark king 
Christian IV, of Denmark (about 1 GOO) , extirpated the 
remnants of paganism by force. The Christianization 
of this part of Lapland was completed by the zeal of 
bishop Eric Bredalil, of Drontheim (1G43 to 1G72), and 
his successors. At the beginning of the 18th century, 
Isaac Olsen, a poor man, during fourteen years, labored 
among the Laplanders for their Christianization, and 
king Frederick IV, of Denmark, in 1715 and 1717, for 
the same purpose, established theological seminaries in 
Copenhagen and Drontheim. In 1730 king Christian 
VI issued an order that every Laplander, before the 
nineteenth year of his age, must receive confirmation, 
from which time the parents began to bestow greater 
care upon the education ol their children. The govern- 
ment appointed travelling teachers, and also several res- 
ident clergymen, who at first found their progress great- 
ly delayed by the difficulty of mastering the Lappish 
language. The kings of Sweden since Frederick I 
417 48) worked with great zeal, but little success, for 


the entire conversion of the Laplanders. In the treaty 
of Friedrichshaven Sweden had to cede its Lappish 
territory to Russia, but in 1814, in the treaty of Kiel, 
it received another portion from Norway. The most 
zealous missionary who has labored among the Lap- 
landers was pastor Stockfleth (born in 1787), who joined 
them in their nomadic life, and preached to them in 
their own language, which it cost him great efforts to 
learn. At present divine service is held in the Lappish, 
Swedish, and Finnish languages. During the summer 
months the Laplanders, who during this time are mov- 
ing with their reindeer further into the mountains, are 
visited by clergymen of Southern Lapland. The Lap- 
landers show great docility for the reception of the 
Christian doctrine, but their Christianity is still mixed 
up with many superstitious view's and pagan customs. 
The Roman Catholic Church established in 1855 the 
Prefecture Apostolic of the North Pole, which embraces 
Lapland, the Faroe Islands, Greenland, and the north- 
ernmost part of America. The apostolic prefect resides 
at Tromsoe, the capital of Finnmark ; another Lapland- 
ish station has been established at Altengard. See Wig- 
gers, Kirehl. Stalistik, ii, 421 sq.; Neher, Kirchl. Statis- 
tik , ii, 40G sq. (A. J. S.) 

Lapping (p£3, to lick up like a dog, 1 Kings xxi, 
19, etc.) of water by “putting their hand to their mouth.” 
spoken of as a test in reference to Gideon’s men (Judg. 
vii, 5, G), is still in the East supposed to distinguish 
those who evince an alacrity and readiness which fits 
them in a peculiar manner for any active service in 
which they are to be engaged. See Gideon. Among 
the Arabs, lapping with their hands is a common and 
very expeditious w'ay of taking in liquids. “The dog 
drinks by shaping the end of his long, thin tongue into 
the form of a spoon, which it rapidly introduces and 
withdraws from the w r ater, throwing each time a spoon- 
ful of the fluid into his mouth. The tongue of man is 
not adapted to this use; and it is physically impossible 
for a man, therefore, to lap literally as a dog laps. The 
true explanation, probably, is that these men, instead of 
kneeling down to take a long draught, or successive 
draughts from the water, employed their hand as the 
dog employs his tongue — that is, forming it into a hol- 
low spoon, and dipping water with it from the stream. 
Practice gives a peculiar tact in this mode of drinking; 
and the interchange of the hand between the water and 
the month is so rapidly managed as to be comparable to 
that of the dog’s tongue in similar circumstances. Be- 
sides, the w'ater is not usually sucked out of the hand 
into the mouth, but by a peculiar knack is jerked into 
the mouth before the hand is brought close to it, so that 
the hand is approaching with a fresh supply almost be- 
fore the preceding has been swallowed: this is another 
resemblance to the action of a dog’s tongue. On com- 
ing to w r ater, a person w’ho w'ishes to drink cannot stop 
the whole party to w'ait for him w’hen travelling in car- 
avans, and therefore, if on foot, any delay would oblige 
him to unusual exertion in order to overtake his party, 
lie therefore drinks in the manner described, and has 
satisfied his thirst in much less time than one w'ho, hav- 
ing more leisure, or being disposed to more deliberate 
enjoyment, looks out for a place where he may kneel or 
lie down to bring his mouth in contact with the w r ater, 
and imbibe long and slow 7 draughts of it” (Kit to, Picto- 
rial Bible , ad loe.). 

Lapse is a term used in English ecclesiastical law' 
to denote the failure to exercise the right of presenting 
or collating a vacant ecclesiastical benefice within the 
lawful period. On such occasions, if the bishop be the 
patron, the right devolves or lapses to the archbishop, 
and if the archbishop omits to take advantage thereof, 
to the king. So also if any person, other than the bish- 
op, be patron, on his neglecting to present, the right 
lapses in the first place to the bishop, on the bishop’s 
neglect to the archbishop, and from him to the kiug. 
The patron, the bishop, and the archbishop are several- 
ly and successively allowed the full period of six calen- 


LAPSE 


244 


LAPSI 


dar months, exclusive of the day on which the benefice pears to have been first established about the time of 
becomes void; and if the bishop be himself the patron, the reign of Henry 11, and to be coeval with the prae- 
he must collate to the benefice within the period of the tice of institution. Previously to that period the in- 
first six months after the vacancy, as he is not entitled cumbent’s title was complete, upon his appointment by 
to six months in his character of patron, and six months the patron, without his being instituted by the bishop, 
more in his character of bishop. When the patron’s But the Church of Borne, always anxious to render the 
six months have expired, his right of presentation is clergy independent of the laity, strongly opposed this 
not absolutely destroyed by the lapse which then takes custom (jiravam consaetudinem, as Pope Alexander II T, 
place, lmt the bishop acquires merely a kind of concur- in a letter to Thomas a Becket, designates it), and in- 
rent right with him ; for, although the bishop may col- sisted that the right of appointing to ecclesiastical bene- 
late immediately after the lapse, yet, so long as he suffers fices belonged exclusively to the bishops. This intro- 
the benefice to continue vacant, he cannot refuse to in- duced the ceremony of institution (q.v.). It is, however, 


stitute a person presented by the patron ; and, in like 
manner, when the bishop’s six months have expired, 
the patron may present at any time before the archbish- 
op has tilled up the vacancy. By these means provision 
is made against the improper duration of vacancies in 
the Church ; for when the benefice has continued vacant 
for six months, the patronage for that turn becomes an 
object of competition between the original patron and 
the bishop or archbishop, as the case may be, the nomi- 
nee of that party which presents first being entitled to 
the benefice. But when the right to present has passed 
the bishop and the archbishop, and through their neg- 
lect has actually lapsed to the crown, a different rule pre- 
vails, arising from an old maxim of English law, that the 
king’s rights shall never be barred or destroyed by delay 
on his part. Xullum tempus occurrit reyi. When, there- 
fore, the lapse to the king has actually occurred, the 
right of presentation for that turn is absolutely vested 
in him ; and if the patron presents while the benefice 
continues vacant, the king may present at any time af- 
terwards before another vacancy occurs, and may turn 
out the patron’s nominee. But if the patron’s nominee 
is instituted and inducted, and dies incumbent, or if, af- 
ter his induction, he is deprived by sentence of the eccle- 
siastical courts, or resigns bona fide, and not with intent 
to defeat the king’s right to present, before the king has 
exercised that right, it is then held that his right is de- 
stroyed ; for he was only entitled to the presentation for 
one turn, and his having permitted the patron to present 
for that turn will not entitle him to any other. When 
the vacancy is occasioned by the death of the incum- 
bent, or by his cession, which is his own voluntary act, 
being the acceptance of a second benefice incompatible 
with the one which he already holds, the patron is 
bound to take notice of the vacancy, without its being 
notified to him by the bishop, and his six months are 
calculated from the time at which the vacancy actually 
occurs. But when the incumbent is deprived by sen- 
tence of the ecclesiastical courts, and when he resigns, 
such resignation being necessarily made into the hands 
of the bishop, it is held that, as neither his deprivation 
nor resignation can be complete without the concurrence 
of the bishop, the bishop ought to notify the vacancy to 
the patron, and that the patron’s six months are to be 
calculated from the time at which such notice is given. 
And in like manner, if the patron presents in due time, 
and the bishop refuses to institute the person so present- 
ed on the ground of his insufficiency, the bishop ought, 
if the patron be a layman, to give notice of his refusal, 
and until lie does so no lapse can take place; lmt if the 
patron be a spiritual person, it appears from the old law- 
books that no notice is necessary, because the spiritual 
person is presumed to be a competent judge of the mor- 
als and abilities of the person whom he has selected for 
the appointment. If. on account of some such neglect 
or omission on the part of the bishop, the benefice does 
not lapse to him, it cannot lapse to the archbishop or to 
the king; for it is a rule that a lapse cannot take place 
per saltum. that is, hv leaping over or leaving out the 
intermediate steps. This rule protects the patron’s-right 
from being ever injured by the improper refusal of the 
bishop to institute his nominee; for the bishop' can take 
no advantage of that which is occasioned by his own 
wrongful act, neither can the archbishop or the king, 
for the reason alleged above. This right of lapse ap- 


conteiuled by some that institution is as ancient as the 
establishment of Christianity in England; hut Black- 
stone (ii, 33) maintains that it was introduced at the time 
stated above. After that period the bishop alone had 
the power of conferring the legal title to the vacant 
church, which he did by institution: but he was still 
bound to institute the person presented to him for that 
purpose by the patron, provided the patron presented 
some one. But how long was the bishop to wait to see 
whether it was the patron’s intention to exercise his 
right of presentation ? The law declared that he should 
wait a reasonable time; and with a due regard to the 
interest of the patron and the convenience of the pub- 
lic, it has settled that time to be six months. — Eadie, 
Ecclesiastical Dictionary , s. v. See J us Devolutum. 

Lapsed. See Lafsi. 

Lapsi, in the more extended meaning of the word, 
“ the fallen ,” especially those who were excluded from 
communion with the Church on account of having com- 
mitted one of the peccata mortalia. In a more restrict- 
ed sense, it was used to denote such as had “ fallen 
away,” i. e. committed tli epeccatum mortale of denying 
their faith. It was natural that these should be first 
designated by the expression of “ lapsi,” as heretics 
were very numerous in the early ages of the Church, 
and the question of their reintegration into the Church 
was one of considerable importance. As, after the close 
of the persecutions, there were no longer any “lapsi” in 
that sense of the word, it came to be applied as synony- 
mous with panitentes or heeretici , though only occasion- 
ally. Compare Ilenscliel, Glossarium, s.v. 

The “ lapsi” were especially numerous when persecu- 
tion assumed the regular and systematic form it obtained 
in Homan law under Nerva and Trajan. Persistence in 
the profession of Christianity was alone considered a 
crime against the state. Yet Trajan granted full for- 
giveness to the Christians who consented to offer up in- 
cense before his statues and those of the gods. During 
the Decian persecution the form of abjuration became 
even more simple. Those who shrank from offering up 
sacrifices were supposed to have done so by the authori- 
ties. Indeed, in many instances certificates were given 
by magistrates that the law had actually been complied 
with. Such mild measures made it easy for many to 
recant. Cyprian informs us that large numbers eagerly 
recanted in Carthage even before the persecution broke 
out : and Tertullian {De fuya in pcrsec. c. lo) relates 
with righteous indignation that whole congregations, 
with the clergy at their head, would at times resort to 
dishonorable bribes in order to avert persecution. But, 
after the end of the persecution, many tried to unite 
again with the Church. The question now arose wheth- 
er the Church could again receive them as members, 
and on what conditions; and also, who had the power 
to decide that question? In the first ages such peni- 
tents were, upon their confessions, readmitted by impo- 
sition of hands. ( ’onfessors had the privilege of issuing 
letters of peace ( libelli pads') to the lapsed, which fa- 
cilitated their early reception to communion. But such 
penitents were ineligible for holy orders, and, if already 
ordained, they were deposed, not being allowed to re- 
sume their clerical functions, but suffered only to remain 
in lay communion. By degrees these admissions were 
made still easier, and therefore became a matter of se- 
rious consideration by the Council of Ancyra (q. v.), and 


LAPWING 


245 


LAPWING 


resulted in the revival of the old Montanist controversy 
as to the purity and holiness of the Church, besides pro- 
voking another as to the extent of episcopal powers. 
On the controversies and schisms which were thus pro- 
voked in the African Church, see the articles Cyprian; 
Deciiis; Felicissoius ; Martyrs and Confessors; 
Novatian; Novatus. (Compare also Sehaff, Ch. Hist . 
vol. i, § 114 and 115.) Epiphanins asserts that Mele- 
tins revived the struggle against the laxity of Church 
discipline; yet this assertion is not fully substantiated; 
the question of authority was already the foremost in 
these discussions. See Meletius. This was still more 
the case in the controversy with the Donatists (q. v.). 

The only other points to be noticed are some deci- 
sions of the councils which gradually elaborated each of 
the principles finally established. Thus seven canones 
(1-8) of the Synod of Ancyra determine the penance to 
be performed by the lapsi. It distinguished between 
those who cheerfully partook of the repast which fol- 
lowed the sacrifices offered to idols, those who partook 
of it reluctantly and with tears, and those who ate none 
of it. These latter were punished with two years of 
penance, the others more severely. Priests who had sac- 
rificed to idols lost their ecclesiastical character. The 
Synod of Niciea was still more lenient. Those against 
whom it was most severe were persons who had recanted 
without being threatened in their lives or fortunes; yet 
even those, while declared to be “unworthy of the pity 
of the Church,” were also readmitted. Naturally, as 
persecution decreased, the Church became less stringent, 
as it had no longer to fear desertions. Even before that 
the practice of the Eastern Church had become very 
lenient. See Tertullian, De pndicitia ; De pcenitentia ; 
Cyprian, De l apsis ; epistolce ; epp. canonical Dionysii 
A lex and rini, c. 262 ; Mansi, Acta Condi . (Ancyr. 1-8; 
Nicani. 10-13; 11 Cartliag. 3; III Cart hag. 27 ; Agath. 
15); Jacobi Sirmondi llUtoria pcenitentiiE pull. (1050); 
Joh. Morini Comm, histor. de disciplina in admin istratione 
sacr. pamit. 13 primis sceculis (1651); Klee, Die Beichte , 
eine hist. krit. Untersuchnng (1828) ; Krause, Diss. de 
lapsis primee ecclesice ; Riddle, Christian A ntiq. p. G24 
sq. ; Siegel, Christlieh-Kirchliche A Iterthiimcr , i, 200 sq. ; 
Sehrbckh, Kirchengesch. iv, 215, 282 sq. ; v, 50, 313, 382 ; 
Herzog, Real-Eneyklop.x iii, 200; Blunt, Did. Hist, and 
Doct. Theology , p. 395. See Apostasv. (J. II. W.) 

Lapwing, in our version, is used for r]p2*n (du- 
kiphath', perhaps from the Arabic for cock , and 
XSP3, head, i. e. topknot), a word which, occurring as 
the name of an unclean bird only in Lev. xi, 19 and 
Dent, xiv, 18, affords no internal or collateral evidence 
to establish the propriety of the translation. It has 
been surmised to mean “double-crest,” which is suffi- 
ciently correct when applied to the hoopoe, but less so 
when applied to the lapwing (Targum, Callus mnntanus), 
or the cock of the woods, Tetrao urogallus, for which 
bird Bochart produces a more direct etymology; and he 
might have appealed to the fact that the Attagan visits 
Syria in winter, exclusive of at least two species of Pte- 
rocles, or sand-grouse, which probably remain all the 
3 T ear. But these names were anciently, as well as in 
modern times, so often confounded that the Greek writ- 
ers even used the term Gallinacea to denote the hoopoe; 
for Hesychius explains t7ro\p in /Esehvhis by the Greek 
appellations of “ moor-cock” and * mountain-cock” (see 
Bochart, s. v. Dukiphath) ; and in modern languages 
similar mistakes respecting this bird are abundant. yEs- 
chvlus speaks of the hoopoe by name, and expressly 
calls it the bird of the rocks ( Fragm . 291, quoted by 
Aristotle, //. A . ix, 49). /Elian (A r . A . iii, 20) says that 
these birds build their nests in lofty rocks. Aristotle’s 
words are to the same effect, for he writes, “ Now some 
animals are found in the mountains, as the hoopoe, for | 
instance” (//. A. i, 1). When the two lawsuit-wearied 
citizens of Athens, Euelpides and Risthetserus, in the 
comedy of the Birds of Aristophanes (20, 54), are on 
their search for the home of Epops, king of birds, their I 


ornithological conductors lead them through a wild, des- 
ert tract terminated by mountains and rocks , in which is 
situated the royal aviary of Epops. The Septuagint 
and Vidgate agree with the Arabian interpreters in 
translating the Hebrew term by tnoip and upnpa ; and, 
as the Syrian name is kiknphah, and the Egyptian kit- 
kuphah, both apparently of the same origin as dukiphath, 
the propriety of substituting hoopoe for lapwing in our 
version appears sufficiently established. The word hoo- 
poe is evidently onomatopoetic, being derived from the 
voice of the bird, which resembles the words “hoop, 
hoop,” softly but rapidly uttered. “It utters at times a 
sound closely resembling the word hoop , hoop, hoop , but 
breathed out so softly, but rapidly, as to remind the 
; hearer of the note of the dove” (Yarrell, Brit. Birds , ii, 
170). The Germans call the bird Fin Houp, the French, 
La lluppe, which is particularly appropriate, as it refers 
both to the crest and note of the bird. In Sweden it is 
known by the name of 1 1 dr- Vogel, the army-bird, because, 
from its ominous cry, frequently heard in the wilds of 
the forest, while the bird itself moves off as any one ap- 
proaches, the common people have supposed that sea- 
sons of scarcity and war are impending (Lloyd’s Brand. 
Advent, ii, 321). 

The hoopoe is not uncommon in Palestine at this day 
(Forskiil, Descr. A mm. pref. p. 7 , Russel, Aleppo, ii, 81 ; 
Host, Nachr. v. Marokko. p. 297; compare Jerome, ad 
Zech. v, 9; Beclistein, Naturgesch. ii, 547), and was from 
remote ages a bird of mystery. Many and strange are 
the stories which are told of the hoopoe in ancient Ori- 
ental fable, and some of these stories are by no means to 
its credit. It seems to have been always regarded, both 
by Arabians and Greeks, with a superstitious reverence 
— a circumstance which it owes, no doubt, partly to its 
crest (Aristoph. Birds, 94; compare Ovid, Met. vi, 072), 
which certainly gives it a most imposing appearance, 
partly to the length of its beak, and partly, also, to its 
habits. “If any one anointed himself with its Mood, 
and then fell asleep, he would see daemons suff mating 
him” — “if its liver were eaten with rue, the eater’s wits 
would be sharpened, and pleasing memories be excited” 
— are superstitions bold respecting this bird. One more 
fable narrated of the hoopoe is given, because its origin 
can be traced to a peculiar habit of the bird. The 
Arabs say that the hoopoe is a betrayer of secrets; that 
it is able, moreover, to point out bidden wells and foun- 
tains under ground. Now the hoopoe, on settling upon 
the ground, has a strange and portentous-looking habit 
of bending the head downwards till the point of the 
beak touches the ground, raising and depressing its 
crest at the same time, llcnce, with much probability, 
arose the Arabic fable. These stories, absurd as they 
are, are here mentioned because it was perhaps in a 
great measure owing, not only to the uncleanly habits 
of the bird, but also to the superstitious feeling with 
which the hoopoe was regarded by the Egyptians and 
heathen generally, that it was forbidden as food to the 
Israelites, whose affections Jehovah wished to wean 
from the land of their bondage, to which, as we know, 
they fondly clung. The summit of the augural rod is 
said to have been carved in the form of a hoopoe’s head ; 
and one of the kind is still used by Indian gosscins, and 
even Armenian bishops, attention being no doubt drawn 
to the bird bv its peculiarly arranged bars upon a deli- 
cate vinous fawn color, and further embellished with a 
beautiful fan-shaped crest of the same color. The hoo- 
poe is a bird of the slender-billed tribe, allied to the 
creepers ( Certhiadie ), about as large as a pigeon, but 
rather more slender. The general hue is a delicate red- 
dish buff, but the back, wings, and tail arc beautifully 
marked with broad alternate bands of black and white: 
the feathers of the crest, which can be raised or dropped 
at pleasure, arc terminated by a white space tipped with 
black. In Egypt these birds are numerous (Soimini, 
Travels, i, 204), forming probably two species, the one 
permanently resident about human habitations, the other 
migratory, and the same that visits Europe. The lat- 


LAEDNER 


LAPWING 246 




Hoopoe (ITpnpa Epops). 

ter wades in the mud when the Nile has subsided, and 
seeks lor worms and insects; and the former is known 
to rear its young so much immersed in the shards and 
fragments of beetles, etc., as to cause a disagreeable 
smell about its nest, which is always in holes or in hol- 
low trees. Though an unclean bird in the Hebrew law, 
the common migrator}' hoopoe is eaten in Egypt, and 
sometimes also in Italy; but the stationary species is 
considered inedible. See Macgillivray’s British Birds , 
iii, 43; Yarrell. Brit, B . ii, 178, 2d ed.; Lloyd’s Scandi- 
navian Adventures, ii, 321. The chief grounds for all 
the tllthy habits which have been ascribed to this much- 
maligned bird are to be found in the fact that it resorts 
to dunghills, etc., in search of the worms and insects 
which it tinds there. A writer in I his, i, 49, says, “ We 
found the hoopoe a very good bird to eat.” Tristram 
says of the hoopoe {Ibis, i, 27) ; “The Arabs have a su- 
perstitious reverence for this bird, which they believe to 
possess marvellous medicinal qualities, and call it ‘the 
Doctor.’ Its head is an indispensable ingredient in all 
charms, and in the practice of witchcraft.” — Kitto; 
Smith; Fairbairn. Sec Bochart, Jlieroz. iii, 107 sq.; 
Iiosenmiiller, Alterth. IV, ii, 326; Oedmann, SammL v, 
66 sq.; Sommer, Bibi. Abkandl. i, 254 sq. ; Penny Cyclo- 
paedia, s. v. Upupidae; Wood, Bible Animals, p. 392. 

Dr. Thomson, however, dissents from the common, 
view above t hat the Hebrew dukiphuth is the ordinary 
hed-hood or hoopoe, on the ground that the latter “is a 
small bird, yood to eat , comparatively rare, and there- 
fore not likely to have been mentioned at all by Moses, 
and still less to have been classed with the unclean.” 
lie proposes the English pewit , called by the natives 
now and bu-teet. “The bird appears in Palestine only 
in the depth of winter. It then disperses over the 
mountains, and remains until early spring, when it en- 
tirely disappears. It roosts on the ground wherever 


The Pewit. 


night overtakes it. It utters a loud scream when about 
to Hv, which sounds like the last of the above names. 
It is regarded as an unclean bird by the Arabs. The 
upper part of the body and wings are of a dull slate-col- 
or, the under parts of both are white. It has a topknot 
on the hinder part of the head pointing backward like 
a horn, and when running about on the ground it close- 
ly resembles a young hare” {Land and Book , i, 104). 

Lardner, Dionysius, LL.D., a distinguished Eng- 
lish writer on physical science, was born in Dublin April 
3, 1793, and was appointed professor of natural philoso- 
phy and astronomy in University College, London, in 
1828. In 1830 lie projected a sort of Encyclopaedia, con- 
sisting of original treatises on history, science, econom- 
ics, etc., by the most eminent authors, and 134 volumes 
were accordingly published, under the general name of 
Lardner' s Cyclopaedia, between 1830 and 1844. Some 
of these volumes were from his own pen. A second is- 
sue of this work was begun in 1853. He has published 
various scientific works, the most important of which 
are his “ hand-books” of various branches of natural phi- 
losophy (1854-56). He is also the author of the Museum 
of Science and Art, an excellent popular exposition of 
the physical sciences, with their applications. He died 
in Paris April 29, 1859. — Chambers, Cyclopadia, s. v. 

Lardner, Nathaniel, D.D., a very noted English 
theologian and minister of the Presbyterian Church, of 
Arian tendency, was born in Hawkslmrst, in Kent, in 
1684. In early life he was a pupil of Dr. Joshua Old- 
field, a minister of eminence in that denomination, but, 
like many of the Dissenters of his time, he preferred to 
go abroad to prosecute his studies. He spent more than 
three years at the University of Utrecht, where lie stud- 
ied under G ravins and lhirmann, and was then some time 
at the University of Leyden. He returned to England 
in 1703, and continued to prosecute his theological stud- 
ies with a view to the ministry, which he entered at the 
age of twenty-five. He began preaching at Stoke-New- 
ington in 1709, but, owing to his want of power to mod- 
ulate his voice, soon became private chaplain and tutor 
in the family of lady Treby. In 1724 he was appointed 
lecturer at the Old Jewry, where he delivered in outline 
his work, The Credibility of the Gospel History (London, 
1727-43, 5 vols. 8vo), generally acknowledged as consti- 
tuting the most unanswerable defence of Christianity to 
our own day. “ The work is unequalled for the extent 
and accuracy of its investigations. Decent researches 
supplement it, but it is not likely that they will ever su- 
persede it” (AY. J. Cox in Kitto). Sir James Mackin- 
tosh, in his remarks on Palev (in the View of the Prog- 
ress of Ethical Philosophy'), rather discredits its general 
usefulness as an apologetieal work, because it “soon wea- 
ries out the greater part of readers,” though there are 
many eminent English critics who think otherwise (com- 
pare Allibone, Diet, of Engl, and A m. A uthors , 
ii, 1060). But even sir J. Mackintosh concedes 
that with the scholar it lias power : “ The few 
who are more patient have almost always been 
gradually won over to feel pleasure in a dis- 
play of knowledge, probity, charity, and meek- 
ness unmatched by an avowed advocate in a 
case deeply interesting his warmest feelings” 
(compare also Leland, Deisticcd 1 1 l iters). In 
1729 he was unexpectedly called to the Church 
in Crutchud Friars, which position he accept- 
ed and held for about twenty-two years. He 
died at his native place in 1768, having de- 
voted his long life to the prosecution of theo- 
logical inquiry, to the exclusion of almost any 
other subject. As a supplement to The Cred- 
ibility, Lardner wrote History of the Apostles 
and Evangelists, writers of the X. Test. (1756- 
57, again 1760, 3 vols. 8vo; also in vol. ii of 
bishop Watson’s Collection of Tracts). Dr. 
Lardner likewise wrote many other treatises, 
in which his store of learning is brought to 
bear on questions important in Christian the- 


LARES 


247 


LARNED 


ology. The most remarkable of these, his minor publi- 
cations, are his Letter on the Logos (1759), in which it dis- 
tinctly appears that he was of the Unitarian or Socintan 
school; and History of the Heretics of the first two Centu- 
ries after Christ (published after his decease [ 1780, 4to], 
with additions by John 1 Iogg). The best edition of Lard- 
ner’s works is that by Dr. Andrew Kippis (Lond. 1788, 
11 vols. 8vo) ; but it is no mean proof of the estimation 
in which they are held, that, large as the collection is, 
they were reprinted entire as late as 1838 (Lond. 10 vols. 
8vo, a very handsome edition). 11 is writings, now more 
than a century old, are still regarded as “a bulwark on 
the side of truth,” so much so that not only ministers 
and students of theology of our day can ill afford to be 
without them, but every intelligent layman who seeks 
to do his duty in the Church, of which he is a part, 
should possess and study them. “In the applause of 
Dr. Lardner,” says T. II. Horne (Bibl. Bib. p. 368), “ all 
parties of Christians are united, regarding him as the 
champion of their common and holy faith. Seeker, Por- 
teus, Watson, Tomline, Jortin, Hay, and Paley, of the 
Anglican Church ; Doddridge, Kippis, and Priestley, 
among the Dissenters* and all foreign Protestant Bibli- 
cal critics have rendered public homage to his learning, 
his fairness, and his great merits as a Christian apolo- 
gist. The candid of the literati of the Romish com- 
munion have extolled his labors; and even Morgan and 
Gibbon, professed unbelievers, have awarded to him the 
meed of faithfulness and impartiality. By collecting a 
mass of scattered evidences in favor of the authenticity 
of the evangelical history, he established a bulwark on 
the side of truth which infidelity has never presumed to 
attack.” See Dr. Kippis, Life of Lardner, in vol. i of 
the works of the latter ; Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and A m. 
Authors, ii, 1060; English Cyclop, s. v. ; Farrar, Critical 
Hist, of Free Thought , p. 468 ; Dorner, Person of Christ, 
ii, pt. iii,App. p. 407. 

Lares, in connection with the Manes and the Pe- 
nates, were tutelary spirits, genii, or deities of the an- 
cient Romans. The derivation of the names is not per- 
haps quite certain, but the first is generally considered 
the plural of lar, an Etruscan word signifying “lord” or 
“hero;” the second is supposed to mean “the good or 
benevolent ones;” and the third is connected with pe- 
rns, *• the innermost part of a house or sanctuary.” The 
Lares, Manes, and Penates do not appear to have been 
regarded as essentially different beings, for the names 
are frequently used either interchangeably or in such a 
conjunction as almost implies identity. Yet some have 
thought that a distinction is discernible, and have look- 
ed upon the Lares as earthly, the Manes as infernal, 
and the Penates as heavenly protectors — a notion which 
has probably originated in the fact that Manes is a gen- 
eral name for the souls of the departed, those who in- 
habit the lower world; while among the Penates are 
included such great deities as Jupiter, Juno, Vesta, etc. 
Hence we may perhaps infer that the Manes were just 
the Lares viewed as departed spirits, and that the Pe- 
nates embraced not only the Lares, but all spirits, wheth- 
er die m ons or deities, who exercised a “special provi- 
dence” over families, cities, etc. Of the former, Manes, 
we know almost nothing distinctively. An annual fes- 
tival was held in their honor on the 19th of February, 
called Feralia or Parentalia, of the latter, Penates, we 
are in nearly equal ignorance, but of the Lares we have 
a somewhat detailed account. They were, like the Pe- 
nates, divided into two classes — Lares domestici and 
Lares publici. The former were the souls of virtuous 
ancestors set free from the realm of shades by the Ache- 
rontic rites, and exalted to the rank of protectors of 
their descendants. They were, in short, household gods, 
and their worship was really a worship of ancestors. 
The first of the Lares in point of honor was the Lar fa- 
miliar is, the founder of the house, the family Lar, who 
accompanied it in all its changes of residence. The 
Lares publici had a wider sphere of influence, and re- 
ceived particular names from the places over which they 


ruled. Thus we read of Lares compitales (the Lares of 
cross-roads), Lares vicorum (the Lares of streets), the 
litres rurales (the rural Lares), Lares viales (the Lares 
of the highways), Lares permarini (the Lares of the 
sea), and the Lares cubiculi (the Lares of the bedcham- 
ber). The images of these guardian spirits or deities 
were placed (at least in large houses) in small shrines 
or compartments called cedicuhe or lararia. They were 
worshipped every day : whenever a Roman family sat 
down to meals, a portion of the food was presented to 
them ; but particular honors w ere paid to them on the 
calends, nones, and ides of the month; and at festive 
gatherings the lararia were thrown open, and the im- 
ages of the household gods were adorned with garlands. 
— Chambers, s. v. See Smith’s Dictionary of Classical 
Biography and Mythology, s. v. 

Larned, Sylvester, an American Presbyterian 
minister, born in Pittsfield, Mass., Aug. 31, 1796, was 
educated at Lenox Academy and Middlebury College, 
studied theology in Princeton Seminary, and was or- 
dained in July, 1817. Ilis earliest efforts at preaching 
showed rare gifts of eloquence, and his first sermons, 
delivered in New York city, attracted large crowds, and 
melted whole audiences to tears. President Davis, of 
Middlebury College, remarked of him that in his com- 
position and eloquence he was not surpassed by any 
youth whom he had ever known ; and John Quincy 
Adams declared that he had never heard his equal in 
the pulpit. To his wonderful gift of oratory Larned 
added the strength of a dignified and commanding pres- 
ence, a voice full of melody and pathos, thorough and 
sympathetic appreciation of his theme, and an unyield- 
ing devotion to his calling. He had the unusual power 
of winning his audience with the utterance of almost 
his first sentence. Ilis very look was eloquent. Larned 
was solicited to take the first stations, with the largest 
salaries ; but, desiring to give his energies to build up 
the Church where it was weak, he went to New Orleans, 
and soon organized a church, the First Presbyterian, 
over which he became pastor. He labored there with 
the greatest success, creating deep impressions upon the 
popular mind until his death, Aug. 20, 1820. Seldom, 
if ever, has the death of one so young caused such wide- 
spread sorrow. His Life and Sermons were published 
by Rev. R. R. Gurley (New York, 1844, 12mo). — Alli- 
bone, Diet of Brit, and A mer. A uthors, ii, 1000 ; Water- 
bury, Sketches of Eloquent I y reachers, p. 33 sq. ; Few Eng- 
lander, v, 70 sq. 

Larned, William Augustus, a noted American 
Congregational theologian and professor, was born in 
Thompson County, Conn., June 23, 1806. His ancestors 
had lived in that county for four generations, the first 
of the family having come over in John Winthrop’s col- 
ony in 1630. Provided with suitable opportunities for 
obtaining an education by his father, a lawyer of con- 
siderable ability and renown, young Larned was gradu- 
ated at Yale College with honor when about twenty 
years of age. Although religiously trained he was 
somewhat sceptical in his youth, but, under the preach- 
ing of Dr. Fitch while in college, he was powerfully im- 
pressed, and in the great revival that occurred soon after 
his graduation he resolved to be a follower of Christ. 
After teaching five years, first at Salisbury, N. C., and 
then for three years as tutor in Yale College, he entered 
upon his theological studies, and was ordained in 1834 
pastor of the Second Congregational Church, Millbury, 
Mass., but was compelled to relinquish this charge in 
the following year on account of impaired health. From 
1835 to 1839 he was associated, at their request, with 
Rev. N. S. Bcman, D.D., and Rev. Mr. Kirk, in instruct- 
ing theological students in Troy, N. Y. Soon after fin- 
ishing his labors in Troy he was appointed professor cf 
rhetoric and English literature in Yale College, a posi- 
tion which he filled with honor and usefulness till his 
death, Feb. 3, 1862. Prof. Larned’s literary labors were 
mostly confined to the Few Englander, of which he was 
editor for two years, and to which he contributed twen- 


LAROCHE 


24S 


LAROMIGUIERE 


ty-seven different articles on a variety of topics. As 
the pastor of a church, as the successor of Dr. Goodrich 
in the professor’s chair, and as a literary man, he acquit- 
ted himself with lidelity and success. He was a man 
simple and unpretending in his tastes and habits, of 
great purity of character, and of strong faith in Christ 
as his Saviour. See New Englander , 1 80*2. April, art. ix ; 
Appleton, New Am. Cyclop, vol. x, s. v. ; Congreg. Quart. 
1803 ; Dr. Theodore Woolsey, Funeral Discourse com - 
memorutive of Bee. IT. A . Lamed (New Haven, 1802, 
Svo). (II. A. B.) 

Laroche, Alain de, also called Alan us de Rupe, 
a French Jioman Catholic theologian, was born in Brit- 
tany about the year 1428. While yet quite young he 
joined the Dominicans, studied philosophy and theology 
at Baris, and was sent to the Netherlands in 1459. Af- 
ter lecturing for a while in the convents of Lille and 
Douai, he became professor of theology at Gaud in 1408, 
and at Rostock in 1470. He died at Zwoll Sept. 8, 1475. 
Full of zeal, but very deficient in knowledge, Laroche 
labored ceaselessly to propagate the use of the rosary; 
he was the first to preach on this practice, introducing 
in his sermons marvellous stories which he mostly in- 
vented himself. Ilis works were published more than 
a century after his death, under the title Beatus A hums 
de Rape redivirus, de Psalterio , sen Rosario Christi et Ma- 
rk v, tractatus, in V partes distributns (F riburg, 1019, 4to ; 
Col. 1624; Naples, 1030). See Trithemius, De Script. 
Eccles. c. 850; Choquet, Script. Bely. Ord. Prcedicat. p. 
202-218 ; Echard, Script. Ord. Prcedicat. ; Paquot, Me- 
moires , etc., iii, 144-150; Hoofer, None. Biog. Generate , 
xxix, 022. See Rosary. (J. N. B.) 

Larochefoucauld, Francois, Due de, a noted 
French philosophical writer, the descendant of an old 
French family of great celebrity, was born in 1013. lie 
early enjoyed the favor and conlidence of the court, but 
involved himself in intrigues against cardinal Richelieu, 
and in the tumults of the Fronde, and was obliged to 
retire into private life. Ever attached to literary pur- 
suits, he cultivated the society of the most eminent lit- 
erary persons of his time, Boileau, Racine, and Moliere, 
and composed his famous Memoires (Cologne, 1002; 
Amsterdam, 1723, etc.), in which he gives a simple but 
masterly historic account of the political events of his 
time. In 1005 he published Reflexions oil Sentences et 
Maximes Morales, a work containing 300 detached 
thoughts, of which, perhaps, the most widely celebrated 
is his definition of hypocrisy, as *• the homage which 
vice renders to virtue.” The book is regarded as a 
model of French prose, and exhibits much acuteness of 
observation, and a clear perception of the prevalent cor- 
ruption and hypocrisy of his time. Larochefoucauld 
died March 17, 1080. Ilis (Enures Completes were edit- 
ed by Deppiug (Bar. 1818), and his writings have been 
commented on by a host of critics of the most different 
schools, as Voltaire, Yinet, Sainte-Benve. and Victor Cou- 
sin. See Suard. Notice snr La Rochefoucauld ; Sainte- 
Benve, Etudes snr La Rochefoucauld, in his Portraits 
des Femmes; Moefer, None. Biog. Generate, xxix, 034 sq. 
— Chambers, Cyclopaedia, s. v. 

Laromiguiere, Pierre, a distinguished French 
metaphysician, was born at Livignac-le-Haut. Aveyron, 
Nov. 3, 1750. He studied at the College of Viilefranche, 
and became successively professor of philosophy at Car- 
cassonne, Tarbes and La Fleclie. and Toulouse/ In 1790 
lie went to Baris, where he soon became professor of the 
normal school. In 1812 he confined himself to his office 
of librarian of the university, still retaining, however, 
the title of professor of the faculty of philosophy, lie 
died at Baris Aug. 12, 1837. With the exception of a 
few miscellaneous pieces, his chief reputation as a phi- 
losopher rests on his Legons de Philosophic. (3d ed. Baris, 
1820,3 vols. 12mo). lie had been 'educated a zealous 
pupil of Condillac, but there were, as Cousin expresses 
it, two men in Laromiguiere, the ancient and the mod- 
ern ; the disciple and the adversary of Condillac. 


Laromiguiere’ s Philosophy. — (1.) Classification of the 
' Faculties. — “ These powers and capacities he separates 
into two great classes — those of the understanding and 
those of the trill. The faculties of the understanding he 
reduces to these three: 1. Attention ; 2. Comparison ; 3. 
Reasoning. Of these three, attention is the fundamental 
principle from which the other two proceed ; and of these 
two, again, the phenomena usually denoted by the words 
memory, judgment, imagination, etc., are simply modi- 
fications. Since, however, these three generic powers, in 
their last analysis, are all included in the first, the whole 
of the phenomena of the understanding may be said to 
spring from the one great fundamental faculty of attention. 
If we now turn to the trill, we find, according to M. Laro- » 
miguiere, a complete parallel existing between its phe- 
nomena and those we have just been considering. The 
foundation of all voluntary action in man is desire ; and 
in the same manner as we have already seen the two 
latter faculties of the understanding spring from the 
first, so now we see springing from desire, as the basis, 
the two corresponding phenomena of preference ami lib- 
ertg. These three powers, then, being established, all 
the subordinate powers of the will are without difficulty 
reducible to them, so that, at length, we have the com- 
plete man viewed in two different aspects — in the one 
as an intellectual, in the other as a voluntary being, the 
chief facts of his intellectual exactly corresponding to 
those of his voluntary existence. Lastly, to bring the 
whole system to a state of complete unity, our author 
shows t hat desire itself is, strictly speaking, a peculiar 
form of attention ; that the fundamental principle, there- 
i fore, of our intellectual and voluntary life is the same; 
that the power of attention, broadly viewed (being, in 
fact, but another expression for the natural activity of 
the 1 1 pnian mind), is the point from which the whole 
originally proceeds. Now the contrast between this 
psychology and that of Condillac is sufficiently striking, 
the one being indeed, in a measure, directly opposite to 
the other. The one lays at the foundation of our whole 
intellectual and active life a faculty purely passive in its 
nature, and regards all phenomena as simply translbr- 
I mations of it; the other assumes a primitive power, the 
very essence of which is activity, anil makes all our other 
powers more or less share in this essence.” 

(2.) Origin of our Ideas. — “Here, in order to swerve 
as little as possible in appearance from the philosophy 
of Condillac, he makes the whole material of our knowl- 
edge come from our sensibilitg. Condillac had derived 
all our ideas from sensation in its ordinary and contract- 
ed sense; Locke had derived them from sensation and 
reflection, thus taking in the active as well as the pass- 
ive element to account for the phenomena of the case; 
M. Laromiguiere, however, explains his meaning of the 
word sensibility in such a manner as to make the foun- 
dation still broader than that of Locke himself. Sensi- 
bility, be shows, is of four kinds; 1. That produced by 
the action of external things upon the mind — this is 
sensation in the ordinary sense of the word ; 2. that pro- 
duced by the action of our faculties upon each other — 
this is equivalent to Locke's reflection; 3. that which is 
produced by the recurrence and comparison of several 
ideas together, giving us the perception of relations; 
and, 4. that which is produced by the contemplation of 
human actions, as right or wrong, which is the moral 
faculty. In this theory it appears at once evident that 
there is a secret revolt from the doctrines of sensational- 
ism. The activity of the human mind was again vin- 
dicated, the majesty of reason restored, and, what was 
1 still more important, the moral faculty was again raised 
from its ruins to sway its sceptre over human actions 
and purposes. M. Laromiguiere, the ideologist, will al- 
ways be viewed as the day-star of French eclecticism” 
(Morell, History of Modern Philosophy, p. 031 sq.). 

Laromiguiere's works were published, in the 7th edi- 
tion. as (Fur res de Laromiguiere , at Baris, in 1802. See 
Cousin, Fragments philosophiqnes { 1838), ii, 408; Dami- 
i ron, Essai sur LHistoire de la Philosophic tn France au 


LAEOS 


249 


LA SALLE 


xix me stecle (1828); Dannon, Notice sur la Vie et les 
Ecrits tie Laromigmere (1839); Yalette, Laromigmere 
et VEclectisme (1842); Saphary, V Beale eclectique et 
VEcole Frangaise (1844) ; Rcrrard, Logique classique 
dap res les principes tie Laromigui'ere (1844); C. Mallet, 
Mem, sur Laromiguiere , in the Comptc rendu de V Aca- 
demic des Sciences morales et politiques (1847), vol. iii ; 
Tissot, A ppreciatians des Legons de Philosophic de Laro- 
miguiere (1855); Mignct, Notice historique sur la Vie et 
les Ecrits de M. Laromigui'ere (1850) ; Taine, Les Philo- 
sophes Frangais dit xix me siecle (1857); Iloefer, Noui\ 
Blog. Generate , xxix, GG9. 

Laros, John Jacob, a minister of the German Re- 
formed Church, of Huguenot descent, was born in Le- 
high Co., Pa., in Feb. 1755. lie was three years a sol- 
dier in the Revolutionary War, and fought in the battle 
of Trenton. Afterwards he went to North Carolina, 
where he taught school. He studied theology private- 
ly, and was licensed to preach in 1795. lie preached 
seven years in North Carolina, when he removed to 
Ohio, and there continued the good work. He was not 
ordained, however, till 1820. lie died Nov. 17, 1844, 
having accomplished an important work in Ohio as a 
pioneer of the German Reformed Church. Mr. Laros 
wrote much. He left behind in MS. treatises on The 
Decrees of God and Peprobation, and The Evidences of 
saving Faith. These are in German — ably conceived, 
well conducted, and written in a beautiful style. He left 
also a number of poems of considerable merit. Without 
much learning, he was decidedly a genius, but, what is 
better, he left behind him the record of a long, laborious, 
and useful life. 

Larroque, Daniel, a French theologian and writer, 
was born at Yitre near 1GG0. lie studied theology, 
and was about to enter the ministry, when the revoca- 
tion of the Edict of Nantes drove him to London. After 
preaching in the capital of England for several months, 
lie went to Copenhagen as minister to Huguenot refu- 
gees. In 1G90 he returned to France, and became a Ro- 
man Catholic ; but he failed to meet with success among 
the Romanists, and he devoted himself mainly to study, 
and kept in close retirement from the world. He died 
at Paris Sept. 5, 1731. A list of his writings, which are 
not of particular interest, is given in Iloefer, A 'our. Biog . 
Generate , xxix, G97-699. 

Larroque, Mattliieu de, a distinguished French 
Protestant theologian, was born at Lnirac, near Agon, in 
1010. He studied theology at Montauban, and in 1G43 
became pastor of the Church at Poujoh. The next year 
he went in the same capacity to Yitre, where lie. re- 
mained twenty-six years. In 1GG9 he was proposed as 
minister to the Church of Charenton, but the govern- 
ment opposed his nomination; similar reasons prevent- 
ed his accepting a call as pastor and professor to Sau- 
mur. He shortly after went to Rouen, where he died, 
Jan. 31, 1G84. Larroque was a man of eminent natural 
talents, extensive learning, and great activity. He wrote 
a large number of works, mostly polemical, the principal 
of which are, Histoire de V Encharistie (Amst. 1GG9, 4to; 
2d ed. 1G71, 8vo) ; a very scholarly work, by far his best, 
and of itself enough to make his name immortal : — Dis- 
sertutio duplex de Photino htrrctico et de, Liberia ponti fee 
Romano (Geneva, 1670, 8 vo): — Obserrationes in lgna- 
tianas Peursonii rindicias et in unnotationes Bereregii in 
Canones Apostoloj'um (Rouen, 1674, 8vo) : a defence of 
Daille’s work on the epistles of Ignatius against Pear- 
son and Reveridgc; Reponse an Hr re. de M ,1'evcqne de 
Jifeuux, l)e la Communion sous les deux esp'eces (Rotter- 
dam, 1G83, 12mo) : — Nouveau Trait e de la Regale (Rot- 
terdam, 1085, 12mo), in defence of the king’s right to ap- 
point ministers to the vacant churches in France: — Ad- 
rersariorum so era rum Libri iii (Leyden, 1G88, 8vo\ be- 
ing part ol an ecclesiastical history which he left in- 
complete. See Non relies de la Republiqne des Left ns, 
March, 1G84, art. 5 : Iiayle, Diet Ionian re Historique ; Ni- 
ceron, M emoires, vol. xxi ; Histoire des Ouvruges des Sa- 


vants, April, 1G88 ; Haag, La France Protest ante ; Hoe- 
for, Nouv. Biog , Generate, xxix, C97. (J. N. P.) 

Larue, Charles dp:, a French Jesuit and celebrated 
preacher, w'as born at Paris in 1G43; joined the order in 
1G59, became soon after professor of rhetoric, and at 
once attracted the attention of Louis XI Y by his talents 
as a preacher and poet. He was for a while sent as a 
missionary among the Protestants of the Ce'venncs, but 
soon returned to Paris, where he was appointed professor 
of rhetoric in the college Louis-1 e-G rand. He w'as also 
chosen confessor of the dauphincss, and of the duke of 
Rerri. lie died at Paris May 27, 1725. Larue wrote 
Idyllia (Rouen, 1GG9, 12mo). reprinted under the title 
Carminum Libri iv (Gtli ed. Paris, 1754), which contains, 
among a number of profane pieces, a Greek ode in honor 
of the immaculate conception (1670) : — P.Virgilvi Ma- 
ronis Opera , interpret at tone et notis , ad usum Delphini 
(Paris, 1G75, 4to, often reprinted) : — Sermons (In Migne, 
Collection des Orateurs Sucres ) : these are celebrated as 
models of pathos, as well as for vehemence of style and 
grace of diction : — Panegyriques des Saints , etc. (Paris, 
1740,2 vols. I2mo); and a number of theatrical pieces, 
etc. See Mercure de France, June, 1725; Raillet, Juge- 
ments des Savants; Journal des Savants, 1G95, 170G, 1712, 
1738, and 1740; Diet, des Predicaieurs ; Le Long, Bill, 
llistorique; Moreri, Diciionnaire llist. ix; Bill, des /-cri- 
vains de la Compagnie de Jesus , p. G58-G65 ; Iloefer, 
Nouv. Biog . Generate, xxix, 700. 

Lasas'a {Kaoa'ia, derivation unknown)), a place men- 
tioned only in Acts xxvii, 8, as a city lying near the 
Fair Havens, in the island of Crete. Other MSS. have 
Alassa (" AXaoera ), and some (with the Yulgate) Tha- 
lassa (OaXacaa), which latter Reza adopted (see Kui- 
nol, Comment, ad loc.), and Cramer mentions coins of a 
Cretan town by this latter name {Ancient Grcice, iii, 
374) ; but neither of these readings is to be preferred. 
It is likely that during the stay at the adjoining port 
the passengers on Paul’s ship visited Lasa\a (Conybeare 
and 1 lowson’s Life and Fpist. of St, Paul, ii, 320, n.). It 
is probably the same as the Lisia of the Peutingcr Ta- 
bles, sixteen miles east of Gortyna (see Hock. Kreta, i, 
412,439). In the mouth of January, 185G, a yachting 
party made inquiries at Fair Havens, and were told that 
the name Lasa?a was still given to some ruins in the 
neighborhood. It lies about the middle of the southern 
coast of Crete, some five miles cast of Fair Havens, and 
close to Cape Leonda. Mr. Brown thus describes the 
ruins :“ Inside the cape, to the eastward, the beach is 
lined with masses of masonry. These were formed of 
small stones cemented together with mortar so firmly 
that even where the sea had undermined them huge 
fragments lay on the sand. This sea-w r all extended a 
quarter of a mile along the beach from one rocky face 
to another, and was evidently intended for the defence 
of the city. Above we found the ruins of two temples. 
The steps which led up to one remain, though in a 
shattered state. Many shafts, and a few' capitals of Gre- 
cian pillars, all of marble, lie scattered about, and a gully 
worn by a torrent lays bare the substructions down to 
the rock. To the east a conical rocky hill is girdled by 
a wall, and on a platform between this hill and the sea 
the pillars of another editice lie level with the ground” 
(Smith’s I 'oyugc and Sh ijnvri clc of Si. Paul, Append, i, p. 
200, 3d edit., w’bcre a plan is given). Captain Spratt, R. 
N., had previously observed some remains which prob- 
ably represent the harbor of Lassea (see p. 80, 82, 2-1 5). 
It ought to be noticed that in the Descrizione dell' ] sola 
di. Candiu, a Yenetian MS. of the 16th century, as pub- 
lished by Mr. E. Falkencr in the Museum of Classical 
Antiquities, Sept. 1852 (p. 287), a place called Lapsca, 
with a “temple in ruins,” and “other vestiges near the 
harbor,” is mentioned as being close to Fair Havens. 

La Salle, Jean Raetlstde, a French priest, found- 
er of the Order of Brethren of the Christian Schools, was 
bom at Kheims April 30, 1051. In 1G70 he went to 
Paris to complete his education at the Seminary of St, 


LAS CASAS 


250 


LASITIUS 


Sulpice. lie was made canon of Rheims, and was or- 
dained priest in 1071. Struck with the ignorance of the 
poorer classes with regard to religion, he resolved to es- 
tablish a congregation whose chief object should be to 
teach and elevate them. In 1079 he began teaching in 
two parishes of Rheims, but was subjected to many an- 
noyances from the secular teachers, and even censured 
by some of the clerg\\ He nevertheless continued his 
labors, gave all his means to the poor, and finally sue* 
oeeded. A house which he had bought at Rouen, Saint- 
Yon, became the head-quarters of his order, and when he 
died, April 7, 1719, the Brethren of the Christian Schools 
were established at Paris, Rouen, Rheims, and other 
principal cities of France. Its institution was approved 
by Benedict XIII in 1725. The Brethren of the Chris- 
tian Schools take the three vows of chastity, poverty, 
and obedience, but they are not perpetual. La Salle 
did not wish any priest to be ever received among them. 
Their dress consists of a black robe resembling a cas- 
sock, with a small collar or white bands, black stockings, 
and coarse shoes, a black cloak of the same material as 
the dress, with wide hanging sleeves, and a broad-brim- 
med black felt hat, looped up on three sides. Their 
order became widely disseminated, and they are now 
scattered nearly through the whole world. In 1854 
they counted over 7000 members, employed in France, 
Algeria, the United States. Italy, etc. Pope Gregory 
XVI placed La Salle among the blessed, and he was 
canonized by Pius IX. La Salle wrote a number of 
books for the education of children, many of which are 
still in use; among them we notice Les Devoirs du Chre- 
tien envers Dieu , el Its mo yens de pouvoir hien s'en acquit - 
ter: — Les Regies de la Bienscance el de la civilite Chre- 
tienne: — Instructions et Prieres pour la Sainte Messe : — 
Conduite des Ecoles Chrctiennes : — Les douse Vert us d'un 
bon Maitre. He is also considered the author of Me- 
ditations sur les Evany ties de tons Its Dimanches et sur 
les principals Fetes de I'A it nee, of which a new edition 
was published in 1858 (Versailles, 8vo). Sec abbe Car- 
ron, Vie de J.-B. de La Salle ; Garreau, J7e de J.-Bapt. 
de La Salle : II A mi de V Enf it nee , on Vie de J.-B. de La 
Salle ; Le rentable .1 mi de V Enfunce. on A hr eye de la Vie 
cl des Vert us du venerable Serviteur de I)ien J.-13. de la 
Salle; abbe Tresvaux, )7e des Saints; Iloefer, Xouv. 
Bioy. Getter, xxix, 724. (J. N. P.) 

Las Casas. See Casas. 

La's ha (Heb. Le'sha, Jissu re, in pause 7 7.' 3 ; 
Sept. Aaffa.Vulg. Lesa), a place mentioned last in de- 
fining the border of t lie Cauaanites (Gen. x, 19), and 
apparently situated cast of the Dead Sea. According 
to Jerome ( Qncest . in Gen.'), Jonathan (where is 

doubtless an erroneous transcription for “'PH bp), and the 
Jems. Targnm, it was the spot afterwards known as 
Callirrhoe , famous for its warm springs, just beyond 
Jordan (Josephus A tit. vii, G, 5 ; 117//*, i, 33, 5; compare 
Ptolemy, v. 1G, 9), on the eastern shore of the Dead 
Sen, where Mncluerus lay (Pliny, v, 15). These springs 
were visited by Irby and Mangles {Travels f p. 4G7 sq.) : 
they lie north of the Arnon (UosenmUllcr, Alterth. II. 
i, - IN). Schwarz says that ruins as well as the hot 
springs are still found at the month of ivady Zurka 
{Palestine, p. 228). Iiochart (Grnyr. Sacr. iv, 37) less 
correctly identifies the name with the Arabic Lusa j 
(Rel. md, J’ahrst. p. 871). Lieut. Lvneh visited the out- 
let of those springs through the wady Zurka, which he 
describes as a rapid stream twelve feet wide and ten ! 
inches deep, with a temperature of 91 , having a slight j 
sulphurous taste. The bed is a chasm 122 feet wide, 
worn through perpendicular clill's. and fringed with 
canes, tamarisks, and the castor-bean {Xarrative of the 
l . *S. Lxpeditum to the Jordan, p. 370). frbv and Man- 
gles found several warm sulphur-springs discharging 
themselves into the stream at various points, being, no 
doubt, those visited by Herod in his last sickness. See 
Callihuiio£. The place is apparently also the Ze- 
RETII-SIIAIIAU (q. v.) of Josh, xiii, 19- 


Lash'aron [many Lasha'ron ] (Heb. Lashsharon 
‘j'HEjp, signif. unknown; Sept. Ataapiitv, but almost all 
copies omit ; Yulg. Saron , but in the Benedictine text 
Lassaron ), one of the Canaanitish towns whose kings 
were killed by Joshua (Josh. xii. 18). “Some differ- 
ence of opinion has been expressed as to whether the 
first syllable is an integral part of the name or the He- 
brew preposition with the art. implied (see Keil, Josua , 
ad loe.). But there seems to be no warrant for suppos- 
ing the existence of a particle before this one name, 
which certainly does not exist before either of the other 
thirty names in the list. Such, at least, is the conclusion 
: of Bocliart ( Hieroz . i,ch. 31), Reland {Palcest. 871), and 
others, a conclusion supported by the reading of the 
Targum, and the Arabic Version, and also by Jerome, if 
the Benedictine text can be relied on. The opposite 
conclusion of the Vulgate, given above, is adopted by 
Gescnius ( Thesaurus , p. G42, b), but not on very clear 
grounds, bis chief argument being apparently that, as 
the name of a town, Sharon would not require the arti- 
cle affixed, which, as that of a district, it always bears. 
The name has vanished from both the Vat. and Alex. 
MSS. of the Sept., unless a trace exists in the ’O (}>6kt/)- 
oaptoK of the Vat.” (Smith). Masius supposes Lasha- 
ron to be the place mentioned in Acts ix, 35, where the 
reading of some 31 SS. is ’A<j odpiova instead of £dpam« ; 
but there is no evidence to support such a view. From 
the fact that in Joshua it is named between Aphek and 
Madon, a writer in Fairbairn’s Dictionary argues for a 
position at the modern Saruneh, south-east of Tiberias 
(Robinson, Bill. Pes. iii, Appendix, p. 131) ; but the rea- 
soning is wholly inconclusive, and the location utterly 
out of the question. Lasliaron was possibly the same 
place with the Lasiia of Gen. x, 19. 

Lashers. See Khlystie. 

Lasitius, John, a noted Polish Protestant ecclesi- 
astical writer, often mistaken, formerly, for the cele- 
brated John a Lasco, tlourished in the second half of the 
lGth century. lie was born of a noble family about 
1534, and, as was the custom of his day, was early sent 
abroad to pursue a course of studies at the high-schools 
of Basle, Borne, Geneva, and Strasburg. After quit- 
ting the university he taught for a short time in a pri- 
vate family of one of the most celebrated noble families 
of Poland, John Krotowsky, an ardent follower of the 
Moravian Brethren. Of a restless nature, and greatly 
addicted to study, he soon took up his wandering-staff 
again, and roamed nearly over all Europe, bringing up, 
most generally, at some place noted for its university. 
First we meet him in Paris, next in Basle, next in Ge- 
neva, and next in Heidelberg, etc., until, in 15G7, he 
brings up again in Paris, and holds a disputation on the 
Trinity with the Romish theologian Genebrard (Chro- 
noloy. lib. iv, a. a. 1582, p. 78G). After 1575 Lasitius 
seems to have settled in his native country, but frequent- 
ly, even after this date, he went abroad, not for his own 
gratification, however, but in the interests of the State 
and the Church, lie early became an admirer of the 
Moravians, and is by many (e. g. Gieselcr, Kirchenyesch. 
ii, 4. p. 4G0) supposed to have joined their communion; 
but, however uncertain his membership, certain it is 
that Lasitius greatly favored the Moravians, and that 
he was engaged on a history of them. He was one of 
the most energetic and indefatigable workers among the 
Poles for the union of all his Protestant brethren into 
one common bond, and in 1570 finally saw his efforts 
crowned with success at the Synod of Sendomir. See 
Poland, lie died July 12, 1599. His history of the 
Moravians Lasitius enlarged after the union of the Prot- 
estants, but it was never published entire. In 1G49 
Amos Comenius published an outline of the larger one 
under the title Johannis Lasitii , nobilis Poloni, historim 
de oriyine et rebus yest is Fratrnm Bohemicorum liber oc- 
tants, qui est de moribus et institutis eorum. Ob pr rest li- 
fe ni rerum statum seorsim edit us. A dduntur tamen reli- 
quorum vii librorum argumenta et particu/aria queedam 


LASIUS 


251 


LASKO 


excerpta (1649, Svo; Amst. 1660, 8vo). For criticisms 
of this work, see Giudelv, Gesch. d. bbhmischen Brihler , 
ii, 90; Wagenmann, in Herzog, Real-Kncyklopadie, xix, 
776. His other works are, Chides Dantiscanoruni (Frkf. 
1578, 8vo) : — II istoria de inyressu Polonoruni in Wala- 
chiam anno L572 (Frankf. 1578, 8vo) De Russorum et 
Moscovitarum et Tartarorum relhjione , etc. (Spcier, 1582, 
8vo) :—De Diis Samoyitarum ceterorumque Barmatarum 
et falsorum Christ iunorum, item de relhjione A nnetiiorum 
et de initio reyiminis Stcphuni Bathorii opuscula (Basic, 
1615, 4to): — Pro Volano et puriore relhjione defensori - 
busf/ue ejus adversus Antonin m Possevinum S.J. scrip- 
turn upoloyeticum (Wilna, 1584, 4to). See Lukaszewiez, 
Gesch. d. reform. Kirchen in Litthauen , ii, 182 sq. ; Gin- 
delv, Geschichte d. bbhmischen B ruder , ii, 90 ; and by the 
same author, Quellen zur Geschichte d. bbhnnsch. B ruder , 
in Pontes reruni Austrzacaruni (Vienna, 1859 ), p. 379; 
Dieekhoff, Gesch. d. 1 Vuldenser ini Mittelalter , p. 172, 357 ; 
Regenvolscius (Wengerski), Hist. eccl. Slavon. i ii, 452; 
Bavle, Hist. Did. s. v. ; J ocher, Gelehrten Lex. ii, 2283; 
and especially the excellent article by Wagenmann in 
Ilerzog, Real-Encyklo p. xix, 770-777. (J. H. \V.) 

Lasius, Christophonis, a Protestant theologian, 
prominent as a preacher of the synergistic school, and 
opponent of Flacius, was born at Strasburg about the 
beginning of the 16th century. He was in high favor 
with Mclancthon in 1531, and by the latter recommend- 
ed to Bucer. The part lie took in the synergistic Me- 
lancthonian controversy, and his activity against the 
Flacian, rendered his life comparatively a wandering 
one. In 1537 lie became rector of Gorlitz, and in 1543 
pastor at Greussen. On account of his Mclancthonian 
proclivities he was deposed in 1545 ; was then made pas- 
tor of Spandau, and when driven away from that place 
became superintendent of Lauingen, which lie was also 
obliged to leave. After remaining for a time in Augs- 
burg he was appointed superintendent of Cottbus, but 
was here likewise subject to many annoyances, and final- 
ly died at Senftenberg in 1572. llis works are espe- 
cially bitter against the doctrine of the passivity of man 
in repentance, and do not in the least compliment the 
Lutherans of his day and generation. The principal 
are, Fundament icahrer Bekehruny -wider d. facia nische 
Klotzbusse (Francf. ad 0. 1568) : — Giildencs Kleinod ( Nii- 
remb. 155G): — Grundfeste d. reinen evanyelischen )Yahr- 
heit (Wittemh. 1568). — Herzog, Real- Kncyklop. viii, 203 ; 
Wetzer und Weltc, Kirchen-Lex. vi, 353. 

Lasius, Hermann Jacob, a German theologian, 
was born Nov. 15, 1751, at Greifswald, Prussia. He en- 
tered the university of his native place in 1733, and 
studied theology, philosophy, mathematics, and philol- 
ogy. In 1738 he went to Jena, and in 1740 to Halle, 
with the intention of lecturing at the universities; at the 
latter he obtained the degree of M.A. Failing health 
soon obliged him to leave for his native city, and he re- 
opened his lectures there. In 1745 he became subrec- 
tor, and in 1749 rector of the public school. In 1764 he 
accepted a call to Rostock as professor of Greek litera- 
ture at the university, where lie continued laboring un- 
til 1793. lie died Aug. 4, 1803. Lasius spent a great 
deal of his time in the study of theology. The few 
books he wrote are valuable, and generally esteemed. 
The most noted of his dissertations are De individuo 
Jinito (Jena.*, 1739, 4to) : — De bona rum malarumque ac- 
tionuni ejjectibus naturidibus post hanc ritam ( llalie, 
1740, 4to) ; — JJiss. qua justa dicina impntutio actionnm 
nostra rum libera rum vindicator (Gryphisw. 174J,4to): — 
De teyibus et panis convent ionalibus, in yenere, (Hake, 
1740, 4to). See During, Gelehrte Theol. Deutschlands , 
vol. ii, s. v. 

Lasius, Lorenz Otto, a German theologian, born 
Dec. 31, 1675, at RiUlen, in Brunswick, was early distin- 
guished for his knowledge of the Latin, Greek, and He- 
brew. He attended the universities of Heidelberg and 
Halle, and became successively in 1702 subrector in >Salz- 
wedel; in 1705, deacon; and in 1709, pastor at Ziebelle, 


near Muskau; then assessor of the Consistory; in 1717, 
doctor of theology; and died Sept. 20, 1750. Among his 
numerous books are Die Prufuny seiner selbst (Lauban, 
1710, Svo, and often): — Vers uch die hebrciische, yriech- 
ische, lateinische, frunzosische und italienische Bprachc 
ohne Gramnuitik zu erlenten (Budissin, 1717, 8vo, and 
often) : — Palinyenesia mortalium, oder Betrachtunym der 
Wiederyeburt (Crosscn, 1736. 8vo), See During, Gelehrte 
Theol. Deutschlands, vol. ii. s. v. 

Laskary, Andreas, a learned and pious Roman 
Catholic prelate, was bishop of Posen from 1414-142G. 
He was a member of the Council of Constance, and 
often preached to the assembled clergy. On his return 
^liome he sought cloister life, but was restrained by the 
pope, and subsequently by liis active influence secured 
such marked prosperity for an episcopal village in Maso- 
wine that it was called after his name, Laskarzewo. — 
Wctzcr und Welte, Kirchen-Lex. s. v. 

Lasko (Polish Laski, Latin Lascus), John a (1), 
a very celebrated Roman Catholic prelate of the Church 
of Poland, was born in the early part of the year 14G6. 
lie was at first provost at Skalbimierz, then at Posen, 
and was afterwards chosen by Andreas Roza, of Borys- 
zcwice, archbishop of Guesen, as his coadjutor. Dur- 
ing the reigns of Casimir IV, John Albrecht, and Alex- 
ander, he resided at court as archchancellor, anil on the 
death of the archbishop of Gnescn (in 1510) Lasko suc- 
ceeded him in that eminent position. In 1513 he was 
sent to the fifth general council of Lateran, together 
with Stanislaus Ostrorog, and in the presence of pope 
Leo X implored the Christian princes there present to 
assist Poland and Hungary against the attacks of the. 
Turks and Tartars. In this council Lasko obtained for 
himself and all succeeding archbishops of Gnescn the 
title of leyatus naius sedis apostolicev. lie died 31 ay 19, 
1531. lie wrote Relatio de erroribus Moschorum.J'acia 
in concilia Lateranensi a Joanne Lasko. His activity 
as archbishop is manifest in the number of provincial 
synods over which he presided: 1. at Gnescn, in .1506; 
2. at Petrikau, in 1510; 3. same, 1511 ; 4. Lenezyc, 1523; 
5. same, 1527; 6. Petrikau, 1530. lie was a decided op- 
ponent of the Reformation and its propagation in Po- 
land, as is evinced by his canons and decretals (comp.C'oa- 
stitutiones synodorum rnctropolitame ecclesiie Gnesnensjs , 
Cracov. 1630). He wrote also JSanctiones ecclesiastical 
tain ex pontifeum decrctis quum in constilutionibus syno- 
dorum proviuruc inprim is autem statuta in dii'ersis pro- 
rincialibus synodis a se sancita (Cracov. 1525,4to). Las- 
co gained great reputation by his collection of the laws 
of the country, made by order of king Alexander of Po- 
land, under the title Commune Polonice reyni pricileyium 
const it utionu/n et induliuum (Cracov. 1506). See Da- 
malewicz, Vitee archhpiscoporum Gnesnensium, p. 278; 
Herzog, Real-Encyhlop. viii, 203 ; Wetzer u. Welte, Kir- 
chen- Lexikon , s. v. (J. 11. W.) 

Lasko, John a (2), one of the most distinguished 
of the Polish reformers, was born at Warsaw in the early 
part of 1499, of one of the noblest families of Poland, 
which, during the 16tli century especially, furnished 
many men illustrious in the Church, in the council, and 
the camp. We know little of John a Lasko’s early edu- 
cation, hut it was probably conducted under the super- 
vision of his uncle (see the preceding article), who would 
naturally intend him for the priesthood. While he was 
yet a youth, the German Reformation commenced, and 
evidently attracted a large share of his attention. The 
archbishop, however, was its strenuous opponent, aiul 
young Lasko, at the University of Cracow, where Lu- 
ther’s writings were publicly bought and sold, may have 
contented himself with accepting the current religious 
sentiments of his countrymen, which by no means ac- 
corded with the highest standards of Roman Catholic 
orthodoxy. At the age of twenty-five he set forth on 
his travels. It was his purpose to visit the courts and 
universities of other lands. Passing by Wittenberg, 
with its Luther and Mclancthon, he directed his course 


LASKO 


252 


LASKO 


to Louvain, where he seems to have been repelled by 
the ignorance and bigotry of the priesthood, and thence 
passed to Zurich, where he met and conferred with 
Zwingle, and was by him influenced to take a decided 
stand for the reformatory movement. From Ziirich he 
went to Paris, where he was honorably received, and en- 
tered into a correspondence with t lie sister of the king, 
the famous Margaret of Navarre, already favorably dis- 
posed to the cause of reform. Thence he directed his 
course to Basle, attracted thither by the fame of Eras- 
mus, who extended to him a cordial welcome, and did 
not disdain to accept his hospitable gifts. The veteran 
scholar admired and praised his young friend, and Lasko 
seems to have reciprocated his confidence and affection. 
Both occupied the same dwelling, and for some month! 
the expense of the household was met from Lasko’s 
purse. Perhaps the fact that at this very juncture the 
break between Luther and Erasmus took place may not 
have been without its effect in repelling Lasko from too 
close association with the German reformer. In Octo- 
ber, 1525, Lasko was recalled to Poland, doubtless with a 
view to be engaged in state employ, or as an ambassa- 
dor to France or Spain. However this may be, he prob- 
ably passed through Italy previous to his return, and 
there formed some acquaintanceships, not without influ- 
ence in later years. Not long alter his return he fell in 
with the writings of Melanctlion, with whom he subse- 
quently corresponded, and we may reasonably conclude 
that by his counsel, or with his sanction, Polish youth 
were sent abroad to complete their studies at Witten- 
berg. A marked change by this time is manifest in bis 
views and feelings. Erasmus, in liis correspondence, 
was not slow to note this. It was due partly, no doubt, 
to a better knowledge of the German reformers, and 
partly, also, to the ripening of his own Christian expe- 
rience. We hear him declaring that he owed every- 
thing to the mercy of God. No foresight of his own, 
no world- wisdom, could have saved him from ruin. 
There was more of Luther than of Erasmus in such soul- 
humbling confessions. The deatli of his uncle, the arch- 
bishop (1 531), who was resolutely opposed to the cause of 
reform, removed a certain measure of restraint which had 
checked young Lasko’s freedom of action, if not specula- 
tion. No outward manifestation of any radical change 
of sentiment had hitherto been apparent, lie was suc- 
cessively nominated canon of Gnesen, oust os of Plock, 
and dean of Gnesen and Lencicz. In accepting these 
dignities he still cherished the hope inspired by Eras- 
mus that reform might take place within the Church 
itself, and to this end he was induced, in a cautious 
manner, to present the Polish monarch with suggestions 
as to the necessity of measures directed to that object 
(Krasinski’s Rtf. in Poland , i, 248). In 1530 he received 
the royal nomination of bishop of Cujavia, and the most 
inviting prospects of ecclesiastical promotion opened be- 
fore him. But already his hope that the Church of 
Home would reform herself had died out. lie opened 
his heart to the king, and freely confessed the views and 
convictions which forbade bis acceptance of the prof- 
fered promotion. With the royal permission, and pro- 
vided with commendatory letters, he chose temporarily 
to withdraw from his native land. He directed his 
course to the Netherlands. At Antwerp he was sought 
out and his acquaintance cultivated hv the most respect- 
abb' citizens, flic royal letters alone would have open- 
ed all doors to him. But. his final decision to withdraw 
entirely from the Woman Catholic Church was hastened 
in or before 1540. hi that- year he married a woman 
of humble rank, without dowry, whom he met at Lou- 
vain ( Krasiuski says Mayence),.**tid thus made his breach 
with Koine irreparable. Instead of returning to bis na- 
tive land, he sought a retired residence at Emden, in 
Friesland. Count Enno, who was anxious to secure a 
reformation of the Church in his principality, proposed 
to Lasko the charge of the matter as superintendent. 
His death suspended the negotiation, but his sister Anna, 
who succeeded him, renewed the proposal. After much 


[ hesitation, Lasko was induced in 1543 to accept the 
I charge, and in the following year was nominated super- 
intendent of all the churches of Friesland, lie had al- 
ready declined the invitation to return to Poland, where 
he was assured that his marriage should not stand in 
the way of the bestowment of a bishopric. He longed, 
indeed, to return, but only that he might labor as an 
evangelist, unencumbered with any connection with 
Rome. lie accepted his present post — as he did others 
to which lie was subsequently called — with the express 
proviso that if duty and the prospect of useful service 
called him back to bis native land be might be free to 
go. He made it also a condition of his acceptance that 
no obligation should be imposed upon him in his office 
inconsistent with the word and will of God. In neigh- 
1 boring lands his proceedings were jealously watched. 
The duke of East Courland, who had married a daugh- 
ter of Maximilian, as well as the duke of Brabant, felt 
that his influence and innovations threatened their 
states. Lasko pushed on the cause of reform by assail- 
ing the monasteries and the pictures in the churches. 
A formidable opposition was provoked, but he manfully 
defended himself, and was sustained by the countess. 
Opposition gradually yielded, and Romish rites and cer- 
emonies disappeared from all the churches. An im- 
proved order of Church organization and discipline was 
introduced and established, substantially Presbyterian. 
He employed the eldership to enforce discipline. He 
sought to promote pastoral culture and improvement, as 
well as confessional unity of doctrine. Preaching him- 
self, lie habitually insisted on the sole and supreme au- 
thority of the Word of God. In correspondence with 
Melanctlion, Bucer, Ballinger, Pellican, and llardenbcrg, 
he drew up a confession of faith, which yet proved un- 
satisfactory to the Lutherans, leaning as it did to the 
views of the Swiss and Anglican reformers, although by 
no means in full correspondence with those of Calvin. 

Lasko’s reputation as the founder of the Protestant 
Church in Friesland now spread rapidly, and lie was re- 
peatedly consulted by foreign riders and divines on 
questions of Church polity and order. The duke of 
Prussia invited him to accept the superintendence of 
the churches of his dominions, but the project was de- 
feated by the condition on which Lasko insisted that 
the Church should be independent of the state, and that 
Lutheran rites, kindred to those of the Roman Catholic 
Church, should be abolished (Krasiuski, i, 253). During 
his residence at Linden Lasko was forced to engage in 
controversy. Persecuted elsewhere, religions enthusi- 
asts found shelter in the Netherlands, and intruded with- 
in his sphere. Men no Simon and David George were 
his principal antagonists. He sought to convince them 
by argument, but failed. Ilis constant difficulties and 
the pressing burden of his duties induced him to listen 
to an invitation that reached him from England. Arch- 
bishop Cranmcr, to whom Lasko had been recommended 
by some of his brother reformers, Peter Martyr and Wil- 
liam Turner, pressed him to come and assist in the task 
of completing the reformation of the Church. Early in 
Sept. 1548, parting from the countess, who reluctantly 
consented to his withdrawal, Lasko set out for England. 
Three days before ho left the celebrated interim of the 
emperor was published, threatening to arrest and put 
back the cause of Church reform in all his states. Las- 
ko wrote back to his friends in Emden to abide firm, as- 
suring them that it was better to fall into the hands of 
God than into those of men. 1 1 is first visit to England 
was designedly temporary. For six months he resided 
with Cranmer at Lambeth. The views of the two men 
were coincident in doctrine, and apparently not greatly 
divergent in matters of order and discipline. The im- 
pression which he made in England was favorable, and 
in a sermon preached before the king Latimer extolled 
him with high praise. Returning to Emden, Lasko en- 
couraged his fellow-religionists in their opposition to the 
interim, and incurred the hostility of those — and among 
them of the chancellor Ter West — who were disposed to 


LASKO 


253 


LAST DAY 


favor a compromise with the emperor. There was some 
danger that Lasko himself would be saeriticed to their 
policy. Leaving Emden, therefore, he resided for a time 
at Bremen and Hamburg, and at length directed his 
course back to England, in 31 ay, 1550, to which he had 
been reinvited. Here, under the protection of a Prot- 
estant monarch (Henry VI), refugees from persecution 
on the Continent were collected in considerable num- 
bers. The foreign Protestant congregation in London 
was composed of French, Germans, and Italians. Of 
this, in all about 3000 members, Lasko, by the king’s 
nomination (July 24, 1550), was made superintendent. 
He seems, however, to have had supervisory charge 
over all the other foreign churches of the city, while 
their schools were subject to his inspection. The wis- 
dom of his measures is attested by a letter of Melane- 
thon, who speaks (September, 1551) of the purity of doc- 
trine of his churches. He differed with Cranmer on 
some points, as in reference to sacramental doctrine and 
the use of priestly habits, but his scruples were respect- 
ed, and his intervention secured the foreign churches 
from molestation. In London he introduced the same 
system of Church order which he had established at 
Emden. He brought out an edition of his Catechism 
for the instruction of the people, and to this the authors 
of the Heidelberg Catechism are said to have been man- 
ifestly indebted. The English liturgy lie discarded. 
His views on the sacraments may be inferred from his 
republication in England of the work of Bullinger, to 
which he furnished an introduction. This was followed, 
however, by his Brevis et delucida de Sacra mentis Eccle- 
sia Christi Tractatio (Loud. 1552, 8vo), in which he ap- 
proximated to the views of Zwingle and Calvin. On 
the doctrines peculiar to Calvin Lasko was not disposed 
to stand. He uses language that would seem to indi- 
cate an acceptance of the belief in a general atonement. 
While insisting on the insufficiency and inability of hu- 
man effort without the grace of God, he emphasizes the 
freeness and rich provisions of the Gospel of Christ. It 
was during his residence in England that Lasko’s wife 
died, and his second marriage took place. The death 
of the young king suddenly wrought an entire change 
in the prospects of the exiles, and on the accession of 
queen Mary they prepared to return to the Continent. 
On the 1 7 t'h of September, 1553, the first band of them, 
more than 170 in number, embarked for Denmark, where 
they had been assured of a welcome reception from a 
Protestant monarch. But a bigoted Lutheranism re- 
pelled them from the Danish shores. Lasko hastened 
back to Emden, while his fellow -pilgrims, called by 
Westphal, a Lutheran divine, “martyrs of the devil,” 
and repulsed at Hamburg, Lubeck, and Rostock, finally 
found a hospitable reception at Dantzic. At Emden 
Lasko found his position uncomfortable. His vicinity 
to Brabant gave occasion for those who feared his influ- 
ence to intrigue against him. Gustavus Vasa invited 
him and his friends to Sweden, assuring him of entire 
religious liberty. But he longed to return to his native 
land. His views concerning the sacrament, however, 
were represented to the king as objectionable, and it 
seemed essential that he should first seek to harmonize 
them with the Augsburg Confession. His opponents in 
controversy, Westphal especially, had spoken of him in 
reproachful tenns. He determined to considt with Me- 
lancthon, and in April, 1555, he left Emden, and for 
many months, passing from city to city in Germany, 
and conferring with leading theologians, he awaited the 
long-desired opportunity of returning, with the hope of 
useful service, to his native land. We find him at Frank- 
fort almost at the very time when the English exiles 
had transferred their altercations with reference to the 
habits to that city, and involved there to some extent 
in the Lutheran controversy. He was complained of as 
a dissenter from the Augsburg Confession, but in reply 
he asserted that he accepted its very language in regard 
to Christ’s presence in the sacrament. At Stuttgard 
(May 22, 1556) he entered with Brentz upon a disputa- 


tion on the sacramentarian controversy, and there re- 
newed his assertion and vindicated his views. With 
Melancthon he succeeded better. Although he could 
not effect a union of the Lutherans and the Reformed, as 
lie was exhorted to do by the king of Poland, with a 
view to its happy effect in his own states, he yet secured 
the confidence and friendly offices of Melancthon. The 
latter intrusted him with a letter to the king of Poland, 
to which a modification of the Augsburg Confession, 
such as it was hoped all Protestants might unite in, 
was added, Lasko now prepared for his return to Po- 
land, where the king, Sigismund Augustus, was disposed 
to welcome him. He first, however, published a new 
account of the foreign churches which he had superin- 
tended in London, dedicating it to the king, the senate, 
and the states of Poland, urging at the same time the 
reasons for reformation, and setting forth the grounds 
of his own action in rejecting the doctrines of the 
Church of Pome. Such a vindication of himself was 
called for. The news of his return excited the appre- 
hensions, if not the consternation of his enemies. In Dec. 
1556, after an absence of twenty years, he planted his 
feet on his native soil. Ilis approach had been preceded 
by alarms addressed especially to the ears of the king.’ 
lie was called a dangerous person, an outlawed heretic, 
who returned to his country only to excite troubles ami 
commotions. He was said to be preparing measures of 
rebellion, and means to destroy the churches. The king 
was not alarmed. He received the reformer in a friend- 
ly manner, and was gratified with Melanethon’s letters. 
Cautious in his policy, however, he was anxious, before 
taking bold and decisive measures of reform, to secure 
Protestant union. Lasko was intrusted with the super- 
intendence of all the Reformed churches in Little Po- 
land. Laboring for the desired union, his efforts were 
counteracted by men who preferred to conceal their real 
(Socinian) sentiments, and bv the grave difficulties 
which he had to encounter. At successive annual syn- 
ods he exerted himself to secure a harmony of the Prot- 
estant confessions — a result effected after his death in 
the celebrated Consensus Sendomiricnsis. In the trans- 
lation of the Bible of Brzesc he took an active part, and 
is said to have published many books, most of which 
are now irrecoverably lost. In the midst of his efforts, 
and under the burden of his pressing duties, he closed 
his life, Jan. 8, 1560. During the last four years of his 
life the record of bis labors is scanty indeed, but his vig- 
or, activity, and practical ability left a deep and abiding 
impress on the development of the Polish Reformation. 

Literature. — The sources of information in regard to 
Lasko are at present quite ample. His Life ( Lehen d. 
Johann r. Lasko), by Peter Bartels (Elberfc ld, 1860) has 
been concisely and carefully compiled, and gives a sat- 
isfactory account of his doctrinal position, as well as 
some notice of his books, together with an extended list 
of authorities. Krasinski’s Hist. Sketch of the Reforma- 
tion in Poland (Lond. 1838, 2 vols. 8vo) presents an ex- 
tended view of his life in connection with the Reforma- 
tion in his native country. In some respects, however, 
the most valuable work on the subject of this article is 
Johannis a Lasco Opera, tarn edita quam inedit a , rccen- 
suit ritam auctoris enarrarit A. Kuyper (Amsterd. I860, 
2 vols. 8vo). In over 1300 closely printed pages we 
have nearly, if not quite all the remains of Lasko that 
can now be identified, including portions of Ins corre- 
spondence, extending from 1526 to 1559. See also Ber- 
tram (J. F.), G riindlicher Bericht von Johann Alasco 
(1733, 3 vols. 4to) ; Gclbel. Gesch. des christlichen Ltlens 
in der rhein-westph. Kirche (Coblenz, 1849), i, 318-351; 
Neal, History of the Puritans , i, 53 sq. ; Ilasseneamp, 
llessische Kirchens/esch. (Marburg, 1832), i, § 47 : Fischer, 
Versuch einer Gesch. der Ref. in Polen (1856) ; Schrockh, 
Kirchengesch. s. d. Ref. ii, 688 sq.; Middleton, Reformers, 
ii (see Index) ; Jahrh.deutsclier Theologic. 1860, ii, 536; 
1868, iii, 536 ; and the excellent article by Gobel, in Her- 
zog, Real-Encyklop. viii, 204 sq. (E. 1 1. G.) 

Last Day. See Judgment Day. 


LASTIIENES 


254 


LATER AN COUNCILS 


Las'thenes (A curStnjg; comp. Aa-/iaxo?), an of- 
ficer who stood high in the favor of Demetrius II Nica- 
tor. lie is described as “cousin” (Gvyyerfe, 1 Macc. xi, 
31) and “ father” (1 Macc. xi, 32; Josephus, Ant. xiii, 3, 
9) of the king. Doth words may he taken as titles of 
high nobility (compare Grimm on 1 Mace, x, 89; Diod. 
xvii. 59; Gesenins, Thesaur. s. v. 2X, § 4). It appears 
from Josephus xiii, 4. 3) that he was a Cretan, to 
whom Demetrius was indebted for a large body of mer- 
cenaries (compare I Macc. x, 67), when he asserted his 
claim to the Syrian throne against Alexander Dal as, 
D.C. 148 or 147. It appears that Lasthenes himself ac- 
companied the voting prince; and when Demetrius was 
established on the throne, he appointed Lasthenes his 
chief minister, with unlimited power. His arbitrary 
government, added to his persuading Demetrius to dis- 
band the regular troops and only employ Cretans, is sup- 
posed to have alienated the subjects from the king, and 
caused great dissatisfaction to the soldiers. This con- 
duct led to the downfall of Demetrius, for it enabled 
Tryphon to set up Antiochus, the young son of Alexan- 
der Dalas (Diodotus,7?e%.lib.xxxiii,4,cd. Didot, ii, 522). 
What became of Lasthenes is not known. See Deme- 
trius. 

lie must not be identified with the Cnidian instruc- 
tor of .the sons of Demetrius 1 Soter (Justin, xxxv, 2 ; 
comp. Livy, Epit. 52). There is a later Lasthenes, also 
a Cretan, who took a prominent part against the Ho- 
mans in D.C. 70-08 (Smith, Diet, of Biogr. s. v. Las- 
thenes, No. 3). — Smith ; Kit to. 

Last Time. See Eschatology. 

Latchet (Tj'n*'^, serok ', so called from lacing and 
binding together; Gr. ipciQ, a thong , as it is rendered in 
Acts xxii, 25), the cord or strap which fastens an Ori- 
ental shoe upon the foot (Isa. v, 27; Mark i, 7; Luke 
iii, 16; John i, 27); proverbial for anything of little val- 
ue (Gen. xiv, 23). Sec Sandal. “Gesenins (Thesaur. 
s. v. w^n) compares the Lat. h Hum —flam, and quotes 
two Arabic proverbs from the Ilamasa and the Kamils, 
in which a corresponding word is similarly employed. 
In the poetical figure in Isa. v, 27, the Hatchet’ occupies 
the same position with regard to the shoes as the girdle 
to the long flowing Oriental dress, and was as essential 
to the comfort and expedition of the traveller. Anoth- 
er semi-proverbial expression in Luke iii, 16 points to 
the same easily-removed article of clothing” (Smith). 
“In Matt, iii, 11 the same sentiment is expressed rather 
differently, 4 Whose shoes I am not worthy to bear;’ in 
both cases the allusion is to slaves, who were employed 
to loosen and carry their master’s shoes, the habits of 
Orientals requiring this article of dress to be taken off 
before entering an apartment (Thomson, The Land and 
the Book , pt. i, chap. ix). This saying of the Baptist, as 
reported by Matthew, is repeated by Paul in his address 
to the Jews at Antioch, in I ’isidia (Acts xiii, 25). Clirv- 
sostom, on John i, 27, remarks, To yap v-SSjjpa A (“am 
ri}£ ta\urt)Q ciaKoviag tan” (Kitto). tSee Shoe. 

Lateran, Church of St.John, the first in dignity 
of the Homan churches, and situated in the southern ex- 
tremity of the city, derives its name from its occupying a 
portion of the site of the splendid palace of Plant iiis La- 
tcramis, which having been escheated (A.D.G6) in conse- 
quence of Latoranus being implicated in the conspiracy 
of the Pisos (Tacitus), became imperial property, and 
was assigned for Christian uses by the emperor Constan- 
tine. 'flic palace, once destroyed by fire, and rebuilt by 
Sixtus ^ , was the habitual residence of the popes until 
after the return from Avignon, when they removed to 
the \ atiean. It was once made a hospital for orphans, 
and is now occupied partly by officials t»f the chapter, 
partly for public purposes. The present pope, Pins IX, 
has converted a portion of it into a'niusemn of Chris- 
tian archaeology. Its ancient magnificence is celebrated 
by Juvenal. In the time of Constantine the palace 
was the abode of his second wife, the empress Fausta. ] 


1 It has been the conjecture of some that Fausta was a 
| Christian, and that the Basilica, or Hall of Justice, con- 
nected with her palace, was granted by Constantine as a 
place of Christian assembly. The fact seems, however, 
well established that Constantine subsequently bestow- 
ed the palace upon pope Sylvester, and it has ever since 
(several times rebuilt, and modified in its final comple- 
tion, dating from the pontificate of Clement Nil) con- 
tinued a papal patrimony. The emperor is said to have 
founded at the same time the adjacent church, which was 
originally dedicated to the Saviour, but after it was re- 
built by Lucius II in the middle of the Pith century, was 
dedicated to St.John, because of the baptistery which 
Constantine built near by it. It bears the additional 
name Basilica Const antiniana. The church has thus 
been naturally regarded as the parish or cathedral church 
of the popes, and is distinguished as such above any 
other in Home. St. Peter’s and Sta. Maria Maggiorc are 
not to be compared with it in importance. Each of the 
three has a i)° r ta santo. In reference to the Lateran, 
however, Gregory XI, in his bull June 23, 1372, uses the 
following language, which has been substantially re- 
peated by mail}" popes : “ Sacrosanctam Laterancnsem ec- 
clesiam, praicipuam sedem nostram, inter omnes alias Ur- 
bis et orbis ecclesias ac basilicas, etiam super ecclesiam 
sen basilicam principis Apostolorum de Urbe, supremum 
locum tenere.” The ceremony of taking possession of 
the Lateran Basilica is one of the first observed on the 
election of a new pope, whose coronation takes place in 
it. The chapter of the Lateran has precedence of that 
of St. Peter’s. On the throne of the Lateran is written 
the inscription, “ILee est Papalis Sedes ct Pontificalis.” 
An inscription on each side of the entrance styles it 
mother and mistress of churches, Omnium ui his et orbis 
Ecclesiamm Mater et Caput. In accordance with its 
dignity, therefore, all the oecumenical councils assem- 
bled in the city of Home have been held in this church, 
the late council (1870), held at St. Peter’s, being the only 
exception. See Lateran Councils. In the piazza 
of St.John Lateran stands the celebrated relic called 
the “Scala Santa,” or “Holy Staircase,” reputed to be 
the stairs of Pilate’s house at Jerusalem, made holy by 
the feet of Christ as he passed to judgment. See Her- 
zog, Real-Encgklop. viii, 212; Stanley, Hist. East. Ch . p. 
304; Wetzer und Wclte, Kirehen-Lexikon , vol. vi, s. v. 

Lateran Councils, a general name for the eccle- 
siastical councils that have been convened in the Lat- 
eran Church at Home, but especially five great councils 
held there, and regarded by the Homan Catholics as 
oecumenical, viz. those of the years 1123,1139, 1179, 1215, 
and 1512-17. We have room to notice the most impor- 
tant only of all these councils, and that with reference 
to their principal enactments and historical connections. 

I. The council of 649, under Martin I, condemned the 
Monothelitic doctrine, or that of one will in the person 
of Christ. This view was developed as a continuation 
of the Monophysite controversy. The Council of Chal- 
cedon, in 451, had affirmed the existence of tiro natures 
in Christ in one person, against the Antiochians, the 
Ncstorians, and Eutvchians. This determination of the 
council did not obtain final supremacy in the Greek and 
Latin churches till after the time of Justinian, and the 
conflict with it was continued under various forms. 
From the Council of Chalcedon till that of Frankfort, in 
793, the Church councils especially sought to maintain 
the tu m of oldness of the nature of Christ asserted at Chal- 
cedon, with less regard to the unity, which was at the 
same time established. An early source for the rise of 
Monothelitism appeared in the writings of Pseudo-Dio- 
nysius the Areopagite, which, originating probably in 
the 4th century, obtained for many centuries thereafter 
great credit in the Church. A Neo-Platonic mysticism 
in these writings seeks to mediate between the prevalent 
Church doctrine and Monophysitism (or the doctrine of 
one nature in Christ). The Areopagite is not an out- 
spoken Monophysite, and yet, with him, the human in 
Christ is only a form of the divine, and there is in all 


LATERAL COUNCILS 


255 


LATERAN COUNCILS 


the acts of Christ bnt one mode of operation , the thean- 
dric energy ( pia Stave pact) kidpytia). This expression 
became a favorite one with all the Monophysite oppo- 
nents of the Chalcedonian decisions. 

The IMonothelitic controversy proper extends from 
G23 to G80, at which latter date the Synod of Constan- 
tinople gave the most precise definition of two icills in 
the two natures of Christ. The earlier stage of the con- 
troversy, extending to the year (338, concerns rather the 
question of one or two energies or modes of working in 
the acts of Christ. The emperor Heraclius, on occasion 
of his reconquering the Eastern provinces from the Per- 
sians in the year 622, and there coming in contact with 
certain Monophysite bishops, conceived the idea of rec- 
onciling them to the Church by authorizing the expres- 
sion in reference to the acts of Christ which was used 
by Dionysius — the pta Sreavdpuo) tvipytia. Sergius, 
patriarch of Constantinople, being consulted, admitted 
the propriety of the expression as one sanctioned by the 
fathers, and recommended it to Cyrus, bishop of Phasis, 
who, being soon made bishop of Alexandria, set up a 
compromise for the Monopliysites with the Council of 
Chaieedon on nine points. Sophronius, a monk of Al- 
exandria, seriously objected to the course taken by Ser- 
gius, and, on being made bishop of Jerusalem, became 
so strong an opponent that Sergius called to his aid the 
influence of Ilonorius, bishop of Koine, who expressed 
himself in favor of the view rather of one will than of 
one operation, but advised that controversy be avoided. 
It is unquestionably the fact that the expressed views 
of Ilonorius, though a pope, were subsequently con- 
demned in council. P»y occasion of the more decided 
opposition of Sophronius, the emperor Heraclius, under 
advice of Sergius, issued his edict, the Ecthesis , in the 
year G38, in which he forbade the use of cither expres- 
sion, “ one mode of working” or “ two modes of work- 
ing,” in a controversial way, bnt especially prohibited 
the latter, since it is evident that Christ can have bnt 
one will, the human being subordinate to the divine. 
This was distinct Monothelitism. A powerful opponent 
of this view was the monk Maximus, whose writings 
had a controlling influence with the Lateran Council. 
He asserts that for the work of redemption a complete- 
ness in the two natures of Christ is necessary; there 
must be a complete human will. The Logos, indeed, 
works all through the human working and willing. 
There is a theandrie energy in his own sense. It is 
rather as a rpoTror tivTiBooeioc, or what was subse- 
quently called the communicatio idiomutum. Maxi- 
mus worked with great zeal against Monothelitism in 
Komc and Africa, sending out thence tracts on the sub- 
ject into the East. Sophronius still carried on the con- 
troversy, as also, with him, Stephen, bishop of Doria, his 
pupil. After the death of Ilonorius in G38, the bishops 
of Kome were decidedly opposed to Monothelitism, and 
Martin 1, who had zealously contended against the view 
while representative of the Roman Church at Constan- 
tinople, became, when made pope in 649, the chief pillar 
of the contrary opinion. Advocates of the view enun- 
ciated in the Ecthesis of Heraclius were Theodore, bish- 
op of Phasan, and Pyrrhus of Constantinople. In G48 
the emperor Constans II, under the influence of the pa- 
triarch Paul, issued his Type (r/nrog iriffruoQ), which, 
though not so decidedly IMonothelitic as the Ecthesis, 
condemns, under threat of the severest penalties, any 
further controversy upon this subject. Without con- 
sulting the emperor, Martin I now convoked this first 
Lateran Council, in which lie presided over about 104 
bishops from Italy, Sicily, Sardinia, and Africa. The 
pope sought to obtain generally recognition for the 
council, and it was finally everywhere received with the 
five (ecumenical councils. Five sessions were held; the 
writings of the prominent Monothelitcs were examined 
and condemned; pope Martin explained the proper 
meaning of Dionysius’s term ‘‘theandrie operation,” 
stating that it was designed to signify two operations 
of one person; the Ecthesis of Heraclius and Type tf 


Constans were condemned; and the judgment of the 
council pronounced in twenty canons, which anathema- 
tize all who do not confess in our Lord Jesus Christ two 
wills and two operations. 

11. The councils of 1105, 1112, and 1116, under Pascal 
II, concern the contest about investitures between the 
pope and the emperor, which was brought to a close in 
the Council of 1123, called and presided over by Calix- 
tus II. This body consisted of 300 bishops and GOO ab- 
bots, all of the Latin Clinreh. The investiture (q. v.) 
contest, which began as early as 1054, when, by mutual 
decrees of excommunication, the breach between the 
Eastern and Western churches was made final, arose 
from the claim made by the German emperors to an in- 
heritance of rights exercised by the Greek emperors 
concerning the appointment of candidates to ecclesias- 
tical offices, and their investiture with the right to hold 
Church property as subjects of the empire. Under the 
new German empire, from Otho the Great to Henry IV, 
93G-1Q5G, the popes themselves were confirmed in their 
seat by the emperor. Henry III obtained from the 
Council of Sutrv, which was held near Kome, in the 
midst of his own army, in 104G, the power of nominating 
the popes, without intervention of clergy or people. The 
influence of Hildebrand was now felt — an influence which 
he had begun to exert from the time of Leo IX, in 1048, 
and which secured from Nicolas II, 1060, a decree trans- 
ferring the election of popes to a conclave of cardinals. 
Hildebrand, as Gregor)- VII, maintained a celebrated 
contest with Henry IV, to whom, in 1075, he forbade all 
power of investiture, excommunicating the emperor the 
next year, and causing him to do penance at Canossa. 
With his victorious campaign in Italy, 1080-83, Henry 
drove the pope into exile at Salerno, where he soon 
after died. His immediate successors, however, were 
such as he had designated for the post, and were the in- 
heritors of his doctrines and plans for the supremacy of 
the Church. Urban II sent forth an encyclical declar- 
ing his adhesion to the principles of Gregor)' — the Die- 
tatus Gregorii; and Pascal II (1009-1 118), who had been 
one of Gregory’s cardinals, showed more zeal than firm- 
ness in the same course. In the Lateran Council under 
the pope, 1105, an oath of obedience to the pope was 
taken by the clergy, and a promise rendered to affirm 
whatever he and the Church in council should affirm. 
The count De Meulan and his confederates were excom- 
municated for having encouraged the king of England 
in his conduct concerning investitures. Henry V, who, 
in the rebellion against his father, was encouraged by 
Pascal, would nevertheless yield nothing on becoming, 
emperor, 1105, in the matter of investitures, his exam- 
ple being followed in this respect by England and France. 
Henry marched into Italy and imprisoned the pope in 
1111, forcing from him the concession of rendering back 
to the emperor the fiefs of the bishops on condition that 
there should be no imperial interference with the elec- 
tions. For his weakness in this and in other points 
the pope was bitterly reproached, and the council of 11 12 
revoked all these concessions and excommunicated the 
emperor. Notwithstanding the rebellion of his German 
subjects, Henry collected an army and invaded Italy 
anew in 1110. The council convoked the same year 
thereupon renewed the revocation of the concessions 
Pascal had formerly made, and anathematized the em- 
peror. At last, the German people, weary of the con- 
flict between State and Church, brought about a peace- 
ful compromise in the concordat at. the imperial Diet of 
Worms, 1122. The principles of this concordat were 
adopted by the council of 1123. The terms of the com- 
pact are as follows; “The emperor surrenders to God, to 
St. Peter and Paul, and to the Catholic Church, all right 
of investiture by king and staff. He grants that elec- 
tions and ordinations in all churches shall take place 
freely in accordance with ecclesiastical laws. The pope 
agrees that the election of German prelates shall be had 
in the presence of the emperor, provided it is without 
violence or simony. In case any election is disputed, 


LATERAN COUNCILS 


256 


LATERAN COUNCILS 


the emperor shall render assistance to the legal party, 
with the advice of the archbishop and the bishops. 
The person elected is invested with the imperial fief by 
the royal sceptre pledged for the execution of every- 
thing required by law. Whoever is consecrated shall 
also receive in like manner his investiture from other 
parts of the empire within six months” (llase. Church 
History , p. 200 ; Gieseler, Ecclcs. Hist, iii, 181 sq.). The 
pope here made considerable concessions in form, but 
actually, through his influence, obtained all power at 
the elections. The council of 1123 also renewed the 
grant of indulgences promulgated by Urban II in pro- 
motion of the first crusade in 1095, and decreed the cel- 
ibacy of the clergy. Twenty-two canons of discipline 
were established. 

III. The council of 1139, under Innocent II, con- 
demned the anti-pope Anacletus 11, with his adherents, 
and deposed all who had received office under him. On 
the same day with the installation of Innocent II, in 
1130, Peter of Leon, a cardinal, and grandson of a rich 
Jewish banker, had been proclaimed pope, as Anacletus 
II, by a majority of the cardinals. Innocent took ref- 
uge in France, where he was supported by the king. 
1 1 is cause was warmly espoused by Bernard of Clair- 
vanx, through whose influence chiefly Innocent recov- 
ered his position in Italy, and marched into Rome tri- 
umphantly with Lothairc II in 1136. Anacletus died in 
1138, and a successor was chosen by his party only with 
the purpose of making peace. Roger of Sicily had sup- 
ported Anacletus, and was on this account condemned 
in the council of 1139, though the origin of the kingdom 
of the Two Sicilies belongs to the same year, Roger hav- 
ing taken Innocent prisoner, and having compelled the 
pope to bestow upon him the investiture of this king- 
dom. At this council Arnold of Brescia was also con- 
demned. This was a young clergyman of the city of 
Brescia, a disciple of Abelard, who, inspired by the free 
philosophical spirit of his master, devoted himself to the 
promotion of practical reform in Church and State. A 
marked spirit of political independence was manifesting 
itself about this time in Lombardy, as an inheritance 
from the old Roman municipalities established there. 
The popes, from the days of Leo IX, had themselves in- 
spired movements of ecclesiastical reform. Pascal II 
had admitted that the secular power of the bishops in- 
terfered with their spiritual duties. Bernard, though a 
zealous opponent of Arnold, yet writes as follows in his 
C untemplations on the Papacy : “ Who can mention the 
place where one of the apostles ever held a trial, decided 
disputes about boundaries, or portioned out lands?” “ I 
rea l that the apostles stood before judgment seats, not 
sat on them.” Arnold preached with great zeal against 
the political power and wealth of the clergy. The 
Church ought rather to rejoice, he said, in an apostolic 
poverty. 1 1 e was driven succcssi vely from I taly, France, 
and Switzerland, but in 1 139 was recalled to Rome by 
the populace, who sought to revive the sovereignty of 
the state, established a senate, limited the pope to the 
exercise of spiritual power and the possession of volun- 
tary olferings, and invited the German emperor to make 
Rome his capital. Arnold and his “politicians” at 
Rome thus gave pope Innocent and his immediate suc- 
cessors — Lucius II, Eugenius III, and Adrian IV — more 
trouble than any political movements elsewhere. This 
condemnation at the council did not effectually dimin- 
ish his power. When, however, Adrian, in i 1 54, put 
the city of Rome under ban, and prohibited all public 
worship, Arnold was abandoned by the senate, sacri- 
ficed by Frederick I, and hung at Rome in 1155, his 
hotly being burned and thrown into the Tiber. Among 
the canons of the council, the twenty-third condemns 
the heresy of the Maniclueaus, as the followers of.Beter 
de Bruis were called. This heres} r was attributed to 
the early W aldensians in France and elsewhere, arising 
partly from their ascetic mode oflifc. About 1000 prel- 
ates were present at this council; thirty canons of dis- 
cipline were published, and among them reaffirmations 


of former canons against simony, marriage, and concu- 
binage in the clergy. 

IV. The council of 1179, under Alexander III, num- 
bering 280, mostly Latin bishops, was called to correct 
certain abuses which had arisen during the long schism 
just brought to a close, by the peace of Venice, 1177. 
Until near the end of the 12th century the popes were 
hard pressed by the llohenstauflen emperors. It is the 
contest of Ghibelline and Guelph. Frederick I had 
taken umbrage at the use of the term “ beneficium” 
in a letter addressed to him by Adrian IV about the 
rudeness of German knights to pilgrims visiting Rome, 
as if the pope meant to imply that the imperial author- 
ity had been conferred by him. The emperor marched 
into Italy, and other letters were interchanged between 
him and the pope, when, upon the death of Adrian in 
1159, the two parties — the hierarchic and the moderate 
among the cardinals — chose two opposing popes, viz. 
Alexander III and Victor IV. The emperor’s council, 
called at Pavia in 1160, recognised the latter. Pascal 
111 and Calixtus III followed at the imperial dictation, 
with but little influence. Alexander, from his refuge 
in France,- enjoyed great popularity. lie had on his 
side the Lombard league. The cause of Frederick was 
defended by the lawyers of Bologna, who ascribed to 
him unlimited power, to the prejudice of the people. 
Defeated at Legnano in 1 176, the emperor subscribed, at 
the dictation of Alexander, the peace of Venice, the pro- 
visions of which were based on the Concordat of Worms. 
The first and most important of the twenty-seven can- 
ons established by this council, which were mostly dis- 
ciplinary, provides that henceforth “the election of the 
popes shall be confined to the college of cardinals, and 
two thirds of the votes shall be required to make a law- 
ful ( lection, instead of a majority only, as heretofore.” 
It was by this council also that the “errors and impie- 
ties” of the Waldenses and Albigenses were declared 
heretical. At the unimportant council of 1 167, pope Al- 
exander excommunicated Frederick I. 

V. The council of 1215, under Innocent III, was the 
most important of all the Lateran Councils. It is usu- 
ally styled the Fourth Lateran. It continued in session 
from November 11 to November 30, having present 71 
archbishops, 412 bishops, 800 abbots, the patriarchs of 
Constantinople and Jerusalem, and the legates of other 
patriarchs and crowned heads. The pope opened the 
assembly with a sermon upon St. Luke xxii, 15, relating 
to the recovery of the Ilolv Land and the reformation 
of the Church. The remarkable power of innocent III 
is displayed in his influence over this council, which 
was submissive to .all his wishes, and received the sev- 
enty canons proposed by him. The papal prerogatives 
attained their greatest height in Innocent, whose pon- 
tificate extended from 1198 to 1216. The bull Unam 
Sand am of Boniface VIII, directed against Philip the 
Fair in 1302, marks the limit from which the power of 
the popes evidently declined. Innocent III — a man of 
great personal power, of marked ability as a writer and 
orator, bold, crafty, and ever watchful of affairs — had 
his eye on all that transpired through his legates. The 
chief objects which his pontificate, sought were “the 
strengthening of the States of the Church, separation 
of the Two Sicilies from all dependence on the German 
empire, the liberation of Italy from all foreign control, 
the exercise of guardianship over the confederacy of its 
states, the liberation of the Oriental Church, the exter- 
mination of heretics, and the exercise of ecclesiastical 
discipline” (llase, Church Hist. p. 207). Hitherto Eng- 
land, Germany, and France had constituted a balance 
of power against the pope, but under Innocent the two 
former, as well as Italy, submitted to the claims of the 
pseudo-Isidorcan decretals. France was early laid un- 
der interdict (1200) on account of Philip Augustus’s re- 
pudiation of Ingehurge and the French bishops’ appro- 
val of the act, while John of England was deprived of his 
realm, to receive it back (in 1213) only as a fief of Rome. 
Deciding at first for Otho IV, the Guelph, against the 


LATERAL COUNCILS 


257 


LATERAN COUNCILS 


Hohcnstauffen Philip, in Germany, Innocent subsequent- 
ly secured from the council the recognition of Frederick 
II, vainly seeking in this his German policy to free It- 
aly entirely from the power of the emperor. The famous 
seventy constitutions of Innocent, if not discussed con- 
ciliariter by the bishops, or passed with every form of 
enactment, were nevertheless regarded as the canons of 
the council, so recognised by the Council of Trent and 
by Church authorities of the intervening age, and they 
have constituted a fundamental law for many well- 
known practices of the Romish Church. The first of 
these canons asserts the Catholic faith in the unity of 
God against all Manichaean sects. It also, for the first 
time, makes the doctrine of transubstantiation, in the 
use of this express term, an article of faith. “ The body 
and blood of Jesus Christ in the sacrament of the altar 
are truly contained under the species of bread and wine, 
the bread being, by the divine omnipotence, transub- 
stantiated into his body, and the wine into his blood.” j 
The second canon condemns the treatise of Joachim,, the ! 
prophet of Calabria, which he wrote against Peter Lom- 
bard on the subject of the Trinity. The third canon is 
of great importance, furnishing the basis for the crusade 
against the Albigenses, and for all severities of a like 
character on the part of the Romish Churkin It 44 anath- 
ematizes all heretics who hold anything in opposition 
to the preceding exposition of faith, and enjoins that, 
after condemnation, they shall be delivered over to the 
secular arm ; also excommunicates all who receive, pro- 
tect, or maintain heretics, and threatens with deposition 
all bishops who do not use their utmost endeavors to 
clear their dioceses of them” (Landon, Manual of Coun- 
cils, p. 295). The fourth canon invites the Greeks to 
unite with and submit themselves to the Romish Church. 
r H\\c fifth canon regulates the order of precedence of the 
patriarchs: I. Rome; 2. Constantinople ; 3. Alexandria; 
4. Antioch ; 5. Jerusalem; and permits these several pa- i 
triarchs to give the pall to the archbishops of their de- 
pendencies, exacting from themselves a profession of 
faith, and of obedience to the Roman see, when they re- 
ceive the pall from the pope. The sixth to the twen- 
tieth, inclusive, are of minor importance (see Landon, 
Manual of Councils, p. 29G). The twenty-first canon 
enjoins “all the faithful of both sexes, having arrived 
at years of discretion, to confess all their sins at least 
once a year to their proper priest, and to communicate 
at Easter.” This is the first canon known which orders 
sacramental confession generally, and may have been 
occasioned by the teachings of the Waldenses, that nei- 
ther confession nor satisfaction was necessary in order 
to obtain remission of sin. From the words with which 
it commences, it is known as the canon “ Omnis utrius- 
que sexus,” and was solemnly reaffirmed by the Council 
of Trent. The canons (given completely by Landon, 
Man. of Councils, p. 293 sq.) in general constitute a body j 
of full and severe disciplinary enactments. This council 
reaffirmed and extended the Truce of God on plenary 
indulgence which had been previously proclaimed in 
behalf of the Eastern Crusades, and fixed the time, June 
1, and place, Sicily, as a rendezvous for another crusade. 

This council also confirmed Simon de Mont fort in 
possession of lands which the Crusaders had obtained 
by papal confiscation from the Waldenses, and decreed 
the entire extirpation of the heresy. The Waldenses 
or Albigenses in the south of France were the followers 
of Peter Waldo, a wealthy citizen of Lyons, who, from 
religious principle, adopted a life of poverty. 11 is fol- 
lowers were also called Leonistm and “ Poor men of Ly- 
ons.” They were allied in their sentiments to the Yau- 
dois of the Piedmontese valleys, with whom they became 
united for mutual defence. They protested against 
these points in the doctrine of the Romish Church : I. 
Transubstantiation. 2. The sacraments of confirmation, 
confession, and marriage. 3. The invocation of saints. 
4. The worship of images. 5. The temporal power of 
the clergy. A crusade had been instituted against them 
bv the papal power in 1178. Innocent sought to win 
V.— R 


them over and make monks of them by establishing in 
1201 the order of “ Poor Catholics.” Unsuccessful in 
this, he confiscated their lands to the feudal lords, and 
established an inquisition among them under the direc- 
tion of Dominic, which was formally sanctioned by the 
present council. The warfare against them, incited and 
directed by the monks of Citeaux, was allowed by Philip 
Augustus. Count Raymond of Toulouse espoused the 
cause of his persecuted vassals. The papal legate, Peter 
of Castclnau, sent to convert the Waldenses, was mur- 
dered by Raymond, whose dominions were thereupon 
assaulted in 1209 by a fiercer crusade of so-called “ Chris- 
tian Pilgrims,” led on by Simon de Montfort and Arnold, 
the abbot of Citeaux. The count of Toulouse submit- 
ted, but a bloody warfare was prosecuted against Ray- 
mond Roger, viscount of Beziers and Albi, and subse- 
quently 200 towns and castles within the boundaries of 
the two counts were granted to the successful Simon de 
Montfort. A rebellion, however, against his power de- 
prived him of all ; but Raymond of Toulouse, who ap- 
peared at the council of 1215, obtained no favor, and his 
territory was declared to be alienated from him forever. 

VI. The council of 1512-1517, under Julius II and 
Leo X, was convened for the reformation of abuses, for 
the condemnation of the Council of Pisa, and attained 
its most important result in the abolition of the Prag- 
matic Sanction. France, under Louis XII, had obtained 
great military successes in Italy by the League of Cam- 
bray, formed in 1509 against Venice. In the interests 
of France, and by the friendship of some of the cardi- 
nals, Louis XII summoned a Church council at Pisa, 
Nov. 1511, which in 1512 was moved to [Milan, but was 
entirely fruitless of results, being dissolved by the pres- 
ence of the pope’s army. Julius II, though at first jeal- 
ous of Venice, had nevertheless, aroused by the successes 
of the French general, formed the Holy Alliance with 
Venice, Spain, England, and Switzerland, and now, at 
the head of his army, drove the French beyond the 
Alps, and himself summoned a council at the Latcran 
May 10, 1512. This council extended over twelve ses- 
sions, until March, 1517. The bishop of Guerk had ac- 
tively promoted the summoning of the council, and at- 
tended as representative of the German emperor. All 
the acts of the Council of Pisa were at once annulled.. 
Julius having died in Feb. 1513, Leo X presided over 
the sixth session. At the eighth session, in Dec. 1513, 
Louis XI 1, through his ambassador, declared his adhe- 
sion to this Council of the Latcran. At the eleventh- 
session, in Dec. 1 51 G, the bull was read which, in place 
of the Pragmatic Sanction of Rourges (MSS), wherein- 
France accepted the decisions of the Basle council in so 
far as they were consistent with the liberties of the Gal- 
lican Church, substituted the Concordat agreed upon this 
year, 1510, between Leo X and Francis I. Through 
hope of increasing his power in Italy, Francis largely 
sacrificed the liberties of the Church. Several of the 
articles of the Pragmatic were retained, but most of 
them were altered or abolished. The first article was 
entirely contrary to the Pragmatic, which had re-estab- 
lished the right of election, while the Concordat declares* 
that the chapters of the cathedrals in France shall no 
longer proceed to elect the bishop in case of vacancy,, 
but that the king shall name a proper person, whom the 
pope shall nominate to the vacant see. The Concor- 
dat, on account especially of this provision, nu t with 
great opposition in the Parliament, universities, and the 
Church at Paris. It was a great advance of the papacy 
against the liberties of France (compare Janus, Pope and 
Council, § xxviii and xxix). Neither this council nor 
the other four, viz. those of 1123, 1139, 1179, and 1215, 
styled oecumenical by the Romish Church, can be prop- 
erly regarded as such. 

Some writers mention as the sixth Latcran the coun- 
cil convened by pope Benedict XIII on the bull Uni- 
genitus [see Jansexius], and for the purpose of general 
reform in the Church (compare Klemm, Cone, a Bcned. 
XIII, in Lat. habiti preebreve examen (1729) ; Walch,Zte 


LATEY 


258 


LATIMER 


concil, Lut . a Bcned.XIII (Lips. 1726). For a detailed 
account of the council at the Lateral) opened Dee. 8, 
1860, see (Ecumenical Council, and the article Infal- 
libility in vol. iv, especially p. 573 sq. Sfce Landon, 
Manual of Councils , p. 287-303 ; Mausi, Concil. vi, 75 ; x, 
741,767, 806, 801,900, 1503 ; xi, 117; xiv, 1-346; Giese- 
ler, Ch. Hist, i, 368; ii, 131, 184, 195,388; Milman. Latin 
Christianity. iii,297,298 sq.,434, iv, 146, 175 sq., 236; v, 
211 sq.; Cunningham, Hist. Theol. i, 417 sq.; Ranke, 
Jiist. of the Papacy, i, 351 ; ii, 206. (E. B. O.) 

Latey, Gilbert, an English Quaker, was bom in 
England in 1627. lie was one of the most active and 
efficient members of his society in London. II is labors 
were directed especially to the relief of the more unfor- 
tunate of his Church. He died Sept. X 5, 1705. See 
Jannev, Hist, of Friends , iii, 105. 

Lathrop, Joseph, D.D., an eminent Congregational 
minister, was born October 20, 1731 (O. S.), at Norwich, 
Conn.; graduated at Yale College in 1754; entered the 
ministry January, 1756; was ordained pastor in West 
Springfield, Mass., August 25, and labored there until his 
death, December 31, 1820. In 1703 he was elected pro- 
fessor of divinity in Yale College, but declined the posi- 
tion. He published A Letter to the Per. the associated 
Pastors in the County of Xew Haven concerning the Ordi- 
nation of the Rev. John Hubbard in Meriden (1770): — 
Miscellaneous Collection of original Pieces, political, mor- 
al, and entertaining (1786); and a number of occasional 
Sermons (Hartford, 1703, 8 vo; 1803, 8 vo ; Worcester, 
1807, 8vo). Doctor Lathrop was a popular preacher, and 
liis sermons have long been highly commented upon 
both in this country and in Europe. — Sprague, Annals 
of the A merican Pulpit, i, 528. 

Latimer, Hugh, one of the most distinguished prel- 
ates of the Church of England, undoubtedly one of the 
ablest, if not the ablest ecclesiastic among the English 
reformers of the 16th century, called by Fronde (Hist, 
of England, i, 264 ; comp, ii, 101) the John Knox of Eng- 
land, the bearer of a name that “now shines over two 
hemispheres, and will blaze more and more till the last 
day,” was born at Thurcaston, in Leicestershire, about 
1470. llis father, a farmer of good practical judgment, 
early discovering in Hugh talents that would tit him for 
a literary position of note, afforded him all the advan- 
tages of his time at school, and at fourteen Hugh was 
transferred to Cambridge, where he was soon known as 
a sober, hard-working student. At nineteen he was 
elected fellow of Clare Ilall, took his degree at twenty, 
and at once entered on the study of theology, having 
decided to devote himself to the services of the Church. 
A sincere and devout believer in the doctrines and rites 
of the Church of Borne, we need not wonder at finding 
him, at this period of his life, loud and frequent in his 
denunciation of the would-be reformers, seldom losing 
an opportunity of inveighing against them. “ He even 
held them,” says Middleton. (Memoirs of the Reformers, 
iii, 103), “in such horror that he thought they were the 
supporters of that Antichrist whose appearance was to 
precede the coming of the Soil of Man, and conjectured 
that the day of judgment was at hand.” Nor were the 
events of his day likely to cool his mistaken zeal. Lu- 
ther, who was making havoc in the ranks of the papacy, 
had just been assailed by “ the defender of the faith” (king 
Henry VIII); and as a most fit subject for his disserta- 
tion for the divinity degree, Latimer could find no bet- 
ter work than “fleshing his maiden sword” in an attack 
upon Melqjicthon — surely no small task for a man not 
much beyond his teens. But even at this early age 
Hugh Latimer proved himself quite a formidable po- 
lemic, and, what is even more noteworthy, a man not 
afraid to speak his mind — a trait which distinguishes 
our subject in all the acts of his life. Immediately after 
his attack on Melnncthon he came under the eye and 
tongue of Bilnev. the famous advocate of the Beformcd 
doctrines in the English Church, and he was led to ex- 
amine more critically the doctrines and discipline of his 


Church. The result was, naturally enough, conversion 
to the cause which Bilncy so ably advocated. Latimer 
was at this time about thirty years of age, and as he 
was not a man accustomed to do things by halves, he 
became a zealous advocate for reform, and preached 
manfully and boldly against the false doctrines and va- 
rious abuses of Romanism which had crept into and pol- 
luted the Church of England. Naturally gifted with 
great oratorical powers, and inspired by the fitness of 
the subject with which he was dealing, he soon made 
himself famous as a preacher at Cambridge. “None, 
except the stiff-necked and uncireumeised, ever went 
away from his preaching, it was said, without being af- 
fected with high detestation of sin, and moved to all 
godliness and virtue” (Jewel of Joy [Parker Society edi- 
tion], p. 224 sq.). Such preaching, however, greatly as 
it was needed by the times in which Latimer lived, 
could not meet the approval of the servile ecclesiastics. 
It was too much tinged by theological statements that 
“had originally sprouted in England, and, after being 
translated to Germany, had been brought back with im- 
proved fibre ;” and Latimer soon found himself surround- 
ed by a formidable opposition, daily growing in strength. 
II is “ heretical preaching,” as it was then called, caused 
a remonstrance? made to the diocesan bishop of Ely by 
a gray friar named Venetus, but really due to most of 
the divines of Cambridge, requesting episcopal inter- 
ference. Dr. West, then the incumbent of the bishopric 
of Ely, naturally a mild and moderate man, inclined to 
favor Latimer at first, and only mildly rebuked him. 
Here the matter might have ended, and it is more than 
likely that “he would not have been the Latimer of the 
Beformation, and the Church of England woidd not, per- 
haps, have been here to-day” (Fronde, ii, 101 ) ? had not 
this bishop, while on a visit to Cambridge (1525), unex- 
pectedly attended one of Latimer’s preaching services, 
and had not his prelatical dignity been sorely touched on 
the occasion. Latimer was right in the midst of his ser- 
mon when the bishop entered ; immediately he abandon- 
ed his subject, and, as soon as the bishop had been seated, 
according to Strypc, addressed the audience as follows: 
“It is of congruence meet that a new auditory being 
more honorable, requireth a new theme, being a new ar- 
gument to entreat of. Therefore it behoveth me non* 
to deviate from mine intended purpose, and somewhat 
to entreat of the honorable estate of a bishop. There- 
fore let this be the theme, ‘ Christus existens pontifexfu- 
turorum bonorum, etc.’” This text, says a contempo- 
rary, he so fruitfully handled, expounding every word, 
and setting forth the office of Christ so sincerely as the 
true and perfect pattern unto all other bishops that 
should succeed him in his Church, that the bishop then 
present might well think of himself that neither he nor 
any of his fellows were of that race, but rather of the 
fellowship of Caiaphas and Annas. It cannot appear 
strange to any one that “ the wise and politic man,” as 
the bishop of Ely was generally called, thereafter also 
went over to the enemy, and forbade Latimer’s preach- 
ing within the diocese over which he presided. Lati- 
mer, however, overcame this obstacle by gaining the 
use of a pulpit in a monastery of Austin friars, exempt 
from episcopal jurisdiction, and the prior of which, Dr. 
Barnes, decidedly favored the reformed doctrines. This 
daring attitude of the young preacher so provoked Dr. 
West and the Cambridge clique that the bishop made 
complaint to cardinal Wolsev. “ No eye saw more quick- 
ly than the cardinal’s the difference between a true man 
and an impostor,” and when he had heard from the lips 
of Latimer himself the substance of the sermons that 
had given cause to the complaint, the cardinal, instead 
of punishing Latimer, replied to the accusations by 
granting the offender a license to preach in any church 
in England. “If the bishop of Ely cannot abide such 
doctrine as you have here repeated,” he said, “you shall 
preach it to liis beard, let him say what he will” (Lati- 
mer, Remains, p. 27 sq., as quoted by Fronde, ii, 102). 
From this time forward the career of Latimer seems 


LATIMER 


259 


LATIMER 


clearly marked out. Hitherto he had been quite ortho- 
dox in points of theoretic belief. “liis mind,” says 
Froude, “was practical rather than speculative, and he 
was slow in arriving at. conclusions which had no im- 
mediate bearing upon action.” Now lie broke loose al- 
together from the position of the Cambridge authorities, 
and probably became defiant of them. But Wolsev 
(f 1530) fell from grace, and there was reason to fear 
that Latimer would now, at last, also fall a prey to the 
malice of his formidable adversaries, greatly increased 
in numbers by his success in gaining followers, who were 
drawn towards him by his eloquence, his moral conduct, 
and his kindness of disposition, as well as by the mer- 
its of his cause. Unexpectedly, however, and quite to 
the chagrin of the Cambridge men, he found a fresh 
protector in the king himself. lie had preached before 
Henry in the Lent of 1530, having been introduced to 
his royal master by the king’s physician, Dr. Butts; and 
he won the favor of Henry by his honest, straightfor- 
ward logic and his enthusiasm. In this new position lie 
performed his duty as faithfully as he had in preaching 
at Cambridge, and he dared to speak the truth in a place 
where the truth is generally forgotten. A special op- 
portunity to speak in defense of the Protestant cause 
was afforded him by the persecutions to which the truest 
men in Henry’s dominions were subjected at this time 
on account of their religious faith; and, though he did 
not succeed in staying the hand of persecution by this 
address of almost unexampled grandeur, it yet remains 
“to speak forever for the courage of Latimer, and to 
speak something, too, for a prince that could respect the 
nobleness of the poor yeoman’s son, who dared in such a 
cause to write to him as a man to a man. To have 
written at all in such a strain was as brave a step as 
was ever deliberately ventured. Like most brave acts, 
it diil not go unrewarded; for Henry remained ever af- 
ter, however widely divided from him in opinion, yet 
his unshaken friend” (Froude, ii, 104). Perhaps it may 
not be out of place here to say that Henry VIII himself, 
however nobly he may have acted towards Latimer and 
the Reformers after 1530, was perhaps, in the main, in- 
cited to his friendly deeds towards Latimer by the posi- 
tion the latter had taken in 1527. Froude and most of 
the English historians forget, in their great endeavor to 
cleanse Henry VIII from all sin, that, however greatl\ r 
the Church of England has been benefited by bis work, 
his object was not reform in the Church, but the estab- 
lishment of a second papacy and liis own enthronement 
as pope, and that he was only led to take this step when 
lie found so many pliant tools to carryout his project of 
separation from his first wife, Catharine of Aragon. Of 
the commission appointed by the University of Cam- 
bridge to investigate tlie king’s rights in this matter, 
Latimer had been a member, and had taken decided 
ground in favor of the king. This of itself was sufficient 
to secure the good offices of his roval master. Latimer’s 
record of course, both before and after this event, clearly 
proves that he was not a pliant tool in the hands of the 
king, but actually believed Henry VIII justified in his 
separation from Catharine. 

Most prominent and influential at this time among 
the king’s favorites, or the Anne Bolevn party, as they 
are sometimes termed, as the advocates of her cause and 
the justness of king Henry's marriage with her, was lord 
T homas Cromwell (q. v.; comp, also Froude, History of 
Ewjhmd, ii, 109 sq.). By Cromwell’s exertions. Latimer, 
in 1531, was presented with the benefice of West King- 
ston, in Wiltshire, where lie preached the reformed doc- 
trines with such plainness and emphasis as to bring 
upon him a public accusation and citation before the 
bishop of London, who had only been watching for an 
opportunity to punish him as a heretic. The citation 
was issued and served January 10, 1532. Articles were 
drawn up, mainly extracts from his sermons, in which 
he was charged with speaking lightly of the worship of 
the saints, and with affirming that there was no mate- 
rial fire of a purgatorial description, and that, for his 


own part, he would rather be in purgatory than in the 
Lollard’s tower! lie set out for London in the deptli 
of winter, and under a severe fit of the stone, determined 
to defend the justness of his course. He was submitted 
by the different bishops to the closest cross-questionings, 
in the hope that he would commit himself. “They 
felt,” says Froude (ii, 107), “that he was the most dan- 
gerous person to them in the kingdom, and they labored 
with unusual patience to insure his conviction.” Lati- 
mer, however, baffled his episcopal inquisitors with their 
own weapons, and when they dared to excommunicate 
and to imprison him, he dared to appeal to the king in 
tlie face of their formidable opposition, and was permit- 
ted to escape with a simple submission to the archbish- 
op, instead of an obligation to subscribe to a certain list 
of articles. These latter were as follows ; “ That there is 
a purgatory to purge the souls of the dead after this life ; 
that the souls in purgatory are holpen with the masses, 
prayers, and alms of the living: that the saints do pray 
as mediators now for us in heaven; that they are to be 
honored ; that it is profitable for Christians to call upon 
the saints that they may pray for us unto God; that 
pilgrimages and oblations done to the sepulchres and 
relics of saints are meritorious; that they which have 
vowed perpetual chastity may not marry, nor break 
their vow, without the dispensation of the pope; that 
the keys of binding and loosing delivered to Peter do 
still remain with the bishops of Rome, his successors, al- 
though they live wickedly, and are by no means, nor at 
any time, committed to laymen; that men may merit 
at God’s hand by fasting, prayer, and other works of 
piety; that they which are forbidden of the bishop to 
preach, as suspected persons, ought to cease until they 
have purged themselves; that the fast which is used in 
Lent, and other fasts prescribed by the canons, are to be 
observed; that God, in every one of tlie seven sacra- 
ments, givetli grace to a man rightly receiving the 
same; that consecrations, sanctify ings, and blessings, 
by custom received into the Church, are profitable ; that 
it is laudable and profitable that the venerable images 
of the crucifix and other saints should be had in the 
Church as a remembrance, and to the honor and wor- 
ship of Jesus Christ and his saints; that it is laudable 
and profitable to deck and clothe those images, and to 
set up burning lights before them to the honor of said 
saints.” Historians disagree as to tlie attitude of Lati- 
mer towards the bishops, who demanded that he should 
sign at least two of the articles, viz. tlie one respecting 
the observance of Lent, and that concerning the crucifix 
and the lawfulness of images in churches. Fox doubts 
that Latimer signed any; Gilpin, in bis memoir of Lat- 
imer, denies it outright; Hook {Eccles. Biogr. vi, 562) 
says that the fact of liis signing “is put beyond all ques- 
tion by the minutes of the Convocation, where it is 
recorded that in tlie month of March, 1532, Latimer 
appeared, and, kneeling down, craved forgiveness, ac- 
knowledging that he had erred in preaching against the 
aforesaid two articles.” Froude, however, holds that 
Latimer signed “all except two — one apparently on the 
power of the pope ; the other I am unable to conjecture.” 
(Comp. Burnet, Hist, of the Ref. iii, 116, Latimer’s /?e- 
mains. p. 466.) 

Rescued from these perils by lord Cromwell, lie was 
by the latter now introduced to Anne Bolevn, and by 
lier appointed chaplain ; and in 1535 be was honored 
with the bishopric of Worcester. In this new appoint- 
ment, which marks an important epoch in the ecclesias- 
tical history of the day, Latimer was remarkably zealous 
in the discharge of his office ; lie was active, determined, 
and vigilant. “In writing, frequent; in ordaining, 
strict; in preaching, indefatigable; in reproving, severe ; 
in exhorting, persuasive.” In 1536, finally, he was 
brought from the somewhat secluded position he had 
hitherto occupied to a more public exhibition by a sum- 
mons to Parliament and Convocation, at the opening of 
which he preached two very powerful sermons, boldly 
urging the necessity of reform. Ever since 1534 es- 


LATIME1 


200 


LATIMER 


trangement between the pope anti the king had been 
quite decided. Cranmer's decree of 1533. approving the 
marriage with Anne Boleyn, had been declared first null 
and void by the pope, and Henry had been threatened 
with excommunication; but, as he had ignored the pa- 
pal threat, a bull to this effect was published in 1534-5. 
These proceedings on the part of Home left no other 
course open to Henry than either to repent, or to estab- 
lish himself as the supreme head of the English Church. 
The Convocation of Canterbury, in 1531, had pronounced 
officially in favor of constitutional reforms, and an act 
of Parliament in 1533 repudiated papal supremacy by 
withdrawing first the payment of the bishops’ annates 
or first-fruits, and next by an “act for the restraint of 
appeals/’ which forbade appeals to Rome on any pretext, 
and asserted the civil and ecclesiastical authorities in 
England competent to decide without any consultation 
of the papal power, followed by another act conferring 
on the English monarch the right of episcopal appoint- 
ment, as well as another forbidding applications to the 
Roman see for faculties, dispensations, etc. It was 
therefore no great task to prevail upon the convocations 
of Canterbury and York, in 1534, to declare formally 
against the claim of the Roman see to exercise any ju- 
risdiction in England; and, wlion once the step had 
been taken by the convocations, both the universities, 
as well as the whole of the bishops, and an overwhelm- 
ing majority of the clergy, cheerfully followed in the 
same wake, “all apparently feeling that there was no 
sound theological reason for the maintenance of so bur- 
densome and unconstitutional a tyranny’’ (Blunt [John 
Henry], Key to Ch. History [modern], p. 23). With all 
these initiatory measures secured, Henry had no reason 
any longer to hesitate on the decided step of seizing the 
supreme power over the English Church, which, in 1531, 
the convocations of Canterbury and York had consented 
to recognise only with the definite limitation “as far as 
the law of Christ will allow,” and he began the work by 
an order, in 1534, to omit the pope’s name from the ser- 
vice-books, quickly followed by two successive acts, 
passed by a servile Parliament, confirming the suprem- 
acy, and giving to the king unlimited power to repress 
all heresies, and to punish as high treason the denial of 
his right to the title of supreme head of the Church. 
In order further to secure him in the position which he 
had assumed, the Convocation of 153G, in which Lati- 
mer, as we have seen above, figured quite prominently, 
was urged to settle the questions of doctrine and devo- 
tion, which were agitating the English Church, and, as 
the result of their deliberations, sent forth the following 
ten articles, the original predecessors of the Thirty-nine 
Articles of Religion, See Articles. 

I. Enjoined belief in the Holy Bible, the three creeds, 
and the teaching of the first four general councils. 

II. Set forth the doctrine of baptismal regeneration. 

III. Defined penance as consisting of repentance, con- 
fession, absolution, and amendment of life. 

IV. Declared fully the doctrine of the real presence, 
without asserting that of trnusubstantiation. 

V. Explained justification as at tainable by repentance, 
faith, and charity, through the merits and mission of our 
blessed Lord. 

VI. Declared that images might be profitably used as 
aids to devotion, but not worshipped nor nncl ul > "honored. 

VII. .Set forth the honor due to saints as God’s faithful 
people who pray for us. 

VtIJ. Showed that, with certain limitations, the prayers 
of the saints might be asked for. 

IX. Spoke of minor rites and ceremonies of the Church, 
such as the use of holy water, ashes on Ash-Wcdnesdny, 
palms on Palm-Snudny, etc., aud declared that they might 
be fitly used to excite devotional feelings, but not as if 
they could obtain remission of sins. 

X. Distinguished prayers for the (load from the Romish 
doctrine of purgatory, repudiating the latter. 

In the following year these doctrinal articles were 
succeeded by the Institution of a Christina J fan (q. v.), a 
plain and authoritative exposition of Church doctrine, 
composed by a commission of fortv-six divines, appoint- 
ed by the king, and including all the bishops as well as 
some other dignitaries of the Church. In this commis- 
sion all shades of opinion had been represented, Cranmer 


and Latimer, as well as Gardiner and Bonner, being of 
the number; blit it was evident throughout that the 
Reformers were in the majority; and when, to all out- 
ward appearances, the reform movement seemed des- 
tined to prove a success in England, it suddenly received, 
from a quarter where it was last looked for, a blow that 
stunned it almost completely. The separation between 
the king of England and the pope of Rome having be- 
come complete, the Lutherans grew anxious to effect a 
union with the English Reformers, and to this end three 
German divines, with Burekhardt at their head, had 
come to England in 1538, to discuss and amicably settle 
all minor religious differences of opinion. Unfortunate- 
ly, however, they not only failed to bring about ail agree- 
ment on sacramental doctrine, but the discussion even 
induced the king to cling more tenaciously than ever to 
the belief of the Romish Church, especially on transub- 
stantiation ; and in 1530 the king actually caused the 
passage of “ the bloody act of the Six Articles,” or “the 
whip with six strings,” as the Protestants termed it, by 
which the denial of transubstantiation was made pun- 
ishable with death, and other medheval dogmas were 
enforced by line and imprisonment (comp. Fronde, Hist, 
of Enyland, iii, ch. xvi). From these six articles (q. v.) 
the reformers, of course, totally dissented; many of them 
preferred to hold their peace, and kept their places. 
Latimer, however, was not one of these : accustomed to 
speak his mind, he at once manifested his dissent to this 
enactment by his resignation of the bishopric. Some 
historians will have it that he was induced to resign by 
lord Cromwell; the latter, “either himself deceived or 
desiring to smooth the storm, told Latimer that the king 
advised his resignation” (Eroude, iii, 370, foot note). 
The state papers (i, 840), however, state “ that his majes- 
ty afterwards denied this, and pitied Latimer’s condi- 
tion;” and when we consider that Latimer had found a 
tried friend in Cromwell, we can hardly conclude that 
either he or the king had anything to do with the res- 
ignation, which was an act only to be expected of Lati- 
mer, ever independent and bold to speak the truth. 
Fronde (on the authority of Hall) will have it even 
that Latimer, together with Shaxton (q. v.), were im- 
prisoned immediately after their resignation, but if this 
be true he can have been confined only a brief period, as 
by a summary declaration of pardon the bishop’s dun- 
geon doors were thrown open and the prisoners were 
dismissed a very short time after their imprisonment. 

Latimer thereafter sought retirement in the country, 
where he would have continued to reside had not an ac- 
cident befallen him, the effects of which he thought the 
skill of London surgeons would alleviate. He arrived 
in London when the power of Cromwell was nearly at 
an end, and the mastery in the hands of Gardiner, who 
no sooner discovered him in his privacy than he pro- 
cured accusations to be made against him for his objec- 
tions to the Six Articles, and he was committed to the 
Tower. Different causes being alleged against him, he 
remained a prisoner for the remaining six years of king 
Henry VI IPs reign, his enemies evidently designing 
mainly to prevent his influence for the cause of the Re- 
formers in the capital of the nation. Upon t lie accession 
of Edward VI Parliament offered to restore him to his 
see, but Latimer was firm in his refusal to receive it : his 
great age, he said, made him desirous of freedom from 
any and all responsibility, lie preached, however, fre- 
quently, and gave himself up to all manner of benevo- 
lent works. He was a decided opponent of “the bloody 
Bonner;” occasionally his advice was sought for by the 
king, and he was continually active as the strenuous re- 
prover of the vices of the age ; but the reign was short, 
and with it expired Lat imer’s prosperity. In July, 1553, 
king Edward died ;. in September, Mary had begun 
to take vengeance on the Reformers, and. among oth- 
ers, Latimer was committed to the Tower. Though 
he was at least eighty years old, no consideration was 
shown for his great age, and he was sent to Oxford, 
March 8, 1554, together with Cranmer and Ridley, to dis- 


2G1 


LATIN 


LATIMER 


pnte on the corporal presence. He had never been ac- 
counted very learned : lie had not used Latin much, he 
told them, these twenty years, and was not able to dis- 
pute; but he would declare his faith, and then they 
might do as they pleased. He declared that he thought 
the presence of Christ in the sacrament to be only spir- 
itual; “he enlarged much against the sacrifice of the 
mass, and lamented that they had changed the com- 
munion into a private mass; that they had taken the 
cup away from the people; and, instead of service in a 
known tongue, were bringing the nation to a worship 
that they dill not understand” (Burnet, Reformation, vol. 
ii). He was laughed at, and told to answer their argu- 
ments; he reminded them that he was old, and that his 
memory had failed; the laughter, however, continued, 
and there was great disorder, perpetual shoutings, taunt- 
ings, and reproaches. When he was asked whether he 
would abjure his principles, he only answered, “I thank 
God most heartily that he hath prolonged my life to this 
end, that I may in this case glorify God with this kind 
of death.” He was found guilty of heresy and sentenced 
to death, but the Bomanists, to make sure that no claims 
for the irregularity of the trial should be charged upon 
them, set aside the sentence which had been passed 
at the first trial, and, by direction of cardinal Pole, an- 
other commission, consisting of Brookes, bishop of Glou- 
cester; Ilolyman, bishop of Bristol ; and White, bishop 
of Lincoln, was convened on the 7th of September, under 
the altar of St. Mary’s Church at Oxford, and the three 
“arch heretics” given a second hearing and condemned. 
Latimer was the last introduced. He Avas uoav eighty 
years old, “ dressed in an old threadbare gOAvn of Bristol 
frieze, a handkerchief on his head AA'ith a niglit-cap OA'er 
it, and oA'er that again another cap, with two broad Haps 
buttoned under the chin. A leather belt Avas round his 
waist, to which a Testament Avas attached ; his specta- 
cles, without a case, hung from his neck. »So stood the 
greatest man, perhaps, then living in the A\orld, a pris- 
oner on his trial, Avaiting to be condemned to death by 
men professing to be ministers of God. . . . Latimer’s 
trial Avas the counterpart of Ridley's (see Froude, vi,356 
sq.); the charge was the same (on the sacrament), and 
the result A\ T as the same, except that the stronger intel- 
lect vexed itself less AA'ith nice distinctions. Bread Avas 
bread, said Latimer, and Avine Avas wine; there A\'as a 
change in the sacrament, it Avas true, but the change 
Avas not in the nature, but the dignity” (Froude, vi, 359 
sq.). Every effort. Avas made to induce a recantation, 
but Latimer, like Ridlcv, remained firm, and sentence 
Avas pronounced upon them as heretics obstinate and in- 
curable, and on the IGth of October, 1555, both Latimer 
and Ridley Avere led to the stake and burnt, outside the 
north Avail of the tOAvn, a short stone’s throAV from the 
soutliAvard corner of Baliol College, and about the same 
distance from Brocardo prison, Avbere Cranmer still lin- 
gered. The last Avords of Latimer Avere addressed to 
his companion, and are characteristic of our subject : 
“Be of good comfort, master Ridley, and play the man : 
AA r e shall this day light such a candle, by God’s grace, in 
England, as 1 trust shall neA r er be put out.” GunpoAv- 
dcr had been fastened about his body to hasten his 
death ; it took fire Avith the first flame, and he died im- 
mediately. 

Latimer’s character, Avhich has been treated most 
beautifully by the late BeA*. E. Thomson, D.D., LL.I)., in 
his Sketches, Biographical and Incidental (Cine. 1856), p. 
42 sq., seems to us to present a combination of many 
noble and disinterested qualities. “He Avas brave, hon- 
est, dcA-oted, and energetic, homely and popular, yet 
free from all A’iolence ; a martyr and hero, yet a plain, 
simple-hearted, and unpretending man ; an earnest, 
hopeful, and happy man, fearless, open-hearted, hating 
nothing but baseness, and fearing none but God — not 
throAving aAvay his life, yet not counting it dear Avhen 
the great crisis came — calmly yielding it up as the 
crown of his long sacrifice and struggle. There may be 
other reformers that more engage our admiration, there 


is no one that more excites our kwe” (Tulloch, Leaders 
of the Ref. p. 322-824). Latimer’s sermons, character- 
ized by humor and cheerfulness, manly sense anti direct 
evangelical fervor, Avere first printed colleeth'ely in 1549, 
8\'o, and in 1570, 4to; one of the best editions, Avith 
notes and a memoir, Avas prepared by John Watkins, 
LL.I). (Lond. 1824, 2 Ads. 8a t o). A complete edition of 
his Works (the only complete one) Avas edited for the 
Parker Society by the ReA\ G.E.Corrie (Cam br. 1844-5, 
4 A'ols. 8\ r o). See Gilpin, Life of Latimer (1755, 8at>); 
Fox, Book of Martyrs ; Middleton, Mem. of the Reform- 
ers, iii, 101 sq. ; Tulloch, Leaders of the Reformation, p. 
245 sq. ; Hook, Eccles. Biog.v i, 551 sq. ; Burnet, Hist, of 
the Reformation (see Index) ; Collier, Eccles. Hist, (see 
Index); Froude, Hist, of Engl. A'ol. i-vi (see Index in vol. 
xii) ; Engl. Cyclop, s. v.; Blackwood's Mag. lxix, 131 sq. ; 
Lond. Retr. Rev. 1822, vi, 272 sq. (J.*H. W.) 

Latimer, William, an English humanist of the 
15th century, became in 1489 a fellow of All Souls’ Col- 
lege, Oxford. He studied theology in that university, 
and afterAvards Greek at Padua, and subsequently be- 
came teacher to Reginald Pole. lie was a friend of Eras- 
mus, and even assisted him in preparing his second edi- 
tion of the N. T. He died about 1545. Erasmus and 
Leland both speak of Latimer in high terms as a Avritcr 
and scholar. Unfortunately, lioAvever, he never pub- 
lished any of his Avritings, and there remain in MS. form 
only a feAV of his letters to Erasmus. See llallam, Lit. 
Hist, of Europe (Lond, 1854), i, 232, 271. 

Latin (Pupaiicoc, Roman, Luke xxiii, 38; *Pw/m- 
i fffri, in Roman, John xix, 20), the vernacular language 
of the Romans, although most of them in the time of 
Christ likewise spoke Greek. See the monographs on 
the subject cited by Volbeding, Index, p. 135. See Lat- 
ixisms. 

LATIN, Use of, in tiie Administration of the 
Sacraments. The Avords of St. Augustine against hea- 
then Rome in De civitate Dei, xix, 7, “ Opera data est, 
ut imperiosa civitas non solum jugum sed ctiam linguam 
suam domitis gentibus imponeret,” may be justly ap- 
plied to modern Christian Rome. By imposing its lan- 
guage on all nations acknoAvledging its sovereignty it 
has obtained also the mastery over their spiritual life. 
Benedict XIV, indeed, nobly declared, “Ut ornnes ca- 
tholici sint, non ut omnes Latini fiant, necessnrium est.” 
But this principle of true, ancient catholicity resulted 
only in some useless concessions on unimportant points, 
for Roman Catholicism early found that it cannot af- 
ford to dispense with the use of Latin and adopt the 
vulgar tongues; that it would thereby endanger the 
consolidation of the Church’s power — yea, its very ex- 
istence. That the Latin language was originally used 
in the public Avorship of the Romish adherents, in 
countries where Latin was the popular language, can- 
not be a matter of surprise or condemnation, nor that 
the clergy should have continued to use it in Chris- 
tianizing the nations avIio became subjects to Rome, 
eA r en after its use had become obsolete in Rome itself. 
Of course there is every reason to belieA'e that in the 
earliest stages the ecclesiastical language of the Greek- 
speaking Roman Church Avas Greek, and continued such 
till the transfer of the empire to Byzantium (Forbes, 
Explan. XXXIX Art. ii, 430), and that, indeed, all the 
early churches followed the practice of the apostles, to 
whom the use of a foreign language Avas repugnant 
(compare 1 Cor. xi\', 19; ibid. 161. and made use of their 
oavii vernacular, as in the introduction of the Gospel to 
India, Parthia, and other regions. But the use of the 
Latin tongue by the Romish Church was in its early 
period admissible, Avhen Ave consider that it Avas only 
the Church that had it in its poAver. at a time when the 
influence of the infant modern languages Avas derogatory 
to the Latin, to maintain the ancient language in com- 
parative purity, and to preserve to us its most noble mon- 
uments. Indeed, as Hill ( English Monasticism, p. 325) 
has avcII said, “ had it not been adopted by the Church, 


LATIN 


202 LATIN 


then, for some centuries, while the new tongues were 
gradually developing themselves and settling into a 
form, the world would have been dark indeed ; not a 
book, not a page, not a syllable would have reached us 
of the thought, the life, or the events of that period. 
From the 4th to the 7th century there woidd have been 
an impenetrable gap in the annals of humanity — the 
voice of history would have been hushed into a dead 
silence, and the light of the past, which beacons the fu- 
ture, woidd have been extinguished in the darkness of a 
universal chaos.” Not so justifiable, however, was the 
conduct of the Romish Church after the moderate de- 
velopment of the modern languages ; and we sec an in- 
clination, even in the papal chair, to revolutionize eccle- 
siastical usage in this respect in the latter half of the 9th 
century, when the Slaves became converts to Christian- 
ity under the labors of St. Methodius, and introduced 
the vernacular, with the consent and approval of pope 
John YIII (comp. Methodius, Epist. *247, to Sfentopul- 
eher, count of Moravia). Gregory YIII, on the other 
hand, quickly undid the liberal work of John YlH, and 
was loud in his denunciations of the use of any but the 
Latin language in Christian religious worship. Never- 
theless, there have been many exceptions during the 
Middle Ages. The Bohemian Church early manifested 
a desire to use the vernacular; and, although Gregory 
YII had stringently insisted on the use of the Latin, 
they succeeded at the Council of Basle (1431) m the pas- 
sage of an act tolerating the vernacular in the churches 
of Bohemia. 

The Keformation of the IGth century first awoke a 
general desire for the use of the vernacular, France and 
Germany were particularly determined to secure this 
privilege. The Council of Trent, which was approached 
on this subject, however, only so far regarded the de- 
mands of Catharine de Medicis and the emperor Ferdi- 
nand on this point as to reaffirm the existing rides in 
the mildest possible terms, so as not to offend them 
(Sessio xxii, cap. 8: “ Etsi missa magnam eontineat 
populi fidelis eruditionem, non tamen expedire visum 
est patribus, ut [missa] vulgari lingua passim celebra- 
rctur”). It only anathematizes those who claim that 
mass is to be exclusively celebrated in the vernacular: 
“Si quis dixerit, lingua tantum vulgari missam celebrari 
debere, anathema sit” (/. c. canon 9). Yet, in order to 
appear to make some concession to the requirements of 
the times, the synod decided (/. c. cap. 8), “Ne oves 
Christi esuriant, neve parvuli panem petant, et non sit 
qui frangat eis, mandat 8. synodus pastoribus et singulis 
euram animarum gerentibus, ut frequenter inter missa- 
rum celebrationem vel per se vel per alios ex iis, quin in 
missa leguntur, aliquid exponant, atque inter cetera 
sanctissimi hujus sacriticii mysterium aliquot] deelarent, 
diebus pnesertim dominicis et lest is,” by which they 
acknowledged, perhaps more than they intended to do, 
the necessity of making an allowance for the desire of 
having the Scriptures explained in the vernacular. The 
reasons given by the Council of Trent for its determina- 
tion to continue the use of Latin as the language of the 
Church (given by Gbsehl in his Geschichtliche Durst el- 
luntf c/. < -one. v. Trident. 1840, part ii. p. 135) are as fol- 
lows: 1. That, in consequence of t he changes to which 
modern languages are liable, the terms of worship might 
be altered, and also the ideas connected with them, thus 
giving rise to heresies. 2. If mass were to be said in 
the vernacular, then the greater number of the priests 
would be unable to say mass in other than their native 
countries, as they would be obliged to say mass in a dif- 
ferent language in every country. 3. The holy myster- 
ies, of which mass is the most important, should not be 
presented to the masses in their own language, as, from 
their inability to understand their mysterious import, 
occasion might thus arise for inpdern heretics to profane 
these mysteries in the vernacular. All the' other rea- 
sons which have at various times been advanced in de- 
fence of the custom by Homan Catholic writers are but 
variations on the above (comp. Forbes, Explanation of 


the Thirty-nine Articles , ii, 434; Adolphus, Compendium 
Theoloyicum , p. 420). 

Bellarmine (in his IFonfo, iii, 119) attempts to com- 
plete and comment on these grounds. I. lie says “ the 
Latin Church has always administered the sacraments 
in Latin, although this language had long since ceased 
to be the common language of the people.” This is ad- 
mitting that circumstances are changed, but asserting, at 
the same time, that it is to be retained simply from hab- 
it. Bellarmine then attempts to prove its reasonable- 
ness. He says: “There is no pressing motive why the 
sacraments should be administered in the vernacular, 
while there are many objections to it ; for there is no 
necessity that those who receive the sacraments should 
understand the words which accompany them ; for the 
words are addressed either to the elements, as in the 
eucharist, the blessing of holy water, oil, etc., and these 
understand no language ; or else they are addressed to 
God, and he understands them all; or, again, they are 
addressed to persons who are to be consecrated or ab- 
solved, not instructed or edified, as in the sacraments of 
baptism and absolution ; hence it is at best a matter of 
indifference to the person concerned whether lie under- 
stood the words or not ; it is further proved that persons 
deprived of reason can nevertheless receive baptism aiid 
the sacrament of reconciliation which is seen in the bap- 
tism of new-born infants and the reconciliatio of sick 
persons when in an unconscious state.” Yet Bellarmine 
himself, perceiving the difficulties of the position he had 
assumed, adds : “ T here are, moreover, hardly such gross- 
ly ignorant persons in the Latin Church as not to know 
in general, by the words which accompany it, which of 
the sacraments is being administered to them.” Grant- 
ing this, we cannot understand, then, in what manner 
the use of Latin is to prevent the profanation of the sac- 
raments as set forth by the Council of Trent. Among 
the objections to the use of modern languages, we find 
that “the free intercourse between the different church- 
es, which they need as members of one body, is rendered 
by it much more difficult. Moreover, Christians leav- 
ing their native eountTv would thus be obliged to de- 
prive themselves from attending the divina officia.” 
This is taking for granted that all Christians under- 
stand Latin ; for, unless they do, it would become a mat- 
ter of indifference to them whether they heard mass in 
that or another foreign language. “2. The sacraments 
should always be attended by a certain majesty and in- 
spiring solemnity, which can he better preserved by not 
using their usual language. If it is granted that in 
, public worship we should use special buildings, special 
I costumes, special forms, etc,, there eannot be any objec- 
i tion against the propriety of using also a different lan- 
guage; not that Latin is in itself a more sacred lan- 
j guage than another, but because it is better calculated 
to produce a feeling of reverence than the common 
tongue. 3. It is right that the sacramental words should 
always be presented to all the people in the same man- 
ner and under the same form, to avoid the danger of 
changes and alterations. This is the more easily ac- 
complished by making all priests use the same lan- 
guage.” Yet this does not always avoid the danger, for 
there have been instances of priests administering bap- 
tism “in nomine patria, film ct spiritua saneta.” 4. “ By 
administering the sacraments in the vernacular a wide 
door would be opened to ignorance, for the priests would 
at last consider themselves fully qualified if they knew 
how to read. Latin would he totally forgotten, and they 
would be unable to read the fathers and even the Scrip- 
tures.” Here we see another instance of the arrogance 
of t lie hierarchy, surpassing that of heathen Borne, 
which, if it compelled subjected nations to adopt its lan- 
guage, did not. at least, prevent them from understand- 
ing it. Christian Borne seems, indeed, to be imbued 
with the idea that mankind praise and value most what 
they do not understand. 

Towards the close of the 18th century and the begin- 
ning of the 19th, efforts were again made, especially in 


LATINISMS 


263 


LATIN VERSIONS 


Germany, to have mass said in the vernacular (sec Mar- 
heinecke, System d. Kalholicismus, iii, 397), but in vain. 
The increase of ultramontanism rendered all efforts un- 
availing. llirscher, in his Missce genuinam notionem 
eruere , etc., tentavit llirscher (Tubing. 18*2 1), thus clearly 
expressed the general aspiration (p. 69); “Yitupcramus 
igitur hunc extern; in cultu nostro lingua; usum pro viri- 
bus nostris, atque si unquam eucharistia; cclcbrationi 
vitam rcdire velimus, climinandum esse atque proscri- 
bendum statuimus. Et sane, si liturgia Latina inter nos 
Gcrmanos non cxisterct, nemo profeeto populum aliquem 
universum lingua uti vel duei voile, qua Dcum adoret, 
sibi penitus ignota admit teret possibilitatem. Incom- 
prehensibile revera istud omnibus debct videri,qui cunc- 
ta ad sana; rationis liormam solcnt metiri, ct nihil nisi 
quod aiditieat ad cultum admittere.” Here llirscher 
quotes the words of St. Paul, 1 Cor. xiv, 1-20, and con- 
tinues: “Apostolus hoc loco nc dc ordinario quidem lin- 
gua; extern in ccclesia usu sed de extraordinario aliquo 
loquitur, quern argumentis ex visccribus rei petitis im- 
pugnat. (Quanto magis igitur prineipiis suis inhaerens 
ordinarium ab ipsis mysteriorum ministris et universi 
eultus ducibus debuit corripere?” lie then goes on to 
prove that the use of Latin in the mass is in contradic- 
tion with the object of this part of worship, which re- 
quires “ sacerdotem inter ct populum actionem, cele- 
brantis et populi communioncm” (p. 70-71). These 
views, however, he afterwards withdrew, on being ad- 
monished by superior authorities. Romanism cannot 
admit any real communion between the priest and the 
people in the sacrifice of the mass, and llirscher had in 
this respect gone further than his Church would allow 
him. It is remarkable that all such efforts were always 
connected with more extended theological views, name- 
ly, with the rejection of the atoning character of mass. 

As the principles of the Reformation unfolded, so did 
the necessity of administering the sacraments in the 
vernacular. Yet Latin was not at once set aside, and 
there are yet extant a number of Lutheran liturgies of 
the second half of the 16th century in which that lan- 
guage is extensively used. 

In the English Church, one of the first acts of the Re- 
formers was in behalf of the use of the vernacular in re- 
ligious service, and the twenty-fourth of the Thirty- 
nine Articles treats “of speaking in the congregation in 
such a tongue as the people understandeth.” The arti- 
cle reads thus: ,l It is a thing plainly repugnant to the 
Word of God, and the custom of the primitive Church, 
to have public prayer in the church, or to minister the 
sacrament s in a tongue not nnderstanded of the people.” 

See Ilerzog, Real-Encyklopadie , viii, 208 ; Fuhrmann, 
Ilandwbrterbuch d. K i rch cngcsch . ii, 619 sq. ; Schroekh, 
Kirchengesch . xx, 153 sq. ; xxi, 418 sq. (J. II. W.) 

Latinisms. This word, which properly signifies 
idioms ox phraseology peculiar to the Latin tongue , is ex- 
tended by Biblical critics so as to include also the Latin 
words occurring in the Greek Testament. It is but rea- 
sonable to expect the existence of Latinisms in the lan- 
guage of every country subdued by the Romans. See 
Rome. The introduction of their civil and military 
officers, of settlers, and merchants, would naturally be 
followed by an infusion of Roman terms, etc., into the 
language of their new subjects. There would be many 
new things made known to some of them for which they 
could find no corresponding word in their own tongues. 
The circumstance that the proceedings, in courts of law 
were, in every part of the Roman empire, conducted in 
the Latin language, would necessarily cause the intro- 
duction of many Roman words into the department of 
law, as might be amply illustrated from the present state 
of the juridical language in every country once subject 
to the Romans, and even in our own. Valerius Maxi- 
mus (ii, 2, 2), indeed, records the tenacity of the an- 
cient Romans for their language in their intercourse 
with the Greeks, and their strenuous endeavors to prop- 
agate it through all their dominions. The Latinisms in 
the New Testament are of four kinds. 


1. Latin Words in Greek Characters. — The following 
arc instances (see Tregclles in Horne’s Introd. iv, 15): 
’Aoocipioi'y “ farthing,” from the Latin assaiius (Matt, 
x, 29). This word is used likewise by Plutarch, Diony- 
sius of Halicarnassus, and Athenams, as may be seen in 
Wetstein, ad loef. See Assarium. Kf/pcroc, ce?mis (Matt, 
xvii, 25); tes rrvpior, centurio (Mark xv, 39), etc.; \e- 
yttoVy legioy “legion” (Matt, xxvi, 53). Polybius (B.C. 
150) has also adopted the Roman military terms (vi, 17) 
1616. 27reKov\ctTiop, speculator, “a spy,” from specular, 
“to look about,” or, as Wahl and Schleusner think, from 
spiculum , the weapon carried by the speculator. The 
word describes the emperor's life-guards, who, among 
other duties, punished the condemned; hence “an exe- 
cutioner” (Mark vi, 27), margin, “one of his guard” 
(comp. Tacitus, Hist, i, 25 ; Josephus, War, i, 33, 7 ; Sen- 
eca, De Ira, i, 16). M autWou, from macellum, “ a mar- 
ket-place for flesh” (1 Cor. x, 25). As Corinth was now 
a Roman colony, it is only consistent to find that the in- 
habitants had adopted this name for their public mar- 
ket, and that Paul, writing to them, should employ it. 
Mt'Xioiq “a mile” (Matt, v, 41). This word is also used 
by Polybius (xxxiv, 11,8) and Strabo (v,332). 

2. Latin Senses of Greek Words: as Kapirog (Rom. 
xv, 28), “ fruit,” where it seems to be used in the sense 
of emolument um, “ gain upon money lent,” etc.; irratvog, 
“praise,” in the juridical sense of elogium, a testimonial 
either of honor or reproach (1 Cor. iv, 5). 

3. Those forms of speech which arc properly called 
Latinisms: as (3ov\upt vog toj oyX<*j ro ikcivov 7ronj<ja(y 
k< willing to content the people” (Mark xv, 15), which 
corresponds to the phrase satis facere alicui; XafieTv to 
'ncavbv Txapd, “ to take security of,” satis accipere ab 
(Acts xvii, 9); bog ipyaaiav, “give diligence,” da op - 
eram (Luke xii, 58) — the phrase remittere ad aliumju- 
dicem is retained in Luke xxiii, 15; ov uxf/tt, “sec thou 
to that,” tu vicleris (Matt, xxvii, 4) (Aricler, Ilenneneut. 
Biblica, Xioimve, 1813, p. 99; Micliaelis, Introd. to the Xeio 
Test, by Marsh, Camb. 1793, vol. i, pt. i, p. 163 sq.). 

4. Latin Terminations in Greek, Gentile, and patro- 
nymic nouns: e. g. 'Hqowcmj'dc (Matt, xxii, 16) and 
Xpiarutvug (Acts xi, 26, etc.) (Wilier, New Test. Gram. 
ed. Andover, 1869, p. 95). 

The importance of the Latinisms in the Greek Testa- 
ment consists m this, that, as we have partly shown (and 
the proof might be much extended), they are to be found 
in the best Greek writers of the same era. Their occur- 
rence, therefore, in the New Testament adds one thread 
more to that complication of probabilities with which 
the Christian history is attended. Had the Greek Testa- 
ment been free from them, the objection, though recon- 
dite, would have been strong. At the same time, the 
subject is intricate, and admits of much discussion. 
Dr. Marsh disputes some of the instances adduced bv 
Micliaelis ( ut sup. p. 431 sq.). Dresigius even contends 
that there are no Latinisms in the New Testament {De 
Latimsmis, Lips. 1726; and sec his 1 'indicia: Disseria- 
tionis de Latinismis'). Even Aricler allows that some 
instances adduced by him may have a purely Greek or- 
igin. Truth, as usual, lies in the middle, and there are, 
no doubt, many irrefragable instances of Latinisms, 
which will amply repay thf attention of the student. — 
Kitto, s. v. See Georgii llierocrit. de Latinismis Novi 
Test. (Wittemberg, 1733) ; Kypke, Observat. Sacr. ii, 219 
(Wratisl. 1755); I'ritii Introductio in Led. Nov. Test. p. 
207 sq. (Leipz. 1722) ; Wetterburg, De vocibus Latinis in 
N.T.obriis (Lund. 1792): Fougbcrg, De Latinismis in 
X. T. (Hpsal. 1798); Kapp, Dc X. T. Latimsmis (Lipsiae, 
1726) , Wernsdorf, De Christo Latine loquente. p. 19 ; 3 aim, 
Archiv. II, iv; Olearius, De Stylo Nov. Test, p, 368 sq. ; 
Inchofer, Sacra Latinitatis Ilistoria (Frag. 1742). See 
New Testament. 

Latin Versions of the Holy Scriptures. — The 
extensive use of the Latin as a learned language, and 
the great influence which the translations in it have had 
upon all subsequent versions, render them highly im- 
portant. Wc here adopt so much of Dr. Alexander’s 


LATIN VERSIONS 


204 


LATIN VERSIONS 


article in Ivitto’s Cyclopccdia, s. v., as is appropriate to 
our purposes. 

I. Antt-Uieronymian Versions. — The early and ex- 
tensive diffusion of Christianity among the Latin-speak- 
ing people renders it probable that means would be used 
to supply the Christians who used that language with 
versions of the Scriptures in their own tongue, especial- 
ly those resident in countries where the Greek language 
was less generally known. That from an early period 
such means were used cannot be doubted; but the in- 
formation which has reached us is so scanty, that we 
are not in circumstances to arrive at certainty on many 
points of interest connected with the subject. It is even 
matter of debate whether there were several transla- 
tions, or one translation variously corrupted or emended. 

1. The lirst writer by whom reference is supposed to 
be made to a Latin version is Tertullian, in the words 
“Sciamus plane non sic esse in Gra?co authentico, quo- 
modo in usum exiit per duarum syllabarum aut callidara 
aut simplicem eversionem,” etc. ( De Monoyamiu , c. 11). 
It is possible that Tertullian lias in view here a version 
in use among the African Christians; hut it is by no 
means certain that such is his meaning, for he may re- 
fer merely to the manner in which the passage in ques- 
tion had come to be usually cited, without intending to 
intimate that it was so written in any formal version. 
The probability that such is really his meaning is great- 
ly heightened when we compare his language here with 
similar expressions in other parts of his writings. Thus, 
speaking of the Logos, he says, ‘*IIanc Graeci Adyor 
dicunt, quo vocabulo etiam sermonem appellamus. Ide- 
oque in usti est nostrorum per simplicitatem interpreta- 
tionis, Sermonem, dicere, in primordio apud Deum esse” 
(A dr. Prax. c. 5), where he seems to have in view sim- 
ply the colloquial usage of his Christian compatriots 
(comp, also A dr. Marc. c. 4 and c. 9). The testimony 
of Augustine is more precise. lie says ( De Doct. Christ. 
ii, 11): “ Qui Scripturas in Ilebrtea lingua in Gnecam 
verterunt numerari possunt, Latini autem interpretes 
nullo modo. Ut enira cuiquam primis fidei temporibus 
in maims venit codex Grtecus et aliquant tilum facultatis 
sibi utriusque lingual Latine videbatur, ausus est inter- 
prctari.” A few sentences before he speaks of the “Lat- 
inorum interpretum infinita varietas;” and he proceeds 
to give instances how one of these versions elucidates 
another, and to speak of the defects attaching to all of 
them. This testimony not only clearly establishes the 
fact of the existence of Latin versions in the beginning 
of the 1th century, but goes to prove that these were nu- 
merous; fur that Augustine has in view a number of in- 
terpreters, and not merely a variety of recensions, is ev- 
ident from his statement in this same connection," In 
ipsis interpretationibus I tala caeteris praiferatur, nara est 
verborum tenacior cum perspicuitate sentential;” and 
from his speaking elsewhere (Pont. Euustum, ii, 2) of 
“codices aliarum regionum.” On the other hand, the 
testimony of Hilary is in favor of only one Latin ver- 
sion : "Latina translatio dum virtutem dicti ignorat 
inaguam iutulit obsenritatem. non discerncus ambigui 
sermonis proprictatem” (in Psa. clviii). On the same 
side is the declaration of Jerome: “Si Latinis exempla- 
ribus tides est adhibenda respomlebunt Qui bus? tot sunt 
enim exemplaria pene q not •codices.” That bv “exem- 
pl.iria” bore Jerome refers to what would now be called 
editions or recensions , is evident from the nature of his 
statement, for it cannot be supposed that he intends to 
say that almost every codex presented a distinct trans- 
lation ; and this is reudered still more so by what follows : 

“ Si autem veritas est qmerenda de pluribus, cur non ad 
Griccam originem revertentes ea qu:e vel a vitiosis inter- 
pretibus male reddita, vel a pnesumptoribus imperitis 
emendata perversiu*. vel a librariis dormitantibus addita 
sunt aut mutata corrigamus” (Pmf. in Eranyy. A d. l)a- I 
mas A. Elsewhere (Pm/, in JosTiam) he says also : 
“Apud Latinos tot exemplaria quot codices et unusquis- 
que pro suo arbitrio vel addidil vel subtraxit quod ei vi- \ 
sum est where there can be no doubt as to his mean- I 


ing. Jerome frequently uses the expression communis 
or vulyata editio , but by this he intends the Sept., or the 
old Latin translation of the Sept, In reference to the 
Latin X. T. lie uses the expressions Latinus interpres, 
Latini codices , or simply in Latino. 

The statement of Augustine, that of these interpreta- 
tions the Itala was preferred, has been supposed to indi- 
cate decidedly the existence of several national Latin 
versions known to him. For this title can only indicate 
a translation prepared in Italy, or used by the Italian 
churches, and presupposes the existence of other ver- 
sions, which might be known as the Africtina, the II is- 
panica, etc. On the other hand, however, if there was 
a version known by this name, it seems strange that it 
should never be mentioned again by Augustine or by 
any one else; and further, it is remarkable, that to des- 
ignate an Italian version he should use the word "/fa/a” 
and not “ Jtalica.” This has led to the suspicion that 
this word is an error, and different conjectural emenda- 
tions have been proposed. Bentley suggested that for 
itala .... nam there should be read ilia .... quee, a 
singularly infelicitous emendation, as Hug has shown 
( Int rod. . E. T. p. 2G7). As Augustine elsewhere speaks 
of “codicibus ecclesiasticis interpretationis usitatte” (De 
consensu Evany, ii, GO), it has been suggested by Potter 
that for Itala should be read usitata, the received read- 
ing having probably arisen from the omission, in the 
first instance, of the recurrent syllabic us between inter- 
pretationibus and usitata (thus Ixterpretatioxibusi- 
tata), and then the change of the unmeaning it at a into 
itala. Of this emendation many have approved, and if 
it be adopted, the testimony of Augustine in this pas- 
sage, as for a plurality of Latin versions, will be greatly 
enfeebled, for by the vei'sio usitata he would doubtless 
intend the version in common use as opposed to the un- 
authorized interpretation of private individuals. As 
tending to confirm this view of his meaning, it has been 
observed that it is extremely improbable that if there 
was an acknowledged versio A fricana , the Christians 
in Africa would be found preferring to that a version 
made for the use of the Italians. A new suggestion re- 
lating to this passage has been offered by Reuss (Gesch. 
d. Xchr. d. X. T. p. 43G),“Is it not possible,” he asks, 
“that Augustine may refer, in this passage (written 
about the year 397), to a work of Jerome, viz., his ver- 
sion of Origen’s Ilexapla, which Augustine, in one of his 
letters (Ep. xxviii, tom. ii, p. Gl) to Jerome prefers to his 
making a new translation from the original ? At any 
rate,” he adds, “it is remarkable that Isidore of Spain 
(Etymol. vi, 5) characterizes the translation of Jerome 
(the last) as verborum tenacioi'em et perspicuitate senten- 
tice clariorem. May one venture to suggest that he 
has taken this phrase from Augustine, regarding him as 
using it of Jerome.” To this, however, it may be re- 
plied, that whilst it is not improbable that Isidore took 
the passage from Augustine, he may have done so with- 
out regarding Augustine's words as referring to any 
work of Jerome. That they do so refer seems to us very 
improbable. 

An effort has been made to obtain a decision for this 
question from a collation of the extant remains of the 
ancient Latin texts, but without success. Eichhom 
( Einleit . ins. X. T. iv, 337 sq.) has compared several pas- 
sages found in the writings of the early Latin fathers 
with certain extant codices of the early Latin text, and, 
from the resemblance which these bear to each other, 
he argues that they have all been taken from one com- 
mon translation. In this conclusion many scholars have 
concurred both before and since the time of Eichhorn 
(Wetstein, llody, Semler, Lachmann, Tregelles, Tischen- 
dorf), but others have, on the other side, pointed to se- 
rious differences of rendering, which, in their judgment, 
indicate the existence of distinct translations (Michaelis, 
Hug, De Wette, Bleek, etc.). 

As the evidence stands, it seems impossible cither to 
hold to the existence of only one accredited Latin ver- 
sion before the time of Jerome, the corruption of which, 


LATIN VERSIONS 


2G5 


LATIN VERSIONS 


from various causes, is sufficient to account for all the 
discrepancies to be found in the extant remains, or to 
maintain with certainty that there were several inde- 
pendent versions, the work of persons in different parts 
of the Latin Church. There is, however, a third sup- 
position which may be advanced : There may at an 
early period, and probably in Africa, have been made a 
translation of the Bible from the Greek into Latin, and 
this may have formed the groundwork of other transla- 
tions, intended to be amended versions of the original. 
In this case a certain fundamental similarity would 
mark all these translations along with considerable va- 
riety ; but this variety would be traceable, not to unde- 
signed corruption, but to purposed attempts, more or 
less skilfully directed, to produce a more adequate ver- 
sion. This supposition meets all the facts of the case, 
and so far has high probability in its favor. Proceed- 
ing upon it, we may further suppose that these different 
revised or amended translations might have their origin 
in different parts of the western world; and in this case 
the meaning of Augustine’s statement in the passage 
( Cont . Fnustum , ii, 2) where he speaks of “ codices ali- 
arum regiontim” becomes manifest. In this ease, also, 
if the reading I tala be retained (and most critics incline 
to retain it) in the famous passage above cited, it will 
indicate the revision prepared in Italy and used by the 
Italian churches, of which it is natural to suppose that 
it would be both more exact and more polished than the 
others, and with which Augustine would become fa- 
miliar during his residence in Borne and Milan. See 
Italic Version: 

2. Of this ancient Latin version in its various amend- 
ed forms, all of which it has become customary to in- 
clude under the general designation Jtala, we have re- 
mains partly in the citations of the Latin fathers, part- 
ly in the Graeco-Latin codices, and partly in special MSS. 
A copious collection from the tirst of these sources (which 
yet admits of being augmented) has been supplied by 
Sabatier, Bibliorum SS. Latinos Vers, antiques sen T r etus 
Itala , etc ., qncecangue reperiri pntuerunt (Bemis, 1743, 3 
vols. fob, ed. 2, 1749). For the Apocalypse we depend 
entirely on this source, namely, the quotations made by 
Primasius. The Graeco-Latin codices are the Cantu- 
bruhjian or Codex Beza* , the Laudian, the Claromontane , 
and the IJoerneriun . See Manuscripts. Of the known 
special codices containing portions of the N.T., the fol- 
lowing have been printed or collated : 


and in the appendix to Calmet’s commentary on the Apoc- 
alypse. There is another MS. of ihe old Latin text at Cor- 
hey, from which various readings have been coltected on 
Matthew, Mark, and Luke by Eiiauchini, and on the four 
Gospels (partially) by Sabatier. 

5. Cod. Colbertinus , of the 11 ill century, in the Parisian 
library; edited eutire by Sabatier. 

(5. Cod. Palatimis, of the 5lli century, in the library at Vi- 
enna, containing about the whole of Lnke and John, and 
the greater part of Matthew and Mark; edited by Tisch- 
endorf (Leipz. 1S47, 4to). 

7. Cod. Bobbiensis, of the 5th century, now at Turin, for- 
merly in the monastery of Bobbio, containing portions of 
Matthew and Mark; fragments of Acts xxiii, xxvii, 2S; 
and of the Epistle of James, i, 1-5; iii, 13— IS ; iv, 1, 2 ; v, 
19, ‘20; 1 Bet. i, 1-12; edited by Fleck, in Anecdota Sacra 
(Lips. 1S37), and more fully by Tischendorf, in the Wiener 
Jatcrbucher , 1S47. 

S. Cod. Clarmontamts, of the 4th or 5th century, now in 
the Vatican library, containing the four Gospels, Matthew 
in an ante-hieronymian version (wanting i, 1-iii, 15; xiv, 
33-xviii, 12), the other three according to the Vulgate ; col- 
lated by Sabatier, edited by Mai, Scriptorr. Vett.Nova Col - 
lectio a Vatican, codd. edita , iii, 257 sq. 

9. Fragments of Mark and Luke, contained in a MS. of 
about tlie 5th century, belonging to the imperial library 
at Vienna, have been printed by Alter, iu Panins, Rcpertor. 
fur Bibt. and Morgenland Litter, iii, 1 15-170, and in Faulus, 
Memorabilia i, vii, 5S-9G. 

10. A MS. of the 7th century, now at Breslau, contain- 
ing the synoptic Gospels, with lacunae and part of John’s 
Gospel ; described by I)r. D. Schulz, De Cod. 4 Evanng. Bib- 
lioth. Rhcdigeriame (Bresl. 1814). 

11. A fragment of Luke (xvii-xxi) front a palimpsest of 
the Gth century, in Ceriani, Monumcnta Sac. ctProf.prce- 
sertim Bill. Ambrosia nee (Mil. 1SG1),I, i,l-S. 

12. Cardinal Mai has given, in his Spicilegium Roma- 
num, ix, Gl-SG, various readings from a very ancient co- 
dex of the Speculum A ugnstini, and he has since edited 
the Speculum entire in his PP. Nov. Dili. ; comp. Tregelles, 
p. 239. 

13, 14, 15. In the monastery of St. Gall are three codices, 
the tirst of the 4th or 5th century, containing fragments 
of Matthew; the second a Gallic'MS. of the 7th century, 
containing Mark xvi, 14-20; the third an Irish MS. of the 
7th or 8th century, containing John xi, 14-44. 

1 6. Cod. Monaeensis, of the Gth ceutury, containing the 
four Gospels, with lacuna* ; transcribed by Tischendorf. 

17. A fragment containing Matt, xiii, 1*3-25, on purple 
vellum, of the 5th century, in the library at Dublin, print- 
ed in the Proceedings of the Royal Irish Academy, iii, 374, 
by Dr. Todd. 

IS. Cod. Guclfcrbytanus , of the Gth century, containing 
some fragments of Bom. xi, 15, published by Kuittel (q. 
v.) in 1702, and more correctly by Tischendorf, A nccdot. 
Sac. it Prof. p. 153. 

19. Fragments of the Pauline epistles discovered by 
Schmellerat Munich, and transcribed by Tischendorf, who 
has described them in the Deutsche Zcitschrift fur Christl. 
Wissenschaft for 1857, No. 8. 

Besides these, there are several MSS. known to exist 


1. Cod. Vcrccllensis, written apparently by Eusebius the 
Martyr in the 4th century: it embraces the four Gospels, 
though with frequent lacuna >. It is mentioned by Mont- 
fancon in his Diarium Italicum, p. 445 ; and it has been 
edited by Biancbinns (Bianchini), in Evangcliarium quad- 
ruplex Latina* vers, antiq. tscu Vet. Italic a *, etc. (Rom. 1749, 
4 vols. fol.) ; previously, and still more carefully, by J. A. 
Iriei, SS. Evangcliorum Cod. S. Euscbii wanu exam t ns, ex 
autographo ad nnguem exhibition, etc. (Mediol.1748, 2 parts, 
4fo). In ibis codex the Gospels are arranged in the order 
Matthew, John, Lnke [Lucanns], Mark. As a speeimeti of 
the style of this codex, and the imperfect state in which 
some parts of it are, we give the following passage (John 
iv, 4S-52) from the edition of Irici : 


AIT ERGO AD ILLV 
IHS NISI SIG 
NA F.T PRODIG 
- • VIDERITIS 

NON - 

TIS DICJT ILL! 

REG S DME 

L E 


ET IBAT JAM 

IPSO DESUEN 
DENTE SERVI 
OrCVRER- - 
ILI.I ET NVNT-- 
VERVNT El - - 
CENTER QVO 
MAM FI LI VS 
tv vs vrviT 
INTER GA 
BAT II 


AIT- - IHS * ADE 
Ft LI VS TWS 
VIV1T F.T CRE 

didit homo 
VERBO QVOD 
DIXIT ILLI IHS 


M ELI VS HABVIT 
ET DLXERVNT 
HERI HORA SEP 
TIMA -- LIQVID 
1LLVM FEBRIS. 

2. Cod. Veronensis, a MS. of the 4th or 5th century, in the 
library at Verona, containing the Gospels, but with many 
lacuna*; printed by Bianchini’. 

3. Cod. Urixionus , of about the Gth century, at Brixen, in 
the Tyrol, containing the Gospels, with the exception of 
some parts of Mark; printed by Bianchini. 

4. Cod. Corbei jam's , a very ancient MS., from which Mar- 
tianny edited Matthew’s Gospel, the Epistle of James, ete. 
(Par. 1695). The gospel appears also in Bianchini’s work, 


chiefly in the British libraries. Some of these are no- 
ticed in Bentley’s Critica Sacra, edited by Ellis, 1802, 
and in Westwood’s Pahrographia Sacra Pictoria. See 
also Betham, A ntiquarian Researches ; Petrie, On the Ec- 
clesiastical A ntiq. of Ireland O’Connor, Rerum IHbern . 
Scriptures. 

These codices palicographists and critics profess to 
be able to allot to different recensions or revisions. Nos. 
1, 2, 4, 5, 7, 8, 0, 1 J , 13, and 17 they pronounce to be Af- 
rican ; 3, G, 12, 10, Italian; and 14, 1 5, Irish; though 
Tischendorf expresses doubt as to the African character 
of No. 9, and the Italian of No. 6. 

Of the O.T. only a few fragments have been discov- 
ered in special codices. These have been printed by 
Sabatier (lib. cit.'), by Yorecllone (Pome Lectioncs Vuly. 
Lat. Bibliorvm , 2 vols., Bom. 1860-62), by Miinter (Mis- 
cell. I/afn. 1821), by Mone (Libri Palimpsesti , Carlsrulic, 
1855), bv Banke (Fragmenta I/os. A m. Mich.X icn. 1856, 
1858), by Fritzsche (Liber Judicum , Turici, 1867), and 
anonymously (Biblioth. A shburnham.. Loud. 1868). The 
MSS. of the Vulgate preserve the old Latin version of 
those books of the Apocrypha which were not retrans- 
lated by Jerome, and the Psalter. Our principal source 
of information, however, is in the citations made by the 
Latin fathers from tlie version in their hands. 

From these various sources we possess, in the old Lat- 
in version of the O.T.. the Psalter, Esther, and some of 
the apocryphal books entire, the rest only in fragments; 
whilst of the N. T. we possess nearly the whole, 
j 3. The value of these remains in regard to the criti- 


LATIN VERSIONS 


266 


LATIN VERSIONS 


cism of the sacred text is very considerable. They af- 
ford important aid in determining the condition of the 
Greek text in the early centuries. This, which Bent- 
ley was* the tirst to perceive, or at least to announce, 
lias been fully recognised by Laclnnann, Tregelles, and 
Tisehendorf, though they have not all followed it out 
with equal discretion (see Tischendorf’s strictures, Pro- 
leg. in eil. Sept, et X. T. p. ciii, ccxlii). 

The general character of the Itala is close, literal ad- 
herence to the original, so as often to transgress the 
genius of the Latin language; its phraseology being 
marked by solecisms and improprieties which may be 
due to its having been originally produced either in a 
region remote from the centre of classical culture, or 
among the more illiterate of the community. Thus 
So trijp is rendered by salutaris , ctacpopetv by superpo- 
nere (e. g. “ quanto ergo superponit homo ab ove,” Matt, 
xii, 12), 7rpot\7Ti^tiv by prcesperare, tcoapoicpciToptc by 
mumlitenentes , etc. ; and we have such constructions as 
“stellam quam viderant in orientem” (Matt, ii, 9); “ut 
ego veniens adorem ei” (Matt, ii, 8); “qui autem audi- 
entes” (ii, 9) ; “ pressuris quibus sustinetis” (2 Thess. i, 
4); “habitavit in Capharnanm maritimam” (Matt, iv, 
13); “terra Naphthalim viam maris” (iv, 15); “ verburn 
audit et continuo cum gaudio accipit eum” (xiii, 20) ; 
“ dominant ur eorum, principantur eorum” (xx, 25), etc. 
It must be borne in mind, however, that the current 
text was exposed to innumerable corruptions, and that 
we can hardly, from the specimens that have come down 
to us, form any very accurate judgment of the state in 
which it was at first. One can hardly suppose that by 
any Latin-speaking people, the following version, which 
is that presented by the Colbertine MS. of Col. ii, 18, 19, 
could have been accepted as idiomatic, or even intelli- 
gible: “Nemo vos convincat volens in luimilitate et re- 
ligione angelorum, quae vidit ambulans, sine causa infla- 
tus sensu carnis suae, et non tenens caput Christum, ex 
quo oinne corpus connexum et conductione subministra- 
tum et provectum creseit in incrementum Dei.” If this 
be (to borrow the remark of Eichhorn, from whose Ein- 
leitung ins X. T. iv, 354, we have taken these specimens) 
“ verborum tenax,” where is the “ perspicuitas senten- 
tial’ of which Augustine speaks? 

H . f lie rang rnitm or Vulgate Version. See Vulgate. 

IIL Later Latin Versions. — Both before and since the 

invention of printing attempts have been made to pre- 
sent, through the medium of Latin, a more correct ver- 
sion of the original text than that found in the ancient 
Latin versions. Of these we have space only for a bare 
catalogue. (See notices of the authors under their names 
in this work.) 

I. Adam Eston, a monk of Norwich, and cardinal 
(died 1397), seems to have been the tirst who thought 
of a new version; he translated the O.T., with the ex- 
ception of the Psalter, from the Hebrew; his work is 
lost (Hodv, p. 440; Le Long — Masch ii, 3, p. 432). 

2. ( Jiannozzo Manetti, who died in 1459, began a trans- 
lation of the llible, of which he finished only the Psalms 
and the N. T. ; this is lost (Tiraboschi, Storia della Lett. 
Jtal. vi, 2, p. 109 sq.). 

3. Erasmus translated the N. Test., and published the 
translation along with the Greek text (Basil. 1 5 1 G, fob). 

4. 'I'li. Beza issued his translation of the N. T. in 1556; 
it appeared along with the Vulgate version. Four other 
editions followed during the author’s lifetime, and these 
present the Greek text as well as the Vulgate and Be- 
ta's own translation; many other editions have since 
fullowed. Beza aimed at presenting a just rendering of 
the original, without departing more than necessary 
from the Vulgate. His renderings are sometimes af- 
fected by his theological views. 

5. Sanctes Pagninus, a learned Dominican from Luc- 
ca, produced a translation of the-whole Bible % (Lugdun. 
152*, *1 to, and Colon. 1541. fob). Later editions of this 
work, with considerable alterations, appeared : one, edited 
by the famous Mich. Servetus, under the name of Villa- 
novanus (Lugd. 1542) ; another, revised and edited by 


B. Stephen (Paris, 1557, 2 vols. folio; with a new title, 
1577). This latter has been often reprinted. The ver- 
sion of Arias Montanus, printed in the Antwerp, Paris, 
and London polyglots, is a revision of this version. 

6. Cardinal Cajetan employed two Hebrew scholars, 
a Jew and a Christian, to supply him with a literal ver- 
sion of the Old Test. This they accomplished, and the 
work appeared in parts (Lugd. 1639, 5 vols. folio). The 
N. T., translated on the same principle of strict literal- 
itv, appeared earlier (Ven. 1530, 1531, 2 vols. folio). 

7. Sebastian Minister added to his edition of the He- 
brew Scriptures a Latin translation (Basle, 1534-35, and 
1546, 2 vols. folio). This translation is faithful without 
being slavishly literal, and is executed in clear and cor- 
rect Latin. Portions of it have been published sepa- 
rately. 

8. The Ziirieh version, begun by Leo Judse, and com- 
pleted by Bibliander and others (1543, folio, and in 4to 
and Svo in 1544). This version is much esteemed for 
its ease and fluency; it is correct, but somewhat para- 
phrastic. It has frequently been reprinted , there is one 
edition by IL Stephen (Paris, 1545). 

9. Sebastian Castellio produced, in what he intended 
to be purely classical Latin, a translation of the O. and 

N. T. (Basil. 1551, again 1573, and at Leipzic, 1738). 

10. The version of Junius and Tremellius appeared at 
Frankfort in parts between 1575 and 1579, and in a col- 
lected form in 1579, 2 vols. folio. Tremellius took the 
principal part in this work, his son-in-law Junius rather 
assisting him than sharing the work with him. Tre- 
mellius translated the N. Test, from the Syriac, and this, 
along with Beza’s translation, appeared in an edition of 
Tremellius’s Bible, published at London in 1585. The 
translation of Piseator is only an amended edition of 
that of Tremellius. 

11. Thomas Mai vend a, a Spanish Dominican, engaged 
in a “nova ex Hebraeo translatio,” which he did not live 
to finish. What he accomplished was published along 
with his commentaries (Lugdun. 1650, 5 vols. folio) ; but 
the extreme barbarism of his style lias caused his labors 
to pass into oblivion. 

12. Coeceius has given a new translation of most of 
the Biblical books in his commentaries, Opera Omnia 
(tom. i-vi, Amsterdam, 1701). 

13. Sebastian Schmid executed a translation of the O. 
and N. Test., which appeared after his death (Argentor. 
1696, 4to) ; it has been repeatedly reprinted, and is es- 
teemed for its scholarly exactness, though in some cases 
its adherence to the original is over close. 

14. The version of Jean le Clerc (Clericus) is found 
along with his commentaries; it appeared in portions 
from 1693 to 1731. 

15. Charles Fr. Iloubigant issued a translation of the 

O. T. and the Apocrypha along with his edition of the 
Hebrew text (Paris, 1753, 4 vols. folio). 

16. A new translation of the O.T. was undertaken by 

J. A. Dathe; it appeared between 1773 and 1789. At 
one time much admired, this version lias of late ceased 
perhaps to receive the attention to which it is entitled. 

17-19. Versions of the Gospels by Ch. Willi. Thale- 
mann (Berl. 1781); of the Epistles by Godf. Sigismund 
Jaspis (Lipsise, 1793-97, 2 vols.) ; and of the whole N.T. 
by H. Godf. Bei chard (Lips. 1799), belong to the school 
of Castellio. 

20. 11. A. Schott and F.Winzer commenced a trans- 
lation of the Bible, of which only the first volume has 
appeared, containing the Pentateuch (Alton, et Lipsia?, 
1816). Schott has also issued a translation of the N.T., 
appended to his edition of the. Greek text (Lips. 1805). 
This has passed into four editions, of which the last 
(1839) was superintended by Baumgarten-Crusius. 

21. Boson m idler (iu his Scholia in 1 ’. T. Lips. i788 sq.). 

Translations of the N. T. have also been issued by F. 

A. Ad. Nacbe (Lips. 1*31) and Ad. Goeschen (Lips. 1832). 
See Carpzov. Crit. Sacr. p. 707 sq. ; Fritzsche, art. Vulga- 
ta, in Herzog’s Encgk.; Bible of evert) Land, p. 210, etc. 

IV. Literature. — Simon, Hist. Crit. des Versions du X. 


LATITUDINARIANS 


267 


L ATITUDDST ARIAN S 


Test. (1G90); Ilodv, I)e Bibllomm textibus originalibus , 
versionibus Greeds et Latina Vulgata , Libri iv (Oxford, 
1705, folio); Martiaiiav, IJieronymi Opp. (Paris, 1G93); 
Bianchinus, Vindicice Canonis BS. Vulg. Lat. eel. (Borne, 
1740) ; Riegler, Krit. Gesch. der Vulgata (Sulzb. 1820) ; 
L. van Ess, Pragmatisch-Krit. Gesch. der Vulgata (Tiib. 
1824) ; Wiseman, Two Letters on 1 John v, 7, reprinted 
in liis Essays , vol. i; Diestel, Gesch. d.Alten Test. (Jena, 
1SG9) ; Borsch, in the Zeitschri 'ft fiir d. hist. Theul. 18G7, 
18G9, 1870. See also t lie Introductions of Eichhorn, Mi- 
chaelis. Hug, De Wette, Ilfivernick, Bleek, etc.; David- 
son, Biblical Criticism; Beuss, Gesch. der Ileil. Schr. X. 
T. sec. 44.8-457 ; Darling, Cyclopaedia, p. 80. See Ver- 
sions. 

Latitudinarians, a name given to those divines 
who in the 17th century professed indifference to what 
they considered the small matters in dispute between 
Puritans and Iligh-Churchmen, and, looking at theology 
from a philosophical point of view, laid more stress on 
classical philosophy than on Christian theology. They 
attempted to compromise the differences between Epis- 
copalians, Presbyterians, and Independents. Their views 
were a result of the changes then going on in the relig- 
ious world, and of the influence of philosophy. The doc- 
trinal Puritans had already taken a position midway be- 
tween the school of Laud and the fanatical Puritans. 
Abbot, Carltpn, Hall, and others were the chief leaders* 
of that party. They attached no importance to exter- 
nals, and prized practical piety far above all matters of 
form ; and, though themselves attached to the Protes- 
tant Episcopal Church, they allowed others to differ from 
them as to the best form of ecclesiastical government. 
In their theology they adhered to the milder Calvinism 
of the Thirty-nine Articles; but, being the most mod- 
erate, they were soon overwhelmed by the other par- 
ties. As liberal, but differing from them in doctrine, we 
find among the Eaton scholars Hales, who, although an 
opponent of Laud’s High-Chureliism, was in dogmatics 
an Arminian ; and Chillingworth, who desired to reduce 
Christianity to a few essential practical principles. In 
the midst of the struggle, and the rapid changes of relig- 
ions views and systems, the moral conception of Chris- 
tianity was daily gaining ground; on the other hand, 
theology was unable to withstand the influence of phi- 
losophy. The regeneration which the latter had expe- 
rienced at the hands of Bacon and Des Cartes obliged 
theology to review its foundations in the light of phi- 
losophy and science as well as of history (compare Pro- 
fessor Maurice, Moral and Metaphysical Philosophy, in 
the Encyclop. Metropol. ii, G5G; Stewart, Essay on Met- 
aphysical Philosophy , p. 58, Gl, notes, and 240, note O). 
Thus Platonic philosophy and theology were intro- 
duced into Cambridge by Ciulworth (q. v.) and Henry 
More (q. v.). Men of these views (among others, 
also, John Smith, Worthington, bishop Wilkins, and 
Theophilus Hale), and especially the more moderate 
among them, were looked down upon with contempt by 
the more ambitious ones in power, and, as they would 
not follow the selfish tendencies of the times, were call- 
ed Latitude-men. In the days of the Commonwealth 
they were reproached with Arminianism and prelatism. 
But when the High-Church party came again into pow- 
er with the Bestoration, and its old adversaries tried 
to atone for their former attacks by all means in their 
power, the moderate party was accused of want of loy- 
alty and of opposition to the Church. Whoever refused 
to submit to the High-Church, or did not take sides with 
the strict Puritans against it, were called Latitudinarian. 
“ That name,” said a contemporary, “ is the man of straw 
who, in order to have something to fight against, has 
been set up for want of a real adversary — a very conven- 
ient name wherewith to defame any one who we may 
wish to injure.” As the name came thus to be applied 
to a number of persons who had no connection whatever 
with the parry which it designated at first, and even to 
such as were totally indifferent in matters of religion, 
the appellation soon came to be regarded as equivalent 


to Socinian, Deist, and Atheist. As regards the orig- 
inal Latitudinarians, they retained the liturgy, rites, and 
organization of the English Episcopal Church. They 
considered a general liturgy as a necessary guard against 
the often fanatical prayers of the Puritans, and they 
considered the English liturgy as the best, on account 
of its solemn earnestness and its character of primitive 
simplicity. The form of public worship they looked 
upon as a happy medium between that of the Bomish 
Church and that of the conventicles. Ceremonies they 
deemed useful for the purpose of edification, and episco- 
pacy they cherished as the most correct and evangelical 
form of Church government, differing both from what 
they regarded as the tyrannical authority of Scotch 
Presbyterianism and from the anarchy of the Inde- 
pendents. In point of doctrine they also retained the 
confession of the English Church, which they consider- 
ed as according thoroughly with the Scriptures. The 
commentaries of the primitive Church were the guides 
by which they wished reason to be governed, and 
reason they recognised as the source of our knowledge 
of revealed and natural religion, which agree on all 
points. The fundamental principles of true religion are 
freedom of the will, the universality of the redemption 
, by the death of Christ, the sufficiency of divine grace; 
and these find entrance into the human heart some- 
times by the testimony of Scripture, sometimes by the 
unvarying testimony of the primitive Church, and again 
by reason only. In theology, the oldest views are al- 
ways found to be the most reasonable. Nothing that is 
false in philosophy is true in theology; but what God 
has united, let no man put asunder. Natural sciences 
have made immense progress, and philosophy and the- 
ology cannot remain behind. True science cannot be 
put down any more than the light of the sun or the mo- 
tion of the ocean. It is the best weapon against atheism 
and superstition (comp. Smith [John], Discourses [ed. 
1821], ii, p. 19). Thus the Latitudinarians took at once 
j for their basis science and toleration. They taught re- 
spect for the Church by their submission to it, defended 
| it by their learning and activity, and hoped to win over 
j the Dissenters by their moderation, and the Presbyteri- 
ans by their accommodating spirit, thus preventing them 
from anarchy. This is the character given to the Lati- 
tudinarians by one of their contemporaries in a work en- 
titled .1 brief account of the New <S< ct of Latitudinnri- 
j ans (1GG2). It is remarkable how many ideas of the 
j school of Laud this party still retained, in spite of its 
! philosophical views. Its broad platform admitted men 
of the most different tendencies. While Cudworth, 
Whichcotc, Worthington, and Wilkins inclined to philo- 
sophical views, Burnet, Tillotson, Whiston, and Spencer 
adhered more to the Church doctrines. Bury, in The 
Xalced Gospel, (1G90), declared all Christian doctrines, cx- 
i cept those of repentance and faith, non-essential. For 
I this he was attacked by Juricu in his La Religion da 
' Latitudinaire, and vainly attempted to defend the or- 
thodoxy of his views in his Latitudincirius orthodoxus 
j (1G97). The attempts made by the Latitudinarians in 
1G89-1G99 to reconcile the Episcopalians and ITeshy te- 
: rians failed utterly. Latitudinarianism was subseqiu nt- 
| ly identified still more with indifferentism, and seldom 
j appeared in theological works. It is only in quite mod- 
| ern times, and especially under the influence of human 
I theology, that this tendency has been brought to light 
again in the Broad-Church party, which forms a sort of 
medium between the High and Low Church. By their 
opponents the Broad-Church men are, however, desig- 
nated as Latitudinarians or Indiffcrents. They consider 
the differences among Christians as unimportant when 
compared with their essential unity. The watchword 
of the party is love and toleration. For doctrines, they 
hold to those of incarnation and atonement, conversion 
by grace and justification. They coincide with the Low- 
, Church in considering Scripture as the only rule of faith, 

1 but taking exceptions here and there to miracles, and 
1 with the lligh-Church in believing that man shall be 


LATOMIUS 


2G8 LATTICE 


judged according to his works. In opposition to the 
doctrine of the invisible Church of t lie evangelical 
Church, they lay great stress on the doctrine of a visi- 
ble Church. They take what is good anywhere, as well 
in the Romish as in the evangelical churches. They 
aim at nothing less than the accomplishment of a relig- 
ious and moral reformation, and seek to occupy in our 
day the place held at the beginning of this century by 
the evangelical party. This end they strive to attain 
partly by their science and partly by their practice, and 
thus distinguish among themselves between the theorists 
and anti-theorists. They derive great power from the 
high scientific attainments of many of their members, 
and try to advance the education of the masses. The 
founders of this school were S. T. Coleridge and Thom- 
as Arnold, and its most eminent followers Hare, Whate- 
lv, Maurice, Kingsley, Stanley. Alford, Conybeare, and 
Ilowson. About one seventh of the English clergv'and 
a number of bishops belong to it. See Conybeare, Church 
Panics; Scliaff, u. Partheien d.engl. Staats-Kirche 
in Deutsch , Zeitschrift. 185G, No. 17 ; Edward Churton, 
The Latitudinarians from 1(571-1787 (Lond. 1861, 8vo) ; 
Ame.r . Prcsb. Rev. 1861, April, art. vi ; Westminster Rev. 
1831, January; Bib. Sacra, I860, p.865; Farrar, Crit. /list, 
of Free Thou fit; Gass, Dogmengeschich. iii (see Index); 
Stoughton, Ecclcs. Hist, of England (siuce the Kestora- 
tion), ii, 262 sq„ 341 sq.,359 sq. ; Ilerzog, Real-Encyklop. 
viii, 215 ; Blunt, Diet. Doctr. and Hist. Theol. p. 395 sq., 
and his Key to the Knowledge of Ch. Hist. (Mod.) p. 97 sq. 
On the present Broad Church of England, see Miss Cobbe. 
Broken Lights (London ed. p. 63), and Hurst’s History of 
Rationalism , Eng. edition (greatly enlarged), p. 423-438. 

Latomius, Jacobus ( Jaques Masson), a celebrated 
Roman Catholic theologian, was born at Cambron, in 
llainault, about the middle of the 15th century, and 
was educated at the University of Paris. In 1500 he 
became a resident of Louvain, where he was made a 
professor of theology. lie died in 1544. A zealous 
disciple of scholasticism, he ardently opposed the Ref- 
ormation both by his pen and his tongue, and was en- 
gaged in an able controversy with Luther, who ad- 
dressed to him Rationis Latomiance confutatio while a 
resident of the Wart burg (eomp. Ivbstlin, Luther's The - 
oloyie , ii, 55, 366). The Roman Catholics, of course, 
greatly loved Latomius, and lie is spoken of as “ vir 
multie eruditionis, pietatis, modestia?, trium linguarum 
peritissimus, ha?reticje pravitatis inquisitor.” A collec- 
tion of his works was made by his nephew, Jacobus La- 
tomius, his successor at Louvain (died in 1596), and was 
published at Louvain in 1550, in folio, containing, 1. 
Articulorum doctrine Lathe ri per theoloyos Lovanienscs 
damnatoruni ratio (1519 and 1521): — 2 . Responsio ad 
libcllum a Luthero emission pro iisdem articulis (1521) : 
— 3. De prinuitn Pontifids ad versus Martinum Lutherum 
(1526; also reprinted in Roccaberti Biblioih.inax. pon- 
tificia , Rom. 1 6*9, tom. xiii): — 4. Dc variis qmcstionnm \ 
generibns quibus cert at ecclesia intus et foris : — 5. De 
ecclcsia <t hnmame ley is obliyatione : — 6. Dc confessione 
secret a (1525): — 7. Ad helleborum J. (E coicon pi id ii re- 
sponsio : — 8. Libellus de fide et operibns , de votis utque 
institute mo nast ids : — 9. De trium linguarum et siudii 
theolnyici ratione dialogi ii (1519. 4 to) : — 10, Apologia 
pro dialogis : — 11. A d versus librum Erasmi de sarciemlei 
cede . hup concordia:— 12. Confutatiomim adversus Guil. 
Tindalam libri iii : — 13. De Matrimonio 14. De qui- 
busdam articulis in ecclesia cont rovers is : — 15. Disputa- 
tio quodlibetica inbus qmesi iambus absoluta : (1.) In li- 
bellnm de ecclesia, Phil. Melancthoni inscription; (2.) 
Contra orationem factiosorum in Comitiis Ratisbonensi- 
bus habitant (1544, 8vo). — Ilerzog, lleal-Encyklop. xix, 
777. 

Latria (\cirpda), the name given in the Roman 
Catholic Church to t lie adoration due to God alone on 
account of his supremacy, as distinguished from hyper - 
dulia (q. v.\ worship paid to the Virgin, and duli'a (q. 
v.), the worship paid to saints. 


Latroncinium. See Ephesus, Robber Council 
of. 


Latta, James, D.D., a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in Ireland in 1732; emigrated to America at an 
early age, and graduated at the College of Philadelphia 
in 1757. lie became college tutor at his alma mater, 
and pursued the study of divinity, lie was licensed in 
1758, and ordained as an evangelist in 1759. Two years 
after he accepted a call from the congregation of Deep 
Run, in Bucks Co., Pa., which he resigned in 1770 for 
the charge of Chestnut Level, in Lancaster County, Pa. 
Here he established a school of long-continued celebrity. 
During the war he accompanied the American army on 
their campaign as a soldier, and served as chaplain for 
a time, lie vindicated the introduction of the Psalms 
and Hymns of Dr. Watts, and labored faithfully in his 
ministry till near the close of life. He died Jan. 29, 
1801. Latta published a pamphlet showing that the 
principal subjects of psalmody should be taken from the 
Gospel, 8 vo. — Sprague, Annals , iii, 199; Wilson, Presb . 
Historical A Imanac , 1865. 

Latta, Samuel A., a minister of the M. E. Church 
South, born April 8, 1804, in Muskingum Co,, Ohio, early 
evinced an aptitude for the Christian ministry, and, ha\> 
ing praeticed medicine from 1824 to 1829, entered the 
•ministry by joining the Ohio Conference, and was ap- 
pointed to the difficult mission at St. Clair, Michigan. 
In 1830 he was stationed at Cincinnati, and in 1831 was 
travelling agent for the American Colonization Society. 
In 1832 and 1833 lie occupied the Union Circuit; in 
1834, Lebanon station; in 1835 and 1836, Hamilton and 
Rossville stations. In 1837 he was agent for Augusta 
College, Ohio, in behalf of which institution he was 
very successful. In 1838 and 1839 he preached at Day- 
ton, Ohio. From 1840 till his death, June 28, 1852, he 
maintained a superannuated relation. Dr. Latta was 
both an excellent preacher and a good physician, but 
he earned his highest distinction as a writer. For some 
years he was editor of the Methodist Recorder. He had 
a mind of uncommon strength, quite versatile, and he 
had improved it by extensive research ami study. ‘‘He 
would sometimes reason with great power, and his de- 
scriptions of men and things were often exceedingly 
striking and beautiful.” The work which gained him 
his greatest fame was The Chain of Sacred Wonders, 
published in 1851 and 1852,2 vols. Svo.— Sprague, Jn- 
nals of the A mericati Pulpit , vii, 755. 

Latter-Day Saints. See Mormons. 


Lattice stands in the Auth. Vers, for the following 
Hebrew words in certain passages: 1. [eshna/d, 

so called from darkening a room), a latticed opening 
through which the cool breeze passes, and which at the 
same time screens the inmates, especially females, from 
exterior sight (Judg. v, 28; “casement,” Prov. vii, 6). 
See Window. 2. ( charakkim prop, nets ; Sept. 

ciktvci ), the net-work or lattices of a window (Cant, ii, 


9). 3. ncZ'l* (sebakald, an 



object of the contrivance is 


intenreaving), the latticed 
balustrade before a win- 
dow or balcony (2 Kings 
i, 2 ; elsewhere a net or 
(|| “ snare,” Job xviii, 8 ; 

“ net-work,” etc., around 
\ the capitals of columns). 

“The lattice window 
is much used in warm 
p Eastern countries. It 
f frequently projects from 
the wall of the building, 
and is formed of reticu- 
lated work, often highly 
ornamental, portions of 
which are hinged, so that 
they may be opened or 
shut at pleasure. The 
) keep the apartments cool 


LATZEMBOCK 


269 


LAUD 


by intercepting the direct rays of the sun, while, at the 
same time, the air is permitted to circulate freely through 
the trellis openings. Through the lat- 
tice the mother of Sisera and the mys- 
tical bridegroom are represented as 
looking. Through this Ahaziah fell 
and injured himself; for there is no 
reason to adopt an old idea that he 
. fell through a grating in the floor. 
Lattl Ca?ro ^ m Tl,e words m these tliree texts, how- 
ever, are different each time in the 
original, though it is now impossible to determine 
whether they were entirely interchangeable, or whether 
there were certain differences of construction indicated 
by each of them” (Fairbairn). See House. 

Latzembock, Henry de, a native of Bohemia, 
lived in the latter part of the 14th and first part of the 
15th centuries. lie was a friend of the reformer John 
IIuss, whom, in connection with two other friends, he 
was appointed to conduct in safety to the Council of 
Constance. lie stood very high in the favor of the em- 
peror Sigismimd, and appealed to him in behalf of the 
reformer. After the condemnation and burning of IIuss 
lie was himself suspected of heresy, was summoned be- 
fore the council, and required to abjure the doctrines of 
li is friend and approve of his condemnation. With this 
requisition he complied, being more intent on his own 
safety and advancement at court than anxious for reform. 
After this period little information concerning him is 
attainable. — Gillett, Life and Times of John IIuss, i, 352- 
354, 386 ; ii, 28, 2G0. 

Laud, William, the celebrated archbishop under 
James I and Charles I, was born at Beading, the princi- 
pal town of Berkshire, October 7, 1573, of humble but 
respectable parentage. In 1580 he entered St. John’s 
College, Oxford, graduated with distinction in 1594, 
and proceeded A.M. in 1598, when he was appointed 
reader in grammar. In January, 1600, he was ordained 
deacon, and priest in 1601. The Calvinistie and Puri- 
tan tendency was strong in Oxford at that time ; but 
Laud’s immediate instructors and friends had been on 
the other side; his natural instincts inclined him to 
Iligh-Churcli view's and high ritualistic observances ; 
he saw r , too, that the court was on that side, and that a 
powerful reaction against the Calvinistie ascendency 
was already in progress. Abbot (afterwards primate) 
and Prideaux had succeeded Drs. Holland and Reynolds 
as theological professors in the university; but Laud, 
being appointed in 1602 to read the Maye divinity lec- 
ture in St. John’s College, did not hesitate to attack Ab- 
bot’s doctrine in regard to the visibility of the Church. 
The latter had traced the visible Church dowm, in the 
Middle Ages, through the Berengarians, the Albigenses 
or Waldensians, the Wickliftites, and the Hussites, to 
Luther and the Reformation ; Laud traced it boldly and 
exclusively through the Church of Rome. They did 
not see that exclusiveness w r as the error of both parties. 
In 1603 James succeeded to the throne of England, and, 
greatly to the disappointment and disgust of the Puri- 
tans, but to the unbounded satisfaction of Laud and his 
friends, he openly took sides with the highest hierar- 
chical party in the English Church, early adopting as 
his pet motto, “No bishop, no king.” Then follow'cd 
the “Millenary petition” and the famous conference at 
Hampton Court, which resulted in the king’s proclama- 
tion of “ uniformity in discipline and worship.” This 
year Laud w'as chosen proctor for the University of Ox- 
ford, and in the same year he w’as appointed chaplain 
to the earl of Devonshire. In 1601 lie took his degree 
of B.D., and in the thesis which he presented on the 
occasion lie maintained the absolute necessity of bap- 
tism to salvation, and of diocesan bishops to the exist- 
ence of a true Chureh. In the following year Laud 
committed one of the most unfortunate, though oft-re- 
pented faults of his life, in solemnizing the marriage of 
his patron, the earl of Devonshire, with lady Rich, who, 


as he and all the world knew', had been divorced from 
her former husband, lord Rich, on account of adultery 
already committed with the same earl of Devonshire 
himself*, of whom Laud w'as meamvhile the chaplain. 
The consequence of this affair w r as that the earl w r as 
utterly disgraced at court, and soon after died, while 
Laud, sharing in the public odium, w r as severely cen- 
sured by the highest dignitaries both in Church and 
state. 

In 1606 Laud preached a sermon before the univer- 
sity for which lie was vehemently attaekedby the viee- 
chancellor as a papist ; and though he contrived to es- 
| cape formal censure from the authorities, he acknowl- 
I edged afterwards to Ileylin that such was the repute in 
which he was generally held at the university that “it 
| w r as reckoned a heresy to speak to him, and a suspicion 
of heresy to salute him as he walked the street.” Still, 
Laud w r as not without powerful friends, w’ho svmpa- 
j thized with him and his opinions, and especially active 
among them w’as Dr. Neile, then bishop of Rochester. 
In 1607 he was preferred to the vicarage of Stamford, 
received the advowson of North Kihvorth, and took his 
I degree of D.I). In 1608 he was appointed chaplain of 
| bishop Neile, exchanged North Kihvorth for West Til— 

| bury, and preached his first sermon before king James 
I at Theobald’s. The next year he w r as presented to the 
living of Cuekstone, whereupon he resigned his fellow'- 
I ship in St.John’s and resided on his benefice. The cli- 
mate of Cuekstone not agreeing with his health, he soon 
exchanged this benefice for that of Norton. In the 
mean time Neile, having been translated to the see of 
Lichfield, recommended Laud so powerfully to the king 
that he obtained for him a prebend’s stall in the Cathe- 
dral of Westminster, the deanery of which Neile, as 
bishop of Rochester, had held in commendam. In 1611, 
after a violently contested canvass, Laud w r as elected 
president of St. John’s College, owing his success chictly 
to the strenuous efforts of bishop Neile and of Dr. Buek- 
eridge. At the same time he became one of king 
James’s chaplains, while, to his great chagrin, Abbot, 
upon the death of archbishop Bancroft, was raised to the 
primacy. Abbot is charged by Laud’s friends as hav- 
ing been the inveterate enemy of the latter, and the 
great retarder of his ecclesiastical promotion. Of the 
“enmity,” it may he said once for all that there seems 
to be no evidence beyond the constant repetition of the 
charge. The simple truth of the ease seems to be that 
Laud became the “inveterate enemy” of Abbot because 
the latter, when he had the pow'er, refused to promote 
him, and conscientiously discouraged the advancement 
of a man in whom lie had no confidence. Bishop Neile 
now bestow'ed upon Laud the prebendary of Bugden, 
and in 1615 the archdeaconry of Huntingdon. In 1616 
James himself bestow'ed upon him the deanery of Glou- 
cester, and lie thus obtained the prospect of reaching 
the higher prizes he had in view'. A second time he 
got into hot w'ater by a sermon preached before the uni- 
versity. For this he was taken to task by Dr. Robert 
Abbot, then vice-chancellor, and brother of the arch- 
bishop. Abbot now', like bishop Hall before, charged 
him w ith trying to keep on both sides at onee. In his 
deanery of Gloucester lie proceeded to “reform and set 
in order” according to his ow r n ecclesiastical notions, or- 
dering the communion-table to the east end of the choir, 
to stand as the “altar” formerly stood, and enjoining a 
becoming reverence, i. e., due bow'ings and genuflexions, 
upon the clergy and officers on entering the church or 
chancel, and proceeding withal in a most high-handed 
manner. Returning to court, Laud procured directions 
for the “better government” of the university, which 
contained the tirst official disapprobation of the tenets 
of the Calvinists, and which, being evidently levelled 
against the Puritans, are conceded by one of Laud’s 
most ardent eulogists (Lawson) to have been “not alto- 
gether justifiable,” inasmuch as they deprived the uni- 
versity of its independence, and subjected it completely 
to the control of the king. “But,” he adds, with char- 



LAUD 


‘ 270 


LAUD 


acteristic fallacy and one-sidedness, “the state of the 
times rendered such instructions necessary; and the con- 
sternation of the Puritan faction, when they were made 
known at Oxford, is a proof of the wisdom of the monarch 
and his advisers in thus placing a timely restraint on 
the progress of sectarian partisanship and enthusiasm.” 
Janies had already (1610-12) re-established episcopacy 
in Scotland, and with a special view to effect a more per- 
fect uniformity in the two churches, he set out in 1G17 
to visit his northern kingdom for the first time since his 
accession to the English throne, and ordered Laud to ac- 
company him. The king’s favorite object was to sub- 
stitute in the Scottish Church the Episcopal liturgy in- 
stead of the Presbyterian form of worship; and, though 
the Presbyterians prayed that they might be preserved 
from the same, Laud and some of the royal chaplains 
encouraged James to persist in regarding the mass of the 
nation as a set of “factious enthusiasts,” and to obsti- 
nately adhere to his purpose of imposing upon these 
people his own form of religion in the name of “the 
Church.” James and Laud, with a little knot of arch- 
bishops and bishops who had been consecrated to their 
office, not in Scotland, but at Westminster, were “ the 
Church,” and the Scottish nation was “the faction” — a 
mistake big with sad and fearful consequences. James 
now propoimded the famous Five Articles , which he 
subjected first to the assembly called together at St. 
Andrew’s, and later to the assembly at Perth, where, 
through the indefatigable exertions of the bishops, and 
the shrewd and cunning management of the king, the 
Five Articles were continued. These articles were rig- 
idly enforced, but without the desired effect. The Scot- 
tish “ rabble” were too “ factious” to submit to a religion 
manufactured for them and forcibly imposed upon them 
by others. It was left for James's successor to continue 
his father’s design, but with still worse success; and it 
was reserved for Laud to take a more dominant part in 
the business, and from a higher position, at a subsequent 
period. On bis return through Lincolnshire he was in- 
ducted into the rectory of Ibstock, which he had taken 
in exchange for Norton ; and, arriving at Oxford, he 
learned with pleasure that his exertions had effectually 
restrained the “Puritan enthusiasm” at Gloucester. 

In 1620 Laud was at length raised to the episcopate, 
being made bishop of St. David’s, in spite of the strenu- 
ous opposition of archbishop Abbot, as his friends assert, 
and through the earnest solicitations of the duke of 
Buckingham and of the lord- keeper Williams, then 
bishop of Lincoln, as is commonly alleged, Before his 
consecration as bishop, Laud, much to his credit, re- 
signed the presidency of ISt. John’s College, because, 
though such things were often winked at, he could 
not hold it without a violation of the statute. In his 
primary visitation of his diocese, he set things “in or- 
der” according to his peculiar views of what constituted 
the essentials of “ the Church’s” religion. lie also built 
a chapel for himself, which he proceeded to fit up to his 
own taste as a model, and consecrated it with sundry 
extraordinary ceremonies. 

In 1G22 Lauds dispute with the Jesuit Fisher took 
place, which was, perhaps, the most creditable perform- 
ance of his life, evincing extensive learning and no 
mean ability. Vet, dealing with the controversy from 
the high Anglican point of view, it fails to cover the 
whole Protestant position, and is now almost, forgotten, 
being a document of much less breadth and historical 
interest than some still older defences of the English 
Church, as, for example, Jewell’s A polorjj/. 

About this time Laud became chaplain to the duke 
of Buckingham, and between them there grew up an in- 
timate and lasting friendship. While Buckingham was 
absent with prince Charles in Spain, Laud was in corre- 
spondence with him, and seems tojiave been charged 
with the care of his interests at court during his ab- 
sence; for, observing or suspecting some movements of 
the lord-keeper Williams towards undermining the duke 
in the royal favor, he immediately. informed his patron 


in Spain of the apprehended danger, who accordingly 
hastened home to protect himself, lienee arose a de- 
termined hostility of the duke towards Williams, and 
Williams accused Laud of ingratitude, while Laud, on 
the other hand, charged him with duplicity and selfish- 
ness. Evidently the duke’s patronage was judged of 
more value than the bishop’s, and the breach ripened 
into a rooted enmity between the two churchmen. 
Laud chose to consider himself insulted by Abbot and 
Williams because his name was not inserted in the 
High Commission, lie complained to Buckingham, who 
forthwith procured his nomination. In 1G24 James died, 
and Laud lamented him with demonstrations of the ut- 
most sorrow. On the first day of March, the year after 
the death of James, Laud received his appointment to 
preach before Charles at Westminster at the opening of 
the first Parliament; and the king, upon the advice of 
bishops Laud and Andrews, prohibited, in the Convoca- 
tion which met at the same time with Parliament, the 
discussion of the five predcstinarian articles of the Synod 
of Dort, “on account of the number of Calvinists ad- 
mitted under Abbot’s auspices into the Lower House.” 
On the Sunday after the marriage of Charles and Hen- 
rietta Maria, Laud again preached before the king and 
the House of Lords. The king had summoned this Par- 
liament to procure supplies for the prosecution of his 
wars; but tliev chose to look after the righting of their 
own grievances before attending to the king’s wants, and 
proceeded to cite and condemn a certain Air. Montague 
for preaching what they judged heretical and unconsti- 
tutional doctrine. Laud immediately flew to Monta- 
gue’s protection, and, at his remonstrance, the king re- 
voked the proceedings of Parliament, and prorogued 
them to Oxford. Parliament was no more pliant at 
Oxford than it had been at Westminster, and in a pet 
Charles suddenly dissolved it. 

Meanwhile Laud was continually rising in the king’s 
esteem and confidence, while Williams was removed 
from his office of lord-keeper and banished the court. 
Laud was indefatigable in his labors in preaching and 
purging the Church, refusing to ordain any whom he 
found to be unqualified for the sacred office, according 
to his view of the proper qualifications. He was ap- 
pointed bv the king to supply the place of the now dis- 
graced Williams, the dean of 'Westminster, at the cere- 
mony of the coronation. lie here had official charge 
of the regalia, and is accused of having placed a erueitix 
upon the “altar,” and tampered with the coronation 
oath ; but of this accusation not much was ever made. 
By the king’s appointment Laud again preached the 
sermon at the opening of Parliament, which assembled 
immediately after the coronation. This Parliament like- 
wise proceeded at once to appoint a committee on re- 
ligion. They also impeached the duke of Buckingham, 
and refused to do any other business until his ease was 
disposed of. The king, finding them resolved on the 
ruin of his minister — and it is to be observed it was the 
House of Lords and not the House of Commons before 
which he was to be tried — to save his favorite, was com- 
pelled to dissolve his second Parliament. Unquestion- 
ably Laud was deeply and anxiously interested in the 
cause of his patron, and he is charged, on some show of 
evidence, with having written the speech of Bucking- 
ham in his own defence, and the speech of the king in 
Buckingham’s behalf. 

In 1G2G Laud was translated to the sec of Bath and 
Wells — a richer bishopric -than that of St. David’s. 
Both of Charles’s Parliaments had refused to vote 
the subsidies to supply his pecuniary wants, and he re- 
solved to collect tiie money without parliamentary 
authority. With this view he resorted to the expedi- 
ent of “tuning the pulpits,” and Laud was his instru- 
ment for this purpose, lie was instructed to prepare 
letters to be issued to the two archbishops ami their suf- 
fragans, through them to the inferior clergy, and by 
them to t lie people, persuading them to pay cheerfully 
the taxations necessarily imposed on them. “ The in- 


LAUD 


271 


LAUD 


structions,” as Laud informs us, “ were partly political 
and partly ecclesiastical,” and were to be published in 
every parish in the kingdom. Laud engaged in the 
duty with his wonted alacrity, and almost immediately 
upon receiving the royal commands he had the instruc- 
tions prepared. His apologists admit that it is a diffi- 
cult matter to justify these instructions, “because they 
afford a dangerous precedent, which, were it followed, 
would be attended with the worst consequences;” it was 
no less than undertaking to tax the people without the 
consent of their representatives. By Laud’s prompt and 
efficient management of this affair he was still further 
advanced in the king’s good opinion, and was rewarded 
with the appointment of dean of the chapel royal, and 
the promise of the primacy in the eye lit of Abbot’s de- 
cease. In enforcing Laud’s “instructions,” doctors Sib- 
thorpe and Man waring preached sermons in which they 
maintained the extreme doctrines of passive obedience, 
and which, after Laud’s revision, were published. Ab- 
bot, too, had refused to license Sibthorpe’s sermon, for 
which factious procedure a commission of sequestration 
was issued against him, and the administration of his 
metropolitan functions was put into the hands of Laud, 
in conjunction with four other bishops. In the same 
year Laud was made a privy counsellor, and, by the re- 
distribution of sundry bishops and bishoprics, arrange- 
ments were initiated to make a vacancy in the see of 
London, that Laud might at once be translated to that 
rich and powerful bishopric. Meanwhile Charles had 
been compelled by his necessities to call a third Parlia- 
ment, although it was well understood that Laud as well 
as Buckingham would be thereby endangered. But, to 
propitiate the popular feeling, several commissions were 
made, and, among other things, Abbot was restored to his 
functions, and received at court. Again Laud preached 
the opening sermon, and the king concluded his speech 
by exhorting Parliament to follow the good advice 
which Laud had given them. But the Commons de- 
termined to proceed to business in their own way. 
They first drew up and passed the famous Petition of 
Right. They then presented a remonstrance of griev- 
ances against the duke of Buckingham, not omitting 
to mention Laud in their indictment. They cited Dr. 
Mamvaring to their bar, ordered him to be severe- 
ly punished, and his sermons to be burnt. The king 
prorogued Parliament, ignored the complaints against 
Buckingham and Laud, remitted Manwaring’s fine, and, 
successively giving him various livings, at length pro- 
moted him to the deanery of Worcester, and then to the 
bishopric of St. David’s, made Sibthorpe prebendary of 
Peterborough, and translated Laud to the see of London, 
July 15, 1C2‘J. On the death of Buckingham, which 
took place before the next meeting of Parliament, the 
king was pleased to assure Laud that he intended to in- 
trust him with his confidence in Buckingham’s room. 
At the examination of Felton, the assassin of Bucking- 
ham, before the privy council, the man .admitted the 
deed, but denied the privity of any other parties. Laud, 
in his eagerness to improve this presumed opportunity 
for reaching and crushing his enemies, threatened him 
with the rack if he would not diselose his accomplices. 
But, upon the judges being asked whether Felton could 
be lawfully put to the rack, they returned for answer 
that by the laws of England he could not. It was in 
this interval, too, that Laud, “in order to put a stop to 
the disturbances which arose from the preaching of the 
abstruse and mystical doctrines of predestination,” as 
his friends aver, “procured a royal declaration to he pre- 
fixed to the Articles,” prohibiting such preaching. Sir 
Thomas Wentworth, afterwards carl of Strafford, was 
gained over from the popular party to the king’s side 
by largesses of royal favor, and he and Laud immedi- 
ately commenced a friendship which ever after remain- 
ed inviolate. 

When at length Parliament again assembled, the 
Commons opened with a remonstrance upon the alleged 
infractions of the Petition of Right, and then turned 


their attention to their religious grievances. Excited 
to great exasperation by the king’s declaration which 
Laud had procured, they passed a solemn vote against 
it, claiming, protesting, and vowing that the current 
and general exposition of the articles, “which had been 
established by act of Parliament,” had ever been the 
same as their own. In the debate, Sir John Eliot de- 
nounced some of the bishops as neither “orthodox nor 
sound in religion. Witness,” said he, “ the two bishops, 
Laud and Neile, who were complained of at the last 
meeting of Parliament. I apprehend much fear that, 
should we be in their power, we may be in danger to 
have our religion overthrown. Some of them are mas- 
ters of ceremonies, and they labor to introduce new cer- 
emonies into the Church.” The House resumed the 
cases of Montague, Manwaring, and Sibthorpe, to all of 
whom the king had granted pardons and preferments. 
Laud and Neile were the grand objects of attack, being 
accused of having procured these pardons. “ In Laud 
and Neile,” declared Sir John Eliot, “is centred all the 
danger we fear,” and he proposed to petition the king to 
leave those bishops to “the justice of the House.” Oli- 
ver Cromwell, too, distinguished himself in this dis- 
cussion; the preferment of Manwaring especially “ ex- 
cited his wrath.” “If these be the steps to Church 
preferment,” cried the future Protector, “ what may tre 
expect?” At length the king, exasperated, endeavored 
to adjourn the House by royal command. This led to 
a scene of great excitement and confusion, and finally 
the third Parliament of Charles’s reign was abruptly dis- 
solved. Parliaments were now to be abolished, and 
Laud was prime minister. lie must be held to all the 
responsibility attaching to such a position at such a 
time. He presided especially over the affairs of Eng- 
land, the duke of Hamilton over those of Scotland, and 
Wentworth over those of Ireland. In his ecclesiastical 
administration, Laud’s friends commonly claim for him 
the character of toleration and liberality, in the face of 
the fact that, having advised with Ilarsnet, archbishop 
of York, he drew up certain articles which, under the 
royal authority, were immediately dispatched to arch- 
bishop Abbot, requiring him and his suffragans (in 
brief) to suppress the preaching of the Puritans, to note 
all absentees from the prescribed public prayers, raid to 
render an account in the premises on the 2d of January 
every year. 

Early in 1630 Laud was chosen chancellor of the Uni- 
versity of Oxford. In the same year he also enjoyed the 
honor of officiating at the baptism of the infant prince, af- 
terwards Charles II, although this distinction belonged 
by nsage to the archbishop of Canterbury. Laud was 
now in the full tide of prosperity, and nothing could 
stand in his way. Did the Puritans undertake to buy 
up the impropriations of Church livings, that they 
might have the disposal of them for their lecturers, 
Laud had them punished for their impertinence, and 
their purchases confiscated to the king. Did they pre- 
sume to preach or publish their peculiar tenets at Ox- 
ford or in Ireland, Laud had them expelled or silenced. 
Were any bishoprics or deaneries vacant, Laud saw 
that they were filled with the right sort of churchmen, 
lie enlarged St.John’s College with a new quadrangle, 
lie repaired St. Paul's Cathedral, lie. took cognizance 
of the chapels and chaplains of English congregations 
abroad, and of the congregations or churches of foreign- 
ers in England, and reduced them all to conformity, or 
placed the members of the latter under the strictest sur- 
veillance, taking away the children, and burdening the 
parents with all the disadvantages of alienage. He 
urged the Scottish bishops, if they made any change in 
their liturgy, to adopt that of the Church of England 
without any variation ; and the new liturgy which wa3 
drawn up by those bishops was submitted to his final 
revision. On the king’s visit to Scotland, Laud attend- 
ed him, was made a member of the Scotch Privy Coun- 
cil, and preached before the king, in the chapel royal in 
Holyrood House, on “ the utility of conformity.” 


LAUD 


272 


LAUD 


At length, on the 4th of August, 1633. archbishop Ab- 
bot died; on the 6th Laud was promoted by the king to 
the primacy, and on the 19th of September was formally 
translated to this, the long-desired goal of his ambition. 
At the same time he was offered a cardinal’s hat by cer- 
tain emissaries of the pope, which, without betraying 
either astonishment, or indignation, or disturbance of 
any kind, lie respectfully declined “ till Lome should be 
otherwise than it then was;” and before his enthrone- 
ment he was elected chancellor of the University of 
Dublin. 

In his metropolitan chair his first act was to issue 
more stringent rules for candidates for ordination, so 
as more effectually to shut out Puritan preachers and 
lecturers. The next was to revive and extend the 
king’s declaration concerning lawful sports on Sundays. 
The archbishop now proceeded upon his metropolitan 
visitations, and he made thorough work of it ; for all 
Puritanism lie was a perfect “root and branch” man. 
But one great business and burden with him was to sec 
that the communion-tables were placed altar-wise, rail- 
ed in, and approached always with the prescribed bows 
and obeisances, it being assumed that thus, and thus only, 
could true devotion and godly reverence be preserved in 
the Church. Ilis old patron, bishop Williams, he sus- 
pended for contumacy. lie busied himself earnestly in 
improving the revenues of the poor clergy of London 
and the poorer clergy of Ireland, lie procured a new 
charter and statutes for the University of Dublin, and 
the adoption of the Thirty-nine Articles, instead of those 
of Lambeth, by the Irish Church. Indeed, through his 
intimacy with Wentworth, the lord deputy, and his 
chancellorship of the Dublin University, he seems, as 
prime minister and archbishop of Canterbury, to have 
had much more control of the affairs of the Irish Church 
than her own primate, Usher, or any or all of her bish- 
ops and archbishops. Civil appointments, also, were ac- 
cumulated upon Laud, lie was not only prime minister, 
privy counsellor in England and in Scotland, member of 
the courts of Star Chamber and High Commission, but he 
was also appointed a member of the committee of trade, 
and a commissioner of the Treasury, and placed on the 
foreign committee. lie procured the new Caroline Char- 
ter for Oxford, and continued his munificent gifts. lie 
took especial care of the restoration of the cathedrals 
and of the Cathedral service, with all the old accustom- 
ed appointments and ceremonies. 

Laud, like Wolscy when in favor with Henry Till, had 
reached the highest pinnacle of his greatness. All honor, 
power, and splendor seemed to converge towards him. 
All around was buoyant with success and glowing with 
promise. 1 1 was Laud here, it was Laud there, it was Laud 
everywhere. He had three kingdoms well in hand. 
Church and State lay submissive at his feet. But the 
scene was soon to change. He was disporting himself 
upon the bosom of a volcano, whose vent-holes he was 
hoping to keep stopped up with his puny engineering. 
The quukingsand rumblings of the approaching eruption 
were already increasing. In the year 1637, “some fac- 
tious and refractory men had determined to establish 
their enthusiasm on the shores of America, amid the 
forests of New England.” These disorderly emigra- 
tions without a royal license it was thought expedient 
to restrain, “ because of the many idle and obstinate hu- 
mors whose only or principal end was to live without 
the reach of authority.” Eight ships in the Thames 
were stopped by an order of Council, and no clergyman 
was allowed to leave the country without the approba- 
tion of the archbishop of Canterbury and the bishop 
of London. Among those intended emigrants Oliver 
( ’romwell is said to have been thus stopped. The symp- 
toms of dissatisfaction and uneasiness were drawing to- 
wards a crisis, and some prosecutions of this same year 
accelerated the national calamities. The first case was 
the trial of Prynne, Bastwiek. and Burton in the Star 
Chamber. Prynne was a graduate of Oxford, and a 
barrister of Lincoln’s Inn; Bastwiek left Cambridge be- 


1 fore taking his degree, and, having travelled nine years 
on the Continent, took the degree of M.D. at Padua; 
Burton was A.M. and B.D. at Oxford, and had been clerk 
of the closet to the Prince of Wales, and rector of St. 
Matthew’s, Friday Street, London. Prynne, for his //7s- 
trio-Sfastyx, had already been condemned to pay a fine 
of <£5000, to be expelled from Oxford and from Lincoln’s 
Inn, to stand in the pillory at Westminster and at Cheap- 
side, and at each place to have an ear cut off, to have 
his book burnt before his face, and to remain a prisoner 
for life. In the execution of the sentence it is said that 
Prynne had nearly been suffocated with the smoke of 
his book. From prison, however, the irrepressible Prynne, 
as soon as he could procure writing materials, continued 
audaciously, and with amazing industry, to send forth 
his pamphlets against his persecutors; and now the 
doctor Bastwiek and the rector Burton had joined the 
lawyer in the fray. These pamphlets were no doubt in- 
temperate and extravagant, coarse and violent in their 
language; they were naturally branded as scurrilous 
and seditious by the other side. But it is to be remem- 
bered their authors were persecuted fanatics; and it is a 
better excuse for them to say that the controversial lan- 
guage of the age was coarse, than it is for their enemies 
to say that the punishments of the age were barbarous. 
The use of epithets is largely a matter of taste and fash- 
ion; but humanity itself, wherever it exists, is shocked 
at the sight of torture, and cruelty, and blood. All 
three of the accused were condemned; Prynne to pay a 
fine of £5000, to lose the remainder of his ears in the 
pillory, to be branded on both cheeks with the initials 
of slanderous libeler, and to be immured for life in Caer- 
narvon Castle. Bastwiek and Burton were to pay the 
same fine, were to lose their ears in the pillory, and to 
be imprisoned for life in separate castles. On this occa- 
sion, Laud, who was a member of the court, made a long 
speech. As he had everything under his own control, 
he had no temptation to use violent language. He as- 
sumed an air of studied coolness and dignity. Having 
descanted upon the merits of his own immaculate ad- 
ministration in Church and State, and set forth in strong 
colors the dangerous and abominable character of fac- 
tions and seditious libeling, he added, “ But because the 
business hath some reflection upon myself, I sha U forbear 
to censure them, and leave them to God’s mercy and the 
king’s justice.” That is to sav, having fully given his 
views, he would not cast liis formal vote in the case, but, 
knowing full well what the decision, vea, the “unani- 
mous” decision of the judges would be, he concludes his 
speech thus. “I give all your lordships hearty thanks 
for your noble patience, and your just and honorable 
sentence upon these men, and your unanimous dislike 
of them and defence of the Church.” Who can doubt 
that Prynne was right in afterwards declaring that Laud 
was “the cause and contriver of the sentence before it 
was given, and that he approved and thanked the lords 
for it when it was given?” The three victims under- 
went their “punishment” (as Laud’s friends delight to 
call it) with the most astonishing heroism. Such “pun- 
ishment” of such men, however ignominious or degrad- 
ing it was meant to be, could never elevate the dignity 
or strengthen the position of the party that inflicted it. 
The sufferers were no doubt supported by the sympa- 
thies of an immense mass of the people, as well as by 
their own courage or obstinacy, tbeir religious principle 
or fanaticism. No wonder that libels against the arch- 
bishop were multiplied and intensified, and that liis vic- 
tims were honored with abundant and galling demonstra- 
tions of popular favor. It was found necessary, in order 
to remove them out of the reach of iheir friends, to 
transfer them from the prisons to which they had been 
condemned to other castles in the Channel Islands. 

Having now seen the leaders of the “malignant fac- 
tion” visited with condign “punishment” and put out of 
the way. Laud had the pleasure of having his early pa- 
tron, bishop Williams — against whom he seems to have 
nursed a rancorous grudge, as though fearing that one 


LAUD 


273 


LAUD 


day he might be a dangerous rival — arraigned before 
him in the Star Chamber, at first on the old charge of 
revealing the king’s secrets, and afterwards in that of 
suborning a witness; and, having again delivered him- 
self of a long and dignified speech, magnifying the enor- 
mity of the crime of subornation of perjury, especially in 
a clergyman and a bishop, and at the same time protest- 
ing his personal friendliness, he graciously and humbly 
leaves the accused to the tender mercies of a court thus 
“ tuned,” who sentenced him to pay a fine of £10,000, to 
be imprisoned during the king’s pleasure, and to be sus- 
pended from all his offices, preferments, and functions. 

Upon Laud’s recommendation, a decree was passed by 
the Star Chamber in 1637 for restraining the freedom 
of the press. The provisions of the edict were suffi- 
ciently severe. It limited the number of master print- 
ers under penalty of whipping; it forbade the printing 
of books without a license from the archbishop or the 
bishop of London, or their chaplains, or from the chan- 
cellors or vice-chancellors of the universities. It pro- 
hibited the sale of imported books without a similar li- 
cense; it authorized the Company of Stationers to seize 
on all such books as they found to be schismatical or of- 
fensive, and to lay them before the ecclesiastical authori- 
ties; it enacted that no one in England should cause to 
be printed any books in English beyond the seas, or to 
import them into the country; and finally it provided 
that offences against the decree should be punished by 
the court of Star Chamber or High Commission. Such 
was the law enacted — not by the English Parliament, 
but by the Star Chamber — to protect, not the English 
Protestant Church, but the Laudian ecelesiastical sys- 
tem against the “ Puritan faction.” 

The “Short Parliament” of 1640 had been dissolved af- 
ter a session of three weeks ; but as the Convocation con- 
tinued to sit, a set of new canons was drawn up under the 
influence and presidency of Laud, which contained the 
famous election oath ; and the first of which proclaimed 
that monarchy was of divine right, that the royal author- 
ity was independent, not only of the bishop of Home, but 
of every other earthly power, and that it cannot be as- 
sailed on any pretence without resistance to the ordinance 
of God. Not only this canon, but the whole body of them, 
were of the most arbitrary character, especially enjoining, 
under severe penalties, the ceremonies to which the arch- 
bishop was notoriously attached; and all this at a time 
most unwisely chosen, when the whole condition of the 
empire was imminently critical; so that, as Clarendon 
remarks, “the season in which that synod continued to 
sit was in so ill a conjuncture of time that nothing could 
have been transacted there of a popular and prevailing 
influence.” 

The archbishop prime minister had so completely 
established uniformity in England that he now had 
leisure to turn his particular attention to the reforma- 
tion of Puritan abuses in the outlying islands of Jer- 
sey and Guernsey. He claims to have brought Chilling- 
worth back from the Church of Pome. If he did, he 
certainly did not make that irrefragable defender of the 
religion of Protestants a disciple of his own system. He 
urged bishop Hall to write his treatise on Episcopacy; 
but Hall’s claims were not put high enough to satisfy 
Laud, who was particularly offended because the pope 
was plainly called Antichrist. The plot now thickens. 
The Scottish troubles growing out of the attempted im- 
position of the new' canons and liturgy upon the Scottish 
people, beginning with the “ profane imprecation” of the 
dame Janet Geddes, in St. Giles’s, at the first reading of 
the detested service: “Out, out, thou false thief; dost 
thou say mass at my lug?” had now swollen into an 
irresistible storm of violence and rebellion. The uproar 
of the “old woman” in a church, and the brickbats of 
the mob around it, had turned into a national conspiracy. 
Through all the business Laud had adroitly managed to 
incur no responsibility without the participation or au- 
thority of the king or the Scottish bishops; neverthe- 
less, it is evident he was mixed up with it all, not only 
V.— S 


as accessory, but as prime minister. He corresponded 
constantly with the Scottish bishops as well as with the 
civil authorities in Scotland. To him they made their 
reports and their excuses, and his advice and direction 
were required and sought on all occasions. 

The invasion of England by the army of the Cove- 
nanters at length compelled Charles once more to sum- 
mon the English Legislature. The Long Parliament 
met. Then the bubble burst; then the flaunting splen- 
dors of a luxurious and insolent court were exchanged 
for humiliation and deepening gloom; then the vast 
machinery of ecclesiastical despotism, pushed to its ut- 
most tension of pride and tyranny, suddenly gave way 
with a crash, and the accumulated usurpations of royal 
prerogative hastened to their final and irreversible doom. 
The odious courts of the Star Chamber and High Com- 
mission were abolished, and all judges were henceforth 
made independent of the crown ; no taxes, of whatever 
description, were to be levied without authority of Par- 
liament, and Parliaments were by law to be triennial. 
The earl of Strafford, lord deputy of Ireland, Laud’s 
most intimate friend, the king’s ablest political adviser, 
and the most skilfid commander of the royal forces 
against the Scotch, was impeached for high treason. 
Laud’s own impeachment soon followed, and he was 
forthwith committed to the Tower, where he was kept 
imprisoned three years (1641-5); his jurisdiction and 
all his offices and emoluments were sequestered by the 
House of Peers. Lambeth Palace was made a state 
prison, and Leighton, now almost a maniac, was put in 
charge of it ; Prynne was made his warden in the Tower. 
The bishops were unseated from the House of Lords; 
episcopacy and the liturgy were abolished by act of 
Parliament ; and Laud — having seen the complete tri- 
umph of the miserable “ fanatical faction” over which 
he had wielded the rod of power and of punishment so 
long, the utter destruction and abolition of the hierar- 
chy and the ceremonies to whose aggrandizement and 
magnificence he had devoted his life, and the annihila- 
tion of all his fond dreams of personal grandeur, and 
glory, and lordly munificence — was at length condemned 
by an ordinance of Parliament, and suffered decapitation 
on Tower Hill, meeting his doom with perfect compos- 
ure and quiet dignity, on the 10th of January, 1645. 

Thus fell the famous archbishop Laud, perhaps the* 
best praised and most blamed man that ever lived. As 
to the formal legality of his sentence, it may be admit- 
ted that it cannot be constitutionally or technically jus- 

> tified. As to the specific charges against him, it may 
be granted that they could not, except constructively,, 
amount to treason even if proved, and that few of any 
weight were proved with such evidence as would be sat- 
isfactory under the strict rules of an impartial court of 

. justice. But it must be remembered that Laud was 

> tried before a revolutionary tribunal; that, in such cir- 

- cumstanccs, moral, not legal evidence swayed his j udges ; 

■ and that the general, known truth of the case, not the 
i detailed proof of specific articles, determined the conclu- 
! sion. 

! It may be conceded that the arbitrary and tyrannical 
; acts of the administration of Charles and of Laud, wheth- 
r er in Church or State, did not go beyond the precedents 
i which had been set from Henry VIII downwards; but it 
. must be remembered that the spirit of the times had 

- changed, and it was the bounden duty of wise men in 

i high places to know it, aud act accordingly. A people' 
i educated under Romish domination and superstition 
might submit to the imposition of taxes or of creeds by 
: the sovereign and established authority, which a people 
i educated under even an imperfect influx of Protestant 
: light, and of its attendant maxims of personal liberty 
and freedom of thought, could no longer brook. More- 
. over, a tyrannical despotism once constitutionally cs- 

> tablished can never be abolished or got rid of unless the 

- governors either yield to the popular demands or are 

■ illegally put down by revolutionary force and violence. 

r It may be conceded that Laud was honest and con- 


LAUD 


274 


LAUD 


scicntious in defending the extreme doctrines of the di- 
vine right, of the royal prerogative, and of passive obe- 
dience, and in his endeavors to suppress the “Puritan 
faction” in Church and State; but, in a historical esti- 
mate of his career and character, this proves nothing. 
The constitution of successive Parliaments shows that 
this “faction” was an increasing majority of the nation ; 
they, too, were conscientious; Prynne, Bastwick, and 
Burton were conscientious — fanatically, not by policy, 
conscientious; the parliamentary leaders, those noble 
defenders of English liberty, were conscientious; most 
despots, tyrants, and conservatives, as well as rebels, 
revolutionists, and reformers, are conscientious. Their 
conduct and character must be judged of by rules inde- 
pendent of their well informed or ill informed private 
consciences. There may be fault on both sides ; one 
extreme begets another. So it was then ; so it was af- 
terwards. 

It maybe conceded that the charge of popery against 
Laud — a charge from which he suffered more severely 
than from any other, and which more than any other 
was the cause of his ruin — was not literally true. What 
was substantially true was thus put into the false and 
extravagant formula of the demagogue — it was a cari- 
cature. Laud was a loyal son of the Church of England, 
“ as by law established,” so long as the laws were in ac- 
cordance with his notions, or as he had the interpreta- 
tion and execution of them in his own hands. It was 
not Poman popery, hut Anglican or Laudean popery 
which he would establish. No doubt he was more of a 
Papist than of a Protestant in the true sense of that 
word. His sympathies were more with Pome than with 
Augsburg or Geneva; .and the people, who are instinc- 
tively sagacious in questions of this kind, did not fail to 
perceive it, and they expressed their judgment, as is 
their wont, in the most summary and positive terms. 

As to ecclesiastical ceremonies, Laud's devotion to 
them and to their enforcement is certainly not among 
the marks of his greatness of mind. The opposition to 
them may have been as unreasonable as their imposi- 
tion ; vet the fact was they were generally unpopular 
and odious, and Laud, in his position, was bound to have 
the discretion to accommodate himself to that fact. It 
boots nothing to say that they were not illegal; it is 
enough that they were both unpopular and unnecessary. 
It boots nothing to talk of the irreverence and slovenli- 
ness of the Puritan worship; that is mostly exaggera- 
tion; but, at all events, decency and reverence could 
have been preserved without the precision and multi- 
plied formalities of the Laudean ceremonial. 

It may be conceded that Laud was a munificent pa- 
tron of learning and of the universities, with whose dig- 
nities lie was invested; but it might not be altogether 
amiss to inquire whence came all the funds of which he 
made all this lordly distribution; and perhaps we shall 
find that, in this matter, Land deserves only this honor 
above many other men, that lie honestly paid over at 
least a portion of the money to those to whom, after all, 
it rightfully belonged. lie never stinted the splendor 
or sumptuousness of his own establishment, or the ap- 
pointments of his personal retinue. Of his wealth and 
grandeur lie enjoyed what he could. But let it remain 
to his credit that his vanity — if it were nothing better — 
took the form of magnificent public benefactions. 

As to intellectual abilities, Laud's must have been 
considerable, or he could never have been the historical 
personage lie was. In t ho personal habits of his private 
life he was irreproachable. As a clergyman he was in- 
defatigable and punctilious in the discharge of his du- 
ties. He was always narrow and bigoted in his views, 
but he lived in narrow and bigoted times. How far his 
high political positions were compatible with his eccle- 
siastical character may well he doubted, and his exam- 
ple can never be repeated again in England. How far 
the corrupting influence of political place, and of the 
association of political persons and of political life, may 
have contributed to develop and exaggerate his worst 


faults — which, after all, were chiefly those of adminis- 
tration — it is impossible to say. It must be remembered 
that he was a courtier long before he was even a bishop, 
and continued a courtier till he became primate of all 
England, and thereafter till lie was “translated” from 
the court to the Tower of London. If lawn sleeves could 
pass unsullied through the scenes of such a life, a natu- 
rally ambitious churchman could hardly grow in grace 
in such an atmosphere. Laud’s devotional compositions, 
in the form of private prayers, are often admirable, and 
are thought to give a very favorable insight into his 
interior religious life. Let us hope that the prayers 
were sincere and acceptable. 

Laud’s character may be considered with reference to 
the rightness of his general purpose, or to the wisdom 
of his aiming at its accomplishment, or to the manner 
in which he endeavored to effect it. As to the right or 
wrong of his general purpose, his theory and aim, 
whether in Church or State, but particularly in the 
Church, it always has been, and perhaps always will be, 
a matter of dispute. It is useless to discuss it. Any 
judgment of his character based upon the assumption 
of this question is no better than a petit io principii. As 
to the wisdom or folly of undertaking to accomplish that 
| purpose in those times and under those circumstances, it 
I is more and more generally admitted that he made a 
mistake in the attempt, llis friends regard it as a ve- 
nial error, his enemies reckon the blunder a crime. As 
to the means he employed, and, in general, his whole 
manner and bearing in seeking his end, there is a very 
general verdict against him. He had great personal 
faults. Prominent among them were an overweening 
ambition, self-sufficiency, and insolence. An aristocratic 
estimate of the structure of society, and a sovereign con- 
tempt for the people and the popular will — very natu- 
ral, but the more inexcusable in a man of his origin and 
profession — an utter destitution of the grand idea of 
i humanity , underlie all the mistakes and all the misfor- 
tunes of his life. 

We conclude our sketch with the following candid 
admissions from Lc Bas, one of Laud’s most earnest 
apologists and admirers. “That the administration of 
Laud was in some respects injurious to the Church can 
hardly be denied; but then it is most important to keep 
in mind that the injury was inflicted not so much by 
the measures which lie adopted as by the maimer in 
which he enforced them. There has seldom, perhaps, 
lived a man who contrived that his good should be so 
virulently evil spoken of. From all that we learn of 
him, his manner appears to have been singularly ungra- 
cious and unpopular, and his temper offensively irascible 
and hot. If we are to trust the representations of him 
left us either by friend or foe, be must have been one of 
1 lie most disagreeable persons in the three kingdoms 
except to those who were intimately acquainted with 
his worth. There was nothing affable or engaging in 
liis general behavior. Ilis very integrity was often 
made odious by wearing an aspect of austerity and 
haughtiness. It would almost seem as if prudence had 
been struck out of his catalogue of the cardinal virtues. 
He v r as unable, as Warhurton remarks, to comprehend 
one important truth, with which Bichelieu was so fa- 
miliar, when he said that if he had not spent as much 
time in civilities as in business lie had undone his mas- 
ter. The consequence of this ignorance, or of this dis- 
dain, of the ways of the world was unspeakably hurtful 
to the cause which at all times was nearest his heart. 
In the minds of many who were ignorant of the essen- 
tial excellence of the man, the interests of the Estab- 
lishment were, by his demeanor, associated with almost 
everything that is harsh and repulsive. For a consid- 
erable portion of his life he was regarded not only as the 
leader, but A he representative of the ecclesiastical body; 
and the impression which he communicated to the pub- 
lic was too often that of unfeeling arrogance and lofty 
impatience of control. Whether the Church could have 
been saved by any combination, in the person ol’ its 


LAUDA SION SALVATOREM 275 LAUDEMIUM 


ruler, of tliose rare endowments which secure at once 
both reverence and attachment, no human sagacity can 
at this day be competent to pronounce; but it certainly 
is not altogether surprising that this unhappy defect 
should, even in the minds of judicious and impartial 
men, have connected his administration with the ruin 
of the Establishment.* In such unquiet times, more es- 
pecially, a man like Laud would not only be dreaded as 
a firm and conscientious disciplinarian, but as the rigor- 
ous and overbearing priest; and the Church would be 
sure to suffer most grievously for the unpopularity of 
her governor.” 

In England, the parties with which Laud’s life was 
implicated have not yet passed away, so that it is al- 
most impossible even now to get an impartial estimate 
of the man from his own countrymen ; but it can hardly 
be doubted that the idtimate verdict of history will be 
his final condemnation. The English monarchy has 
gloriously survived the political principles which he de- 
fended ; his ecclesiastical principles will ultimately be 
found equally unnecessary, nay, hostile, to the trite 
strength and glory of the English Church. (D. R. G.) 

Laud’s writings are few. 'Wharton published his Di- 
ary in 1694, and Parker his Works (Oxford, 1847-GO \ 
containing, among other things, his letters and miscel- 
laneous papers, many of them then published for the 
first time, and, like his Diary, invaluable as contribu- 
tions to the persona] history of this noted archbishop 
and his associates. See Hume, Hist, of Engl. chap, lii ; 
Ilallam, Constit. Jlist. of Engl. (Loud. 1854), ii, 38, 1G7 ; 
Macaulay, Essays (1854), i, 159 sq., 424 sq.; Short, Ch. 
Ilist. (Lond. 1840), p. 480 sq., 553 sq.; Tulloch, English 
Puritanism , p. 45 sq. ; Eletclier, History o f Independency, 
vols. ii, iii, iv; Collier, Eccl. Hist, (see Index); Prvnne, 
Ileylin, Le Has, Lawson, and Baines, on the Life of 
Laud; IPesfrn. Rev. xvii, 478 sq.; 1870, p. 294; London 
Month. It ev.cxx\\\,S\I sq.; Land. Retrosp. Rev. vii (1827), 
49 sq.; Rlachv. Mag. xxv, 619 sq.; xxvii, 179; xxix, 
523; 1,800; Lond. Quart. Rev. x, 101 sq. ; North. A mi r. 
Review, 1804, 000 sq. 

Lauda Sion Salvatorem is the beginning of 
the renowned sequence of Thomas Aquinas (1224-1274) 
for Corpus -Christi day. It consists of twelve double 
verses, which are as follows : 


1. Lauda Sion salvatorem, 
Lauda ducem et pastorem 

In hymniset canticis: [de, 
Quantum potes, tantmn au- 
Quin major omni laude, 

Nec laudare sufficis. 

2. Landis thema specialis, 
Panis vivnfe et vitalis 

Ilodie proponitur, 

Quern in sacrae mensa cceme 
Tnrbae fratrum duodenoe 
Datum non ambigitur. 

3. Sit laus plena, sit sonora, 
Sit jncuuda, sit decora, 

Mentis jubilatio : 

Dies enim sollemnis agitur 
In qua mensa; prima recoli- 
Ilnjus institutio. [tur 

4. In hac mensa novi regis 
Novum pascha novae legis 

t Phase veins terminat. 
Vetustatem novitns, 
Umbram fngat veritas, 
Noctern lux eliminat. 

f>. Quod in ccEnaCbristusges- 
Faciendum hoeexpressit [sit 
In sni memoriam. 

Docti sacris institutis, 
Panem, vinnm in salutis 
Consecramus hostiam. 

6. Dogma datur Christianis, 
Quod in carnem transit panis 

Et vinnm in sangninem. 
Quod non capis,quod non vi- 
Animosa iirmat tides [des, 
Prseter rerum ordinem. 

7. Sub diversis speciebus, 
Signis tantnm et non rebus, 

Latent res eximiae. 


Caro cibus, sanguis potus : 
Manet tamen Christus totus 
Sub utraque specie. 

8. A sumente non coneisns, 
Non confractus, non divisus, 

Integer accipitnr. 

Sumit nuns, sumunt mille, 
Quantum isti, tantnm ille, 
Nec snmptns consumitur. 

9. Sumunt boni, summit inali, 
Sorte tamen inaequali 

Vine vel interims. 

Mors est malis, vita bonis : 
Vide, paris sumption is 
Quam sit dispar exitus. 

10. Fracto demnm sacramen- 
Ne vacilles, sed memento [to 
Tantnm esse sub fragmeuto 

Quantum toto tegitur: 
Nulla rei tit scissura, 

Signi tautum fit fractura 
Qua nec status nec etatura 
Signati minuitur. 

11. Ecce panis angelorum, I 
Factus cibus viatoruni, 

Vere panis tilionim, 

Non mittendus canibus. 

In figuris praesignatur, 

Quum Isaac immolatur, ! 

Agnus Paschse depiitatnr, j 

Datur manna patribus. 

12. Bone pastor, pauis vci e, 
.Tesu, nostri miserere. 

Tu nos pnsce, nos tuere, 

Tii nos bona fac vidcre 
In terra viventinm. 

Tu qui cuncta scis et vales, 
Qui nos pnscis hie mortales : | 
Tnos ibi conimcnsales, 
Cohieredes et sodales 
Fac sanctorum civium. | 


Lauda Sion, although full of the doctrine of transub- 
stantiation, as was to be expected from its author, yet 
contains no allusion to the priestly power “ deum confi- 
ceref which is the chief characteristic of Corpus-Christi 
day, but ends with an inward prayer for adoption and 
participation in the eternal feast of grace. A German 
translation was made of it by the monk John of Salz- 
burg (1300-1396), beginning with the words Lob. 0 Syon, 
deinen Schopfer. We know of no English translation. 
See Koch, Geschichte des Kirchenliedes, i, 45-06 ; Daniel, 
Thesaur. Hymnoloyicus, ii, 97 sq. (Lips. 1855, 5 vols. 8vo). 




Laudian Manu- 
script (Codex Laudia- 
ncs, so called because pre- 
sented by archbishop Laud 
in 1630 to the University 
of Oxford, now in the Bod- 
leian Library, where it is 
numbered 35), usually des- 
ignated as E of the Acts, 
is a very valuable IMS. of 
the Acts, with the Greek 
and Latin in uncial letters 
in parallel columns, the 
Latin words (which are 
neither Jerome’s nor the 
Vulgate, but a closely lit- 
eral version) always ex- 
actly opposite the Greek. 
It is defective at Acts 
xx vi, 29-xxvii, 26. It is 
in size nine inches by sev- 
en and a half, and consists 
of 226 leaves of 23-26 lines. 
The vellum is rather poor, 
and the ink faint. There 
are no stops, and few 
breathings. It was prob- 
ably written in the West 
during the sixth century. 
Readings were taken from 
it by Fell (1675) and Mill 
(1707). Hearne publish- 
ed the text in full: Acta 
A postoloi'nm Grceeo- Lati- 
na*. literis majusculis 
(Oxon. 1715, 8vo) ; now 
very scarce. See Davidson, 




Pib.Crit. ii, 293; Tregclles, 
in Horne’s Introd. iv, 187 
sq. ; Scrivener, Introd. p. 
128. See Manuscripts. 

Laudemium. a name 
given to the sum which 
heirs, on obtaining their 
inheritance, are to pay to 
certain parties. It was to 
j , ^ ^ be paid for the recognition 

( AJ ggy* *£ and establishment (laudu- 

" “ tio) of the claim, and even, 

occasionally, on coming 
into possession other than 
an inheritance, as, for in- 
stance, by gift, etc. It sub- 
sequently became obliga- 
tory only in cases of sale, 
of inheritance from collat- 
eral relations, or sometimes 
from descendants, etc. 
/ J T 'he Roman law states the 

rjr^_ (T J amount to he paid in the 

case of a copyhold to be 
one fiftieth of the princi- 
pal (“quinquagesima parspretii vel aestimationis loci. qui 
transfertur,’’ cap. 8, Cod. Just, de jure emphyteutic, iv, 
06). It subsequently increased to one thirtieth, one 


A 
CD 

(D aJ 

CD o 


5 

p 

s 


LAUDS 


270 


LAUNOI 


twentieth, and even one tenth. This, however, is named 
the laudemium mtijus, and distinguished from the lau - 
demium minus. See J. 0. II. Schrdter, V. d. Lehenswurc , 
etc. (Berlin, 1789); Christ, j i milecta de sportula cliente- 
le/ ri vulgo de tar a feudali (Lips. 1757). — Herzog, Real- 
EncyTdopadie , viii, 230. 

Lauds, Hymns of praise (from Latin laus, praise). 
In some of the ancient councils the hallelujah appointed 
to be sung after the Gospel is termed Laudes. Also the 
name of the sendee which, before the Reformation, fol- 
lowed after the Nocturn, celebrated between 12 and 3 
A.M., or in the 3d watch. Du Cange assigns them this 
place, but cites a passage from which it would appear 
that they rather belong to matins in the following 
watch. The Lauds, Du Cange tells us, consisted, in the 
monastic or pre-reformatory sendee, of the last three 
psalms. Durand, however, names five. See Procter, 
Common Prayer , p. 18G sq. — Eden, Theolog. Diet. s. v. ; 
Farrar, Eccles. Diet. s. v. See Breviary; Canonical 
Hours; Liturgy; Matins. 

Lauffer, Jacob, a Swiss Protestant minister and 
historian, was born at Zoffingen July 25, 1G88, and stud- 
ied theology at Halle and Utrecht. In 1718 he became 
professor of history and eloquence at Berne. lie died 
Feb. 2G, 1731. His works are not of special interest to 
theological students, excepting, perhaps, De llostium 
Spoliis Deo sacratis et sacrandis (1717). 

Laughter (pn:», yt/\u><;), an action usually ex- 
pressing jov (Gen. xxi, G ; Psa. cxxvi, 2 ; Eccles. iii, 4 ; 
Luke vi, 21); sometimes mockery (Gen. xviii, 13; Ee- 
eles. ii, 2 ; James iv, 9) ; and occasionally conscious se- 
curity (.lob v, 22). When used concerning God (as in 
Psa. ii, 4; lix, 8; Prov. i, 2G) it signifies that he de- 
spises or pays no regard to the person or subject. See 
Isaac. 

Laughton, George, D.D., an English minister, 
lived in the latter half of the 18th century. Among his 
works of importance are his History of Ancient Egypt 
(Lond. 1774, 8vo) : — 7 leply to Chap. XV of Gibbon's De- 
cline and Fall (1780-8G). His Sermons were published 
from 1773-90. — Aliibone, Diet, of British and American 
A uthors, ii, 10G4. 

Laugier, Marc Antoine, a French Jesuit, w r as 
born at Manos July 25, 1713. He was a priest at Paris 
until 1757, when he was appointed to the abbey of Ri- 
beaute. He died April 7, 17G9. For a list of his works 
on various subjects, see Hoefer, Xouv. Biogr . Generate, 
xxix, 894. 

Launay, Pierre i>e, lord of La Motte and Vaufee- 
lan, a French Protestant theologian, was born at Blois 
in 1573. After holding a high position in the war de- 
partment, he resigned in 1013, retaining only the title 
of secretary and counsellor to the king, and devoted 
himself exclusively to study. He acquired the mastery 
over Greek, learned Hebrew from a Jewish teacher, and 
was for forty years a member of the Consistory of Cha- 
renton. He took part in several provincial synods, and 
was secretary of the two national synods of Charenton 
in 1623 and of Alemjoii in 1G37. He died at Paris June 
27, IGG1. His works are, Paraphrase et Exposition du 
Prophete Daniel (Sedan, 1G24) Paraphrase et claire 
Exposition du IXrre de Salomon vulgairement appele 
VEccUsinste (Saint-51 aurice, 1024, 8vo) : — Paraphrase 
et Exposition des Prorerbes de Salomon et du premier 
Chapitre du Cantique des Cantiques (Charenton, 1G50, 2 
vols. 8vo; 2d ed. 1G55, 12mo) : — Paraphrase et Exposi- 
tion de VEpistre de Saint Paul aux Domains (Saumur, 
1G47, 8vo) : — Paraphrase, sur les Epistres de Saint Paul 
(Charenton 1G50, 2 vols. 4to) : — Paraphrase et Exposi- 
tion de V Apocalypse (Geneva, 1651, 1 to) ; published un- 
der the name of Jonas le Buy de la Prie. In this work 
he advances opinions on the Millennium which were 
strongly opposed by Amyraut : — Examen de la Repiique 
de M. Amyraut (Charenton, 1G58, 8vo): — Traite de la 
Sainte Cene du Seigneur, avec V Explication de quelques 


Passages dijjiciles du Vieux et du Nouveau Testament 
(Saumur, 1G59, 12mo): — Remarques sur le Texte de la 
Bible, ou Explication des Mots, des Phrases, et des Fi- 
gures dij) idles de la sainte Ecriture (Geneva, 16G7, 4to), 
a posthumous and highly esteemed work. See Haag, 
La France Protestaute. — Iloefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate, 
xxix, 907. 

Launoi, Jean de, a noted French Roman Catholic 
historian and canonist, was born at Yal-de-Sis, near Va- 
logne, Dee. 21, 1G03. lie studied at Constance and Par- 
is, where he was received magister in June, 1G34. In 
the same year lie entered the Church. He was highly 
esteemed among the learned men of his time. On a 
journey to Rome lie became the intimate friend of Luc 
llolstenius and Leo Allatius. His whole life was de- 
voted to the study of theology at the Sorbonne in Paris; 
he never sought any promotion, but preferred to serve 
his Church by his pen, which he wielded with great 
power and ability. He died at Paris March 10, 1G78. 
Moreri says of him; “The great number of his works, 
and the manner in which they are written, give ample 
evidence of his extensive reading and ready ability. 
But his style is neither ornate nor polished; lie uses 
awkward, obsolete expressions; handles his subjects very 
peculiarly ; and, if he overcomes his adversaries, he also 
tires his readers by the profusion of his quotations. He 
could not endure fables nor superstitions, and defended 
with great firmness the rights of the Church and of the 
king, which were endangered by the nltramontanes.” 
In a noble spirit of independence, he preferred expulsion 
from the Sorbonne rather than to indorse the condem- 
nation of Arnauld by that body, although be differed 
from that theologian in his views on grace. lie even 
went so far as to write against the Formulaire of the 
assembly of the clergy of 1G5G. He particularly distin- 
guished himself by his acumen in discovering the spu- 
riousness of most of the acts of the saints, as also of a 
number of ecclesiastical privileges. Dom Bonaventure, 
of Argonne, writes of him; “He is dangerous alike to 
heaven and to earth ; he has overthrown more saints in 
paradise than were canonized by any ten popes. He 
looked with suspicion on the whole martyrologia, and ex- 
amined the claims of the saints one after another, as they 
do in France about the nobility.” His writings are main- 
ly of a historico-critical nature, and in tendency apolo- 
getical in behalf of Gallicanism. The most important of 
them are, Syllabus rationum quibus caussa Durandi de 
modo covjuctionis concursuum Dei et event time, defendi- 
tur (Par. 1G3G, 8vo) : — De mente concilii Tridentini circa 
satisfy actionem in Sacramento pcenitentice (1G44), in which 
he maintains that the Council of Trent and the practice 
of the Church do not prove that satisfaction must pre- 
cede absolution : — Dc frequenti Confesmonis ct Eftch/ ins- 
tire usu (1653): — De comment itio Lazari, Magdatemr, 
Mart lac ac Maximini in prouinciam Appulsu (1GG0, 
8vo) : — De anctoritate negantis a rgumenti (Paris, 1G50 
and 16G2, 8vo), wherein he affirms he had himself seen 
at Sienna, in lG34.the statue of the popess Joanna placed 
between those of Leo IV and Benedict III. It produced 
quite a controversy, and abbot Thiers wrote against it 
Defensio adversus Joh.de Launoi in qua defensione Lau- 
noii fraudes calumnue, plagia, impost urce, etc. (Paris, 
1GG4): — De recta Niece ni canonis VI, et prout a Jlufino 
explicatur, Intelligentia : — De veteri Ciborum Delectu in 
jejvniis Christianorum : — Judicium de Auctore libri De 
Imitationc Christ i (Paris, 1649, 1650, 1652, 1663, 8vo). 
Launoi advocates the claim of Gersen. See Kempis, 
Thomas a: — De Cura Ecclesue pro Miser is et pauperi - 
j bus (Paris, 1663, 8 vo) : — Epistolic (Par. 1664-1673,8 vols. 
8vo ; Cambridge, 1689, 1 vol. folio) : — De vero A uctore 
jidei professionis quee Belagio Hieronymo, A ugustino tri- 
bui solet, in which he attempts to prove that Pelagius 
1 is the only author of the profession of faith attributed 
to Jerome ami Augustine : — Explicata Ecclesim Traditio 
circa canonem “ Omnis utri usque sexus” (Par. 1672, 8 vo), 
a highly-esteemed work : — Regia in Matrimonium Potes- 
tas, vel de jure scecularium pnneipum Christianorum in 


LAURA 


2T7 


LAURENTIUS 


sauciendis impedimentis matrimonium dirimentibus (Par. 

1674, 4to). This work was condemned at Rome, Dec. 
10, 1688, yet its principles were approved by a num- 
ber of the most distinguished theologians and jurists : — 
Venercimke Romance Ecclesice circa simonuim Traditio 
(Paris, 1675, 8 vo) : — De Sabbat ince bullce Privilegio et de 
Scapula Ctirmelttarum Soliditate: — In Privilegia or - 
dims Prcemonstratensis : — In Chartam immunitatis quam 
beatus Germanus , episcopus Parisiensis, suburbano mon- 
asterio dedisse fertur: — In privilegium quod Gregorius 
I us monasterio Sandi-M edardi Suessonensis dedisse dici- 
tur . In these works the author examines a number of 
rights and privileges which he considers as unfounded 
or unjust: — A treatise on the conception of the Virgin, 
in which he asserts that if an attempt were made to de- 
fine “the point of the conception of the Virgin by the 
Scriptures and tradition, it would be shown that she was 
conceived in sin.” The complete works of Launoi were 
published by abbot Granet (Geneva, 1731, 10 vols. fol.). 
See Dupin, Bibl. des Auteurs Ecclesiastiques, vol. xviii, 
34-62 ; Journal des Savants , anno 1664, 1665, 1667, 1668, 

1675, 1688, 1698, 1701, 1704, 1705, 1726, 1731 ; Bibl. sa- 
cree; Moreri, Grand Diction. Ilistorique ; Guy-Patin, 
Epist. ; Bavle, Diet. Critique , and X olivettes de la Repub - 
lique des Lettres ; Niceron, Memoires, vol. xxxii; Colo- 
mies, Recueil de Particula rites , p. 329; Reiser, Elogium 
Joannis Launoii (Lond. 1685) ; Hoefer, Xouv. Biog. Gene - 
rale, xxix, 912 sq. , Ilerzog, Real-Encyklop. viii, 230 sq. 

Laura ( collection of anchorites' cells'), a name given 
by Church historians to collections of cells, the habita- 
tions of hermits or monastics of the early days of the 
Church, but incorrectly used as a synonyme of monaste - 
rium, from which it greatly differs, inasmuch as the in- 
mates of the latter were coenobites, and held intercourse 
with each other, while those of the former lived apart, 
in seclusion. The holy tenants of a laura passed in 
solitude and silence five days in a week; their food 
was bread, water, and dates ; on Saturday and Sunday 
they received the sacrament, and messed together on 
broth and a small allowance of wine. Bingham states 
that when many of the cells of anchorets were placed 
together in the same wilderness, at some distance from 
one another, they were all called by one common name, 
laura, which, as Evagrius informs us (i, 21), differed 
from a coenobium in this, that a laura was many cells 
divided from each other, where every monk provided 
for himself; but a coenobium was but one habitation, 
where the monks lived in society, and had everything 
in common, Epiphanius ( Uteres . 69, 1) says Laura , or 
Labra, was the name of a street or district where a 
church stood in Alexandria; and it is probable that 
from this the name was taken to signify a multitude of 
cells in the wilderness, united, as it were, in a certain 
district, yet so divided as to make up many separate 
habitations. The most celebrated lauras were estab- 
lished in the East, especially in Palestine, as the laura 
of St. Euthymus, St. Saba, the laura of the towers, etc. 
— Eadie, Ecclesiast. Did. vol. i, s. v. See Monachism : 
Monastery. 

Laureate (from the Latin verb laureatus , crowned 
with the prize) was used of a^successful t heological can- 
didate, in ancient times, at the Scotch universities. — 
Buck, Theological Dictionary , s. v. 

Laurence, Richard, D.C.L., a distinguished Eng- 
lish prelate, was born at Bath in 1760; matriculated in 
the University of Oxford July 14, 1778, as an exhibi- 
tioner of Corpus Christ i College ; took the degree of B.A. 
April 10, 1782; that of M.A. July 9, 1785, and those of 
B. and D.C.L. June 27, 1794. Upon the appointment in 
1796 of his brother, Dr. French Laurence, to the regius 
professorship of civil law, he was made deputy professor 
at Oxford. In 1804 he preached the Bampton Lectures, 
and the reputation thence acquired secured for him from 
the archbishop of Canterbury the rectory of Mersham, 
Kent. In 1814 he was appointed to the ehair of regius 
professor of Hebrew, and to the canonry of Christ 


Church, Oxford, and in 1822 was elevated to the archi- 
episcopal see of Cashel. He died in Dublin .Dec. 28, 
1838. His most important works are his translations 
of certain apocryphal books of the O. T. from the Ethi- 
opic, accompanied by critical investigations: Ascensio 
Isaice Vatis, opusculum pseudepigraphum , multis abhinc 
sceculis, ut videtur, deperditurn, nunc autem apudJEthio- 
pas eompertum et cum versione Latina Anglicanaque 
publici juris factum (Oxon. 1819, 8vo) : — Primi Ezra, Li- 
bri, qui apud Yulgatum appellatur quartus versio JEthi- 
opica , nunc primo in medium prolata et Latine A nglice- 
que reddita (Oxon. 1820, 8vo). The translation is fol- 
lowed by general remarks upon the different versions of 
this book, its apocryphal character, the creed of its au- 
thor, and the probable period of its composition [see 
Esdras] : — The Book of Enoch the Prophet , an apocry- 
phal production, supposed to have been lost for ages, 
but discovered at the close of the last century in Abys- 
sinia, now first published from an Ethiopic MS. in the 
Bodleian Library (Oxford, 1821, 8vo; 3d ed. 1838) [see 
Enoch, Book of] : — also, Remarks on the systematical 
Classification of MSS. adopted by Griesbach in his Edi- 
tion of the Greek Testament (Oxf. 1814, 8vo) : — Disser- 
tation on the Logos of St.John (Oxf. 1808, 8vo) : — Criti- 
cal Reflections upon some important Misrepresentations 
contained in the Unitarian Version of the X. T. (Oxford, 
1811, 8vo) : — The Book of Job in the Words of the A.V., 
arranged and printed in conformity with the Masoretic 
text (Dublin, 1828, 8vo): — On the ' Existence of the Soul 
after Death (London, 1834, 8vo). This work, written in 
opposition to Priestley, Law, and their respective follow- 
ers, discusses the usage of the terras KoipdaSat and 
Sheol, and enters into the critical examination of vari- 
ous scriptural narratives: — An Attempt to illustrate those 
Articles of the Church of England which the Calvinists 
improperly consider as Calvinistical (seven sermons 
preached as Bampton Lectures, Oxford, 1838, 8vo) ; and 
several sermons on the doctrine of A tonement (Oxford, 
1810, 8vo), Baptismal Regeneration (1815, 8vo), and on 
Baptism (1838, 8vo). See Kitto, Bibl. Cyclop, vol. ii, s. 
v. ; Allibone, Did. Brit, and A m. A uth. vol. ii, s. v. ; Loud. 
Gentl. Mag. 1839, pt. i, p. 205 sq. ; Darling, Cyclop. Bibli- 
ograph. vol. ii, s. v, 

Laurentius, anti-pope, lived about 460-520. He 
was archdeacon of a Church in Rome, and was opposed 
to Symmaehus, who in 498 was elected successor of 
Anastasius II in the papal chair. This schism created 
much disturbance in the city, Festus and Probinus, two 
of the most influential senators, siding with Laurentius. 
Both parties finally agreed to submit their difficulty to 
the decision of Theodoric, king of the Goths, though an 
Arian. He decided in favor of Symmaehus, and Lau- 
rentius, having withdrawn his claim, was made bishop 
of Nocera. But as he subsequently created new dis- 
turbances, and was, whether justly or unjustly is not 
known, accused of Eutychianism, he was deposed by the 
Svnodus Palmaris (501), and died an exile. See Anas- 
tasius, Vita Pontif. ; Baronius, A nnales ; Plotina, Vita 
PontiL Roman.; Hoefer, Xouv. Biog. Generale, xix, 927. 
(J.N.r., 

Laurentius, a noted prelate of the early English 
Church (Anglo - Saxon period), flourished in the first 
half of the 7th century (A.D. 605) as successor of St. 
Augustine — suggested for the archbishopric by Augus- 
tine himself. Under the reign of Eadbald,the successor 
of Ethclbcrt, when England was in danger of a return 
to heathenish practices by Eadbald’s marriage of his 
own mother-iu-law, Laurentius shrewdly managed af- 
fairs for the benefit of Christianity ; he induced the king 
to renounce his incestuous marriage, and to embrace the 
Christian faith. See Churton, 1 list. Early Engl. Church , 
p. 41 sq. ; Mosheim, Eccles. Hist. bk. ii. cent, vii, pt. i, ch. 
i, § 2, and note (5). 

Laurentius, St., according to tradition, was a dis- 
ciple of pope Sixtus II (257-258), who received him 
among the seven Roman deacons, and afterwards made 1 


LAUREN TIUS VALLA 


2VS 


LAVALETTE 


liim archdeacon. When tlie pope, during the persecu- 
tion of the Christians by Valerian, was led out to suffer 
martyrifom, Latirentius wished to accompany him, and 
to share bis fate ; but Sixtus prevented hirn, prophesying 
to him at the same time that lie would be called upon 
to endure even greater sufferings for the cause of Chris- 
tianity, and that he would follow him within three days. 
The omen was fulfilled ; the Roman governor had heard 
of treasures belonging to the Christian Church, and 
wished to obtain possession of them. He desired Lau- 
rentius to reveal them to him. Laurentius seemed to 
comply, and was allowed to depart. Soon the cour- 
ageous young disciple of Christ returned, accompanied 
by a crowd of paupers, cripples, and sick, whom he pre- 
sented to the governor, saying, “These are our treas- 
ures.” This was regarded as an insult, and in punish- 
ment he was condemned to be slowly roasted alive in an 
iron chair. Laurentius underwent this martyrdom with 
resignation and cheerfulness, lie is said to have been 
buried in the Via Tiburtina. The pope Leo I said of 
him that lie was as great an honor to Rome as Stephen 
to Jerusalem, and Augustine that the crown of Lauren- 
tius can as little be hidden as the city of Rome itself. 
Under Constantine a church was erected over the place 
where his remains were supposed to be (St i. Laurentii 
extra mums); another church dedicated to him is St. 
Laurentii in Jhtmctso . He is commemorated on the 10th 
of August. The earliest accounts of his martyrdom are 
to be found in Ambros. De ojjic. ministr. i, 41 ; ii,28. The 
most glowing account of him is Prndentius’s Ilymn. in 
Luur. (Prudentius, Peristeph.'). — Herzog, Real-Encyklop. 
viii, 232 ; Wetzer und Welte, Kirchen-Lcx. vi, 305. 

Laurentius Valla, a distinguished humanist, was 
born at Rome in 1415. He was still young when the 
reaction against scholasticism set in, and took an active 
part in the conflict. He attacked the authenticity of 
Constantine the Great’s deed of donation in his Defalso 
credit a et ementita Constant ini donatione Declamatio , as 
also all the other improved assertions of the theologians. 
Thus he rpiestioned the origin of the so-called Apostles’ 
Creed, pointed out the faults contained in the old Latin 
versions of the Rible, and applied philological exegesis 
to the New Testament. It is no wonder that by such a 
course he gained many enemies, especially among the 
clergy, who denounced him as an infidel. He was com- 
pelled to leave Rome, and retired to the court of Al- 
phonse, king of Naples, who, though fifty years of age, 
now commenced to study Latin under Valla’s tuition. 
Here, however, he commenced anew his arguments on 
the Trinity, free will, the vows of continence, and other 
delicate questions, and was therefore accused of heresy 
by the ecclesiastical authorities. King Alphonse suc- 
ceeded in saving his life, but could not prevent his be- 
ing whipped publicly around the convent of St. Jacob. 
Valla then returned to Rome, where lie found a protector 
in pope Nicholas V, who gave him permission to teach, 
and granted him a salary. Here again he entered into 
a most violent controversy with Poggi. He died at 
Rome in 1 157. His works, in which he attacks scho- 
lastic theology more with the weapons of common sense 
than of philosophy, are especially directed against Aris- 
totle and Poet ins, whom he considers as the founders of 
the scholastic dialect. He looked upon the evidences 
of Christianity as a result of sane human reason, which, 
in its development, has become participant in the divine 
revelation. Rut he was far from attempting to inquire 
further into these revelations by analyzing their mvste- 
ries. lie says that there are many things we cannot 
know, and that we must respect the mystery with which 
it has pleased God to surround them. II is tendency is 
eminently practical; according to him there is no Vir- 
tue without faith, and all without it is but sinfulness. 
Where hope no longer points to higher and eternal 
happiness, nothing can remain but the false honesty of 
the stoic, or the material sense of the epicure. Without 
hope of a future life there can be no virtue, only mis- 
ery ; the peace and inner satisfaction of which philoso- 


phers boast are but falsehoods. True virtue is undeni- 
ably above worldly desires— it is the chief requisite of 
happiness; but it must be Christian virtue, not that of 
the philosophers. Among his works are to be noticed 
Elegantim Latiui sermonis (Venice, 1471, G vols. fob ; Par. 
1575, 4to) : — l)e libero arbitrio : — De voluptate ac de vero 
bono libriiii: — Eabulce et facet ice ; and especially the 
above JJe falso credita et ementita Constantini donatione 
declamatio. llis collected works were published at Basle 
in 1540, folio, and at AAmice in 1592. See H. Ritter, 
Geschichtc d. Christ!. Philosophic , v, 243-2G1 ; Herzog, 
Real-Encyklop. viii, 232, 233 , Wetzer u. Welte, Kirchen- 
Lex. vi, 3GG. 

Lauria, Francis Laurent Brancate de, an Ital- 
ian theologian, was born at Lauria, in the kingdom of 
Naples, in 1G11. lie joined the Franciscans, was made 
cardinal by Innocent XI in 1 G-S7, and died at Rome 
Nov. 30, 1G93. He wrote commentaries on the four 
books of Scot’s sentences (8 vols. folio) : — Derota laudis 
ad sanctissimam Trinitcitem Oratio (Rome, 1G95, 12mo): 
— De Pnvdestinatione et Reprobatione (Rome, 1G88, 4to; 
Rouen, 1715). In this last work he defended Augus- 
tine’s doctrine on grace against the Moliuists and Jan- 
senists. See Perennes, Biographic Chretienne et Anti- 
Chretienne ; Joannes a Sancto-Antonio, Riblioth. Fran - 
ciscana. — lloefer, Xouv, Biog. Gen. xxix, 939. (J. N. P.) 

Latirie, James, D.D., a Presbyterian minister, was 
bom Feb. 11, 1778, in Edinburgh, Scotland, where he 
also received his education. lie was licensed in 1800, 
and continued to preach in his native country for two 
years, after which he came to America, having been pre- 
viously ordained. In 1803 he was installed pastor of the 
Associate Reformed Congregation, and was instrumen- 
tal in the establishment of the first place of Protestant 
worship in Washington, D. C. He was employed also 
during his ministry as a clerk in the register’s office of 
the Treasury, lie died April 18, 1853. lie published 
A Sermon. — Sprague, A nnals, iv, 314. 

Lavacrum. See Font; Lavatory. 

Laval, Francois de Montmorency, a noted prel- 
ate of the Roman Catholic Church, was born at Laval, 
France, March 23, 1G22, and early decided for the priest- 
hood. He was ordained priest at Paris Sept. 23, 1045; 
became archdeacon of Evrenx in 1G53, and bishop of 
Petrea and vicar apostolic of New France in 1G58. In 
the year following he went to Quebec and assumed the 
government of that see : while there, founded the Semi- 
nary of Quebec in 1GG3, and in lGGG consecrated the pa- 
rochial church of Quebec. He returned to France in 
1074. In 1 388, however, he returned again, and retired 
to the seminary he had founded, and to t his school made 
over all his private possessions, lie died at Quebec 
A I ay 6, 1708. Laval is said to have exercised as pow- 
erful an influence over the civil as he did over the ec- 
clesiastical affairs of the colony. See Drake, Dictionary 
of American Biography , s. v. 

Lavalette, Anthony de, a French Jesuit, who be- 
came the indirect cause of the suppression of his order 
in France in 17G4, was born near Valbres Oct. 21,1707. 
He entered the society at Toulouse Oct. 10, 1725; was 
for a time professor at Pny and Rodez. and was ordained 
priest in 1740. In 1741 he went to Martinique, where 
lie had at first the care of a parish ; then became admin- 
istrator of the mission, and was intrusted with all its 
temporal concerns. Appointed general of the Jesuits’ 
mission in South America in 1754, he indulged in wild 
commercial speculations for the purpose of cancelling 
the debts of the mission, hut they all failed; lie became 
bankrupt, and bad to leave the country. He retired to 
England, was disowned by the society, and died some 
time after 17G2. The society was sued by his creditors, 
blit declined any responsibility for his engagements con- 
tracted without the consent or knowledge of his superi- 
ors; the question was referred to Parliament, which de- 
cided against tin* Jesuits. The sums claimed amounted 
to five million francs. On the 8th of May, 1701, the Jes- 


LAVATER 


279 


LAVATER 


uits were condemned to pay the whole amount and costs; | 
and on Aug. 6, 1761, their institution itself was attacked 
as illegal, and as contrary to the interest of the country. 
This finally led to the suppression of the order in France 
by an edict of Nov. 1764. See Senac de Meilhan, De la 
Destruction des Jesuites en France , in the.' Melanges d'f/is- 
toire et de Litterature, published by Crawford, and in the 
appendix to the Memoires de Mme. du llausset; Kanke, 
Hist, of the Papacy , ii, 296 sq. ; Hocfer, Nouv. Biog. Ge- 
nerate, xxix, 973. 

Lavater, Johann Kaspar, a noted Swiss the- 
ologian and preacher, one of the most interesting men 
of the last century, was born at Zurich Nov. 15, 1741. 
Ilis father, Henry Lavater, was doctor of medicine and 
member of the government of Zurich. His mother, 
whose maiden name was Begula Esclier, was a woman 
of marked character and extraordinary gifts. His child- 
hood was not marked by any great signs of promise as i 
a student, but lie had a decided tendency to religion, 1 
anil a great predilection for singing hymns and reading ! 
the Bible. It was while at school in Zurich that lie 
conceived the idea of becoming a minister of the Gos- 
pel. In 1755 Lavater entered the college in his native 
city. In 1759 he began his theological studies, and in 
1762 was ordained a minister. In consequence of com- 
plications in the political affairs of his country, he trav- 
elled in company with the celebrated painter Fuseli, 
and successively visited the universities of Leipsic and 
Berlin. He also visited Barth, in Pomerania, for the 
theological advice of the celebrated provost Spalding. 
In 1764 he returned to his native place, and occupied 
himself with the duties of the ministerial office and 
Biblical studies, lie also wrote some poetry, inspired 
by the poetical productions of Bodmer and Klopstock. 
In 1766 he married Miss Anna Schinz, the daughter 
of a highly respectable merchant. As the result of 
his study of Bodmer and Klopstock, he published in 
1767 his Sclnceitzerlieder , containing his finest poems, 
which was followed by his Avssichten in die Ewigkeit 
(1768-73, 3 vols.),the first of a series of works in which 
he maintained the perpetuity of miracles, the irresisti- 
bility of prayer, and the necessity for every person to 
conceive of God as manifested in Christ crucified in or- 
der to be really alive to himself. The last doctrine was 
called his Christomania. In 1769 Lavater was made 
deacon of the Orphan-house Church at Zurich, where 
the extraordinary effect of his sermons, his blameless 
life, and benevolent disposition made him the idol of 
his congregation, while his printed sermons sent forth 
his fame to distant parts. It was reserved, however, 
for his Physiognomische Fragments zur Befurdernng der 
Mensch enkenntn iss vnd J lenschenliebe (Leipsic, 1775-78) 
to extend his celebrity generally. This work, which 
has often been reprinted and translated (best by Dr. II. 
Hunter, London, 1789-98, 5 vols. royal 4to), was the first 
elaborate attempt to reduce physiognomy to a science. 
Having in early life been acquainted with a large num- 
ber of eminent men, he had observed corresponding 
points of resemblance in their minds as well as their 
features, and from a disposition to generalize lie was 
led to adopt a fixed system, and wrote this work in 
the hope that it might promote greatly the welfare of 
mankind, an elfort in which he moderately succeeded. 
He illustrated it with numerous engravings and vign- 
ettes, and it is superior in respect of paper and typog- 
raphy to any book previously issued from the German 
press. Lavater had remarkable powers of observation, 
and skill in detecting character. He differed from all 
who had preceded him in this science. In order to form 
an opinion of the character from the face, he required 
to see the face at rest — in sleep or in an unconscious 1 
state. “The greater part of the physiognomists,” he 
says, “ speak only of the passions, or rather of the ex- 
terior signs of the passions, and the expression of them 
in the muscles. But these exterior signs are only tran- 
sient circumstances, which are easily discoverable. It 
has therefore always been my object to consider the 


general and fundamental character of the man. from 
which, according to the state of his exterior circum- 
stances and relations, all his passions arise as from a 
root.” Lavatcr’s “ Fragmente” gave rise to considerable 
discussion, and occasioned general excitement. He was 
visited at Zurich by throngs of eminent and curious per- 
sons, whose character he usually judged with great sa- 
gacity; at a glance he recognised Neckcr, Mirabeau, 
and Mercier. In 1775 he was elevated to the pastorate 
of the Orphan-house; in 1778 was elected second pas- 
tor of St. Peter’s Church in Zurich, and in 1786 he was 
called to fill the position of chief pastor, made vacant by 
the death of his associate. When the French Involu- 
tion broke out Lavater was a zealous partisan of it, but 
the execution of Louis XY1 made him turn in disgust 
from the Bcpublican party, anil in 1798, when the French 
took possession of Switzerland, he protested against their 
ravages in a publication addressed to the Directory, en- 
titled “Words of a free Swiss to a great Nation,” which, 
on account of its high-toned courage, gained the ap- 
plause of all Europe. This work was addressed, under 
his own name, to Beubcl,a member of the French gov- 
ernment at that time, but was printed without his co- 
operation, and more than a hundred thousand copies 
circulated. At the same time he gave a thrilling dis- 
course from his pulpit from the words, “Let every soul 
be subject unto the higher powers. For there is no 
power but of God,” etc. (Bom. xiii, 1-4). This, as may 
be supposed, produced an indescribable excitement. The 
Swiss Directory at first resolved upon his banishment. 
Difficulties were in the way of carrying out this rigid 
measure, and the decree was changed to suspension from 
his office. This, too, was prevented by his friends, and 
finally he received only a gentle expression of disap- 
proval. A few months later, however, while away from 
home for his health, he was seized and carried prisoner 
to Basic, on the charge of conspiracy against the French, 
but was released, after a confinement of several weeks, 
for want of evidence. On his return to Zurich he re- 
newed his pastoral labors, and opposed with all his en- 
ergies the oppressive measures of the French Directory. 

. On the 26th of September, 1799, after the French had 
I taken possession of Zurich, as Lavater was standing near 
his own house and trying to pacify some disorderly sol- 
diers with money, he received a gun-shot from one of 
them, which, though it healed for a time, finally proved 
fatal. The last year of his life was one of great bodily 
suffering, occasioned by his wound, which he bore with 
Christian patience, praying for the man who had wound- 
ed him. He desired that the culprit shoidd not be ar- 
rested. “ I would, with all my severe pain, have much 
more sorrow if 1 knew that any punishment were done 
to him, for he certainly knew not what he did.” lie at 
the same time inscribed some beautiful poetical lines to 
him. During the intervals of suffering his mental ac- 
tivity continued unabated. lie was never idle. When 
travelling or taking daily exercise, and even at his 
meals, he always had a pencil and paper, that lie might 
write down any new thought that might suggest itself. 
He wrote, during this period of his life, several small 
works or poems. Among them were “ Zurich at the be- 
ginning of the Nineteenth Century;” “Swan Song, or 
Last Thoughts of a Departing One oil Jesus of Nazareth 
and Memorial Leaves.” The latter lie desired to be given 
after his death, as little legacies, to his friends. Lava- 
ter’s relation to his Hock was always of the most inti- 
mate character, as is evinced by his request, not long 
before his death, to be afforded one more opportunity to 
speak to his beloved congregation, and partake with 
them of the holy sacrament. He was carried to his 
much-loved Church, where he met a large assembly of 
devoted and sorrowing people. One who was present 
on the occasion wrote: “His face was tilled with ear- 
nestness and love, by which, though death could be read 
in every one of his features, he seemed to be reflecting 
the very glory of heaven.” When lie was no longer 
able to sit up and hold his pen, he dictated to an aman- 


LAYATER 


280 


LAYER 


uensis. On the last evening of the old year, while ly- 
ing in bed, and his friends were obliged to stand very 
near to understand him, he dictated some lines (German 
hexameters) to be read the following day to his congre- 
gation. He died the 2d of January, 1801. 

Lavater was one of the most remarkable men of his 
time. He had an original mind, and was a true philos- 
opher. He wrote with acceptance on a great variety 
of subjects, and on none more effectively than on ques- 
tions of theology. Among those who knew him best, 
lie was distinguished more by his moral traits than by 
his intellectual gifts; by his purity of heart, his deep 
humility, his fervent piety, his Christian charity and 
zeal for mankind. A more thoroughly good man and 
devoted Christian the annals of literature do not exhib- 
it. Goethe at one time said of him, “lie is the best, 
greatest, -wisest, sincerest of all mortal and immortal 
men that 1 know.” lie always firmly clung to his pe- 
culiar religious views, “ which were a mixture of new 
interpretations with ancient orthodoxy, and mystical 
even to superstition. One leading article of his faith 
was a belief in the sensible manifestation of supernatural 
powers. His disposition to give credence to the mirae- 
idous led him to believe the strange pretensions of many 
individuals, such as the power to exorcise devils, to per- 
form cures by animal magnetism, etc. Some even sus- 
pected him of Roman Catholicism. Thus, while his 
mystical tendency rendered him an object of ridicule to 
the party called the enlightened (Aufgekliirte), the fa- 
vor he showed to many new institutions offended the 
religionists of the old school” {Engl. Cyclop . s. v.). Yet 
withal, many of the religious world, even of those not 
immediately belonging to his congregation, regarded 
Lavater with great veneration, and those who were 
entertained by a correspondence with him found his 
letters the great source of their spiritual consolation. 
His biography by his son-in-law Gessner ( Lebensbe - 
schreibung Lavaters ), by far the most complete, appeared 
in 1802 (3 vols. 8vo), and an excellent selection from his 
works by Orelli (Zurich, 1841-44,8 vols. 8vo). See Ap- 
pleton’s Xew A merican Cyclopedia, s. v. ; Hedge, Prose 
Writers of Germany (Philadel. 1848), p. 187-189; Anna 
Lavater , or Picture of Swiss Pastoral Life in the Last 
Century (Cincinnati, 1870); 1 Iagenbaeh, History of the 
Church in the 18/A and 19 th Centuries (New York, 1869) ; 
Bodemann, Lavater (1856) ; Nitzsch, Lavater u. Gellert 
(1857); Ueber Lavater' s, Herder's, und Sckleiermacher's 
Kirchengeschichtliche Bedeutung, in the Allgem. Kirchen- 
zeit. 1856, No. 91 sq.; and the excellent article by Schen- 
kel, in Herzog, Ileal- Encyklop. viii, 233 sq. 

Lavater, Louis, a Swiss Protestant theologian, 
was born at Kybourg March 1, 1527. He went to Stras- 
burg in 1515, and there became intimately acquainted 
with the theologians Bucer and Sturm. lie afterwards 
removed to Paris, and studied theology with Turnebiis, 
Ramus, and Lambin. After visiting italy he returned 
to Zurich, where he became archdeacon and canon in 
1550, and finally head pastor in 1585. lie died July 
15, 1586. His principal works are, De IHtibus et Insti- 
tute cedes itc Tigurine (Zurich, 1559, 8 vo): — Historia 
de origine ct progressu Controversue Sacra mcntariie de 
Cana Domini (Zurich, 1563 and 1572, 8vo) :—De Sj)ec - 
tris, Lemur ibus et magnis atque insolitis fragoribus et 
prasagit ionibus qnce obitum hominum , clades , mutatio- 
nesqne imperiorum pnreedunt (Zur. 1570, 12mo; trans- 
lated into most European languages): — Vom Leben w. 
Tod Heinrich Bollingers (Zurich, 1576); and a number 
of exegetieal and devotional works. See Adam, Yitce 
Theolog. German ; Verhegden, Elogia ; llottinger, Bibl. 
Tigunna. — Hoofer, Xour. Biog. Generate, xxix, 994. 

Lavatory (Lat. lavatorinni), a cistern or trough to 
wash in. There was usually a lavatory in the cloisters 
of monastic establishments, at whiclHlie inmates washed 
their hands and faces, also the surplices and other vest- 
ments; some are still extant. This name is also given 
to the piscvia (q. v.). In the south of Germany the 



lavatory is an important feature resembling a baptis- 
tery; it is a separate chamber, square or octagonal, 
standing on one side of the cloister-court, with a reser- 
voir of water or a fountain in the middle, and water- 
troughs around the sides for washing at. — Parker, Glos- 
sary, s. v. 

Laver (“T^S and ‘"1*3, kiyor\ prop, a basin for boil- 
ing in, and so signifying a “ pan” for cooking, 1 Sam. ii, 
14; or a fire-pan, “hearth,” Zech. xii, 6; also a pulpit 
or “scaffold” of similar form for a rostrum, 2 Chron. vi, 
13; elsewhere spoken of the sacred wash-bowl of the 
tabernacle and Temple, Exod. xxx, 18, 28; xxxi, 9; 
xxxv, 16; xxxviii, 8; xxxix, 39; xl, 7, 11, 30; Lev. 
viii, 11 ; 2 Kings xvi, 17 ; plur. fern. 1 Kings vii, 30, 38, 
40, 43; plural masc, 2 Chron. iv, 6, 14; Sept. Xo vrijp, 
Yulg. labrujii), a basin to contain the water used by the 
priests in their ablutions during their sacred ministra- 
tions. This was of two sorts in different periods. 

1. The original one was fabricated at the divine com- 
mand (Exod. xxx, 18) of brass ( copper , Pw'n;, see 
Bahr, Symbolic, i, 484, 485; Miehaelis, Soc. Gott. com- 
ment. iv; Umbreit, in the Studien und Kritiken , 1843, p. 
157), out of the metal mirrors which the women brought 
from Egypt (Exod. xxxviii, 8). The notion held by 
some Jewish writers, and reproduced by Franzius, Biihr 
{Symb. i, 484), and others, founded on the omission of 
the word “women,” that the brazen vessel, being pol- 
ished, served as a mirror to the Levites, is untenable. 
(See the parallel passage, 1 Sam. ii, 22, where £**23, 
yni'aucwi', is inserted; Gesenius on the prep. 2, p. 172; 
Keil, Bibl. Arch. pt. i, c. 1, § 19; Glassius, Phil. Sacr. i, 
580, ed. Dathe; Liglitfoot, Descr. Tempi, c. 37, 1 ; Jen- 
nings, Jeu\ Antiq . p, 302 ; Knobel, Kurtzg, Exeg. Ilandb. 
Exod. xxxviii ; Philo, Vit. Mos. iii, 15; ii, 156, ed. Man- 
gey.) Its size and shape are not given, but it is thought 
to have been circular. It contained water wherewith 
the priests were to wash their hands and their feet 
whenever they entered the tabernacle, or came near to 
the altar to minister (Exod. xl, 32). It stood in the 
court between the altar and the door of the tabernacle, 
and, according to Jewish tradition, a little to the south 
(Exod. xxx, 19, 21 ; Reland, Ant. Ilebr. pt. i, ch. iv, 9; 
Clemens, De Labro yEneo, iii, 9; ap. Ugolini Thes. xix). 
It rested on a basis ("2, ken. Sept. /3dcn<;), i. e. a foot, 
though by some explained to be a cover (Clemens, ibid. 
c. iii, 5), of copper or brass, which was likewise made 
from the same mirrors of the women who assembled at 
the door of the tabernacle court (Exod. xxxviii, 8). 
This “foot” seems, from the distinct mention constantly 
made of it, to have been something more than a mere 
stand or support. Probably it formed a lower basin to 
catch the water which flowed, through taps or other- 
wise, from the laver. The priests could not have w ashed 
in the laver itself, as all the water would have been 


LAYER 


281 


LAVER 


thereby defiled, and so would have had to be renewed 
for each ablution. The Orientals, in their washings, 
make use of a vessel with a long spout, and wash at the 
stream which issues from thence, the waste water being 
received in a basin which is placed underneath. See 
Ablution. It has therefore been suggested that they 
held their hands and feet under streams that flowed 
from the laver, and that the “foot” caught the water 
that fell. As no mention is made of a vessel whereat 
to wash the parts of the victims offered in sacrifice, it 
is presumed that the laver served this purpose also. 
The Jewish commentators state (perhaps referring, how- 
ever, to the later vessels in the Temple) that any kind 
of water might be used for the laver, but that the water 
must be changed every day. They also mention that 
ablution before entering the tabernacle was in no case 
dispensed with. A man might be perfectly clean, might 
be quite free from any ceremonial impurity, and might 
even have washed his hands and feet before he left 
home, but still he could by no means enter the taberna- 
cle without previous ablution at the laver. “In the 
account of the offering by the woman suspected of adul- 
tery there is mention made of ‘holy water’ mixed with 
dust from the floor of the tabernacle, which the woman 
was to drink according to certain rites (Numb, v, 17). 
Most probably this was water taken from the laver. 
Perhaps the same should be said of the ‘water of puri- 
fying’ (Numb, viii, 7), which was sprinkled on the Le- 
vites on occasion of their consecration to the service of 
the Lord in the tabernacle” (Fairbairn). Like the other 
vessels belonging to the tabernacle, the laver was, to- 
gether with its “foot,” consecrated with oil (Lev. viii, 
10, 11). No mention is found in the Hebrew text of 
the mode of transporting it, but in Numb, iv, 14 a pas- 
sage is added in the Sept., agreeing with the Samaritan 
Pent, and the Samaritan version, which prescribes the 
method of packing it, viz. in a purple cloth, protected 
by a skin covering. See Tabeknacle. 

2. In the Temple of Solomon, when the number of both 
priests and victims had greatly increased, ten lavers 
were used for the sacrifices, and the molten sea for the 
personal ablutions of the priests (2 Chron. iv, G). These 
lavers are more minutely described than that of the 
tabernacle. These likewise were of copper (“brass”), 
raised on bases (ni;i^, from to “stand upright,” 
Gesenius, 77<esa?/r. p. GG5, G70, Sept.Gneeizes 
Yulg. bases') (1 Kings vii, 27, 39), five on the north and 
south sides respectively of the court of the priests. They 
were used for washing the animals to be offered in burnt- 
offerings (2 Chron. iv, G). Josephus (A nt. viii, 3, G) 
gives no distinct account of their form. Ahaz mutila- 
ted the laver, and removed it from its base (2 Kings 
xvi, 17). Whether Ilezekiali restored the parts cut off 
is not stated, but in the account of the articles taken by 
the Chahkeans from the Temple only the bases are 
mentioned (2 Kings xxv, 1G ; Jer. lii, 17 ; Josephus 
omits even these, A nt. x, 8, 5). 

“The dimensions of the bases, with the lavers, as 
given in the Hebrew text, are four cubits in length and 
breadth, and three in height. The Sept, gives 4 by 4, 
and G in height. Josephus, who appears to have fol- 
lowed a various reading of the Sept., makes them five in 
length, four in width, and six in height (1 Kings vii, 28 ; 
Thenius, ad loc. ; Josephus, Ant. viii, 3, 3). There were 
to each four wheels of one and a half cubit in diameter, 
with spokes, etc., all cast in one piece. The principal 
parts requiring explanation may be thus enumerated: 
(a) ‘ Borders’ Sept. avyicXtifTpaTa, Vulgate 

sculpture ? ), probably panels. Gesenius ( Thesanr. p. 938) 
supposes these to have been ornaments like square 
shields, with engraved work. (b) ‘ Ledges’ 
i^iXopiva, juncture v, from ‘ to cut in notches,’ 

Gesenius, p. 1411), joints in corners of bases or fillets 
covering joints, (c) ‘Additions’ (r’v?, from !"nb, ‘ to 
twine,’ Gesenius, p. 74G; ^wpat, lora, whence Thenius 


suggests Xwpoi or Xiopa as the true reading), probably 
festoons ; Lightfoot translates ‘ margines oblique de- 
scendentes.’ ((/) ‘Plates’ (E^JHp, TTpoexovra, axes, Ge- 
senius, p. 972; Lightfoot, massee eereee tetragona), prob- 
ably axles, cast in the same piece as the wheels, (e) 
‘Undersetters’ (r'STS, wpiai, humeruli , Gesen. p. 724), 
either the naves of the wheels, or a sort of handles for 
moving the whole machine; Lightfoot renders ‘ column as 
fulcientes lavacrum.’ (/) ‘Naves’ (CHillEM, modioli). 
( 9 ) ‘Spokes’ (C-’p’i’n, radii; the two words combined 
in the Sept. i) 7rpaypareia, Gesen. p. 53G; Schleusner, 
Lex. V. T. 7 Tpayp..). (k) ‘Felloes’ ( C ^ 25 , vwtoi, cantki, 
Gesen. p. 25G). (*) ‘ Chapiter’ (H'HIPS, KtebaXig, summi - 

tas, Gesen. p. 725), perhaps the rim of the circular open- 
ing (‘mouth,’ 1 Kings vii, 31) in the convex top. (/.*) 
A ‘round compass’ (-“'-0 Gesenius, p. 935, 989; 
trrnoyyvXov KvicXtfj ; rotunditas), perhaps the convex 
roof of the base. To these parts Josephus adds chains, 
which may probably be the festoons above mentioned 
(Ant. viii, *3, G). 



Conjectural Diagram of the Laver. (After Thenius.) 

a, borders ; b, ledges; e, additions ; cf, plnles; e, underseiters; /, naves; g, 
spoke 6 , h, felloes; i, chapiter; k, round compass. 

“Thenius, with whom Keil in the main agrees, both of 
them differing from Ewald, in a minute examination of 
the whole passage, but not without some transposition, 
chiefly of the greater part of ver. 31 to ver. 35, deduces a 
construction of the bases and lavers, which seems fairly 
to reconcile the very great difficulties of the subject. Fol- 
lowing chiefly his description, we may suppose the base 
to have been a quadrangular hollow frame, connected 
at its corners by pilasters (ledges), and moved by four 
wheels or high castors, one at each corner, with handles 
(plates) «for drawing the machine. The sides of this 
frame were divided into three vertical panels or com- 
partments (borders), ornamented with bass-reliefs of 
lions, oxen, and cherubim. The top of the base was 
convex, with a circular opening of one and a half cubit 
diameter. The top itself was covered with engraved 
cherubim, lions, and palm-trees or branches. The 
height of the convex top from the upper plane of the 
base was one and a half cubit, and the space between 
this top and the lower surface of the laver one and a 


LAVERTY 


282 


LAVIXGTOX 


half cubit more. The laver rested on supports (under- 
setters) rising from the four corners of the base. Each 
laver contained 40 ‘baths’ (Gr, \uag), or about 300 gal- 
lons. Its dimensions, therefore, to be in proportion to 
seven feet (four cubits, ver. 38) in diameter, must have 
been about thirty inches in depth. The great height 
of the whole machine was doubtless in order to bring it 
near the height of the altar (2 Citron, iv, 1 ; Arias Mon- 
tanus, I)e Templi Fabrica , in Crit. Sac. viii, 020 ; Light- 
foot, Uescr. Templi , c. xxxvii, 3, vol. i, p. 040 ; Thenius, in 
Kurzy. Exey. IJandb. on 1 Kings vii, and Append, p. 41 ; 
Ewald, Geschichte , iii, 313 ; Keil. Ilandb. der Uibl. A rch. 
§ 24, p. 128, 123)” (Smith). Mr. Paine, in his work 
on Solomon's Temple (plate xii, tig. 5), gives the follow- 
ing conjectural view of one of these lavers, which is 
more compact, less likely to be overturned, and more 
closely analogous to the form of the great or molten sea 



(q. v.). Yet in neither of these figures does the “ base,” 
with its chest-like form and inconvenient height, seem 
at all adapted to the above purpose of catching the 
waste water, or of aiding in any way the ablutions, un- 
less the laver itself were furnished with a spout, and the 
box b low formed a tank with openings on the top for 
receiving the stream after it had served its cleansing 
purpose. The portable form was doubtless for conven- 
ience of replenishing and emptying. 

3. in the second Temple there appears to have been 
only one laver of brass (Mishnn, Middoth. iii, ti), with 
twelve instead of two stop-cocks, and a machine for 
raiding water and tilling it (Mishna, Tumid, iii, 8; com- 
pare i, 4, Znma, iii, 10). Of its size or shape we have 
no information, but it was probably like those of Solo- 
mon’s Temple. Josephus, in his description of Herod’s 
Temple ( War. v, 5). scarcely alludes to this laver. See 
11. G. Clemens, l)e Libra erneo (Utr. 1725 ^ also in Ugo- 
lini Thi s mr. xix): Lamy, De tube mac. feed, iii, f>, 7, p. 
430 sq., and table 16; Yilalpaudus, On Ezek. li, p. 402; 
L'Enipereur in Surenhusius’s Mischna, v, 330 ; Schaacht, 
Animadr. ad I ken. antiq. p. 207 sq. ; Ziillig, Cherubim- 
V'Uf/m, 1). 50 sq. ; Griineisen, in the Stnttyart. Kunstbl. 
1831, No. 5 sq. ; A. Clants, Scription. biblic. (Groningen, 
1733), p, G5 , Scacchi, Afyroth. sacr. elnochrism. p. 41 ■, 
and the various commentators on the passages of Scrip- 
ture, especially lhrsennUiller, and Ilengstenberg’s Pent at. 
ii, 133. See Temrle. 

Laverty, William W., an American Presbyterian 
minister, was born in Union County, l*a., June 15, 1828; 
was educated at Washington College, l J a. (class of 1840), 
and studied theology in Princeton Theological Semi- 
nary. lu the fall of 1853 he was ordained and installed 
pastor of Pig Spring and New Cumberland churches. 
Ohio. In connection with his ministerial duties he also 
tilled the position of principal of Hagerstown Academy. 
In 1857 he accepted the pastorate of the Wells ville and 


1 East Liverpool churches, Ohio, and in the spring of 1864 
he was elected principal of Mongolia Academy, at Mor- 
gantown, West Va., where he died Oct. 28, 1865. Mr. 
Laverty was especially adapted to the training and in- 
struction of youth, and he always devoted himself with 
untiring assiduity to whatever he undertook. — Wilson, 
Presb. Historical Almanac, 1866, p. 167. 

Lavialle, Ptekre Joseph, a Boman Catholic prelate, 
was born in Mauriac, France, in 1820, and received both 
a collegiate and theological education in the universities 
of his native city. In 1843 he came to the United 
States, and was ordained priest the following year. Af- 
ter a year’s service in New York City he was made pro- 
fessor of theology in St. Mary’s College, Lebanon, Ky., 
and in 1855 was appointed president of the same insti- 
tution. In 1850 he declined the proffered bishopric of 
Savannah, but in 1865 accepted that of Louisville, lie 
died 31 ay 11. 1867. Bishop Lavialle was a man of great 
zeal and energy. He founded several educational and 
benevolent institutions in his diocese. His character 
was such as to win him the esteem not only of his own 
people, but of the citizens generally. — A merican Annual 
Cyclopaedia, 1 867, p. 428. 

Lavington, George, an English prelate, noted for 
his antagonism to Wesley and Whitefield, was born in 
Wiltshire in 1683; became canon of St. Paul’s, London, 
in 1732, and in 1747 was promoted to the bishopric of 
Exeter. Shortly after his elevation to the episcopal 
dignity, Lavington, who had from the first looked unfa- 
vorably upon the Methodistic movement, found an op- 
portunity to exert his episcopal jurisdiction upon one 
of the ministers of his diocese, the Lev. Mr. Thompson, 

the tolerant and zealous rector of St. Gennis,” who had 
dared to exert himself in behalf of «a more genuine and 
active religious spirit among the people of his own par- 
ish, and the community in its neighborhood. 'In this 
instance the bishop failed utterly of cutting short the 
evangelizing efforts of an earnest and zealous servant of 
God, and he gave vent to his feelings by a public attack 
on the originators of the whole movement — Wesley and 
Whitefiekl — in a pamphlet entitled The Enthusiasm of 
Methodists ami Papists compared (London, 1740,3 parts, 
Svo), in which lie ‘-exaggerated their real faidts, and 
imputed to them many that were monstrous fictions.” 

] The attack was at once taken up by both the persons 
assailed in the pamphlet, and from the position assumed 
by Wesley in his answer many of the English Church 
divines have plucked an arrow in defence of their own 

1 Church in Wesley’s day. Southey was the first to cen- 
sure Wesley for the use of intemperate language in his 
reply to Lavington. but there is really no reason for 
any one, however anxious to shield Mr. Wesley, to de- 
fend his harsh treatment of the bishop, when we con- 
sider that the provocation was great indeed. Mr. Ty- 
erman, Wesley’s latest biographer (London, 1871, 3 vols. 
8vo ; N. York, Harper and Brothers, 3 vols. Svo, 1872), 
certainly goes too far when he attempts to clear Wes- 
ley’s skirts by saying that Lavington “ deserved all he 
got.” and that he was “a buffooning bishop” and “ a cow- 
ardly calumniator” (ii, 01, 153). But there is no jus- 
tice in the attempts of modern English writers to praise 
bishop Lavington at the expense of 31 r. Wesley. The 
bishop made a most undignified assault on men who 
were engaged in a work approved and owned of God, 
and, as his later conduct towards lady Huntingdon 
and Wesley himself proves, retreated from the posi- 
tion he had taken. apologizing to her ladyship [ Hunt- 
ingdon] and the Messrs. Whitefield and Wesley for the 
harsh and unjust censures which he was led to pass on 
them,” and even requested them to “accept his un- 
feigned regret at having unjustly wounded their feel- 
ings, and exposed them to the odium of the world” {Lady 
ffnntinydon's Life and Times . ch. viiY How in the face 
of this position, however hypocritical on the part of Lav- 
ington, any English writers can afford to defend bishop 
Lavington’s position, as has been done lately in the 
North IJritish Review (Jan. 1871), seems to ns still more 


LAVIPEDIUM 


283 


LAW 


strange when we take into consideration the attitude of j 
Wesley on his last meeting with bishop Lavington : “ I 
was well pleased to partake of the Lord’s Supper with 
my old opponent, bishop Lavington. Oh, may we sit j 
down together in the kingdom of our Father!” record- 
ed by Wesley himself in his journal of 17G2. Bishop 
Lavington, indeed, seems to have been foml of polemical | 
extravagances, for a few years after his attack on Meth- 
odism he wrote The Moravians compared and detected 
(1755, 8a’o). Besides these two attacks upon fcllow- 
Christians, he published some occasional Sermons, lie 
died in 1762. See, besides the references already made. 
Bolwhcle, History of Devonshire, i, 3 13 ; Stevens, Hist, of 
Methodism , i, 217, 300 ; Meth. Quart. Review, 1871, p. 306 I 
sq. (J.ll.W.) 

Lavipedium. See Foot-wasittxo. 

Law is usually defined as a rule of action; it is 
more properly a precept or command coming from a su- 
perior authority, which an inferior is bound to obey. 
Such laws emanate from the king or legislative body of 
a nation. Such enactments of 1 * the powers that be” are 
recognised in Scripture as resting upon the ultimate au- 
thority of the divine Lawgiver (Bom. xiii, 1). We 
propose in this article to discuss only the various dis- 
tinctions or applications of the term, in an ethical sense, 
reserving for a separate place the consideration of the 
Mosaic law, in its various aspects, ceremonial, moral, 
and civil. 

1. Classification of Laws as to their interior Mature . — 

1. “ Penal Laws” are such as have some penalty to en- 
force them. All the laws of God are and cannot but be 
penal, because every breach of his law is sin, and meri- 
torious of punishment. 

2. “ Directing Laws ” are prescriptions or maxims with- 
out any punishment annexed to them. 

3. “ Positive Laws ” are precepts which are not found- 
ed upon any reasons known to those to whom they are 
given. Thus, in the state of innocence, God gave the 
law of the Sabbath; of abstinence from the fruit of the 
tree of knowledge, etc. In childhood most of the pa- 
rental commands are necessarily of this nature, owing 
to the incapacity of the child to understand the grounds 
of their inculcation. 

IL Certain Special Uses of the Term. — 1 . 11 Lair of Hon- 
or” is a system of rules constructed by people of fashion, 
and calculated to facilitate their intercourse with one 
another, and for no other purpose. Consequently noth- 
ing is adverted to by the law of honor but what tends 
to incommode this intercourse. Hence this law only 
prescribes and regulates the duties betwixt equals, omit- 
ting such as relate to the Supreme Being, as well as 
those which we owe to our inferiors, ami in most in- 
stances is favorable to the licentious indulgence of the 
natural passions. Thus it allows of fornication, adul- 
tery, drunkenness, prodigality, duelling, and of revenge 
in the extreme, and lays no stress upon the virtues op- 
posite to these. 

2. “ Laws of Nations” are those rules which, by a tacit 
consent, arc agreed upon among all communities, at least 
among those who are reckoned the polite and human- 
ized part of mankind. 

3. “ Jjnrs of Nature.” — “The word law is sometimes 
also employed in order to express not only the moral 
connection between free agents of an inferior, and oth- 
ers of a superior power, hut also in order to express the 
•nexus can salts , the connection between cause and effect 
in inanimate nature. However, the expression law of 
nature . A x naturee , is improper and figurative. The term 
law implies, in its strict sense, spontaneity, or the power 
of deciding between right, and wrong, and of choosing 
between good and evil, as well on the part of the law- 
giver as on t lie part of those who have to regulate their 
conduct according to his dictates” (Kitto, s. v.). More- 
over, the powers of nature, which these laws are con- 
ceived as representing, arc nothing in reality but the 
power of God exerted in these directions. Hence these 
laws may at any time be suspended by God when the 


higher interests of his spiritual kingdom require. View- 
ed in this light, miracles not only become possible, but 
even probable for the furtherance of the divine economy 
of salvation. (See Bushell, Nature and the Supernatu- 
ral.) See Miracle, 

III. Forms of the Divine Law. — The manner in which 
God governs rational creatures is by a law, as the rule 
of their obedience to him, and this is what we call 
God’s moral government of the world. At their very 
creation he placed all intelligences under such a system. 
Thus he gave a law to anyels, which some of them have 
kept, and have been confirmed in a state of obedience to 
it; but which others broke, and thereby plunged them- 
selves into destruction and misery. In like manner he 
also gave a law to Adam, which was in the form of a 
covenant, and in which Adam stood as a covenant head 
to all his posterity (Bom. v). But our first parents soon 
violated that law, and fell from a state of innocence to a 
state of sin and misery (Hos. vi, 7). See Fall. 

1. The “ Law of Nature ” is the will of God relating 
to human actions, grounded in the moral difference of 
things, and, because discoverable by natural light, obli- 
gatory upon ail mankind (Bom. i, 20; ii, 14, 15). This 
law is coeval with the human race, binding all over the 
globe, and at all times; yet, through the corruption of 
reason, it is insufficient to lead us to happiness, and ut- 
terly unable to acquaint us how sin is to be forgiven, 
without the assistance of revelation. This law is that 
generally designated by the term conscience, which is in 
strictness a capacity of being affected by the moral re- 
lations of actions; in other words, merely a sense of right 
and wrong. It is the judgment which intellectually de- 

i termiiies the moral quality of an act, and this always 
J by a comparison with some assumed standard. With 
j those who have a revelation, this, of course, is the test; 
Avith others, education, tradition, or caprice. Hence the 
importance of a trained conscience, not only for the pur- 
pose of cultivating its susceptibility to a high degree of 
sensitiveness and authority, but also in order to correct 
the judgment and furnish it a just basis of decision. A 
perverted or misled conscience is scarcely less disastrous 
than a hard or blind one. History is full of the miseries 
and mischiefs occasioned by a misguided moral sense. 

2. “ Ceremonial Law ” is that which prescribes the 
rites of worship under the Old Testament. These rites 
Averc typical of Christ, and Avcre obligatory only till 
Christ had finished his A\’ork, and began to erect his Gos- 
pel Church (Heb. vii, 9, 1 1 ; x, 1 ; Eph. ii, 16 ; Col. ii, 14 ; 

I Gal. A', 2, 3). 

3. “ Judicial Law” avss that which directed the policy 
of the Jewish nation, under the peculiar dominion of 
God as their supreme magistrate, and never, except in 
things relating to moral equity, was binding on any but 
the HebreAv nation. 

4. “ Moral Law ” is that declaration of God’s will Avhicli 
directs and binds all men, in even* age and place, to their 
Avhole duty to him. It Avas most solemnly proclaimed 
by God himself at Sinai, to confirm the original laA\ r of 
nature, and correct men’s mistakes concerning the de- 
mands of it. It is denominated perfect (Bsa. xix, 7), 
perpetual (Matt, v, 17, 18), holy (Bom. vii. 12), good 
(Bom. vii, 12), spiritual (Bom. vii, 14), exceeding broad 
(Psa. cxix, 96). Some deny that it is a rule of conduct 
to believers under the Gospel dispensation; but it is 
easy to see the futility of such an idea; for, as a tran- 
script of the mind of God, it must be the criterion of 
moral good and evil. It is also gh r en for that very pur- 
pose, tliat we may see our duty, and abstain from every- 
thing derogatory to the divine glory. It affords us 
grand ideas of the holiness and purity of God; Avitliout 
attention to it, Ave can ha\'e no knoAvledge of sin. Christ 

^ himself came, not to destroy, but to fulfil it ; and though 
aa'c cannot do as he did, yet Ave are commanded to folloAV 
his example. LoA’e to God is the end of the moral laAV 
as avoII as the end of the Gospel. By the laAV, also, we 
are led to see the nature of holiness and our oaau de- 
pravity, and learn to be humbled under a sense of our 


LAW 


284 


LAW OF MOSES 


imperfection. We arc not under it, however, as a cov- 
enant of works (Gal. iii, 13), or as a source of terror 
(Uoni. viii, 1), although we must abide by it, together 
with the whole preceptive word of God, as the rule of 
our conduct (Kom. iii, 31 ; vii). — Hcml. Buck. See Law 
of Moses. 

IV. Scriptural Uses of the Law . — The word “law” 
(PH'p), torah', vopog) is properly used, in Scripture as 
elsewhere, to express a definite commandment laid down 
by any recognised authority. The commandment may 
be general or (as in Lev. vi, 9, 14, etc., “the law of the 
burnt-offering,” etc.) particular in its bearing, the au- 
thority cither human or divine. It is extended to pre- 
scriptions respecting sanitary or purificatory arrange- 
ments (“the law of her that has been in childbed,” or 
of those that have had the leprosy, Lev. xiv, 2), or even 
to an architectural design (“the law of the house,” Ezck. 
xliii, 12): so in Kom. vii, 2, “the law of the husband” is 
his authority over his wife. But when the word is used 
with the article, and without any words of limitation, it 
refers to the expressed will of God, and, in nine cases out 
of ten, to the Mosaic law, or to the Pentateuch, of which 
it forms the chief portion. 

The Hebrew word (derived from the root yarah ', 

“ to point out,” and so “ to direct and lead”) lays more 
stress on its moral authority, as teaching the truth, and 
guiding in the right way ; the Greek ropog (from vtfuo, 
“to assign or appoint”) on its constraining power, as 
imposed and enforced by a recognised authority. But j 
in either case it is a commandment proceeding from 
without, and distinguished from the free action of its 
subjects, although not necessarily opposed thereto. 

The sense of the word, however, extends its scope, 
and assumes a more abstract character in the writings 
of the apostle Paul. N opog, when used by him writh 
the article, still refers in general to the law of Moses; 
but when used without the article, so as to embrace any 
manifestation of “law,” it includes all pow'ers which act 
on the will of man by compulsion, or by the pressure of 
external motives, whether their commands be or be not 
expressed in definite forms. This is seen in the con- 
stant opposition of ipya vo/xou (“ w'orks done under the 
constraint of law”) to faith, or “ works of faith,” that is, 
works done freely by the internal infinence of faith. A 
still more remarkable use of the w'ord is found in Kom. 
vii, 23, where the pow'er of evil over the will, arising 
from the corruption of man, is spoken of as a “law of 
sin,” that is, an unnatural tyranny proceeding from an 
evil pow’er without. The same apostle even uses the 
term “law” to denote the Christian dispensation in 
contrast with that of Moses (James i, 25 ; ii, 12 ; iv, 1 1 ; 
comp. Kom. x, l , Ilcb. vii, 12; x, 1); also for the law's 
or precepts established by the Gospel (Kom. xiii,8, 10; 
Gal. vi, 2 ; v, 23). 

The occasional use of the word “law” (as in Kom. iii, 
27, “law of faith;” in vii, 23, “law r of my mind” [row 
root;] ; in viii, 2, “ law' of the spirit of life ;” and in James 
i, 25; ii, 12, “ a perfect law', the law of liberty”) to denote 
an internal principle of action does not really militate 
against the general rule. For in each case it will be 
seen that such principle is spoken of in contrast with 
some formal law, and the w'ord “ law'” is consequently 
applied to it “ improperly,” in order to mark this opjxtsi- 
tion, the qualifying words which follow guarding against 
any danger of misapprehension of its real character. 

It should also lie noticed that the title “the law” is 
occasionally used loosely to refer to the whole of the Old 
Testament (as in John x, 34, referring to Psa. lxxxii, 6; 
in John xv, 25, referring to Psa.xxxv, 19; and in 1 Cor. 
xiv, 21, referring to Isa. xxviii. 11, 12). This usage is 
probably due, not only to desire of brevity and to the 
natural prominence of the Pentateuch, but also to the 
predominance in the older covenant (when considered 
separately from the new', for which it was the prepara- 
tion) of an external ami legal character. — Smith, s. v. 

It shoidd be noted, however, that vo/iog very often 


stands, even when without the article, for the Mosaic 
law, the term in that sense being so well known as not 
to be liable to be misunderstood. Sec Article, Greek. 

LAW OF MOSES (nr*a rn'in) signifies the whole 
body of Mosaic legislation (1 Kings ii, 3 ; 2 Kings xxiii, 
25 ; Ezra iii, 2), the law given by Moses, w'hich, in refer- 
ence to its divine origin, is called iTlPP rvjipl, the law 
of Jehovah (Psa. xix, 8 ; xxxvii, 31 ; Isa. v, 24 ; xxx, 9). 
In the latter sense it is called, by w F ay of eminence, 
FVJlfrn, the law (Deut. i, 5; iv, 8, 44; xvii, 18, 19. 
xxvii, 3, 8). When not so much the substance of legis- 
lation, but rather the external written code in which it 
is contained is meant, the following terms are employed : 
“ Book of the Law' of Moses” (2 Kings xiv, 6; Isa. viii, 31 ; 
xxiii, 6) ; “ Book of the Law of the Lord,” or “ Book of 
the Law of God” (Josh, xxiv, 26). “Judgments,” “stat- 
utes,” “ testimonies,” etc., are the various precepts con- 
tained in the law. In the present article, which is 
chictly based upon those in the dictionaries of Kitto 
and Smith (but differs from them both in maintaining 
the perpetual obligation of the ten commandments), W'e 
propose to give a brief analysis of its substance, to point 
out its main principles, and to explain the position 
which it occupies in the progress of divine revelation. 
For the history of its delivery, see Moses ; Exode ; for 
its authenticity, see Pentateuch ; for its particular or- 
dinances, see each in its alphabetical place. 

The law is especially embodied in the last four books 
of the Pentateuch. In Exodus, Leviticus, and Num- 
bers there is perceptible some arrangement of the va- 
rious precepts, although they are not brought into a 
j system. In Deuteronomy the law or legislation con- 
tained in the three preceding books is repeated with 
slight modifications. See each of these books. 

The Jew's assert that, besides the written law , FlPln 
2P221U, vopog iyypacpog , w hich may be translated into 
other languages, and which is contained in the Penta- 
teuch, there was communicated to Moses on Mount 
Sinai an oral lair, PIS i?— 1!3 PIT". PI, vopog aypa<poc, 
which was subsequently written down, together with 
many rabbinical observations, and is contained in the 
twelve folio volumes which now constitute the Talmud, 
and which the Jews assert cannot be, or at least ought 
not to be, translated. See Talmud. 

The Kabbins divide the w'hole Mosaic law' into 613 
precepts, of which 248 arc affirm ative and 365 negative. 
The number of the affirmative precepts corresponds to 
the 248 members of which, according to rabbinical anat- 
omy, the w’hole human body consists. The number of 
the negative precepts corresponds to the 365 days of the 
solar year ; or, according to the rabbinical work Brand - 
spiegel (which has been published in Jewish German at 
Cracow and in other places), the negative precepts agree 
J in number w'ith the 365 veins w'hich, they say, are found 
in the human body. Hence their logic concludes that 
if on each day each member of the human body keeps 
one affirmative precept and abstains from one thing for- 
bidden, the w'hole law T , and not the Decalogue alone, is 
kept. The whole law is sometimes called by Jewish 
writers Theriog, which w'ord is formed from the Hebrew 
letters that are employed to express the number 613, viz. 
400 = P 200 = P 4-10=“! +3 = 5. Ilcncc 613 = a*'“.Pl 
theriog. Women are subject to the negative precepts 
or prohibitions only, and not to the affirmative precepts 
or injunctions. This exception arises partly from their 
nature, and partly from their being subject to the au- 
thority of husbands. According to some rabbinical 
statements women are subject to 100 precepts only, of 
which 64 arc negative and 36 affirmative. The number 
613 corresponds also to the number of letters in the Dec- 
alogue. Others are inclined to find that there are 620 
precepts according to the numerical value of the word 
PPD = crown, viz., 400=n+200 = "i+20 = D; and oth- 
ers, again, observe that the numerical value of the let- 


LAW OF MOSES 


2S5 


LAW OF MOSES 


ters i-H1T, laic, amounts only to 611. The first in or- 
der of these laws is found in Gen. i, 27, *12^1 1“iS3, be 
fruitful and multiply . The transgressor of this law is, 
according to Rabbi Eliezer, as wicked as a murderer. 
He who is- still unmarried at twenty years of age is a 
transgressor; and the law is binding upon every man, 
according to Schamai, until he has two sons; or, accord- 
ing to llillel, one son and one daughter (compare Juris 
llebrceorum leges , ductu Rabbi Levi Barzelonitte, auctore 
J. Henrico Hottinger). See Cabala. 

1. The Law until reference to the Past History of the 
People. — 1. Here it is all-important, for the proper un- 
derstanding of the law, to remember its entire dependence 
on the Abrahamic Covenant, and its adaptation thereto 
(see Gal. iii, 17-24). That covenant had a twofold char- 
acter. It contained the “ spiritual promise” of the Mes- 
siah, which was given to the Jews as representatives of 
the whole human race, and as guardians of a treasure in 
which* “ all families of the earth should be blessed.” This 
would prepare the Jewish nation to be the centre of the 
unity of all mankind. But it contained also the tem- 
poral promises subsidiary to the former, and requisite in 
order to preserve intact the nation, through which the 
race of man should be educated and prepared for the 
coming of the Redeemer. These promises were special, 
given distinctively to the Jews as a nation, and calcu- 
lated to separate them from other nations of the earth. 
It follows that there should be in the law a correspond- 
ing duality of nature. There would be much in it pe- 
culiar to the Jews, local, special, and transitory ; but the 
fundamental principles on which it was based must be 
universal, because expressing the will of an unchanging 
God, and springing from relations to him inherent in 
human nature, and therefore perpetual and universal in 
their application. 

2. The nature of this relation of the law to the prom- 
ise is clearly pointed out. The belief in God as the Re- 
deemer of man, and the hope of his manifestation as such 
in the person of the Messiah, involved the belief that 
the spiritual power must be superior to all carnal ob- 
structions, and that there was in man a spiritual ele- 
ment which could rule his life by communion with a 
Spirit from above. But it involved also the idea of an 
antagonistic power of evil, from which man was to be 
redeemed, existing in each individual, and existing also 
in the world at large. The promise was the witness of 
the one truth, the law was the declaration of the other. 
It was “ added because of transgressions.” In the indi- 
vidual it stood between his better and his worse self, 
in the world, between the Jewish nation as the witness 
of the spiritual promise, and the heathendom which 
groaned under the power of the fiesh. It was intended, 
by the gift of guidance and the pressure of motives, to 
strengthen the weakness of good, while it curbed direct- 
ly the power of evil. It followed inevitably that, in the 
individual, it assumed somewhat of a coercive, and, as 
between Israel and the world, somewhat of an antago- 
nistic and isolating character; and hence that, viewed 
without reference to the promise (as was the case with 
the later Jews), it might actually become a hinderance 
to the true revelation of God, and to the mission for 
which the nation had been made a “chosen people.” 

3. Nor is it less essential to note th c period of the his- 
tory at which it was given. It marked and determined 
the transition of Israel from the condition of a tribe to 
that of a nation, and its definite assumption of a distinct 
position and office in the history of the world. It is on 
no unreal metaphor that we base the well-known analo- 
gy between the stages of individual life and those of na- 
tional or universal existence. In Israel the patriarchal 
time was that of childhood, ruled chiefiy through the af- 
fections and the power of natural relationship, with rules 
few, simple, and unsystematic. The national period was 
that of youth, in which this indirect teaching and influ- 
ence gives place to definite assertions of right and re- 
sponsibility, and to a system of distinct commandments, 


I needed to control its vigorous and impulsive action. The 
fifty days of their wandering alone with God in the si- 
lence of the wilderness represent that awakening to the 
difficulty, the responsibility, and the nobleness of life, 
which marks the “putting away of childish things.” 
The law is the sign and the seal of such an awaken- 
ing. 

4. Yet, though new in its general conception, it was 
probably not u'holly new in its materials. Neither in his 
physical nor his spiritual providence does God proceed 
per saltum. '[’here must necessarily have been, before 
the law, commandments and revelations of a fragment- 
ary character, under which Israel had hitherto grown up. 
Indications of such are easily found, both of a ceremoni- 
al and moral nature, as, for example, in the penalties 
against murder, adultery, and fornication (Gen. ix, 6; 
i xxxviii, 24), in the existence of the Levirate law (Gen. 
xxxviii, 8), in the distinction of clean and unclean ani- 
mals (Gen. viii, 20), and probably in the observance of 
the Sabbath (Exod. xvi, 23, 27-29). But, even without 
i such indications, onr knowledge of the existence of Is- 
rael as a distinct community in Egypt would necessitate 
the conclusion that it must have been guided by some 
laws of its own, growing out of the old patriarchal cus- 
toms, which would be preserved with Oriental tenacity, 
j and gradually becoming methodized by the progress of 
i circumstances. Nor would it be possible for the Israel- 
ites to be in contact with an elaborate system of ritual 
and law, such as that which existed in Egypt, without 
being intluenced by its general principles, and, in less 
degree, by its minuter details. As they approached 
I nearer to the condition of a nation they would be more 
and more likely to modify their patriarchal customs hy 
the adoption from Egypt of laws which were fitted for 
national existence. This being so, it is hardly conceiv- 
able that the Mosaic legislation should have embodied 
none of these earlier materials. It is clear, even to hu- 
man wisdom, that the only constitution which can be 
efficient and permanent is one which has grown np 
slowly, and so been assimilated to the character of a 
people. It is the peculiar mark of legislative genius to 
mould by fundamental principles, and animate by a 
higher inspiration, materials previously existing in a 
| cruder state. The necessity for this lies in the nature, 
not of the legislator, but of the subjects, and the argu- 
ment, therefore, is but strengthened by the acknowledg- 
ment in the case of Moses of a divine and special inspira- 
tion. So far, therefore, as they were consistent with the 
! objects of the Jewish law, the customs of Palestine and 
the laws of Egypt would doubtless be traceable in the 
j Mosaic system. 

j 5. In close connection with this, and almost in conse- 
quence of this reference to antiquity, we find an accom- 
modation of the law to the temper and circumstances 
j of the Israelites, to which our Lord refers in the case of 
divorce (Matt, xix, 7, 8) as necessarily interfering with 
its absolute perfection. In many cases it rather should 
be said to guide and modify existing usages than actu- 
ally to sanction them ; and the ignorance of their exist- 
ence may lead to a conception of its ordinances not only 
erroneous, but actually the reverse of the truth. Thus 
the punishment of filial disobedience appears severe 
(Deut. xxi, 18-21); yet when we refer to the extent of 
! parental authority in a patriarchal system, or (as at 
Rome) in the earlier periods of national existence, it ap- 
pears more like a limitation of absolute parental authori- 
ty by an appeal to the judgment of the community. The 
Levirate law, again, appears (see M ich. Mos. Recht, bk. 
iii, ch. vi, art. 98) to have existed in a far more general 
form in the early Asiatic peoples, and to have been rath- 
er limited than favored by Moses. The law of the aven- 
ger of blood is a similar instance of mercifid limitation 
and distinction in the exercise of an immemorial usage, 
probably not without its value and meaning, and cer- 
tainly too deep-seated to admit of any but gradual ex- 
tinction. Nor is it less noticeable that the degree of 
prominence given to each part of the Mosaic system 


LAW OF MOSES 


280 


LAW OF MOSES 


has a similar reference to the period at which the na- 
tion had arrived. The ceremonial portion is marked 
out distinctly and with elaboration; t lie moral and crim- 
inal law is clearly and sternly decisive; even the civil 
law, so far as it relates to individuals, is systematic, be- 
cause all these were called for by the past growth of the 
nation, and needed in order to settle and develop its re- 
sources. But the political and constitutional law is com- 
paratively imperfect; a few leading principles arc laid 
down, to be developed hereafter ; and the law is directed 
rather to sanction the various powers of the state than 
to dcline and balance their operations. Thus the exist- 
ing authorities of a patriarchal nature in each tribe and 
family are recognised, while side by side with them is 
established the priestly and Levitical power which was 
to supersede them entirely in sacerdotal, and partly also 
in judicial functions. The supreme civil power of a 
‘•judge,” or (eventually) a king, is recognised distinct- 
ly, although only in general terms, indicating a sover- 
eign and summary jurisdiction (Deut. xvii, 14-20) ; and 
the prophetic office, in its political as well as its moral 
aspect, is spoken of still more vaguely as future (Deut. 
xviii, 15-22). These powers, being recognised, are left, 
within due limits, to work out the political system of Is- 
rael, and to ascertain by experience their proper spheres 
of exercise. On a careful understanding of t his adapta- 
tion of the law to the national growth and character of 
the Jews (and of a somewhat similar adaptation to their 
climate and physical circumstances) depends the cor- 
rect appreciation of its nature, and the power of distin- 
guishing in it what is local and temporary from that 
which is universal. 

G. In close connection with this subject wc observe 
also the gradual process bg which the law was revealed to 
the Israelites. In Exod. xx-xxiii, in direct connection 
with the revelation from Mount Sinai, that which may 
be called the rough outline of the Mosaic law is given 
bv God, solemnly recorded by Moses, and accepted by 
the people. In Exod. xxv-xxxi there is a similar out- 
line of the Mosaic ceremonial. On the basis of these it 
may be conceived that the fabric of the Mosaic system 
gradually grew up under the requirements of the time. 
In certain cases, indeed (as e.g., in Lev. x, 1, 2, compared 
with 8-11; Lev. xxiv, 1 1 — 3 G ; Numb, ix, G-12, xv,32- 
41 ; xxvii, 1-1 1, compared with xxxvi, 1-12), we actual- 
ly sec how general rules, civil, criminal, and ceremonial, 
originated in special circumstances; and the unconnect- 
ed nature of the records of laws in the earlier books sug- 
gests t he idea that this method of legislation extended 
to many other cases. 

The lirst revelation of the law in anything like a 
perfect form is found in the book of Deuteronomy, at 
a period when the people, educated to freedom and na- 
tional responsibility, were prepared to receive it, and 
carry it with them to the land which was now prepared 
for them. It is distinguished by its systematic charac- 
ter and its reference to lirst principles; for probably even 
by Moses himself, certainly by the people, the law had 
not before this been recognised in all its essential char- 
acteristics; and to it we naturally refer in attempting to 
analyze its various parts. See Dkfteuonomy. Yet 
even then the revelation was not final; it was the duty 
of the prophets to amend and explain it in special points 
(as in the well-known example in Ezck. xviii), and to 
bring out more clearly its great principles, as distin- 
guished from the external rules in which they were em- 
bodied; for in this way, as in others, they prepared the 
way ol Him who “came to fullil” (—AggJjaai) the law 
of old time. 

II. Analysts of its Contents . — It is customary to divide 
the law into the Moral, the Ceremonial, and the Political. 
But this division, although valuable if considered as a dis- 
tinction merely subjective (as enabling us, that is, to con- 
ceive the objects of law, dealing as it does with 'man in 
his social, political, and religious capacity), is wholly im- 
aginary if regarded as an objective separation of various 
classes of laws. Any single ordinance might have at 


once a moral, a ceremonial, and a political bearing; and 
in fact, although in particular cases one or other of these 
aspects predominated, yet the whole principle of the 
Mosaic institutions is to obliterate any such supposed 
separation of laws, and refer all to first principles, de- 
pending on the will of God and the nature of man. In 
giving an analysis of the substance of the law. it will 
probably be better to treat it, as any other system of 
laws is usually treated, by dividing it into (1) Civil; 
(2) Criminal; (3) Judicial and Constitutional; (4) Ec- 
clesiastical and Ceremonial. 

(I.) LAWS CIVIL. 

1. Of Persons. 

(a) Father and Son. 

The. power of a Father to be held sacred; cursing, or 
smiting (Exod. xxi, 15, 17 ; Lev. xx, 9), or stubborn and 
wilful disobedience to be considered capital crimes. But 
uncontrolled power of life and death was apparently re- 
fused to the father, and vested only in the cougregatiou 
(Deut. xxi, 18-21). 

Right of the first-born to a double portion of the inherit- 
ance not to be set aside by partiality (I)cut. xxi, 15-17). 
For an example of the authority of the first-born, see 1 
Sam. xx, 29 (“My brother, he hath commanded me to be 
there”). 

Inheritance by Daughters to be allowed in default of 
sons, provided (Numb, xxvii, 6-8 ; comp, xxxvi) that heir- 
esses married iu their owu tribe. 

Daughters unmarried to be entirely dependent on their 
father (Numb, xxx, 3-5). 

(is) Husband and Wife. 

The power of a Husband to be so great (hat a wife could 
never be sui juris , or enter independently into any en- 
gagement, even before God (Numb, xxx, 6-15). A widow 
or divorced wife became independent, and did not again 
fall under her father’s power (ver. 9). 

Divorce (for nncleanuess) allowed, but to be formal and 
irrevocable (Deut. xxiv, 1-4). 

Marriage within certain degrees forbidden (Lev. xviii, 
etc.). 

.4 Slave Wife , whether bought or captive, not to be act- 
ual property, nor to be sold ; if ill treated, to be ipso facto 
free (Exod. xxi, 7-9 ; Deut. xxi, 10-14). 

Slander against a wife's virginity to be punished by fine, 
and by deprival of power ofYlivorce ; on the other hand, 
ante-connubial uucleauness in her to be punished by death 
(Deut. xxii, 13-21). 

The raising up of seed (Levirnte law) a formal right to 
be claimed by the widow, under pain of infamy, with a 
view to pieservatiou of families (Deut. xxv, 5-10). 

(c) Master and Slave. 

rower of Master so far limited that dcn(h under actual 
chastisement was punishable (Exod. xxi, 20) ; and maim- 
ing was to give liberty ipso facto (ver. 26, 27). 

The Hebrew Slave to be freed at the sabbatical year, and 
provided with necessaries (his wife and children to go 
with him only if theycame to his master with him), unless 
by his own formal act he consented to be a perpetual slave 
(Exod. xxi, 1-6; Deut. xv, 12-18). In any case (it would 
seem) to be freed at the jubilee (Lev. xxv, 10), with his 
children. If sold to a resident alien, to be always redeem- 
able, at a price proportional to the distance of the jubilee 
(Lev. xxv, 47-54). 

Foreign Slaves to be held and inherited as property for- 
ever (Lev. xxv, 45, 46); and fugitive slaves from foreign 
nations not to be given up (Dent, xxiii, 15). Sec Slave. 

(i>) Foreigners. 

They seem never to have been sui juris, or able to pro- 
tect themselves, and accordingly protection and kindness 
towards them are enjoined as a sacred duty (Exod. xxii, 
21 ; Lev. xix, 33, 34). 

2. Law of Tuings. 

(a) Laws of Land ( and Property). 

(1) All Land to be the property of God alone , and its hold- 
ers to be deemed His tenants (Lev. xxv, 23). 

(2) All sold Land therefore to return to its original own- 
ers at the jubilee, and the price of sale to be calculated 
accordingly; and redemption ou equitable terms to be al- 
lowed at ail times (xxv, 25-27). 

.1 House sold to be redeemable within a year; and, if not 
redeemed, to pass away altogether (xxv, 29, 3n). 

Iiut the Houses of the Le cites, or those in unwalled vil- 
lages, to be redeemable at all times, in the same way as 
land; and the Levitical suburbs to be inalienable (xxv, 31 
-34). 

(3) Land or Houses sanctified, or tithes, or unclean first- 
lings, to be capable of being redeemed at six-fifths value 
(calculated according to the distance from the jubilee year 
by the priest) : if devoted by the owner and unredeemed, 
to be hallowed at the jubilee forever, and given to the. 
priests; if only by a possessor, to return to the owner at 
the jubilee (Lev. xxvii, 14-34). 


LAW OF MOSES 


287 


LAW OF MOSES 


(4) Inheritance: 


1 I I 

(1) S.M. | 

(2) Daughters . | 

(3) Brothers. 

(4) Uncles on the Father's side. 

(5) Next Kinsmen, generally. 

(n) Laws of Debt. 

(1 ) All Debts (to an Israelite) to be released at tbe seventh 
(sabbatical) year; a blessing promised to obedience, and 
a curse on refusal to lend (Deut. xv, 1-11), 

(2) Interest, (from Israelites) uot to be taken (Exod. xxii, 
25-27 ; Deut. xxiii, 19, 20). 

(3) Pledges not to be insolently or ruinously exacted 
(Deut. xxiv, 6, 10-13, 17, 18). 

(o) Taxation . 

(1) Census-money , a poll-tax (of a half shekel), to be paid 
for the service of the tabernacle (Exod. xxx, 12-16). 

All spoil in war to be halved; of the combatant’s half, 
one rive hundredth, of the people’s, oue fiftieth, to be paid 
for a “ heave-offering” to Jehovah. 

• (2) Tithes : 

(a) Tithes of all produce to be given for maintenance 
of the Levites (Numb, xviii, 20-24). 

(Of Jhis?, one tenth to be paid as a heave-offering 
[for maintenance of the priests] [Numb, xviii, 24- 
32].) 

(b) Second Tithe: to be bestowed in religious feastiug 
and charity, either at the Holy Place, or every third 
year at home (?) (Deut. xiv, 22-28). 

(c) First-fruits of corn, wine, and oil (at least one six- 
tieth, generally one fortieth, for the priests) to be 
offered at Jerusalem, with a solemn declaration of 
dependence on God, the King of Israel (Deut. xxvi, 
1-15 ; Numb, xviii, 12, 13). 

Firstlings of clean beasts; the redemption-money 
(5 shekels) of man, and (i shekel, or 1 shekel) of un- 
clean beasts, to be given to the priests after sacrifice 
(Numb, xviii, 15-1S). 

(3 ) Poor- Laics: 

(«) Gleanings (in field or vineyard) to be a legal right 
of the poor (Lev. xix, 9, 10 ; Dent, xxiv, 19-22). 

(b) Slight, Trespass (eating on the spot) to be allowed 
as legal (Deut. xxiii, 24, 25). 

(c) Second Tithe (see 2, 6) to be given in charity. 

(d) Wages to be paid day by day (Dent, xxiv, 15). 

(4) Maintenance of Priests (Numb, xviii, 8-32). 

(«) Tenth of Levites’ Tithe. (See 2, a.) 

(b) The heave and wave offerings (breast and right shoul- 
der of all peace-offerings). 

(c) The meat and sin offerings , to be eaten solemnly, 
and only in the holy place. 

(d) First-fruits and redemption money. (See 2, c.) 

(e) Price of all devoted things, unless specially given 
for a sacred service, A man’s service, or that of his 
household, to be redeemed at 50 shekels for man, 30 
for woman, 20 for boy, and 10 for girl. 

(II.) LAWS CRIMINAL. 

1. Offences against Gon (of (he nature of treason). 

1st Command. Acknowledgment of false gods (Exod. 

xxii, 20), as c. g.. Moloch (Lev. xx, 1-5), aud generally all 
idolatry (Dent, xiii ; xvii, 2-5). 

2d Command. Witchcraft and false prophecy (Exod. xxii, 
18; Deut. xviii, 9-22; Lev. xix, 31). 

3d Command. Blasphemy (Lev. xxiv, 15, 16). 

4th Coinmaud. Sabbath-breaking (Nuinb. xv, 32-30). 

Punishment in all eases, death bg stoning. Idolatrous 
cities to he utterly destroyed. 

2. Offences against Man. 

5th Command. Disobedience to or cursing or smiting of 
parents (Exod. xxi, 15, 17; Lev. xx, 9; Dent, xxi, 18-21), 
to he punished by death by stoning, publicly adjudged and 
inflicted ; so also of disobedience to tbe priests (as judges) 
or Supreme Judge. Comp. 1 Kings xxi, 10-14 (Naboth); 
2 Chron. xxiv, 21 (Zechariah). 

6th Command. (1) M order, to be punished by death 
without sanctuary or reprieve, or satisfaction (Exod. xxi, 
12, 14 ;. Deut. xix, 11-13). Death of a slave, actually under 
the rod, to he punished (Exod. xxi, 20, 21). 

(2) Death by negligence, to be punished by death (Exod. 
xxi, 28-30). 

(3) Accidental Homicide; the avenger of blood to be es- 
caped by flight to the cities of refuge till the death of the 
high-priest (Numb, xxxv, 9-28 ; Deut. iv, 41-43 ; xix, 4-10). 

(4) Uncertain Murder, to be ex {dated by formal disavow- 
al mid sacrifice by the elders of the nearest city (Dent, xxi, 

(5) Assault to be punished by lex talionis, or damages 
(Exod. xxi, 18, 19, 22-25 ; Lev. xxiv, 19, 20). 

7th Command. (1) Adultery to be punished by death of 
both offenders; the rape of a married or betrothed wom- 
an, by death of the offender (Dent, xxii, 13-27). 

(2) Rape or Seduction of an unbetrothed virgin, to be 
compensated by marriage, with dowry (50 shekels), and 
without {lower of divorce; or, if she he refused, by pay- 
ment of full dowry (Exod. xxii, 16, 17 ; Deut. xxii, 28, 29). 


(3) Unlawful Marriages (incestuous, etc.) to be punished, 
some by death, some by childlessness (Lev. xx). 

Sth Command. (1) Theft to be punished by fourfold or 
double restitution ; a nocturnal robber might be slain as 
an outlaw (Exod. xxii, 1-4). 

(2) Trespass and injury of things lent to be compensated 
(Exod. xxii, 5-15). 

(3) Perversion of Justice (by bribes, threats, etc.), and es- 
pecially oppression of strangers, strictly forbidden (Exod. 
xxiii, 9, etc.). 

(4) Kidnapping to be punished by death (Dent, xxiv, 7). 

9th Command. False Witness; to be punished by lex 

talionis (Exod. xxiii, 1-3; Dent, xix, 16-21). 

Slander of a wife’s chastity, by tiue and loss of power of 
divorce (Dent, xxii, 18, 19). 

A fuller consideration of the tables of tbe Ten Com- 
mandments is given elsewhere. See Ten Commandments. 

(III.) LAWS JUDICIAL AND CONSTITUTIONAL. 

1. Jurisdiction. 

(a) Local Judges (generally Levites, as more skilled in 
the law) appointed, for ordinary matters, probably by the 
people, with approbation of the supreme authority (as of 
Moses in the wilderness) (Exod. xviii, 25 ; Deut. i, 15-1S), 
through all the laud (Deut. xvi, 18). 

( b ) Appeal to the Priests (at the holy place), or to the 
judge; their sentence final, and to be accepted under pain 
of death. Sec Deut. xvii, S-13 (comp, appeal to Moses, 
Exod. xviii, 26). 

(c) Two witnesses (at least) required in capital matters 
(Numb, xxxv, 30 ; Dent, xvii, 6, 7). 

(d) Punishment (except by special command) to be per- 
sonal, aud uot to extend to the family (Deut. xxiv, 16). 

Stripes allowed and limited (Deut. xxv, 1-3), so as to 
avoid outrage on the human frame. 

All this would be to a great extent set aside— 

1st. By the summary jurisdiction of the king. See 1 
Sam. xxii, 11-19 (Saul) ; 2 Sam. xxii, 1-5; iv, 4-11 ; 1 Kings 
iii, 16-2S; which extended even to the deposition of the 
high-priest (1 Sam. xxii, 17, IB; 1 Kings ii, 26, 27). 

The practical difficulty of its being carried out is seen 
in 2 Sam. xv, 2-6, and would lead, of course, to a certain 
delegation of his power. 

2d. By the appointment of the Seventy (Numb, xi, 24- 
30) with a solemn religious sanction. Iu later times there 
was a local Sanhedrim of 23 in each city, aud two such in 
Jerusalem, as well as the Great Sanhedrim, consisting of 
70 members, besides the president, who was to be"” the 
high-priest if duly qualified, and controlling even the king 
anti higli-priest. The members were priests, scribes (Le- 
vites), and elders (of other tribes). A court of exactly 
this nature is noticed, as appointed to supreme power by 
Jekoshaphat. (See 2 Chron. xix, 8-11.) 

2. Royal Power. 

The King’s Power limited by the law, as written aud 
formally accepted by the king, and directly forbidden to 
be despotic (Dent, xvii, 14-20 ; comp. 1 Sam. x, 25). Yet 
he had power of taxation (to one tenth), and of compul- 
sory service (1 Sam. viii, 10-18) ; also the declaration of war 
(1 Sam. xi), etc. There are distinct traces of a “mutual 
contract” (2 Sam. v, 3 (David) ; a “ league” (Joash), 2 Kings 
xi, 17); the remonstrance with Rehobuani being clearly 
not extraordinary (1 Kings xii, 1-6). 

The Princes of the Congregation. The heads of the tribes 
(see Josh, ix, 15) seem to have had authority under Joshua 
to act for the people (comp. 1 Chron. xxvii, 16-22) ; and in 
the later times “the princes of Judah” seem to have had 
power to control both the king and the priests (see Jer. 
xxvi, 10-24 ; xxxviii, 4, 5, etc.). 

3. Royal Revenue. 

(1) Tenth nf proitv.ee. 

(2) Domain land (1 Chron. xxvii, 26-29). Note confisca- 
tion of criminal’s land (1 Kings xxi, 15). 

(3) Bond service (1 Kings v, 17, Is), chiefly on foreigners 
(1 Kings ix, 20-22; 2 Chron. ii, 16, 17). 

(4) Flocks and herds (1 Chron. xxvii, 29-31). 

(5) Tributes (gifts) from foreign kings. 

(6) Commerce; especially in Solomon’s time (1 Kings x, 
22, 29, etc.). 

(IV.) ECCLESIASTICAL AND CEREMONIAL LAW. 

1. Law of Sacrifice (considered as the sign and the ap- 
pointed means of the union with God, on which the 
holiness of the people depended). 

(a) Ordinary Sacrifices. 

(a) The whole Burnt-Offering (Lev. i) of the herd or the 
flock ; to be offered continually (Exod. xxix, 3S-42) ; 
and the fire on the altar never to be extinguished 
(Lev. vi, 8-13). 

( b ) The Mcat-Ofi'ering (Lev. ii ; vi, 14-23) of flour, oil, 
and frankincense, unleavened, and seasoned with 
salt. 

(c) The Peace-Offering (Lev. iii ; vii, 11-21) of the herd 
or the flock ; either a thank-offering, or a vow, or 
free-will offering. 

(d) The Sin-Offering, or Trespass-Offering (Lev. iv, v, 
vi). 

[1] For sins committed in ignorauce (Lev. iv). 


LAW OF MOSES 


288 


LAW OF MOSES 


[2] For vows unwittingly made and broken, or 
uncleanness unwittiugly contracted (Lev. v). 

[3] For sins wittingly committed (Lev. vi, 1-7). 

(») Extraordinary Sacrifices. 

(a) At the Consecration of Priests (Lev. viii, is). 

(b) At the Purification of Women (Lev. xii). 

(c) At the Cleansing of Lepers (Lev. xiii, xiv). 

{d) On the Great Day of Atonement (Lev. xvi). 

(e) On the great Festivals (Lev. xxiii). 

2. Law of Holiness (arising from the union with God 
through sacrifice). 

(a) /Jolines8 of Persons. 

(a) Holiness of the whole people as “children of God” 
(Exod. xix, 5, 6 ; Lev. xi-xv, xvii, xviii ; Deut. xiv, 
1-21) shown in 

[1] The Dedication of the first-born (Exod. xiii, 2, 
12, 13 ; xxii, 29, 30, etc.) ; and the offering of all 
firstlings and first-fruits (Deut. xxvi, etc.). 

[2] Distinction ofeleau and uucleau food (Lev. xi ; 
Deut. xiv). 

[3] Provision for purification (Lev. xii, xiii, xiv, 
xv ; Deut. xxiii, 1-14). 

[4] Laws against disfigurement (Lev. xix, 27; Deut. 
xiv, 1 ; compare Deut. xxv, 3, against excessive 
scourging). 

[5] Laws agaiust unnatural marriages and lusts 
(Lev. xviii, xx). 

(b) Holi)iess of the Priests ( and Levites). 

[1] Their cousecratiou (Lev. viii, ix; Exod. xxix). 

[2] Their special qualifications and restrictions 
(Lev. xxi ; xxii, 1-9). 

[3] Their rights (Deut. xviii, 1-G ; Numb, xviii) and 
authority (Deut. xvii, S-13). 

(») Holiness of Places and Things. 

(a) The Tabernacle with the ark, the vail, the altars, 
the laver, the priestly robes, etc. (Exod. xxv-xxviii, 
xxx). 

(b) The Holy Place choseu for the permanent erection 
of the tabernacle (Dent, xii ; xiv, 22-29), where only 
all sacrifices were to be offered, and all tithes, first- 
fruits, vows, etc., to be given or eaten. 

(o) Holiness of Times. 

(а) The Sabbath (Exod. xx, 9, 11 ; xxiii, 12, etc.). 

(б) The Sabbatical Year (Exod. xxiii, 10, 11 ; Lev. xxv, 
1-7, etc.). 

( c ) The Year of Jubilee (Lev. xxv, 8, 1G, etc.). 

(d) The Passover (Exod. xii, 3, 27 ; Lev. xxiii, 4-14). 

( e ) The Feast of Weeks (Peutecost) (Lev. xxiii, 15, etc.). 

(/) The Feast of Tabernacles (Lev. xxiii, 33-43). 

(g) The Feast of Trumpets (Lev. xxiii, 23-25). 

(h) The Day of Atonement (Lev. xxiii, 26-32, etc.). 

On this part of the snbject, see Festival; Kino ; Priest; 
Tabernacle; Saorifioe, etc. 

III. Distinctive Characteristics of the Mosaic Law . — 
1. The leading principle of the whole is its theocratic 
character, its reference (that is) of all action and 
thoughts of men directly and immediately to the will of 
God. All law, indeed, roust ultimately make this refer- 
ence. If it bases itself on the sacredness of human au- 
thority, it must finally trace that authority to God’s ap- 
pointment; if on the rights of the individual and the 
need of protecting them, it must consider these rights 
as inherent and sacred, because implanted by the hand 
of the Creator. Hut it is characteristic of the Mosaic 
law, as also of all Biblical history and prophecy, that it 
passes over all the intermediate steps, ®id refers at once 
to God’s commandment as the foundation of all human 
duty. Hie key to it is found in the ever -recurring 
formula, “Ye shall observe all these statutes; I am Je- 
hovah.” 

It follows from this that it is to be regarded not mere- 
ly as a law, that is, a rule of conduct, based on known 
truth and acknowledged authority, but also as a revela- 
tion of Cod's nature and his dispensations. In this view 
ol it, more particularly, lies its connection with the rest 
of the Old Testament. As a law, it is definite and (gen- 
erally speaking) final; as a revelation, it is the begin- 
ning of the great system of prophecy, ami indeed bears 
within itselt the marks of gradual development, from the 
first simple declaration (“I am the Lord thy God”) in 
Exodus to the full and solemn declaration of his nature 
and will in Deuteronomy. With this peculiar character 
of revelation stamped upon it, it naturally ascends from 
rule to principle, and regards all goodness in man as the 
shadow of the divine attributes, “Ye shall be holy; for I 
the Lord your God am holy” (Lev. xix, 2, etc. ; comp. 
Matt, v, 48). 


But this theocratic character of the law depends nec- 
essarily on the belief in God as not only the creator and 
sustainer of the world, but as, by special covenant, the 
head of the Jewish nation . It is not indeed doubted 
that he is the king of all the earth, and that all earthly 
authority is derived from him; but here again, in the 
case of the Israelites, the intermediate steps are all but 
ignored, and the people are at once brought face to face 
with him as their rider. It is to be especially noticed that 
God’s claim (so to speak) on their allegiance is based, 
not on his power or wisdom, but on his especial mercy 
in being their saviour from Egyptian bondage. Be- 
cause they were made free by him, therefore they be- 
came his servants (comp. Bom. vi, 19-22) ; and the dec- 
laration which stands at the opening of the law is, “I 
am the Lord thy God, which brought thee out of the land 
of Egypt” (Compare also the reason given for the ob- 
servance of the Sabbath in Dent, v, 15; and the histor- 
ical prefaces of the delivery of the second law [Deut. i- 
iii]; of the renewal of the covenant by Joshua [Josh, 
xxiv, 1-13] ; and of the rebuke of Samuel at the estab- 
lishment of the kingdom [1 Sara, xii, 6-15].) 

This immediate reference to God as their king is 
clearly seen as the groundwork of their entire polity. 
The foundation of the whole law of land, and of its re- 
markable provisions against alienation, lies in the decla- 
ration, “The land is mine, and ye are strangers and so- 
journers with me” (Lev. xxv, 23). As in ancient Borne 
all land belonged properly to the state, and under the 
feudal system in mediieval Europe to the king, so in 
the Jewish law the true ownership lay in Jehovah alone. 
The very system of tithes embodied only a peculiar 
form of tribute to their king, such as they were familiar 
with in Egypt (see Gen. xlvii, 23-26) ; and the offering 
of the first-fruits, with the remarkable declaration by 
which it was accompanied (see Deut. xxvi, 5-10), is a 
direct acknowledgment of God’s immediate sovereign- 
ty. As the land, so also the persons of the Israelites are 
declared to be the absolute property of the Lord by the 
dedication and ransom of the first-bom (Exod. xiii, 2- 
13, etc.), by the payment of the half shekel at the num- 
bering of the people “as a ransom for their souls to the 
Lord” (Exod. xxx, 11-16), and by the limitation of 
power over Hebrew slaves as contrasted with the abso- 
lute mastership permitted over the heathen and the so- 
journer (Lev. xxv, 39-46). 

From this theocratic nature of the law follow impor- 
tant deductions with regard to (it) the view which it 
takes of political society; (6) the extent of the scope of 
the law; (e) the penalties by which it is enforced; and 

(d) the character which it seeks to impress on the peo- 
ple. 

(I.) The basis of human society is ordinarily sought, 
by law or philosophy, either in the rights of the indi- 
vidual, and the partial delegation of them to political 
authorities; or in the mutual needs of men, and the re- 
lations which spring from them ; or in the actual exist- 
ence of power of man over man, whether arising from 
natural relationship, or from benefits conferred, or from 
physical or intellectual ascendency. The maintenance 
of society is supposed to depend on a “social compact” 
between governors and subjects; a compact, true as an 
abstract idea, but untrue if supposed to have been a his- 
torical reality. The Mosaic law seeks the basis of its 
polity, first, in the absolute sovereignty of God; next, in 
the relationship of each individual to God, and through 
God to his countrymen. It is clear that such a doc- 
trine, while it contradicts none of the common theories, 
yet lies beneath them all, and shows why each of them, 
being only a secondary deduction from an ultimate truth, 
cannot be in itself sufficient; and, if it claim to be the 
whole truth, will become an absurdity. It is the doc- 
trine which is insisted upon and developed in the whole 
series of prophecy, and which is brought to its perfec- 
tion only when applied to that universal and spiritual 
kingdom for which the Mosaic system was a preparation. 

(2.) The law, as proceeding directly from God, and 


LAW OF MOSES 


289 


LAW OF MOSES 


referring directly to him, is necessarily absolute in its su - 
premacy and unlimited in its scope. 

It is supreme over the governors, as being only the 
delegates of the Lord, and therefore it is incompatible 
with any despotic authority in them. This is seen 
in its limitation of the power of the master over the 
slave, in the restrictions laid on the priesthood, and the 
ordination of the “ manner of the kingdom” (Deut.xvii, 
14-20; comp. X Sam. x, 25). By its establishment of 
the hereditary priesthood side by side with the author- 
ity of the heads of tribes (“the princes”), and the sub- 
sequent sovereignty of the king, it provides a balance 
of powers, all of which arc regarded as subordinate. The 
absolute sovereignty of Jehovah was asserted in the ear- 
lier times in the dictatorship of the judge, but much 
more clearly under the kingdom by the spiritual com- 
mission of the prophet. By his rebukes of priests, 
princes, and kings for abuse of their power, he was not 
only defending religion and morality, but also maintain- 
ing the divinely-appointed constitution of Israel. 

On the other hand, it is supreme over the governed, 
recognising no inherent rights in the individual as pre- 
vailing against, or limiting the law. It is therefore un- 
limited in its scope. There is in it no recognition, such 
as is familiar to us, that there is one class of actions di- 
rectly subject to the coercive power of law, while other 
classes of actions and the whole realm of thought are to 
be indirectly guided by moral and spiritual influence. 
Nor is there any distinction of the temporal authority 
which wields the former power from the spiritual au- 
thority to which belongs the other. In fact, these dis- 
tinctions would have been incompatible with the char- 
acter and objects of the law. They depend partly on 
the u r ant of foresight and pow r er in the lawgiver; they 
could have no place in a system traced directly to God : 
they depend also partly on the freedom which belongs 
to the manhood of our race; they could not, therefore, 
be appropriate to the more imperfect period of its youth. 

Thus the law regulated the w’hole life of an Israelite. 
His house, his dress, and his food, his domestic arrange- 
ments and the distribution of his property, all w'ere de- 
termined. In the laws of the release of debts and the 
prohibition of usury, the dictates of self-interest and the 
natural course of commercial transactions are sternly 
checked. His actions were rewarded and punished with 
great minuteness and strictness, and that according to 
the standard, not of their consequences, but of their in- 
trinsic morality, so that, for example, fornication and 
adtdtery w T cre as severely visited as theft or murder, 
llis religious w’orship w’as defined and enforced in an 
elaborate and unceasing ceremonial. In all things it is 
clear that, if men submitted to it merely as a law', im- 
posed under penalties by an irresistible authority, and 
did not regard it as a means to the knowledge and love 
of God, and a preparation for his redemption, it ■would 
well deserve from Israelites the description given of it 
by St. Peter (Acts xv, 10) as “ a yoke w r hich neither 
they nor their fathers were able to bear.” 

(8.) The penedties and rewards by which the law is 
enforced are such as depend on the direct theocracy. 
With regard to individual actions, it may be noticed 
that, as generally some penalties are inflicted by the 
subordinate, and some only by the supreme authority, 
so among the Israelites some penalties came from the 
hand of man, some directly from the providence of God. 
So much is this the case, that it often seems doubtful 
whether the threat that a “soul shall be cut off from 
Israel” refers to outlawry and excommunication, or to 
such miraculous punishments as those of Nadab and 
Abihu, or Ivorah, Dathan, and Abiram. In dealing u r ith 
the nation at large, Moses, regularly and as a matter of 
course, refers for punishments and rewards to the provi- 
dence of God. This is seen not only in the great bless- 
ing and curse which enforces the law as a whole, but 
also in special instances, as, for example, in the promise 
of unusual fertility to compensate for the sabbatical 
year, and of safety of the country from attack when left 
V.-T * 


undefended at the three great festivals. Whether these 
were to come from natural causes, i. e. laws of his prov- 
idence, wdiich we can understand and foresee, or from 
causes supernatural, i. e. incomprehensible and inscruta- 
ble to us, is not in any case laid dov'n, nor indeed does 
it affect this principle of the law r . 

(4.) The bearing of this principle on the inquiry as to 
the revelation of a future life , in the Pentateuch, is easily 
seen. So far as the law deals wdth the nation as a 
whole, it is obvious that its penalties and rewards could 
only refer to this life, in which alone the nation exists. 
So far as it relates to such individual acts as are gener- 
ally cognizable by human law, and capable of temporal 
punishments, no one W’ould expect that its divine origin 
should necessitate any reference to the w’orld to come. 
But the sphere of moral and religious action and thought 
to which it extends is beyond the cognizance of human 
law’s and the scope of their ordinary penalties, and is 
therefore left by them to the retribution of God’s inscru- 
table justice, w hich, being but imperfectly seen here, is 
contemplated especially as exercised in a future state. 
Hence arises the expectation of a direct revelation of 
this future state in the Mosaic law\ Such a revelation 
is certainly not given. Warburton (in his Divine Le- 
gation of Moses') even builds on its non-existence an ar- 
gument for the supernatural pow’er and commission of 
the lawgiver, who could promise and threaten retribu- 
tion from the providence of God in this life, and submit 
his predictions to the test of actual experience. The 
truth seems to be that, in a law 7 w r hich appeals directly 
to God himself for its authority and its sanction, there 
cannot be that broad line of demarcation between this 
life and the next which is drawn for those w’hose power 
is limited by the grave. Our Lord has taught us (Matt. 
xxii,3I,32) that iu the very revelation of God, as the 
“ God of Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob,” the promise of 
immortality and future retribution was implicitly con- 
tained. We may apply this declaration even more 
strongly to a law in which God was revealed as enter- 
ing into covenant with Israel, and in them drawing 
mankind directly under his immediate government. 
His blessings and curses, by the very fact that they 
came from him, would be felt to be unlimited by time r 
and the plain and immediate fulfilment which they 
found in this life would be accepted as an earnest of a 
deeper, though more mysterious completion in the world 
to come. But the time for the clear revelation of this- 
truth had not yet come, and therefore, while the future- 
life and its retribution is implied, yet the rewards and 
penalties of the present life are those which are plainly 
held out and practically dwelt upon. 

(5.) But perhaps the most important consequence of 
the theocratic nature of the law was the peculiar char- 
acter of goodness which it sought to impress on the peo- 
ple. Goodness in its relation to man takes the forms of 
righteousness and love; in its independence of all rela- 
tion, the form of purity; and in its relation to God, that 
of piety. Law’s which contemplate men chiefly in their 
mutual relations endeavor to enforce or protect in them 
the first two qualities; the Mosaic law’, beginning with 
piety as its first object, enforces most emphatically the 
purity essential to those who, by their union w ith God,, 
have recovered the hope of intrinsic goodness, while it 
view's righteousness and love rather as deductions from 
these than as independent objects. Not that it neglects 
these qualities; on the contrary, it is full of precepts 
which show a high conception and tender care of our 
relative duties to man (see, for example, Exod.xxi,7-l I, 
28-36; xxiii, 1-9; Dent, xxii, 1-4; xxiv, 10-22, etc.); 
but these can hardly be called its distinguishing feat- 
ures. It is most instructive to refer to the religious 
preface of the law in Dent, vi-xi (especially to vi, 4-13), 
where all is based on the first great commandment, and 
to observe the subordinate and dependent character of 
“the second that is like unto it” — *' Thou shalt love thy 
neighbor as thyself; / am the Lord" (Lev.xix, 18). On 
the contrary, the care for the purity of the people stands- 


LAW OF MOSES 


290 


LAW OF MOSES 


out remarkably, not only in the enforcement of ceremo- 
nial “ cleanness,” and the multitude of precautions or 
remedies against any breach of it, but also in the sever- 
ity of the laws against self-pollution, a severity which 
distinguishes the Mosaic code before all others, ancient 
and modern. In punishing these sins, as committed 
against a man’s own self, without reference to their ef- 
fect on others, and in recognising purity as having a 
substantive value and glory, it sets up a standard of in- 
dividual morality such as. even in Greece and Home, 
philosophy reserved for its most esoteric teaching. 

Now in all this it is to be noticed that the appeal is 
not to any dignity of human nature, but to the obliga- 
tions of communion with a holy God. The subordina- 
tion, therefore, of this idea also to the religious idea is 
enforced ; and as long as the due supremacy of the lat- 
ter was preserved, all other duties would find their places 
in proper harmony. But the usurpation of that su- 
premacy in practice by the idea of personal and national 
sanctity was that which gave its pecidiar color to the 
Jewish character. In that character there was intense 
religious devotion and self-sacrifice; there was a high 
standard of personal holiness, and connected with these 
an ardent feeling of nationality, based on a great idea, 
and, therefore, finding its vent in their proverbial spirit 
of proselytism. But there was also a spirit of contempt 
for all unbelievers, and a forgetfulness of the existence 
of any duties towards them, which gave even to their 
religion an antagonistic spirit, and degraded it in after 
times to a ground of national self-glorification. It is to 
be traced to a natural, though not justifiable perversion 
of the law by those who made it their all, and both in 
its strength and its weaknesses it has reappeared re- 
markably among those Christians who have dwelt on 
the Old Testament to the neglect of the New. 

(6.) It is evident that this characteristic of the Isra- 
elites would tend to preserve the seclusion which, under 
God’s providence, was intended fur them, and woidd in 
its turn be fostered by it. We may notice, in connec- 
tion with this part of the subject, many subordinate 
provisions tending to the same direction. Such are the 
establishment of an agricultural basis of society and 
property, and the provision against its accumulation in 
a few hands; the discouragement of commerce by the 
strict laws as to usury, and of foreign conquest by the 
laws against the maintenance of horses and chariots, as 
well as the direct prohibition of intermarriage with 
idolaters, and the indirect prevention of all familiar in- 
tercourse with them by the laws as to meats — all these 
things tended to impress on the Israelitish polity a 
character of permanence, stability, and comparative iso- 
lation. Like the nature and position of the country to 
which it was in great measure adapted, it was intended 
to preserve in purity the testimony borne by Israel for 
God in the darkness of heathenism, until the time should 
come for the gathering in of all nations to enjoy the 
blessing promised to Abraham. 

2. The second great and obvious design of the Mosaic 
statutes was to found, in pursuance of the theocratic idea, 
a complete system of national cultus, and, in order to 
the perpetuity of this, to establish a permanent sacred 
caste or iueuarcuy. We here use the word hierarchy 
without meaning to express that the Mosaic legisla- 
tion was like some later hierarchies falsely so called, in 
which it was attempted to carry into effect selfish and 
wicked plans by passing them off as being of divine ap- 
pointment. In the Mosaic hierarchy the aim is man- 
ifest, viz. to make that which is really holy (tv ifper) 
prevail, while in the false hierarchies of later times the 
profanest selfishness has been rendered practicable by 
giving to its manifestations an appearance of holiness 
calculated to deceive the multitude. In the Mosaic 
legislation the priests certainly exercise a considerable 
authority as external ministers 'of holiness, hut we find 
nothing to be compared with the sale of indulgences in 
the Bomish Church. There occur, certainly, instances 
of gross misdemeanor on the part of the priests, as, for 


instance, in the case of the sons of Eli; but proceedings 
originating in the covetousness of the priests were never 
authorized or sanctioned by the law. 

In the Mosaic legislation almost the whole amount 
of taxation was paid in the form of tithe, which was 
employed in maintaining the priests and Lcvites as the 
hierarchical office-bearers of government, in supporting 
the poor, and in providing those things which were 
used in sacrifices and sacrificial feasts. 

The taxation by tithe, exclusive of almost all other 
taxes, is certainly the most lenient and most considerate 
wdiich has ever anywhere been adopted or proposed. It 
precludes the possibility of attempting to extort from 
the people contributions beyond their pow’er, and it ren- 
ders the taxation of each individual proportionate to his 
possessions; and even this exceedingly mild taxation 
w r as apparently left to the conscience of each person. 
This w r e infer from there never occurring in the Bible 
the slightest vestige cither of persons having been sued 
or goods distrained for tithes, and only an indication of 
curses resting upon the neglect of paying them. Tithes 
w’ere the law of the land, and nevertheless they were 
not recovered by law during the period of the taberna- 
cle and of the first Temple. It is only during the pe- 
riod of the second Temple, when a general demoraliza- 
tion had taken place, that tithes were farmed and sold, 
and levied by violent proceedings, in w hich refractory 
persons were slain for resisting the levy. But no rec- 
ommendation or example of such proceeding occurs in 
the Bible. This seems to indicate that the propriety of 
paying these lenient and beneficial taxes w'as generally 
felt, so much so that there were few r , or perhaps no de- 
faulters, and that it was considered inexpedient on the 
part of the recipients to harass the needy. 

Besides the tithes there was a small poll-tax, amount- 
ing to half a shekel for each adult male. This tax w r as 
paid for the maintenance of the sanctuary. In addition 
to this, the first-fruits and the first-born of men and 
cattle augmented the revenue. The first-bom of men 
and of unclean beasts w'ere to be redeemed by money. 
To this may be added some fines paid in the shape of 
sin-offerings, and also the vows and free-will offerings. 

3. In addition to these great moral and liturgical ends 
of the Mosaic institutes, we must not fail to notice their 
republican economy. The whole territory of the 
state was to be so distributed that each family should 
have a freehold, which was intended to remain perma- 
nently the inheritance of that family, and which, even 
if sold, was to return at stated periods to its original 
mvners. Since the w'hole population consisted of fami- 
lies of freeholders, there w r as, strictly speaking, neither 
citizens, nor a profane or lay nobility, nor lords tempo- 
ral. We do not overlook the fact that there were per- 
sons called heads, elders, princes, dukes, or leaders among 
the Israelites ; that is, persons u r ho by their intelligence, 
character, wealth, and other circumstances were leading 
men among them, and from w'hom even the seventy 
judges w'ere ehosen wdio assisted Moses in administer- 
ing justice to the nation. But we have no proof that 
there was a nobility enjoying prerogatives similar to 
those which are connected with birth in several coun- 
tries of Europe, sometimes in spite of mental and moral 
disqualifications. We do not find that, according to the 
Mosaic constitution, there w’ere hereditary peers tem- 
poral. Even the inhabitants of towns w r ere freeholders, 
and their exercise of trades seems to have been com- 
bined with, or subordinate to, agricultural pursuits. The 
only nobility was that of the tribe of Levi, and all the 
lords were lords spiritual, the descendants of Aaron. 
The priests and Lcvites w’ere ministers of public wor- 
ship, that is, ministers of Jehovah the King, and, as 
such, ministers of state, hy whose instrumentality the 
legislative as well as the judicial power was exercised. 
The poor were mercifully considered, but beggars are 
never mentioned. Ilencc it appears that as, on the one 
hand, there was no lay nobility, so, on the other, there 
was no mendicity. 


LAW OF MOSES 


291 


LAW OF MOSES 


Owing to the rebellious spirit of the Israelites, the 
salutary injunctions of their law were so frequently 
transgressed that it could not procure for them that de- 
gree of prosperity which it was calculated to produce 
among a nation of faithful observers; but it is evident 
that the Mosaic legislation, if truly observed, was more 
litted to promote universal happiness and tranquillity 
than any other constitution, either ancient or modern. 

4. We close this part of our discussion by a few mis- 
cellaneous observations on minor peculiarities of the 
Mosaic code. 

It has been deemed a defect that there were no laws 
against infanticide; but it may well be observed, as a 
proof of national prosperity, that there are no historical 
traces of this crime; and it would certainly have been 
preposterous to give laws against a crime which did not 
occur, especially as the general law against murder, 
‘•Thou shalt not kill,” was applicable to this species 
also. The words of Josephus ( Contra Apionem, ii, 24) 
can only mean that the crime was against the spirit of 
the Mosaic law. An express verbal prohibition of this 
kind is not extant. 

There occur also no laws and regulations about wills 
and testamentary dispositions, although there are suf- 
ticient historical facts to prove that the next of kin 
was considered the lawful heir, that primogeniture was 
deemed of the highest importance, and that, if there 
were no male descendants, females inherited the freehold 
property. We learn from the Epistle of Paul to the 
Hebrews (ix, 1G, 17) that the Jews disposed of property 
by wills; but it seems that in the time of Moses, and 
for some period after him, all Israelites died intestate. 
However, the word fiaOIjici], as used in Matthew, Mark, 
Acts, Romans, Corinthians, Galatians, Ephesians, and re- 
peatedly in the Hebrews, implies rather a disposition, 
arrangement, agreement between parties, than a will in 
the legal acceptation of the term. Sec Testament. 

There are no laws concerning guardians, and none 
against luxurious living. The inefficiency of sumptu- 
ary laws is now generally recognised, although renowned 
legislators in ancient times and in the Middle Ages dis- 
played on this subject their wisdom, falsely so called. 

Neither are there any laws against suicide. Hence 
we infer that suicide was rare, as we may well suppose 
in a nation of small freeholders, and that the inefficiency 
of such laws was understood. 

The Mosaic legislation recognises the hitman dignity 
of women and of slaves, and particularly enjoins not to 
slander the deaf nor mislead the blind. 

Moses expressly enjoined not to reap the corners of 
fields, in consideration of the poor, of persons of broken 
fortunes, and even of the beasts of the field. 

The laws of Moses against crimes are severe, but not 
cruel. The agony of the death of criminals was never 
artificially protracted, as in some instances was usual in 
various countries of Europe even in the present century; 
nor was torture employed in order to compel criminals 
to confess their crimes, as was usual in ancient times, 
and till a comparatively recent period. Forty was the 
maximum number of stripes to be indicted. This max- 
imum was adopted for the reason expressly stated that 
the appearance of the person punished should not be- 
come horrible, or, as J. I>. Michaelis renders it, burnt, 
which expresses the appearance of a person unmerciful- 
ly beaten. Punishments were indicted in order special- 
ly to express the sacred indignation of the divine Law- 
giver against wilful transgression of his commandments, 
and not for any purposes of human vengeance, or for 
the sake of frightening other criminals. In some in- 
stances the people at large were appealed to in order to 
indict summary punishment by stoning the criminal to 
death. This was, in fact, the most usual mode of exe- 
cution. Other modes of execution also, such as burn- 
ing, wore always public, and conducted with the co- 
operation of the people. Like every human proceeding, 
this was liable to abuse, but not to so much abuse as 
our present mode of conducting lawsuits, which, on ac- 


count of their costliness, often afford but little protection 
to persons in narrow circumstances. In lawsuits very 
much was left to the discretion of the judges, his posi- 
tion greatly resembling that of a permanent jury, who 
had not merely to decide whether a person was guilty, 
but who frequently had also to award the amount of 
punishment to be indicted. 

In the Old Testament we do not hear of a learned 
profession of the law. Lawyers (ro/uvoi) are men- 
tioned only after the decline of the Mosaic institutions 
had considerably progressed. As, however, certain laws 
concerning contagion and purification were administered 
by the priests, these might be called lawyers. They, 
nevertheless, did not derive their maintenance from the 
administration of these laws, but were supported by 
glebe-lands, tithes, and portions of the sacrificial offerings. 
It is, indeed, very remarkable that, in a nation so entirely 
governed by law, there were no lawyers forming a dis- 
tinct profession, and that the voptKoi of a later age were 
not so much remarkable for enforcing the spirit of the 
law as rather for ingeniously evading its injunctions, by 
leading the attention of the people from its spirit to a 
most minute literal fulfilment of its letter. See Lawyer. 

IV. In considering the relation of the law to the future , 
it is important to be guided by the general principle laid 
down in lleb. vii, 19, “The law made nothing perfect” 
(ovdsv ireXttojGEv b vofioc). This principle will be ap- 
plied in different degrees to its bearing («) on the after- 
history of the Jewish commonwealth before the coming 
of Christ,; (fi) on the coming of our Lord himself; and 
( c ) on the dispensation of the Gospel. 

1. To that after-history the law was, to a great ex- 
tent, the key ; for in ceremonial and criminal law it. was 
complete and final; while, even in civil and constitu- 
tional law, it laid down clearly the general principles to 
be afterwards more fully developed. It was, indeed, 
often neglected, and even forgotten. Its fundamental 
assertion of the theocracy was violated by the constant 
lapses into idolatry, and its provisions for the good of 
man overwhelmed by the natural course of human self- 
ishness (Jer. xxxiv, 12-17); till at last, in the reign of 
Josiah, its very existence was unknown, and its discov- 
ery was to the king and the people as a seeond publica- 
tion: yet it still formed the standard from which they 
knowingly departed, and to which they constantly re- 
turned, and to it, therefore, all which was peculiar in 
their national and individual character was due. Its 
direct influence was probably greatest in the periods be- 
fore the establishment of the kingdom and after the 
Babylonian captivity. The last act of Joshua was to 
bind the Israelites to it as the charter of their occupa- 
tion of the conquered land (Josh, xxiv, 24-27) ; and, in 
the semi-anarchical period of the Judges, the law and 
the tabernacle were the only centres of anything like 
national unity. The establishment of the kingdom was 
due to an impatience of this position, and a desire for a 
visible and personal centre of authority, much the same 
in nature as that which plunged them so often into idol- 
atry. The people were warned (1 8am. xii, fi-25) that 
it involved great danger of their forgetting and reject- 
ing the main principle of the law — that ‘‘Jehovah their 
God was their king.” The truth of the prediction was 
soon shown. Even under Solomon, as soon as the mon- 
archy became one of great splendor and power, it as- 
sumed a heathenish and polytheistic character, breaking 
the law botli by its dishonor towards God and its for- 
bidden tyranny over man. Indeed, if the law was 
looked upon as a collection of abstract rules, and not as 
a means of knowledge of a personal god.it was inevita- 
ble that it should be overborne by the presence of a vis- 
ible and personal authority. 

Therefore it was that from the time of the establish- 
ment of the kingdom the prophetic office began. Its 
object was to enforce and to perfect tbe law by bearing 
testimony to the great truths on which it was built, viz. 
the truth of God’s government over all, kings, priests, 
and people alike, and the consequent certainty of a 


LAW OF MOSES 


292 


LAW OF MOSES 


righteous retribution. It is plain that at the same time 
this testimony went far beyond the law as a definite code 
of institutions. It dwelt rather on its great principles, 
which were to transcend the special forms in which they 
were embodied. It frequently contrasted (as in Isa. i, 
etc.) the external observance of form with the spiritual 
homage of the heart. It tended therefore, at least in- 
directly, to the time when, according to the well-known 
contrast drawn by Jeremiah, the law written on the ta- 
bles of stone should give place to a new covenant, de- 
pending on a law written on the heart, and therefore 
coercive no longer (Jer. xxxi, 31-34). In this it did but 
carry out the prediction of the law itself (Dent, xviii, 9 
-22), and prepare the way for the Prophet” who was to 
come. 

Still the law remained as the distinctive standard of 
the people. In the kingdom of Israel, after the separa- 
tion, the deliberate rejection of its leading principles by 
Jeroboam and his successors was the beginning of a 
gradual declension into idolatry and heathenism. But 
in the kingdom of Judah, the very division of the mon- 
archy and consequent diminution of its splendor, and 
the need of a principle to assert against the superior 
material power of Israel, brought out the law once more 
in increased honor and influence. In the days of Je- 
hoshaphat we find, for flic first time, that it was taken 
by the Levites in their circuits through the laud, and the 
people were taught by it (2 Chron. xvii, 9). We find it 
especially spoken of in the oath taken by the king “at 
his pillar” in the Temple, and made the standard of 
reference in the reformation of Ilezekiab and Josiah (2 
Kings xi, 14; xxiii, 3 ; 2 Chron. xxx; xxxiv, 14-31). 

Far more was this the case after the captivity. The 
revival of the existence of Israel was hallowed by the 
new and solemn publication of the law by Ezra, and the 
institution of the synagogue, through which it became 
deeply and familiarly known. See Ezra. The loss of 
the independent monarchy, and the cessation of proph- 
ecy, both combined to throw the Jews back upon the 
law alone as their only distinctive pledge of nationality 
and sure guide to truth. The more they mingled with 
the other subject-nations under the Persian and Grecian 
empires, the more eagerly they clung to it as their dis- 
tinction and safeguard; and opening the knowledge of 
it to the heathen by the translation of the Septuagint, 
they based on it their proverbial eagerness to proselytize. 
This love for the law, rather than any abstract patriot- 
ism, was the strength of the Maccaba*an struggle against 
the Syrians (note here the question as to the lawfulness 
of war on the Sabbath in this war [1 Maec. ii, 23-41]), 
and the success of that struggle, enthroning a Levitieal 
] tower, deepened the feeling from which it sprang. It 
so entered into the heart of the people that open idolatry 
became impossible. The certainty and authority of the 
law’s commandments amidst the perplexities of pagan- 
ism, and the spirituality of its doctrine as contrasted 
with sensual and carnal idolatries, were the favorite 
boast of the Jew, and the secret of his influence among 
the heathen. The law thus became the moulding in-! 
lluence of the Jewish character; and, instead of being 
looked upon as subsidiary to the promise, and a means 
to its lultilmeut, it was exalted to supreme importance as 
tit once a means and a pledge of national and individual 
sanctity. 

This feeling laid hold of and satisfied the mass of the 
people, harmonizing as it did with their ever-increasing 
spirit of an almost fanatic nationality, until the destruc- 
tion of the city. The Pharisees, truly representing the | 
chief strength of the people, systematized this feeling; 
they gave it fresh food, and assumed a predominant 
leadership over it by the floating mass of tradition which 
they gradually accumulated around the law as a nu- 
cleus. The popular use of the word ** lawless” (drofioc) 
as a term of contempt (Acts ii, 23 ; l Cor. ix, 21) for tiie 
heathen, and even for the uneducated mass of their fol- 
lowers (John vii, 19), marked and stereotyped their prin- 
ciple. 


Against this idolatry of the law (which, when import- 
ed into the Christian Church, is described and vehe- 
mently denounced by St. Paul) there were two reactions. 
The first was that of the Sadducees; one which had 
its basis, according to common tradition, in the idea of a 
higher love and service of God, independent of the law 
and its sanctions, but which degenerated into a specu- 
lative infidelity and an anti-national system of politics, 
and which probably had but little hold of the people. 
The other, that of the Essenes, was an attempt to burst 
the bonds of the formal law, and assert its ideas in all 
fulness, freedom, and purity. In its practical form it 
assumed the character of high and ascetic devotion to 
God ; its speculative guise is seen in the school of Philo, 
as a tendency not merely to treat the commands and 
history of the law on a symbolical principle, but actu- 
ally to allegorize them into mere abstractions. In nei- 
ther form could it be permanent, because it had no suffi- 
cient relation to the needs and realities of human na- 
ture, or to the personal subject of all the Jewish prom- 
ises ; but it was still a declaration of the insufficiency 
of the law in itself, and a preparation for its absorption 
into a higher principle of unity. Such was the history 
of the law before the coming of Christ. It was full of 
effect and blessing when used as a means; it became 
hollow and insufficient when made an end. 

2. The relation of the law to the advent of Christ is 
also laid down clearly by St. Paul. The law was the 
Trend ay toyug tig Xpiordr, the servant (that is) whose 
task it was to guide the child to the true teacher (Gal. 
iii, 24) ; and Christ was “ the end” or object “ of the law” 
(Bom. x,4). As being subsidiary to the promise, it had 
accomplished its purpose when the promise was fulfilled. 
In its national aspect it had existed to guard the faith 
in the theocracy. The chief hinderance to that faith 
had been the difficulty of realizing the invisible pres- 
ence of God, and of conceiving a communion with the 
infinite Godhead which should not crush or absorb the 
finite creature (compare Dent, v, 24-27 ; Numb, xvii, 12, 
13; Job ix, 32-35; xiii,21,22; Isa.xlv,15, Ixiv, l,etc.). 
From that had come in earlier times open idolatry, and 
a hall-idolatrous longing for and trust in the kingdom; 
in after times the substitution of the law for the prom- 
ise. The difficulty was now to pass away forever, in 
the incarnation of the Godhead in one truly and vis- 
ibly man. The guardianship of the law was no longer 
needed, for the visible and personal presence of the Mes- 
siah required no farther testimony. Moreover, in the law 
itself there had always been a tendency of the funda- 
mental idea to burst the formal bonds which confined it. 
In looking to God as especially their king, the Israelites 
were inheriting a privilege, belonging originally to all 
mankind, and destined to revert to them. Yet that ele- 
ment of the law which was local and national, now most 
prized of all by the Jews, tended to limit this gift to 
them, and place them in a position antagonistic to the 
rest of the world. It needed, therefore, to pass away 
before all men could be brought into a kingdom where 
there was to be “neither Jew nor Gentile, barbarian, 
Scythian, bond, or free.” 

In its individual, or what is usually called its “ moral” 
aspect, the law bore equally the stamp of transitoriness 
and insufficiency. It had, as we have seen, declared the 
authority of truth and goodness over man’s will, and 
taken for granted in man the existence of a spirit which 
could recognise that authority; but it had done no more. 
Its presence had therefore detected the existence and 
the sinfulness of sin, as alien alike to God’s will and 
man’s true nature; but it had also brought out with 
more vehement and desperate antagonism the power of 
sin dwelling in man as fallen .(Bom. vii, 7-23). It only 
showed, therefore, the need of a Saviour from sin, and 
of an indwelling power which should enable the spirit of 
man to conquer the “law” of evil. Hence it bore testi- 
mony to its own insufficiency, and led men to Christ. Al- 
ready the prophets, speaking by a living and indwelling 
spirit, ever fresh and powerful, had been passing beyond 


LATV OF MOSES 


293 


LAW OF MOSES 


the (lead letter of the law, and indirectly convicting it 
of insufficiency. Ilut there was need of “the Prophet” 
who should not only have the fulness of the Spirit dwell- 
ing in hirtfself, but should have the power to give it to 
others, and so open the new dispensation already fore- 
told. When he had come, and by the gift of the Spirit 
implanted in man a free internal power of action tend- 
ing to God, the restraints of the Law, needful to train the 
childhood of the world, became unnecessary and even 
injurious to the free development of its manhood. 

r J*he relation of the law to Christ, in its sacrificial and 
ceremonial aspect, will be more fully considered else- 
where. See Sacrifice. It is here only necessary to 
remark on the evidently typical character of the whole 
system of sacrifices, upon which alone their virtue de- 
pended; and on the imperfect embodiment, in anybody 
of mere men, of the great truth which was represented 
in the priesthood. By the former declaring the need 
of atonement, by the latter the possibility of mediation, 
and yet in itself doing nothing adequately to realize 
either, the law again led men to him who was at once 
the only mediator and the true sacrifice. 

Thus the law had trained and guided man to the ac- 
ceptance of the Messiah in his threefold character of 
king, prophet, and priest ; and then, its work being done, 
it became, in the minds of those who trusted in it, not 
only an encumbrance, but a snare. To resist its claim 
to allegiance was therefore a matter of life and death in 
the days of St.Paul, and, in a less degree, in after ages 
of the Church. 

3. It remains to consider how far it has any obligation 
or existence under the dispensation of the Gospel. As 
a means of justification or salvation, it ought never to 
have been regarded, even before Christ: it needs no 
proof to show that still less can this be so since he has 
come. But yet the question remains whether it is bind- 
ing on Christians, even when they do not depend on it 
for salvation. 

It seems clear enough , that its formal coercive author- 
ity as a whole ended with the close of the Jewish dis- 
pensation. We may indeed distinguish its various ele- 
ments; yet he who offended “in one point against it 
was guilty of all” (James ii, 10). It referred throughout 
to the Jewish covenant, and in many points to the con- 
stitution, the customs, and even the local circumstances 
of the people. That covenant was preparatory to the 
Christian, in which it is now absorbed; those customs 
and observances have passed away. It follows, by the 
very nature of the case, that the former obligation to 
the law as such must have ceased with the basis on 
which it is grounded. This conclusion is stamped most 
unequivocally with the authority of St.Paul through 
the whole argument of the Epistles to the Romans and 
to the Galatians. That we are “not under law” (Bom. 

vi, 14, 1 5 ; Gal. v, 18) ; “ that we are dead to law” (Rom. 

vii, 4-G; Gal. ii, 19), “ redeemed from under law” (Gal. iv, 
5), etc., is not only stated without any limitation or ex- 
ception, but in many places is made the prominent feat- 
ure of the contrast between the earlier and later cove- 
nants. It is impossible, therefore, to avoid the conclu- 
sion that the formal code, promulgated by Moses, and 
sealed with the prediction of the blessing and the curse, 
cannot, as a law, be binding on the Christian. 

But what, then, becomes of the declaration of our 
Lord, that lie came “not to destroy the law, but to per- 
fect it,” and that “not one jot or one tittle of it shall 
pass away?” what of the fact, consequent upon it, that 
the law has been reverenced in all Christian churches, 
and had an important influence on much Christian leg- 
islation? The explanation of the apparent contradic- 
tion lies in several considerations. 

(1.) The positive obligation of the law, as such, has 
passed away; but every revelation of God’s will, and of 
the righteousness and love which are its elements, im- 
poses a moral obligation, by the very fact of its being 
known, even on those to whom it is not primarily ad- 
dressed. So far as the law of Moses is such a revela- 


tion of the will of God to mankind at large, occupying a 
certain place in the education of the world as a whole, 
so far its declarations remain lor our guidance, though 
their coercion and their penalties may be no longer need- 
ed. It is in their general principle, of course, that they 
remain, not in their outward form ; and our Lord has 
taught us, in the Sermon on the Mount, that these prin- 
ciples should be accepted by us in a more extended and 
spiritual development than they could receive in the 
time of Moses. 

To apply this principle practically there is need of 
study and discretion, in order to distinguish what is lo- 
cal and temporary from what is universal, and what is 
mere external form from what is the essence of an ordi- 
nance. The moral law undoubtedly must be most per- 
manent in its influence, because it is based on the nature 
of man generally, although at the same time it is modi- 
fied by the greater prominence of love in the Christian 
system. Yet the political law, in the main principles 
which it lays down as to the saeredness and responsil il- 
ity of all authorities, and the rights which belong to 
each individual, and which neither slavery nor even guilt 
can quite eradicate, has its permanent value. Even the 
ceremonial law, by its enforcement of the purity and per- 
fection needed in any service offered, and in its disregard 
of mere costliness on such service, and limitation of it 
strictly to the prescribed will of God, is still in many 
respects our best guide. In special cases (as, for exam- 
ple, that of the sabbatic law and the prohibition of 
marriage .within the degrees) the question of its author- 
ity must depend on the further inquiry whether the ba- 
sis of such laws is one common to all human nature, or 
one peculiar to the Jewish people. This inquiry may oc- 
casionally be difficult, especially in the distinction of the 
essence from the form ; but by it alone can the original 
question be thoroughly and satisfactorily answered. 

(2.) A plain distinction of this kind seems to lie on the 
face of the subject, as to the main question at issue. The 
ceremonial or ritual department of the Mosaic laws, 
which stood in meats, and chinks, and carnal ordinances 
(Heb. ix, 10) ; which w ere of a typical character, and a 
mere shadow' of good things to come, w r as abolished by 
the introduction of the Gospel; for then they ceased to 
have any pertinence, the reality having come of which 
they were the figures. But the kernel of the law, 
properly speaking, the moral law r , which is a transcript 
of the divine mind, is eternal and unchangeable in its 
obligations and sanctions. It w'as fuljilltd rather than 
abrogated by the Gospel. It was confirmed by Christ, 
and explained in its infinite comprehension and spiritu- 
ality by him and his apostles throughout the New r Tes- 
tament (Matt, v, 17, 18 ; Luke x, 26-28 ; Rom. v, 15-viii, 
39). lienee, when, in Rom. vi, 14; vii, 1— G ; Gal.ii, 19; 
v, 18, the moral law is spoken of as not being the mere 
rule of life for persons w ho rely on the grace of God, 
and w r ho are authorized to expect a salvation not to be 
purchased by their works, it is so depreciated simply 
because in that aspect it is regarded as a law' according 
to which rewards and punishments should be adjudged 
in so rigid and inexorable a manner as to exclude all 
grace, and all reliance on grace (Rom. iv, 12-14 ; Gal. ii, 
31 ; iii, 10-12). In short, it is abrogated as a justifying 
ground of salvation by good u’orks, because none can 
keep it perfectly to that end. Yet it is not abolished as 
an external criterion of virtue and piety, and as the final 
test before the assembled universe. See Antixomians. 

(3.) Another very important fact in this discussion is 
that all the moral precepts of the Decalogue have been 
re-enacted by our Lord and his apostles, not only in 
principle, but in explicit terms (Mark x, 19; Rom. xiii, 
9). It is true Jesus sums up the spirit of the whole 
ten commandments in the tw T o of love to God and man 
(Matt, xxii, 37-40), and St.Paul (Rom. xiii. 10), as well 
as St.John (1 John iii, 11), substantially do the same. 
But this is not done with a view to derogate from the 
precise form of the Mosaic commands, much less to abol- 
ish them ; but rather wfith a view to re-euforee them by 


LAW OF 3IOSES 


294 


LAW 


educing their permanent and universal principle of obli- 
gation. Christianity lias therefore in all ages justly 
recognised the paramount and unvarying force of the 
moral law as promulgated on Mount Sinai. 

The only exception to the above remark of the direct 
renewal of all these commandments by Christ and his 
apostles is that relating to the Sabbath, which is never 
quoted among the rest, but is noticeably omitted, and 
has even been held to be intentionally discarded, by 
precept, inference, and example, by them. The excep- 
tion, however, is only apparent, and is due to the pecul- 
iar nature of this observance. It really rests upon an 
earlier than the Mosaic institute, for it dates from the 
creation, and was therefore appropriately introduced at 
Sinai by the allusion, “Remember the Sabbath day.” 
Moreover, the Jews of our Lord’s day were in no need 
of being reminded of this institution ; they were slav- 
ishly and superstitiously observant of it. Finally, as 
the day of its observance was changed by the very first 
Christians, there would have been an obvious impropri- 
ety in their referring to the institution itself under that 
name . That the obligation to occupy in religious rest 
one day in seven was scrupulously recognised by them 
the historical fact of the ‘‘Lord’s day” abundantly at- 
tests. See Sabbatit. 

(4.) Indeed, the same remark as to primeval origin 
and validity applies to the whole Decalogue, although 
tliis cannot be so clearly proved in a historical argument 
as with regard to the Sabbath. Yet it has been shown 
above (§ i. No. 4) that these moral enactments at least 
were nothing new; indeed, as all must at once admit, 
they lie at the very foundation of civil law and social 
organization; and it could easily be shown that the He- 
brews had substantially recognised their force for ages. 
They were therefore, in fact, but republished on Sinai, 
under new sanctions, and do not require for their au- 
thority the support of any special dispensation. 

The argument of the apostle Paul, especially in the 
epistles to the Romans, Galatians, and Hebrews, invari- 
ably is an appeal from the legal bondage of Judaism — 
not merely, be it observed, the intolerable ceremonial 
yoke (Acts xv, 10), but still more emphatically the law 
of “good works,” including, of course, especially the 
moral code (see Rom. ii, 21, 22; vii, 7) — to the ante- 
Mosaic dispensation, the faith which Abraham had 
when yet a Gentile (Rom. iv, 10 ; Gal. iii. J7, 18), and the 
primitive priesthood of Jesus (Ileb. vii). Yet this law 
of faith, so far from ignoring the moral law, is its only 
effectual support (comp. John vi, 20); and thus the so- 
lution of this question becomes likewise the reconcilia- 
tion of the doctrine of St. Paul with that of St. James. 
See James, Ebjstle of. 

V. Literature. — J. 1). Michaclis, Mosaisches Recht 
(Frkft. 1770-75), translated by Alexander Smith under 
the title Commentaries on the Lairs of Moses (London, 
181 1); J • 11. 1 Iottinger, Juris Hebrworum leges cclxi, ad 
Juiheonnn mentem explicates (Tiguri, 1055); Selden, De 
Jure uaturali et gentium jnxta llebratorum JJiseipHnam 
(Argontorati, 1GG5); Rcimarus, l)e legibus Mosaicis ante 
Mosem (I Iamb. 1741) ; 1>. llomsyli I )e prineipiis Legum 
J losaicarum (llafnue, 1792); Stiiudlin, Comment a tiones 
II de Legum Mosaiearum (Gottinga*, 1700) ; Purmann, 
J)e fontibus et cecanomia Legum Mosaiearum (Franeo- 
furt i, 1780); T. G. Erdmann, Leges Musis pnrstantiorcs 
esse, legibus Lyvurgi et Solonis (Viteberga?, 1788); Pas- 
tured, Histoire de la Legislation (Par. 1817), vols. iii et iv; 
J. Salvador, Histoire des Institutions de Moiseet du Peo- 
ple Ilebreu (Paris, 1828. 3 vols.) ; Malison, De legislature 
Mosaica quantum ad hggienen pertimt (Haag, 1835); 
"Welker, Die Letzten Griinde von Recht, p.279 sq. ; Staud- 
li.i, (iesehiehte der Sittenlehre Jesu, i, 1 1 1 sq. ; llolberg, 
Geschirhte der Sittenlehre Jesu, ii. 331 sq. ; DeAVettc, 
Sittenlehre , ii, 21 sq. Luther’s views are given by C. H. 
F. I lialloblotzky, De Legis Mosaicec Abrogdtione (Got- 
tinga*, 1824). For other, chiefly older, works on the 
subject in general, see Winer, Reahrurte rbnch, s. v. Ge- 
setz; Danz, WOrterbuch, s. v. Moses; Yolbeding, Index 


Programmatum , p. 37 ; Darling, Cyclop . Bibliogr. column 
237 sq. Among later discussions we may name Duncan, 
Character and Design of the Law of Moses (Edinburgh, 
1851) ; an art. in the Stud. u. Krit. 184G, i, 43 sq.; Saal- 
schiitz, I), mos. Ilecht rn. Beriicksicht. des spat. Jiid. (Ilcrl. 
184G) ; Piccard, De legislationis Mosaicm indole morali 
(Utr. 1841); Kiibel, Das alttestam. Gesetz und seine Ur - 
kunde (Stuttg. 18G7). See Moses. 

Law, Edmund, D.D., a noted English prelate, was 
born in 1703, near Oartmel, in Lancashire, and was ed- 
ucated at St.John’s College, Cambridge ; was elected 
fellow upon graduation, and in 1737 was, by the univer- 
sity. presented with the rectory of Gravstock, in Cum- 
berland. To this living was added in 1743 the arch- 
deaconry of Carlisle. These positions lie held until 1 7 50, 
when he returned to Cambridge as master of St. Peter’s 
College. Later he was appointed librarian ol' the uni- 
versity and professor of casuistry, was made archdeacon 
of Stafford, was presented with a prebend in the church 
of Lincoln, and in 1707 with one of the rich prebends in 
the church of Durham, and in 17G8, finally, was honored 
with the bishopric of Carlisle. He died in 1787. While 
yet a student at Cambridge, Law published two works 
which show at once the peculiar turn of his own mind, 
and secured lam a place among the best and wisest in- 
structors of their species. The first of these was his 
translation of archbishop King’s Essay on the Origin of 
Evil, with copious notes, in which many of the difficult 
questions in metaphysical science are considered: the 
second was his Inquiry into the Ideas of Space and 
Time. In 1743, while a resident of Salkeld, on the pleas- 
ant banks of the Eden, a part of the living of Carlisle, 
which Law was then holding, lie began his third work, 
Considerations on the Theory of Religion , etc. (Canib. 
1745, 1740, 1755, 1765, 8vo; London, 1774, 8vo, 7th ed., 
Carlisle, 1784, 8vo ; new edit, by bishop George H. Law, 
of Chester, with Life of bishop Edmund Law by William 
Paley, D.D., Loud. 1820, 8vo), and shortly after. Refec- 
tions on the Life and Character of Christ (Camb. 1749, 
Svo; often reprinted with the Considerations), “a work 
of singular beauty, not to be read by any person with- 
out edification and improvement.” In 1777 lie pub- 
lished an edition of the works of Locke, with a life of 
the author. Of this English philosopher bishop Law 
was ever an ardent follower and able interpreter. In- 
deed, “ the peculiar character of Dr. Law’s mind appears 
to have been acquired in a great measure by a devoted 
study of the writings of that philosopher. From him 
he seems to have derived that value which lie set on 
freedom of inquiry, in relation to theology as well as 
to every other subject. He took a prominent part in 
the great controversy respecting subscription, and act- 
ed accordingly himself. The most striking proof of 
this is afforded in the later edition of his Considera- 
tions , which contains many important alterations. From 
Locke also he seems to have derived his notions of the 
proper mode of studying the sacred Scriptures in order 
to come at their true sense. He was, in short, ail emi- 
nent master in that school of rational and liberal divines 
which flourished m England in the last century, and is 
adorned by the names of Jortin, Blackburn?, Powell, 
Tvrwhitt, Watson, Paley, and many others.” See Eng- 
lish Cyclopaedia, s, v.; Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and Amer . 
Authors, ii, 10G5. 

Law, George Henry, D.D., an English divine, 
second son of Edmund Law. D.D., was born in 1761. 
He became bi’shop of Chester in 1812, and of Bath and 
Wells in 1824. He died in 1845. Bishop Law publish- 
ed a number of his Sermons, for a list of which, and a 
biographical notice of the author, see the London Gent. 
Maq. 1845, pt. ii, p. 520. — Allibone, Diet. Brit, and Amer. 
A ut hors, vol. ii, s. v. 

Law, Isaac, a minister of the United Presbyterian 
Church, was born Sept. 5, 1815, at .Salem, X, York , was 
educated at Union College (class of 1838), and became 
shortly after a student of theology at Canonsburg, Pa., 


LAW 


295 


LAWYER 


anil was licensed March 20, 1840. In 1842 he was or- 
dained missionary by the East Salem Presbytery, and 
labored in this capacity untjji 1847, when he was ordain- 
ed pastor at Cambridge. He died Jan. 28, 1801. Law 
“proved himself ‘a workman that needeth not to be 
ashamed.’ ... As a minister, in the discharge of every 
public and private duty of religion he was exact, fixed, 
and regular.”— Wilson, Presb . Hist. Almanac , 1862, p. 22. 

Law, Joseph, a Methodist minister, was born in 
Washington County, N. Y., Oet. 10, 1798 ; was converted 
in 1815, and admitted into the New York Conference in 
1830, after eight years’ service as a local preacher. Al- 
though he had not enjoyed the advantages of early ed- 
ucation, he soon, by unwearied perseverance, fitted him- 
self for usefulness in the ministry, and quickly gained 
distinction among his ministerial brethren and among 
the people, and he was honored with some of the best 
appointments in the Conference. He was for many 
years confined in his labors to the cities of New York 
and Brooklyn, and New Haven (First and Second 
Church) and Hartford. In the city of Brooklyn he wa# 
instrumental in the building of five large churches. He 
was superannuated in 1861, and died June 11, 18G3. On 
his dying bed he frequently requested the sorrowing 
friends around him to sing; and a little before his spirit 
departed, as they were singing one of his favorite 
hymns — “ On Jordan’s stormy banks I stand,” etc. — his 
eye kindled with rapture, and he gave the whispered as- 
surance, “All is well.” — Smith, Sacred Memories, p. 243. 

Law, Samuel Warren, a Methodist minister, 
the son of the Lev. Joseph Law (q. v.), was born at 
Marlborough, Ulster County, N. Y., November, 1821, was 
converted in his fourteenth year, and in 1841 entered 
the itinerancy, lie had many excellences, and was an 
able and successful minister. His death, which occurred 
April 28, 1857, was such as his life had promised — calm, 
confiding, and peaceful. — Smith, Sac. Memories, p. 230. 

Law, William, an eminent English nonjuring di- 
vine and able religions writer of the mystic school of 
the last century, was born at Kingseliffe, Northampton- 
shire, in 1686, and educated at Emmanuel College, 
Cambridge, where he took his degree of M.A. in 1712, 
and became fellow in 1713. Shortly after this he began 
to preach, but was obliged to quit the ministry, and also 
to give up his fellowship, on the accession of George I 
in 1714, because of his refusal to take the required oath. 
He now became tutor to his relative and friend, Edward 
Gibbon, father of the historian, who speaks of his piety 
and talents with unusual warmth. Later, two of his 
friends, Miss Hester Gibbon, sister of his pupil, and Mrs. 
Hutcheson, widow of a London barrister, having resolved 
to retire from the world, and devote themselves to works 
of charity and a religious life, selected Law for their al- 
moner and instructor. He accepted the position, and 
the three parties settled in a house at Kingseliffe, where 
Law died, April 9, 1761. Law’s writings are tinged 
with what is commonly called mysticism, as he became 
an ardent follower of the noted mystic, Jacob Bbhme. 
His principal work, and, indeed, one of the best books 
of the kind, is his Serious Cedi to a Devout and Holy 
Life (1729), a treatise that tirst awakened the religious 
sensibilities of I)r. Samuel Johnson, who speaks of it in 
high 'terms, and from which the brothers Wesley also 
derived much advantage. Next to the Serious Call , 
his most important works are his answer to Mamle- 
ville’s Fable o f the Bees (published in 1724; republished, 
with an introduction by the Lev. F. D. Maurice, in 1844), 
his letters to the bishop of Bangor, The Way to Knowl- 
edge, and The Spirit o f Love. A collective edition of 
his works was published at London in 9 vols. 8vo in 
1762. It has fallen to the lot of but few English writ- 
ers to elicit such general comment and commendation as 
has been the fortune of William Law. The rationalistic 
Gibbon, the liberal Macaulay, the pious John Wesley, 
and the morose Sam. Johnson, all were of one mind in 
their praise of William Law. See Ilichard Tighe, Life 


and Writings oj William Law (1813, 8vo); Lond. Gent. 
Mag. vol. lxx ; Theol. Eclectic , Jan. 1868 ; Contemporary 
Review , Oet., 1867 ; Christian Examiner, 1869, p. 157 ; 
Chambers, Cyclop, s. v. ; Allibone, Diet, of British and 
American Authors, ii, 1065 sq. 

Lawn Sleeves. See Eochette. 

Lawrence, Abbott, an eminent American mer- 
chant and philanthropist, was born at Groton, Mass., in 
1792 ; was elected to Congress in 1839, and in 1843 was 
appointed commissioner to settle the north-east bound- 
ary question with Great Britain ; United States’ minister 
to England in 1849 ; and died in 1855. Among his nu- 
merous and munificent donations was that of $100,000 
to Harvard University, to found the scientific school 
called by his name. He also bequeathed the sum of 
I $50,000 towards erecting model lodging-houses. — Thom- 
as, Biog, Diet. p. 1384. 

Lawrence, Ames, a distinguished American phi- 
lanthropist, was born at Groton, Mass., in 1786. He spent 
a great part of his immense fortune in various charities 
and donations to public institutions. He died in 1852. 
His Life and Correspondence was published by his son 
in 1855. — Thomas, Biog. Diet. p. 1384. 

Lawrence, Sir Henry Montgomery, brother 
of sir Thomas Lawrence, the “Saviour of India,” is noted 
for his philanthropy and Christian bearing as a sol- 
i dier in the British army in India. He was born in Cey- 
i Ion in 1806, and after entering the army quickly rose to 
distinction. In the campaigns of the Sutlej he served 
i with distinction, and about 1850 was appointed presi- 
dent of the board of government in the Pnnjaub, and in 
1857, when the Indian mutiny broke out, chief commis- 
sioner of Lucknow, and virtually governor of Oude. 
While in command of the handful of heroic men who 
defended the women and children in the residency of 
Lucknow, sir Henry was wounded by the explosion of a 
shell, and died July 4, 1857. He was the founder of the 
Lawrence Asylum for the reception of the eliilthen of 
European soldiers in India. A monument to his mem- 
ory has been placed in St. Paul’s Cathedral. See J. W. 
Kaye, Lives of Indian Officers (London, 1867); Fraser's 
1 Magazine, Dec. 1857 ; North British Review, May, 1860; 
Butler, Land of the Veda, p. 319 sq. 

Lawrence, St. See Laurentius, St. 

Lawrence, St, Regular Canons of, a religious 
order, said to have been founded by St. Benedict in the 
6th eentun r . Its seat was in Dauphine. It was re- 
formed in the 1 1th century, under the patronage of Odo, 
count of Savoy. The bishop of Turin in 1065 conferred 
j many gifts upon it, and several popes enriched it with 
| benefactions. — Eadie, Eceles. Diet. s. v. 

Lawrenson, Laurence, a Methodist Episcopal 
minister, was born in 1779, entered the Philadelphia 
Conference in 1810, and died April 4, 1829. lie pos- 
sessed a strong and generous mind, and deep piety. He 
was an excellent presiding elder, and preached with dis- 
tinguished success the word of life. — Minutes of Confer- 
ences, ii, 38. 

Lawyer {vogiKoc, relating to the law, as in Tit. iii, 
9), “in its general sense, denotes one skilled in the law, 
as in Tit. iii, 13. When, therefore, one is called a law- 
yer, this is understood with reference to the laws of the 
land in which he lived, or to which he belonged. Hence 
among the Jews a lawyer was one versed in the laws of 
Moses, which he taught in the schools and synagogues 
(Matt. xxviii,35; Luke x,25). The same person who is 
called "a lawyer’ in these texts is in the parallel passage 
(Mark xii,28) called ‘a scribe’ (ypaggarti'e), whence it 
has been inferred that the functions of the. lawyers and 
the scribes were identical. The individual may have 
been both a lawyer and a scribe, but it docs not thence 
follow that all lawyers were scribes. Sonic suppose, 
however, that the ‘scribes’ were the public expounders 
of the law, while the ‘lawyers’ were the private ex- 
pounders and teachers of it. But this is a mere eonjec- 


LAWYERS 


290 


LAY PREACHING 


ture, and nothing more is really known than that the 
‘lawyers’ were expounders of the law, whether publicly 
or privately, or both” (Ivitto). Hence the term is equiv- 
alent to ‘‘teacher of the law” (I’opoeicdmcaXog, Acts v, 
34). By the use of the word i*o/jiik6q (in Tit. iii, 9) as 
a simple adjective, it seems more probable that the title 
‘scribe 1 was a legal and official designation, but that the 
name vopiKog was properly a mere epithet signifying 
one ‘ learned in the law’ (somewhat like the oi in ropov 
in Horn, iv, 14), and only used as a title in common par- 
lance (comp, the use of it in Tit. iii, 13, ‘ Zenas the law- 
yer’). This would account for the comparative unfrc- 
queiiey of the word, and the fact that it is always used 
in connection with ‘ Pharisees,’ never, as the word ‘scribe’ 
so often is, in connection with ‘chief priests’ and ‘eld- 
ers’ ” (Smith). See Lilienthal, De vopiKoig juris utri- 
usqite apud Ilebr&os (Hal. 1740). Comp. Scribe. 

Lawyers. In the Roman and Spanish churches, 
pleaders before the courts were not eligible to the cler- 
ical office. The rule, however, was not universal, for the 
Council of Sardiea enacted that a lawyer might be or- 
dained a bishop if he passed through the inferior grades 
of reader, deacon, and presbyter. On the other hand, 
clergymen were not allowed to act as lawyers, or to 
plead either their own cause or even an ecclesiastical 
one. Bribery and extortion were forbidden to lawyers 
under severe penalties. — Eadic, Eccles . Did. s. v. 

Lay, Benjamin, an eccentric philanthropist, was 
born at Colchester, in England, in 1681, and settled in 
Barbadoes in 1710, but became obnoxious to the people 
by his abolition principles, came to the United States, 
and settled at Aldington. I*a. lie was one of the earli- 
est and most zealous opponents of slavery in the United 
States, and the coadjutor of Franklin and Benezct. He 
was originally a member of the Society of Friends, but 
so decidedly opposed was he to the practice of slavehold- 
ing then prevalent among them (e. g. he resolutely re- 
fused to partake of any food or wear any clothing which 
was wholly or in part produced by the labor of slaves) 
that he was obliged to leave the society in 1717. Be- 
fore his death (in 1760), however, he had the pleasure 
of seeing his society take a decided stand against this 
abominable institution. His opposition to slavery was 
noticeable on every public occasion where he had any 
opportunity to manifest his disapprobation. He always 
expressed himself in strong terms, and sometimes re- 
sorted to methods for enforcing his arguments that 
evinced great eccentricity. Says Jannev (iii, 246) : “He 
came into the yearly meeting with a bladder filled with 
blood in one hand and a sword in the other, lie ran 
the sword through the bladder, and sprinkled the blood 
on several Friends, declaring that so the sword would be 
sheathed in the bowels of the nation if they did not 
leave off oppressing the negroes.” In 1737 lie wrote a 
treatise entitled A ll Slave-keepers that keep the Innocent 
in Bondage Apostates, which was published by Frank- 
lin. See Jannev, / list, of the Friends, iii, 245. (J. I I.W.) 

Lay Abbots or Abbacomites. Prior to the 
period of Charlemagne the court appointed its favorites 
to the office of abbot : rich abbacies were given to the 
higher secular clergy in commendam , i. e. simply to en- 
joy its revenues, or else ’to counts and military chiefs 
in reward lor their services. These lay abbots occupied 
tue monasteries with their families, or with their friends 
and retainers, sometimes for months, converting them 
into banqueting halls, or using them for hunting expe- 
ditions or for military exercises. The wealthiest abba- 
cies the kings either retained for themselves or bestow- 
ed on their sons and daughters, their wives and mis- 
tresses. Charlemagne corrected this abuse: lie insisted 
on strict discipline, and made it a rule that schools 
should be planted in connection with the various monas- 
teries, and that literary labors should be prosecuted with- 
in their walls.— Eadie, Eccles. Did. See also Abbot. 

Layard, Charles Petek, D.D., an English theolo- 
gian, grandfather of Austin Ilcurv Lavard, the cele- 


brated traveller, and himself a descendant of an an- 
cient French family, was bom about 1748. He was ed- 
ucated at Westminster St^iool and St.John’s College, 
Cambridge; was then appointed minister of Oxcndon 
Chapel, and librarian to Tenison’s Library, Westminster ; 
and in 1800 was promoted to the deanery of Bristol, and 
to the royal chaplaincy. He died April 11, 1803. Be- 
sides an essay on Charity and Duelling (1774 and 1776), 
he published several of his Sermons. Layard was one 
of the most popular preachers of his day. Sec Allibonc, 
Diet, of Brit, and J mer. Authors, ii, 1071 ; Iloefcr, Nouv. 
Biog. Generale, xxx,39. 

Lay Baptism. See Baptism, Lay. 

Lay Brothers, a name for a class of Romish illit- 
erate persons who in convents devote themselves to the 
service of the monks. They wear a different habit from 
the monks, but never enter the choir, nor arc present at 
the chapters. The only vow they make is of obedience 
and constancy. They were first employed in the 11th 
century. In the nunneries there are also lay sisters, or 
* sisters converse, who hold a similar relation in the ser- 
vice of the nuns. See Farrar, Eccles. Diet. s. v. 

Lay Chancellors. This office is found in the 
Church at an early period. Bishops were often appeal- 
ed to in civil causes, especially when both parties agreed 
to refer any dispute to them ; and in this case their sen- 
tence was valid, but its execution was left to the civil 
power. When civil causes began to multiply, the bish- 
ops were compelled to devolve some part of this service 
on others, in whose fidelity and integrity they could con- 
fide. Some bishops selected laymen for this purpose, 
and this, according to Bingham, probably originated the 
office of lay chancellor. — Farrar, Eccles. Did. s. v. 

Lay Elders. Sec Elder. 

Laying on of Hands. See Hands, Diposition 

OF. 

Layish. Sec Lion. 

Laymann, Paul, a German Jesuit, was born at 
Innsbruck in 1576, and died of the plague at Constance 
Nov. 13, 1635. He was distinguished in life for a re- 
markable knowledge of canonical law, so that lie be- 
came an oracle in these matters. His Moiadlheologic, 
published first at Munich (1625, 4to), passed through 
many editions (one of the best at Mayence, 1723). Ilis 
work. Just a defensio Sandissimi Romani Pontijicis , etc., in 
causa Monasteriorum et bonorum ecclesiastic, vacantinm, 
etc. (Diling. 1631), was replied to by the Benedictine Ro- 
man llav, in Aster inextinctus, and led to an answer by 
Laymann, entitled Censuret Astrolog. ecclesiastics , et .1 s- 
tri inextincti. After his death appeared his Jus canon- 
icum (Diling. 1643) and Repertorium (Diling. 1644). See 
Wetzer u. Welte, Kirchen-Lex. vi, 383. 

Laynez. See Lainez. 

Lay Preaching. In order to form just views of 
this subject, it is well to consider that primary design 
of Christianity which contemplates world-wide diffu- 
sion. For the accomplishment of that design, preach- 
ing is the grand and divinely appointed agency. But 
the true idea of preaching, as instituted by the Lord 
Jesus Christ, is not marrow and exclusive. It is com- 
prehensive and manifold. It demands adaptation to all 
men and all circumstances. Preaching warns, pro- 
claims, invites, teaches. Although made the special 
work of certain representative disciples, it is, in fact, 
enjoined upon the Church as a whole, and upon its 
members in particular, ‘*as of the ability which God 
giveth” (1 Pet. iv, 10, 11). There is no Christian so 
humble as to be beneath the application of the follow- 
ing and many kindred precepts : “ Let your light so 
shine before men that they may see your good works, 
and glorify your Father which is in heaven” (Matt, v, 
16) ; “Herein is my Father glorified, that ye bear much 
fruit ; so shall ye be my disciples” (John xv, 8) ; “ Who- 
soever shall confess me before men, him shall the Son 
of man also confess before the angels of God” (^Luke xii. 


LAY PREACHING 


297 


LAY PREACHING 


8). These declarations of the Saviour have a special sig- 
nificance when viewed in comparison with various other 
passages which indicate that an important element of 
preaching consists in bearing witness of things seen, 
heard, and experienced in reference to Christ and his 
kingdom (see Luke xxiv, 48; Acts i, 21, 2; ii, 32; iv, 
20; xxii, 15). 

When considered in the plain light of Christian his- 
tory and obligation, the subject of lay preaching be- 
comes relieved from both the difficulties and the tech- 
nicalities with which it has sometimes been invested by 
a pretentious ecclesiasticism. None of our Lord’s disci- 
ples were priests, and yet, from the moment of their call 
to his disci pleship, lie proceeded to instruct them in the 
matter and duty of preaching. At an early period of 
their instruction they were sent out to preach experi- 
mentally (see Matt. x, 5-42; Luke ix, 1-G). Not only 
were the twelve thus sent forth to preach, but “other 
seventy also.” The number seventy was symbolic both 
of multiplicity and completeness, and the act of sending 
out seventy (lay) disciples, ■* two by two, before his face, 
into every city and place whither he himself would 
come,” was in itself significant of our Lord's purpose to 
employ all his true disciples in spreading the truth and 
establishing his kingdom upon the earth. 

In imitation of its divine Lord, the Apostolic Church 
employed not only the apostles, but its lay members in 
preaching the Word. ‘ At that time (after the death 
of Stephen) there was a great persecution against the 
Church which was at Jerusalem, and they were all scat- 
tered abroad throughout the regions of Judea and Sa- 
maria, except the apostles.” ‘‘Therefore they that 
were scattered abroad went everywhere preaching the 
Word” (Acts viii, 1, 4). The same fact is illustrated by 
the course of Paul, of whom, immediately after his con- 
version, and long prior to his ordination, it is recorded, 
“and straightway lie preached Christ in the syna- 
gogues” (Acts ix, 20). In this act the regenerated per- 
secutor showed that Christian obligations precede min- 
isterial, and that whosoever is born of God not only 
hath the witness in himself, but is prompted by the 
Holy Spirit to utter his testimony iu the ears and to 
the hearts of his fellow-men. 

The allusions to the modes and accompaniments of 
worship in Itom. xii, G-8. and 1 Cor. xiv, as well as in 
several less detailed passages, clearly imply that the 
apostles were accustomed to encourage the exercise of 
all species of gifts in the Church, but especially those of 
exhortation and prophecy. From these scriptural ex- 
amples, it is just to infer that lay preaching, in the va- 
rious forms of teaching, evangelizing, and prophesying, 
had from the first a double object: 1, to do good to all 
men ; and, 2, to develop and prove the gifts of those 
who from time to time were called from the ranks of 
the laity to the more public ministry of the Word. 
Such, doubtless, continued to be the practice of the 
Church during the early centuries, and it was only' by 
degrees that it became modified under the hierarchical 
spirit which became developed at a later period. In- 
teresting proof of this is found in connection with the 
history of Origen of Alexandria. He, as a layman of 
known learning and skill in exposition, having gone to 
Cajsarea, was invited by the bishops there to preach. 
True, his preaching on that occasion was made the 
ground of a charge from Demetrius of Alexandria 
against the bishops who invited him. But the form 
which the charge took is in favor of the general right 
of laymen to exercise their teaching functions in the 
Church. His alleged offence was not that he, being a 
layman, taught, but that he taught when bishops were 
present. The accused bishops, Alexander of Jerusalem 
and Theoctistos of Caisarea, defended themselves, not 
with a plea of ignorance or of exceptional circumstances, 
but by an appeal to the common law of the Church. 
They knew the custom, even in the form of which De- 
metrius complained, to prevail at Jeonium and other 
churches of Asia. They believed it to prevail else- 


where, and thought it proper to be recognised at Alex- 
andria also (see Eusebius, Hist, Keel . vi, 10). 

In the fourth Council of Carthage we find, with the 
name of Augustine among the subscriptions to its laws, 
the rule, “Laicus praasentibus clericis, nisi ipsis jubenti- 
bus, docere non audeat” (can. 98). From this we may 
infer that in the absence of the clergy a layman might 
teach, and also in their presence at their request. It is 
noted by Socrates {Hist, Eccles . v, 22) as an exceptional 
custom of the Alexandrian Church that the office of 
reader might be filled by even an unbaptized catechu- 
men. The commentary of the pseudo-Ambrose on Eph. 
4th recognises that at the commencement “omnibus 
concessum est et evangelizare, et baptizare, et seripturas 
in ecelesia explan are.” In the so-called Apostolic Con- 
stitutions, representing the practice of the Church in the 
3d and 4th centuries, we find the law that “if any man, 
though a layman, is skilful in expounding doctrines, and 
of venerable manners, he may be allowed to teach” (viii, 
32). Similar indications are also found in the Shepherd 
of Hernias. See Laity. 

But it is unnecessary to dwell upon the lingering evi- 
dences of a custom that was destined to be crushed out 
by increasing perversions of the original spirit of the 
Gospel. When ritual ceremonies came to supersede not 
only the practice, but the very idea of evangelization, it 
is not surprising that preaching itself became a ceremo- 
ny, and at length a rare and infrequent ceremony. Not 
merely laymen, but even presbyters of the Church, were 
inhibited from preaching, except by special permission 
of bishops; while many of the bishops, who had arroga- 
ted to themselves the exclusive right of preaching, ei- 
ther through ignorance or indolence practically aban- 
doned the custom. “There was a time when the bish- 
ops of Borne were not known to preach for five hundred 
years together! — insomuch that, when Pius Quintus 
made a sermon, it was looked upon as a prodigy, and, 
indeed", was a greater rarity than the Sccciilans Ludi 
were in old Borne” (Bingham, Orig . Keel, book ii, ch. iii, 
§ 4). This general abandonment of the great .anil pe- 
culiar work of the Christian ministry had its counterpart 
of error in monasticism, which, by an equal perversion, 
sent myriads of the best men in the Church during suc- 
cessive centuries to waste their lives and religious zeal 
in fruitless penances in desert places and gloomy clois- 
ters. Had the lives and talents which were thus thrown 
away in monastic idleness been wisely employed in va- 
rious forms of evangelization, whether lay or clerical, 
who can tell how much better the world would have 
been to-day ! In fact, nearly all the real progress made 
by Christianity during several of the mediaeval centu- 
ries was by exceptional missionary effort among various 
aboriginal nations of Europe. The general abandon- 
ment of preaching above alluded to formed a pretext for 
the establishment, in the 13th or 14th centuries, of sev- 
eral preaching orders of monks, specially the F ranciscans 
and Dominicans. These monks, in an ecclesiastical 
point of view, were laymen, and by profession they were 
also mendicants. Nevertheless, they acquired great in- 
fluence and great wealth for their several orders. But 
such results did not relieve the evangelical barrenness 
of the period, nor render less necessary the great Infor- 
mation of the 10th century. In the Deformed churches 
there was a general breaking away from the trammels 
of ecclesiasticism, together with an energy of purpose 
which did not scruple to employ any agencies at its 
command for the dissemination of truth. Still, under 
the influence of long-prevailing custom, that great ele- 
ment of Christian power to be derived from the personal 
activity of devoted laymen was to a large degree suffer- 
ed to lie dormant, and in some cases actually repressed. 
The first formal and greatly effective organization of lay 
preaching as a system, and as a recognised branch of 
Church effort, took place under John Wesley at an early 
period of that great religious movement known as the 
revival of the 18th century. See Stevens, History of 
Methodism , i, 173, 174. 


LAY REPRESENTATION 


293 


LAY REPRESENTATION 


Not only was great good accomplished l»v the Wes- 
leyan lay preachers in England, but by persons of this 
class Methodism was introduced into America. See 
Embury, Philip; Strawbruhie, Robert; Webb, 
Capt. In all parts of the world, wherever Methodism 
has extended its activities, organized lay preaching has 
been a leading feature of its evangelical movements. 
See Exiioutees; Local Preachers; Headers. Dur- 
ing the current century other evangelical churches have 
adopted analogous measures in various forms, and em- 
ployed lay evangelists under such names as liible-read- 
crs, prayer-leaders, colporteurs, etc. In some churches 
in which official sanction has not been given to lay 
preaching — e. g. the national churches of England and 
Scotland, many earnest Christian laymen, including 
some noblemen, have gone forth independently, under 
their personal convictions of duty, preaching wherever 
they could assemble congregations. 

The vast Sunday-school enterprises of modern times 
are themselves at once a grand result and agency of lay 
teaching in perfect harmony with the design of the 
Christian ministry, and powerfully auxiliary to its most 
effective administration by regularly ordained ministers 
of the Word. The Christian Associations of the pres- 
ent day are chiefly composed of laymen, and the whole 
weight of their influence is given to encourage the 
evangelization of the neglected classes of society by all 
available agencies, such as lay preaching and its various 
auxiliary forms of Christian work. Ily these numerous 
and multiplying means of Christian teaching and influ- 
ence the modern Church is approximating the intense 
activity of the apostolic Church, and at the same time 
adapting itself to the moral necessities and special con- 
ditions of the present age. In this manner the pri- 
mary design of Christianity is answered, and great good 
is accomplished among classes of people that would 
scarcely be reached bv the regular clergy of any of the 
churches. Nor are the just prerogatives of ordained 
preachers in any degree prejudiced by the co-operative 
action of pious and judicious laymen. On the other 
hand, all ministers of a truly apostolic type cannot fail 
to see that their own success is greatly promoted by 
their imitation of the apostle to the Gentiles in enlist- 
ing and encouraging as extensively as possible all wor- 
thy helpers in Christ. See Young Men’s Christian 
Associations. (D. P. K.) 

Lay Representation. The participation of the 
laity, by their representatives, in the government of the 
Church, is one of the fruits of the Protestant Reforma- 
tion. The ground of their claim to be represented in 
ecclesiastical government is found, however, in the na- 
ture of the Christian priesthood, and the constitution of 
the Church itself. Christ having satisfied, by his offer- 
ing of himself, that sense of need which leads men to 
seek for mediators, there remains to the Christian com- 
munity the offering of themselves, as a priestly body, in 
sacrifice and service to their Redeemer. Towards God, 
all are spiritually equal, and the Church, therefore, as 
originally constituted, was without an external priest- 
ly caste. “As all believers,” says Neandcr, in his Plaut- 
vhj and Training of the Church , “ were conscious of an 
equal relation to Christ as their Redeemer, and of a 
common participation of communion with God through 
him, so on t his consciousness an equal relation of believ- 
ers to one another was grounded, which utterly preclu- 
ded any relation like that found in other forms of relig- 
ion subsisting between a priestly caste and a people of 
whom they were mediators ami spiritual guides. The 
apostles themselves were very far from placing them- 
selves in a relation to believers which bore any relation 
to a mediating priesthood ; in this respect they always 
placed themselves on a footing of equality.” 

Yet apostolic churches were by.no means without a 
distinct method of government. Following the exam- 
ples of the synagogue, elders very soon appear in the 
Christian community; and the choosing of deacons by 
the people, with the approval of the apostles, is one of 


the earliest facts recorded in the New Testament history 
of the organizing Church. The charisms , or gifts of 
the Spirit, included that of government (1 Cor. xii) ; 
yet this gift was used, not as of exclusive right, but in 
co-operation with other gifts for the common welfare. 
The gift of the Spirit was a designation to the Christian 
community of the persons fitted for the exercise of this 
function. The Gentile churches adopted substantially 
the form of government in use among their Jewish fel- 
low-Christians; “but their government,” says Neandcr, 
“by no means excluded the participation of the whole 
Church in the management of their common concerns, 
as may be inferred from what we have already remark- 
ed respecting the nature of the Christian communion, 
and is also evident from many individual examples in 
the apostolic Church. The whole Church at Jerusalem 
took part in the deliberation respecting the relation of 
the Jewish and Gentile Christians to each other, and 
the epistle drawn up after these deliberations was like- 
wise in the name of the whole Church. The epistles of 
the apostle Paul, which treat of various controverted 
ecclesiastical matters, are addressed to whole churches, 
and he assumes that the decision belonged to the whole 
body. Had it been otherw ise, he w'oukl have addressed 
his instructions and advice principally, at least, to the 
overseers of the Church.” 

In the post-apostolic age, with the grow’th of the sac- 
erdotal system, the laity gradually disappeared from 
participation in the government of the Church. As re- 
ligion became more external, the minister became more 
a mediating priest, until finally the churches w'ere rep- 
resented in the provincial and other councils solely 
by their bishops. See Laity. The hardening process 
w f ent on till the fabric of mediaeval Christianity w’as 
complete. The laity w'ere held in a state of pupilage, 
their capability of self-guidance in matters of faith and 
practice was denied, and the pow'ers of the Church were 
w' holly absorbed by the hierarchy. This continued till 
the spell of medievalism w'as broken by Luther. 

The doctrine of justification by faith alone abolished 
human mediation between man and God. Luther fully 
recognised the New-Testament idea of the priesthood of 
all believers, and proclaimed it with all the force of his 
eloquence. 11 is language on this subject is very ex- 
, plicit : “Every Christian man is a priest, and every 
Christian woman a priestess, whether they be young or 
I old, master or servant, mistress or maid-servant, scholar 
I or illiterate. All Christians are, properly speaking, 

* members of the ecclesiastical order, and there is no dif- 
ference between them except that they hold different 
offices” (see citations in Ilagenbach, Hist. of Doctrines, 
ii, 24). Ily the inculcation of this fundamental princi- 
ple the laity recovered their position in the Church of 
Christ, and lay representation again became possible. 
“The restoration,” says Litton, in his work on the 
Church, “in theory at least, of the laity to their proper 
place in the Church, was an immediate consequence of 
the Reformation. Uv reasserting the tw'o great scrip- 
tural doctrines of the universal priesthood of Christians, 
and of the indwelling of the Spirit, not in a priestly 
caste, but in the whole body of the faithful. Luther and 
his contemporaries shook the whole fabric of sacerdotal 
usurpation to its base, and recovered for the Christian 
laity the rights of which they had been deprived. The 
lay members of the body of Christ emerged from the 
spiritual imbecility which they had been taught to re- 
gard as their natural state, and became free, not from 
the yoke of Christ, lmt from that of the priest.” 

The right of the laity to representation has ever since 
remained one of the points of difference between Protes- 
tantism and Romanism. The Council of Trent reaffirm- 
j ed the mediaeval doctrine in the strongest terms. In its 
decree on the sacrament of “order” it says, “And if any 
| one affirm that all Christians indiscriminately are priests 
j of the New r Testament, or that they are mutually en- 
dowed with an equal spiritual power, lie clearly does 
I nothing but confound the ecclesiastical bierarchv, which 


LAY REPRESENTATION 


299 


LAY REPRESENTATION 


is as an army set in array ; as if, contrary to the doc- 
trine of the blessed raid, all were apostles, all prophets, 
all evangelists, all pastors, all doctors.” In the develop- 
ment of Protestantism the lay power was unfortunately 
absorbed by the state. Tlie State-Church system has 
hindered the free growth of the Christian community; 
but wherever Protestantism has had the opportunity of 
freely unfolding its principles, lay representation has 
been recognised as just and fitting. 

The form of lay representation varies in the Protes- 
tant churches. Among the Presbyterians the laity are 
represented by ruling elders, who are chosen for life. A 
presbytery usually consists of all the ministers, and one 
ruling elder from each congregation within a certain 
district ; a synod is a similarly constituted body from a 
larger district, embracing several presbyteries; and a 
general assembly consists of an equal delegation of min- 
isters and elders from each presbytery, in a certain tixed 
proportion. In the General Assembly of the State 
Church of Scotland, the crown is also represented by a 
lord high commissioner. The Lutheran Church adheres 
to the doctrine of the universal priesthood of believers, 
as taught by Luther: “The ultimate source of power is 
in the congregation, and synods possess such powers as 
the congregations delegate to them.” In the United 
States most of the synods are connected with a more 
general body (the General Synod, the General Council, 
or the Southern General Synod). Among the Friends, 
or Quakers, the legislative power is exercised by a year- 
ly meeting, which embraces the whole society within a 
certain district. In this the proceedings of the quarter- 
ly and monthly meetings are reviewed. There are. also 
“ district meetings” for the supervision and cave of the 
ministry, which are composed of ministers and ciders. 
The Congregationalists hold the entire independence of 
each Christian congregation, and its right to manage its 
own affairs without interference from other churches. 
In each church all the brethren have equal rights. 
Councils may be called by letters addressed to neigh- 
boring churches, and, when assembled, are composed of a 
pastor and a delegate from each church invited. They 
have, however, no authoritative power. In the United 
►States all the congregational bodies (Baptists, Orthodox 
Congregationalists, Unitarians, and Universalists) hold 
general conventions, in which the laity are always rep- 
resented. 

In the Established Church of England the lay power 
has been jealously retained and guarded by the crown 
and Parliament, but the Disestablished Church of Ire- 
land has reorganized with lay representation. In the 
councils of the Protestant Episcopal Church of the Uni- 
ted States the laity have an important place. In each 
diocese there is held annually a convention composed 
of the bishop, the clergy, and a lay delegate from each 
church. This is the governing body of the diocese. 
The legislative authority of the entire Church resides in 
a general convention, which meets once in three years, 
and is composed of the bishops and four clerical and four 
lay delegates from each diocese, elected by the diocesan 
convention. The bishops form one house, and the cler- 
ical and lay delegates another. The concurrence of 
both houses is necessary for the passage of any law, 
and, if asked for, the concurrence of the three orders be- 
comes necessary. 

Direct representation of the laity is not established 
among the Wesleyan Methodists of England. There 
are, however, preparatory committees appointed by the 
conference, and composed of ministers and laymen, who 
revise the connect ional business in advance of the an- 
nual assembling of the conference. These committees 
shape the measures adopted subsequently by the con- 
ference, their recommendations being usually concur- 
red in. Direct lay representation lias becu proposed 
by the Rev. William Arthur and Mr. Pcrcival Bunting, 
and no doubt the proposal will hereafter be much dis- 
cussed. The Irish Wesleyans arc making steady prog- 
ress towards lay delegation. The minor Wesleyan bod- 


ies in England (the Primitive Methodists, New Connec- 
tion Methodists, etc.) have adopted lay representation. 
Lay representation first went into effect in the Methodist 
Episcopal Church South in 1809. It also exists in the 
Methodist Protestant, the Methodist, the African Meth- 
odist, and the African Meth. Episcopal Zion churches. 

The history of lay representation in the Methodist 
Episcopal Church has been quite eventful. Originally 
and for many years the Church was governed by the 
travelling ministers, through annual conferences and a 
delegated general conference. Early in this century 
symptoms of a desire for a change in the form of gov- 
ernment appeared. About 1822 the Wesleyan Reposito- 
ry, a paper advocating reform (as it was then called), 
was established in Philadelphia. This was followed by 
a convention of “ reformers” in Baltimore in 1824, who 
established as their periodical organ in that city The 
Mutual Rights . The objects of attack were the episco- 
pacy and the clerical government of the Church. In 
1827 Dr. Thomas E.Bond issued an appeal to Methodists 
against lay delegation which exerted a great intiuence 
in determining the maintenance of the existing system. 
At the General Conference of 1828 the subject was dis- 
cussed in the celebrated “Report on Petitions and Me- 
morials,” which denied the claims of the petitioners. 
This report was unanimously adopted. By this time 
Church proceedings had been instituted against some of 
the “reform party” in Baltimore, which resulted in ex- 
pulsion. Others withdrew, and in 1830 the Constitution 
of the “Methodist Protestaut Church” was formed. The 
controversy was accompanied and followed with great 
bitterness on both sides. Looked at from this distance 
of time, it is apparent that botli parties numbered among 
their leaders good and strong men, who unfortunately 
stood upon extreme and irreconcilable propositions. The 
“reformers” claimed the admission of the laity to the 
General Conference on the ground of the right of the 
people to share in ecclesiastical legislation ; this claim 
was denied by the conservative side chiefly on the 
ground that the General Conference possessed “ no strict- 
ly legislative powers.” 

The discussion rested, after the organization Of the 
Methodist Protestant Church, for more than twenty 
years. Shortly before the General Conference of 1852, 
a convention of laymen was held in Philadelphia to take 
measures for bringing the subject before the Church 
once more. This convention, however, disclaimed all 
connection with the principles of the reformers of 1828, 
and asked for lay representation on the grounds of expe- 
diency solely. Dr. Thomas E.Bond, the great antago- 
nist of tlie “radicals,” met the members of the conven- 
tion in the most friendly spirit, and conceded to them 
that lay delegation put on the ground of expediency 
was an open question. While still denying the claim 
of right, lie went so far as to suggest a plan of lay co- 
operation in the annual conferences. The petition of 
the convention to the General Conference was denied. 
In the General Conference of 1856 an appeal for lay 
delegation was presented again, but received very little 
attention. Bv I860 such progress had been made that 
the General Conference, assembled in that year, referred 
tlie measure to a popular and ministerial vote, to be 
taken in 18G1 and 1862. Both votes were adverse to 
lay representation ; but the vote, though adverse, de- 
veloped the fact of a growing favor for this important 
measure. The Methodist , which was established in 1860, 
devoted itself to the advocacy of it ; other papers, espe- 
cially the Zion's Herald and the North-Western Advo- 
cate, urged it upon the Church. A largely-attended 
convention of laymen was held in New York in tlie 
spring of 1863. At this meeting it was resolved to hold 
another convention, concurrently with the session of the 
General Conference at Philadelphia, in 1864. The con- 
vention was so held, and presented through a deputation 
of its delegates a memorial to the General Conference, 
though without immediate result. A third convention 
was held, concurrently with the session of the General 


LAYRITZ 


300 


LAZARISTS 


Conference at Chicago, in 18GS. At this conference a 
popular and ministerial vote was ordered for a second 
time. The vote of the lay members, which was large, 
showed a majority of two to one for lay delegation, and 
the neeessary three fourths of the ministry were se- 
cured. At the session of General Conference which as- 
sembled in Brooklyn May 1, 1872, the measure was fullv 
inaugurated, and the lay delegates already elected were 
admitted to equal powers. The plan thus adopted pro- 
vides for two lay delegates for every Annual Conference, 
with separate votes of the lay and clerical members on 
any question in ease one third of either order demand it. 

References. — Neander, History of the Planting and 
Training of the Christian Church , book i, chapter ii, and 
book iii, chap, v ; Hagenbach. llistorg of Christian Doc- 
trines, ii, 277-283; Litton, History of the Church , book 
iii, chapter ii ; Waterworth, Canons and Decrees of the 
Council of Trent, p. 172 sq. ; Constitution of the Presbyte- 
rian Church in the U. S. (publ. by Presb. Board, Philadel- 
phia) ; Life of Bishop Emory, chaps, x, xi ; Economy of 
Methodism Illustrated and Defended, by Dr. T. E. Bond, 
Introduction and Appendix ; Perrine (Prof. W. II.), The 
*’ Wesleyan Axiom ” expounded: a Plea for a Lay Dele- 
gation thoroughly Scriptural, Wesleyan, and Democratic 
(X. V. 1872), attacking the plan adopted by the General 
Conference of 1868. See Laity. (G. B. C.) 

Layritz, Johann Georg, a German theologian, 
was born July 15, 1641, at Hof, in Bavaria. In 1G67 he 
entered the university at Jena; in 1G77 he was graduated 
M .A., and became in 1 G73 professor of Church and profane 
history at the gymnasium of Baireuth ; in 1G75, librarian 
and instructor of the margraves Erdmann, Philipp, and 
Georg Albreeht ; in 1 G85, deacon of the court Church ; in 
1G88, superintendent at Ncustadt. In 1G97 he accepted 
the call of the duke Wilhelm Ernst of Weimar, and he 
then became superintendent in general, counsellor of the 
consistory, first preacher of the Petri-Paul Church, and 
director of the gymnasium. He died April 4, 171G. He 
left numerous productions, e. g. Diss. de simplici et com- 
posite (J erne, 1GG8, 4to) : — A uszug der Kirchengeschichte 
des Xeuen Testam. (Bairenth und Nuremb. 1G78, 12mo): 
— Synopsis historian ecclesiastics A r ovi Testam. (ibid. 
1678, 12mo): — Der romiseke Pupst-Thron, d. i. griind- 
licke und ausfuhrliche Beschreibung des jmpstlichen Ehr- 
itnd Macht- und Wachsthums (ibid, 1G85, 4to). 

Layritz, Paul Eugen, a noted German theolo- 
gian and Moravian bishop, was born Nov. 13, 1707, at 
Wunsiedel, in Bavaria; was educated at the university 
of Leipsic, where, besides theology, he studied philos- 
ophy and mathematics. In 17oi he became subree- 
tor, and in 1735 rector of the town-school at Neustadt. 
Through an early acquaintance with the count Zinzen- 
dorf, however, he was in 1749 intrusted with the direc- 
torship of the Moravian seminary and grammar-school at 
Marienborn, and henceforth with different commissions 
on the affairs of the denomination; in 1749 he was sent 
by them to England; in 1763 to ISt . Petersburg, to pro- 
cure permission for the Moravians to settle in the Kussian 
empire; in 1773 to Labrador, to inquire into the progress 
of their missions there. In 1775, at the Synod of Bar- 
by, lie was appointed a bishop, and intrusted with the 
supervision ol the Moravian communities throughout 
Silesia. In 1782 he undertook also the supervision of 
the communities in upper Lusatia, especially that of 
llerrnhut. lie died Aug. 3, 1788. Besides his practical 
activity, of great importance to his denomination, and 
his extended knowledge of the Oriental languages, and 
of the modern also, his productions as an author received 
a hearty welcome by bis contemporaries, and are by no i 
means useless to us, a few of which are here mentioned: I 
Erste A nfangsgriinde der Yenmnfthhre (ZUllichan, 1743, | 
Svo; 2d cd., ibid, 1748, 8vo; 3d ‘ed.. ibid. 1755, 8vo; 4th 
cd., ibid. 1764, 8vo; translated into^Latin, with the title ' 
Element a Logicce , Stuttgard. 1766, 8vo) :—Befrachtungen j 
iiber cine vollstdndige und christliche Erziehung der Kin- 
der (Bar by, L7G, 8vo). See During, Gelehrte Theolog. 
Dentschlunds, vol. ii, s. v. j 


Lazse or Lazi (Ad^m), ^ 1C name of a large nation 
inhabiting Colchis, between the rivers Batliys and Pha- 
sis. Under the Homans the name Lazica was applied 
to the whole of Colchis. In 520 the prince of the Ltiza?, 
Tyathus (Zathus or Tzathus), went to Constantinople 
to ask the aid ol' the emperor Justin against the Per- 
sians. He was baptized there, with the emperor him- 
self as his sponsor, married a Grecian Christian lady 
of high rank, and requested the emperor to crown him 
king, in order that, if he should receive the crown at 
the hands of the king of Persia, as was formerly the 
custom, he should not be obliged to take a part in the 
heathen ceremonies and sacrifices which would follow. 
Justin recognised him as an independent sovereign, and 
crowned him himself. Soon after this the whole of the 
Lazre appear to have become zealous Christians. Pro- 
copius calls them “the most zealous of all Christians,” 
and this # seems to be to some extent corroborated by the 
fact that Chosroes, king of Persia, endeavored to remove 
them into the interior of his empire, as they and their 
neighbors the Iberians, who were also Christians, op- 
posed an invincible barrier to the extension of Persia. 
One of their princes, Gubazes, having been assassinated 
by a Homan general, they entertained for a moment the 
idea of attaching themselves to Persia, but relinquished 
it for fear of thereby being in danger of losing their 
faith: “qui enim varia senserint, versari simul nil pos- 
sunt, et sane nec timore intercedente nee beneficio (luce 
tides in bis stabilis manet, ni forte eadem et reetius sen- 
serint” (Agath. iii, 12). From the statement in Proco- 
pius {Bell. Goth, iv, 2), that the bishops of the Lazai sent 
priests to neighboring independent Christian nations, it 
appears that the Lazai were zealous in propagating their 
faith. Among the converts they made to Christianity 
are the Abasians, to whom Justinian 1 sent priests. See 
Theophan. Chronogr. anno 512 ; Herzog, Real-Encyllop. 
viii, 250; AVetzer und AVelte, Kircken-Lexikon, vi, 386; 
Smith, Diet, of Class. Geog. s. v. 

Lazarists, or Priests of the Mission, a soei- 
etvof missionarv priests in the Homan Catholic Church. 

It was founded in 1624 
by St. Vincent of Paul, 
who, while living as tu- 
tor and chaplain in the 
house of count Gondi, 
general of the royal gal- 
leys, was induced by the 
general confession of sick 
men to give a mission 
for the people of the do- 
minions of the count. 
The results of the mis- 
sion so well pleased the 
count that lie offered a 
sum of money to any 
religious congregation 
which would be willing 
to give a mission in his 
dominions. Vincent in 
vain offered this sum to 
the members of his own 
order, the Oratorians, 
Lazarist, or Priest of the Mis- and to the Jesuits. Both 
slou * were so overwhelmed 

with business that they could not accept the offer. This 
refusal, and the wish of the family of count Gondi, as 
well as of the brother of the count, the archbishop of 
Paris, induced Vincent in 1624 to establish the society 
of the missionary priests, who were chiefiy to devote 
themselves to the religious care of the country people 
and the lower classes. The new institution soon re- 
ceived the royal sanction, and pope Urban VIII made it 
a special religious society under the name of the Friests 
of the Mission. In 1632 they received the college of 
St. Lazarus in Paris, whence their usual name Lazarists 
is derived. Their more spacious establishment and the 
increase of their income now enabled the congregation 



LAZARUS 


301 


LAZARUS 


to extend their sphere of action. In addition to the 
revival of religiou among the masses of the people, the 
chief objects of the Priests of the Mission were the ref- 
ormation of the clergy by means of conferences, and the 
establishment of seminaries in accordance with the de- 
crees of the Council of Trent. Even during the lifetime 
of St. Vincent nearly all the dioceses of Prance had been 
visited by his disciples; and, besides, also Italy, Corsica, 
Poland, Ireland, Scotland, Algeria, Tunis, and Madagas- 
car received the missionaries, who, on the coast of Afri- 
ca, vied with the Order of Mercy in the redemption of 
slaves. To Poland they were called by the queen, Ma- 
ria Louisa, wife of king John Casimir II. They estab- 
lished a missionary institution, under the direction of 
Lambert, while the plague and famine were raging, in 
particular in Warsaw. Lambert and his successor. 
Ozenne, fell victims to the epidemic, but the mission 
became very prosperous. The first successors of Vin- 
cent as superiors general were Rene Almeras (1G72), 
Edmund Jolly (1G ( J7), and Nicolas Pierron; at the time 
of the first revolution abbe Cavla de la Garde was the 
head of the congregation. At this time the congrega- 
tion had reached its zenith; and as in Prance no less 
than forty-nine theological seminaries were conducted 
by it, it exercised a great influence on the theological 
views of the French clergy. During the Revolution, 
the Lazarists, in common with all the other religions 
denominations, perished ; but they were restored as early 
as 1804, and even received from the public exchequer a 
support of 15,000 francs. At Paris a hospital belonging 
to the public domain was given to them for the estab- 
lishment of a central institution and a novitiate; they 
also received several houses in the departments beyond 
the Alps, and the right to accept legacies. Put when Na- 
poleon had fallen out with the pope he again abolished 
the Lazarists by a decree of 1809, suppressed all their 
houses, cancelled the dotation, and confiscated the prop- 
erty which had been given to them or acquired by them. 
They were legally restored in I81G; and, though they 
could not recover their original house, St.Lazare, they 
acquired another house in the Rue Sevres, whither they 
also transferred their seminary. They now resumed 
their former labors, but remained for some time without 
a regular superior general. After the death of Cavla de 
la Garde two vicars general had been appointed, but in 
1829 the pope appointed a new superior general (Pierre 
Dewailly), as the convocation of a chapter general pre- 
sented insurmountable obstacles. The pope, in making 
this appointment, expressly recognised the fact that the 
office of superior general had always been filled by a 
Frenchman. According to the Roman Almanac for 
1870, the office of superior general was at that time filled 
by father Etienne. In 1802 (according to P. Karl vom 
lieil. Aloys, Statisches Jahrbuch der Kirche , Ratisbon, 
18G2) the Lazarists had 18 houses in France, 27 in Italy, 
4 in the British Isles, G in Germany, 3 in the Pyrenean 
peninsula, 10 in Poland (with 143 members). In Asia 
they had establishments in Asiatic Turkey, in Persia, 
in Manilla, and in five provinces of China ; in Africa, 
at Alexandria, in Egypt, at Algiers and Mustaplia, in 
Algeria, and at Adowa, in Abyssinia. In America they 
had 17 establishments. In all. there were in 18G2 about 
100 establishments, with 2000 members. Sec Wetzer u. 
Welte, Kirchen-Lex. vi, 383 ; Fehr, Gesch. eler Monchsoi'- 
den, ii, 254. (A. J.S.) 

Laz'arus (A d£apoc, an abridged form of the Ileb. 
name Eleazar, with a Greek termination, which in the 
Talmud is written “ItlA [see Bynums, De moi'te Chr, i, 
180 ; comp. Josephus, IPm*, v, 13, 7 ; Simonis, Onomast. 
A r .7’.p.9G; Fuller, Miscell.i, 10; Suicer, 77/es«tt?\ii,205]. 
It is proper to note this here, because the parable which 
describes Lazarus in Abraham’s bosom has been sup- 
posed to contain a latent allusion to the name of Eliezer, 
whom, before the birth of Ishmael and Isaac, Abraham 
regarded as his heir [see Geiger, in the Jiicl. Zeitschr . 
18G8, p. 196 sq.]), the name of two persons in the N.T. 

1. An inhabitant of Bethany, brother of Mary and 


Martha, honored with the friendship of Jesus, by whom 
lie was raised from the dead after he had been four 
days in the tomb (John xii, 1-17). A.D. 29. This 
great miracle is minutely described in John xi (see Kit- 
to. Daily Bible Illust. ad loc.). The credit which Christ, 
obtained among the people by this illustrious act, of 
which the life and presence of Lazarus afforded a stand- 
ing evidence, induced the Sanhedrim, in plotting against 
Jesus, to contemplate the destruction of Lazarus also 
(John xii, 10). Whether they accomplished this object 
or not we are not informed, but the probability seems to 
be that when they had satiated their malice on Christ 
they left Lazarus unmolested. According to an old tra- 
dition in Epiplianius ( liar . lxvi, 34, p. G52), he was thir- 
ty years old when restored to life, and lived thirty years 
afterwards. Later legends recount that his bones were 
discovered A.D. 890 in Cyprus (Suicer, Thesaur. ii, 208). 
which disagrees with another story that Lazarus, accom- 
panied by Martha and Mary, travelled to Provence, in 
France, and preached the Gospel in Marseilles (Fabrici- 
us, Codex A poor. X. Test, iii, 475, and Lux evany . p. 388 ; 
Thilo, Apociyph. p. 71 1 ; see Launoii Dissert, de Lazari 
appulsu in Provincial)}, in his Opera , ii, 1). 

“ The raising of Lazarus from the dead was a work 
of Christ beyond measure great, and of all the miracles 
he had hitherto wrought undoubtedly the most stupen- 
dous. ‘ If it can be incontrovertibly shown that Christ 
performed one such miraculous act as this,’ says T1 k>- 
luck (in his Commentar zum Evany. Johannis), ‘much 
will thereby be gained to the cause of Christianity. 
One point so peculiar in its character, if irrefragably es- 
tablished, may serve to develop a belief in the entire 
evangelical record.’ The sceptical Spinoza was fully 
conscious of this, as is related by Bavle ( Diet . s.v. Spino- 
za). It is not surprising, therefore, that the enemies of 
Christianity have used their utmost exertions to destroy 
the credibility of the narrative. The earlier cavils of 
Woolston and his followers were, however, satisfactorily 
answered by Lardner and others, and the more recent 
efforts of the German ncologists have been ably and 
successfully refuted by Oertelius, Langius, and Reinliard, 
and by H. L. Heubner in a work entitled Miraculorum 
ab Eranyelistis narratorum interpretat . yrammatico-his- 
torica (Wittenb. 1807), as well as by others of still more 
recent date, whose answers, with the objections to which 
they apply, may he seen in Kuinoel” (Kitto). See also 
Flatt,in J lay. fur Doymat. nnd Moral, xiv, 91 ; Schott, 
Gpusc. i, 259 ; Ewald, Lazarus fur Gebildete Christusve- 
rehrer (Berl. 1790); and the older monographs cited by 
Volbeding, Jnd< x Programmatnm , p. 49; Hase, Leben 
Jesu , p. 1 G9. The rationalistic views of Paulus ( K?'itisch. 
Kommentar') and Gabler (Journal f. Ausei'l. Theol. Lit. 
iii, 235) have been successfully refuted by Strauss (Leben 
Jesu), and the mythological dreams of the latter have 
been dissipated by a host of later German writers, and 
J the reality of the story triumphantly established (sec 
especially Neander, Das Leben Jesu Christ i ; Sticr and 
, Olshausen, ad loc.). The last modification of Strauss’s 
theory (Die JIalben nnd die Ganzen, p. 79 sq., Berl. 1865) 
has been demolished by Hengstenberg (Zeitschr. f. Prot- 
estant. u. Kirche , p. 39 sq., 1868) ; comp. Spa t h (Zeitschr. 
f. wissensch. Theol. p. 339, 18G8) anti Holzmann (ibid. p. 
71 sq., 18G9). The views of Paulus have just been re- 
vived in the lively romance of INI. E. Renan, entitled Vie 
de Jesus ; and the latter’s theory of a pious fraud has 
been completely demolished by Ebrard, Pressense, and 
Ellicott, in their works on our Lord’s life. See also the 
Studien and Krit. ii, 1861 ; Watson, Lazarus of Bethany 
(London, 1844). Compare Jesus ; Maky. 

2 . A beggar named in the parable of Dives (Luke 
&vi, 20-25) as suffering the most abject poverty in this 
life, but whose humble piety was rewarded with ultimate 
bliss in the other world: the only instance of a proper 
name in a parable, and probably selected in this instance 
on account of its frequency. lie is an imaginary rep- 
resentative of the regard which God exercises towards 
those of his saints whom the world spurns and passes 


LAZARUS 


302 


LEACOCK 


unnoticed ; by others, however, he has been considered 
a real personage, with which accords the old tradition 
that even gives the name of the rich man as being ])o- 
bruk (see F. Fabri, Evagat. i, 35 sq.). Some interpret- 
ers think he was some well-known mendicant of Jeru- 
salem (see Seb. Schmid, Fascic. disputat. p. 878 sep), and 
hav e attempted to detine his disease (see Wedel, Exercit. 
Med. cent, ii, dee.ii, No. 2; Bartolini, Morb . bill. c. xxi) 
with the success that might be expected (S. G. Feige, 
lJe morte Laz. [Ilal. 17 '33]). 

The history of this Lazarus made a deep impression 
upon the Church, a fact illustrated by the circumstance 
to which Trench calls attention, “ that the term lazar 
should have passed into so many languages, losing alto- 
gether its signification as a proper name” (On Parables , 
p. 450, note). Early in the history of the Church Laza- 
rus was regarded as the patron saint of the sick, and es- 
pecially of those suffering from the terrible scourge of 
leprosy. “Among the orders, half military and half 
monastic, of the 12th century, was one which bore the 
title of the Knights of St. Lazarus (A.D. 1119), whose 
special work it was to minister to the lepers, tirst of 
Syria, and afterwards of Europe. The use of lazaretto 
and lazar-house for the leper hospitals then founded in 
all parts of Western Christendom, no less than that of 
lazzarone for the mendicants of Italian towns, are indi- 
cations of the effect of the parable upon the mind of 
Europe in the Middle Ages, and thence upon its later 
speech. In some eases there seems to have been a sin- 
gular transfer of the attributes of the one Lazarus to the 
other. Thus in Paris the prison of St. Lazare (the Clos 
S. Lazare, so famous in 1848) had been originally a hos- 
pital for lepers. In the 17th century .it was assigned to 
the Society of Lazarists, who took their name, as has 
been said, from Lazarus of Bethany, and St. Vincent de 
Paul died there in 1 000. In the immediate neighbor- 
hood of the prison, however, are two streets, the Bue 
d’Enfer and Bue de Paradis, the names of which indi- 
cate the earlier associations with the Lazarus of the par- 
able. 

*• It may be mentioned incidentally, as there has been 
no article under the head of Dives, that the occurrence 
of this word, used as a quasi-proper name, in our early 
English literature, is another proof of the impression 
which was made on the minds of men, either by the 
parable itself, or by dramatic representations of it in the 
medieval mysteries. It appears as early as Chaucer 
(’ Lazar and Dives,’ Sompnoure’s Tale) and Piers Plough- 
man (‘Dives in the devotees lyvede,’ 1. 9158), and in 
later theological literature its use has been all but uni- 
versal. In no other instance has a descriptive adjective 
passed in this way into the received name of an indi- 
vidual. The name Ximeusis , which Euthymius gives 
as that of the rich man (Trench, Parables, 1. c.), seems 
never to have come into any general use” (Smith). See 
Klinkhardt, De homine divite et Lazuro (Lipsiie, 1831); 
Walker, Parable of Lazarus (Lend. 1850); Mcth. Quar. 
Per. July and Oct. 1859; Jour. Sac. Lit. April, July, and 
Oct. 1804. See Parable. 

Lazarus, a noted French prelate, flourished in the 
first half of the 5th century. It is supposed that he was 
raised to the archbishopric of Aix in 408, and resigned 
in 411, at the death of Constantine. In 415 he distin- 
guished himself among the most zealous adversaries of 
Pelagius, and of his disciple Cudestius, for we find that 
the Council of Diospolis, in the meeting of Dec. 20,415, 
condemned the errors attributed to IYlagius, and de- 
nounced by Lazarus, then archbishop of Aix, and by 
Ileros, bishop of Arles. Pelagius having succeeded in 
persuading the Eastern bishops that he did not hold 
the condemned doctrines, Lazarus and Ileros addressed 
further memorials against him to the bishops of Africa, 
who were on the eve of holding the Council of Carthage. 
Here Pelagius and Xestorius were finally condemned. 
The letters of pope Zosimus, who favored Pelagius, arc 
full of bitterness against Lazarus. Sec Augustine, Epis- 
tolie, passim, et Gesta Pelagii ; Marius M creator, Com- 


monitorium; Zosimi Epistola?, a J.Sirmondo editae; Gal- 
lia Christ, vol. i, col. 299: lfist. Lit. de la France , ii, 147 ; 
1 loefer, Four. Biog. Generate, xxix, 43. (J. N. P.) 

Leach. See House-leech. 

Leach, James, a Presbyterian minister, was born in 
Stafford County, Va., July 15, 1791. lie was educated 
in Hampden Sidney College, Ya., studied divinity in the 
Union Theological Seminary, Va., and was licensed by 
the Winchester Presbytery Oet. 10,1818. lie was a 
predestinarian of the order of Augustine and Calvin. 
His ordination and installation took place soon after his 
call, Sept. 27, 1819, and in 1824 he was transferred from 
Berkeley to Hanover by the Presbytery. At the dis- 
ruption of the Church he took sides with those opposed 
to the Old-School party, believing the action of the As- 
sembly of 1837 unconstitutional as well as injudicious. 
He died Sept. 4, 1860. — Wilson, Presbyterian Historical 
A Imanac , 1809, p. 442. 

Leacock, Hamble James, a missionary of the 
Church of England, was born at Cluff’s Bay, Barbadoes, 
Feb. 14, 1795. II is family was descended from a noble 
English ancestry. Slaves were an element of respecta- 
bility in Barbadoes, and his father had many. Young 
Leacock received his early education at Codrington 
College, Barbadoes. Through Dr. Coleridge, bishop of 
Barbadoes and Leeward Islands, he became reader in 
his native parish, and in connection studied with his 
pastor, Bev. W. 51. Ilarte. and obtained deacon’s orders 
in January, 1826. While acting as assistant priest of 
St.John’s Church he became very decided in his relig- 
ious views, and extended the privileges of the Church 
to all the parish’s slaves, at the same time liberating all 
his own slaves. The hatred and open reproach of the 
whites even the bishop could not calm. Leacock was 
transferred to the island of St. Vincent, and then to Ne- 
vis, where he became rural dean and pastor of St. Paul’s 
Church, Charlestown, lie there fought polygamy with 
success. But soon reverses came — difficulty with the 
bishop, insurrections of the slaves, and fall of property. 
He left for the United States, and settled in Lexington, 
Ky., in 1835. His confirmation, neglected in his youth, 
here took place on arrival. He fell into the society 
of such men as Dr. Coit, Dr. Cooke, Amos Cleaver, and 
found many friends in Transylvania University. He 
gained a livelihood by teaching until 1836, when he 
became pastor of a new congregation, St. Paul’s. Diffi- 
culty soon arose here also, and led to his removal. II is 
friends scattered to different parts of the Union. Bishop 
Otev stationed him in Franklin parish, Tenn. Soon af- 
ter, urged by friends, he preached six months to a new 
congregation in Louisville, Ivy.; he then returned to his 
old parish. He bought a small farm in Xew r Jersey, 
near the city of Xew r Brunswick, and settled on it in 
1840. He now' preached in different places — for a few 
Sundays in and about Bridgeport, Conn. ; then he sup- 
plied the w'inter service of the absent pastor of Christ 
Church, New' Brunswick. In 1841 his personal appear- 
ance in the West Indies recovered for him some of his 
property there. He returned to the States, and was 
appointed to two small stations near his farm. In 
1843 he became rector of St. Paul’s Church, Perth Am- 
boy. In 1847 his health and property called him to the 
West Indies again. By a letter from bishop Donne, 
bishop Parry’s reception was such that he decided to 
remain, and in 1848 his Perth Ambov congregation ac- 
cepted his resignation. He revisited the island of Ne- 
vis, and, at the peril of his life, preached vehemently 
against some of the immoral practices prevalent there. 
In 1852 he preached again for one year in St. Peter’s 
Church, Speightstown, Barbadoes. In 1854 he preached 
in St. Leonard’s Chapel, Bridgetown. On July 15, 1855, 
lie became the first volunteer to the West Indian Church 
Association for the furtherance of the Gospel in Western 
Africa (recently formed by bishop Parry), sailed for Eng- 
land, visited and prepared there, reached Africa, and 
landed at Freetown], Sierra Leone, Nov. 10. Aided by 


LEAD 


303 


LEAD 


the bishop of Sierra Leone and colonel Hill, its govern- 
or, he founded at length a station, the Rio Pongas. At 
Tintima village he gained over one out of the five hos- 
tile negro chiefs. All educated black coming with him 
from Barbadoes, .John II. A. Duport, and a converted ne- 
gro chief, Mr. Wilkinson, aided him greatly; the latter 
gave him a site for his dwelling and chapel. Ill health 
drove the missionary to Freetown to recruit. Return- 
ing, he opened a school for boys, with an attendance 
which increased to forty. He was aided with money, 
books, and clothing from England, and his congregations 
in Perth Amboy, Kentucky, and Tennessee. Ilis terri- 
tory soon widened, the natives became favorable, and 
the school increased. Again sickness drove him to his 
friends in Sierra Leone. Against their advice, and that 
of the bishop of Barbadoes, he returned to his post. lie 
seemed to recover, and laid plans for future efforts ; but 
died August 20, 185G. As a result of his labors, a large 
missionary field was opened. His biography is written 
bv Iiev. Henry Caswall, D.D. (London, 1857, 12mo), a 
friend, and English secretary of the society under which 
he acted. 

Lead (rHBr, ophe'reth , from its dusty color, in pause 
r“i£:?,Exod. xv, 10; Numb. xxxi,22; Jobxix,24; Jer. 
vi, 29; Ezek. xxii, 18, 20; xxvii,12; Zecli.v, 7, 8; Sept. 
pu\t/3do£),a well-known metal, generally found in veins 
of rocks, though seldom in a metallic state, and most 
commonly in combination with sulphur. Although the 
metal itself was well known to the ancients and to the 
Hebrews, yet the early uses of lead in the East seem 
to have been comparatively few, nor are they now nu- 
merous. One may travel far in Western Asia without 
discovering a trace of this metal in any of the numer- 
ous useful applications which it is made to serve in Eu- 
ropean countries. We are not aware that any native 
lead has been yet found within the limits of Palestine. 
But ancient lead mines, in some of which the ore has 
been exhausted by working, have been discovered by 
Mr. Burton in the mountains between the Red Sea and 
the Nile ; and lead is also said to exist at a place called 
Shelf, near Mount Sinai (Kitto, Phys. Hist. Pal. p. lxxiii). 

The ancient Egyptians employed lead for a variety 
of purposes, but cliielly as an alloy with more precious 
metals. On the breasts of mummies that have been 
unrolled there is frequently found in soft lead, thin and 
quite flexible, the figure of a hawk, with extended wings, 
emblematical of Re, or Phra, the sun. Specimens of 
lead have also been discovered among the Assyrian ruins 
(Lavard’s Nin. and Bab. p. 857); and a bronze lion is 
found attached to its stone base by means of this metal 
(Bonomi, Nineveh , p. 825). 

The first scriptural notice of this metal occurs in the 
triumphal song in which Moses celebrates the overthrow 
of Pharaoh, whose host is there said to have “sunk like 
lead ” in the waters of the Red Sea (Exod. xv, 10). That 
it was common in Palestine is shown by the expression 
in Ecclus. xlvii, 18, where it is said, in apostrophizing 
Solomon, “Thou didst multiply silver as lead the writ- 
er having in view the hyperbolical description of Solo- 
mon’s wealth in 1 Kings x, 27: “The king made the 
silver to be in Jerusalem as stones .” It was among the 
spoils of the Midianites which the children of Israel 
brought with them to the plains of Moab, after their re- 
turn from the slaughter of the tribe (Numb, xxxi, 22). 
The ships of Tarshish supplied the market of Tyre with 
lead, as with other metals (Ezek. xxvii, 12). Its heavi- 
ness, to which allusion is made in Exod. xv, 10, and 
Ecclus. xxii, 14, caused it to be used for weights, which 
were either in the form of a round flat cake (Zech. v, 7), 
or a. rough unfasliioned lump or “stone” (ver. 8) ; stones 
having in ancient times served the purpose of weights 
(comp. Prov. xvi, 11). This fact may perhaps explain 
the substitution of “ lead” for “ stones” in the passage of 
Ecclesiasticus above quoted; the commonest use of the 
cheapest metal being present to the mind of the writ- 
er. If Gescnius is correct in rendering anal:, by 


“lead,” in Amos vii, 7, 8, we have another instance of 
the purposes to which this metal was applied in forming 
the ball or bob of the plumb-line. See Flumb-lixe. 
Its use for weighting fishing-lines was known in the 
time of Homer (II. xxiv, 80). In Acts xxvii, 28, a 
plummet (fioXic, in the form fioXiZw, to heave the leael) 
for taking soundings at sea is mentioned, and this was, 
of course, of lead. 

But, in addition to these more obvious uses of this 
metal, the Hebrews were acquainted with another meth- 
od of employing it, which indicates some advance in the 
arts at an early period. Job (xix, 24) utters a wish 
that his words, “with a pen of iron and lead, were graven 
in the rock forever.” The allusion is supposed to be to 
the practice of carving inscriptions upon stone, and pour- 
ing molten lead into the cavities of the letters, to render 
them legible, and at the same time preserve them from 
the action of the air. Frequent references to the use of 
leaden tablets for inscriptions are found in ancient writ- 
ers. Pausanias (ix, 31) saw Hesiod’s 1 )onhs and Pays 
graven on lead, but almost illegible with age. Public 
proclamations, according to Pliny (xiii,21),were written 
on lead, and the name of Germanicus was carved on 
leaden tablets (Tacitus, A nn. ii, G9). Eutvchius (Ann, 
A lex. p. 890) relates that the history of the Seven Sleep- 
ers was engraved on lead by the cadi. The translator 
of Rosenmi'dler (in Bib. Cab. xxvii, G4) thinks, however, 
that the poetical force of the scriptural passage has been 
overlooked by interpreters: “Job seems not to have 
drawn his image from anything he had actually seen 
executed: he only wishes to express in the strongest 
possible language the durability due to his words; and 
accordingly he says, ‘May the pen be iron, and the ink 
of lead, with which they are written on an everlasting 
rock,’ i. e. Let. them not be written with ordinary per- 
ishable materials.” The above usual explanation seems 
to be suggested by that of the Septuagint, “that they 
were sculptured by an iron pen and lead, or hewn into 
rocks'.” See Pex. 

Oxide of lead is employed largely in modern pottery 
for the formation of glazes, and its presence has been 
discovered in analyzing the articles of earthen-ware found 
in Egypt and Nineveh, proving that the ancients were 
acquainted with its use for the same purpose. The A. 
V. of Ecclus. xxxviii, 30 assumes that the usage was 
known to the Hebrews, though the original is not ex- 
plicit upon the point. Speaking of the potter’s art in 
finishing off his work, “he applieth himself to lead it 
over,” is the rendering of what in the Greek is simply 
“he givetli his heart to complete the smearing,” the 
material employed for the purpose not being indicated. 
See Pottery. 

In modern metallurgy lead is employed for the pur- 
pose of purifying silver from other mineral products, in- 
stead of the more expensive quicksilver. The alloy is 
mixed with lead, exposed to fusion upon an earthen ves- 
sel, and submitted to a blast of air. By this means the 
dross is consumed. This process is called the cupelling 
operation, with which the description in Ezek. xxii, 18- 
22, in the opinion of Mr. Napier (Met. of Bible , p. 20-24), 
accurately coincides. “ The vessel containing the alloy 
is surrounded by the fire, or placed in the midst of it, 
and the blowing is not applied to the fire, but to the 
fused metals. . . . When this is done, nothing but the 
perfect metals, gold and silver, can resist the scorify- 
ing influence.” In support of his conclusion he quotes 
Jer. vi, 28-30, adding, “This description is perfect. If 
we take silver having the impurities in it described in 
the text, namely, iron, copper, and tin, and mix it with 
lead, and place it in the fire upon a cupell, it soon melts; 
the lead will oxidize and form a thick coarse crust upon 
the surface, and thus consume away, but effecting no 
purifying influence. The alloy remains, if anything, 
worse than before. . . . The silver is not refined, because 
‘the bellows were burned’ — there existed nothing to 
blow upon it. Lead is the purifier, but only so in con- 
nection with a blast blowing upon the precious metals.” 


LEADE 


304 


LEADERS 


An allusion to this use of lead is to be found in Theog- 
nis (Gnom. 1127 sq., ed. Wcdcker), and it is mentioned bv 
Pliny (xxxiii,31) as indispensable to the purification of 
silver from alloy. Comp, also Mai. iii, 2, 3. See Metal. 

By modern artificers lead is used with tin in the com- 
position of solder for fastening metals together. That 
the ancient Hebrews were acquainted with the use of 
solder is evident from the description given by the 
prophet Isaiah of the processes which accompanied the 
formation of an image for idolatrous worship. The 
method by which two pieces of metal were joined to- 
gether was identical with that employed in modern 
times; the substances to be united being first clamped 
before being soldered. No hint is given as to the com- 
position of the solder, but in all probability lead was one 
of the materials employed, its usage for such a purpose 
being of great antiquity. The ancient Egyptians used 
it for fastening stones together in the rough parts of a 
building. Mr. Napier ( Metallurgy of the Bible, p. 130) 
conjectures that £ * the solder used in early times for lead, 
and termed lead, was the same as is now used — a mix- 
ture of lead and tin.” — Smith; lvitto. See Solder. 

Leade or Leadly, Jane, an English mystic, found- 
er of the Philadelphians, was born in the county of Nor- 
folk in 1623. According to her own accounts she was 
convicted of sin in her sixteenth year by a mysterious 
voice whispering in her ear, and found peace in the 
grace of God three years after. Her parents, whose 
name was Ward, seriously opposed Jane’s firm religious 
stand, and, having decided to withdraw from the paren- 
tal roof, she removed in 1643 to London to join a brother 
of hers living there. She had spent a year in the Eng- 
lish metropolis, constantly growing in grace and in the 
knowledge of Christian truths, when a summons came 
to her from her parents to return home, which request 
was at once obeyed. Shortly afterwards she was mar- 
ried to William Leade, a pious, noble-hearted man, with 
whom she lived happily, blessed with a family of four 
daughters, until 1670, when William was suddenly re- 
moved at the age of forty-nine. From the time of her 
earliest conversion she had shown signs of a mvstical 
tendency; she found the greatest delight in seeking 
private communion with God; now the loss of her 
husband drew her still further away from the world, 
and she became a confirmed mystic. As early as 1652, 
I)r. l’ord age (q. v.) and his wife, together with Dr. 
Thomas Bromley (q. v.), had succeeded in gathering a 
congregation of mystics of the Jacob Boh me (q. v.) 
type? but the pestilence of 1655 had necessitated sep- 
aration, and they were just gathering anew at London 
when Jane Leade was deprived of the earthly associa- 
tion of her husband. She joined them readily, and soon 
became one of the leading spirits of this new mystical 
movement, and rose until she finally became the founder 
of a distinct mystical school known as the Philadelphi- 
ans (q. v.). As her motive for joining Pordage, she 
assigned certain secret divine revelations and visions 
which she claimed to have had in the spring of 1670, 
and shortly after she actually brought before the society 
a set of laws which she professed to have received of the 
Lord, in like manner as Moses had been intrusted with 
the 'leu Commandments. (For a complete copy, see 
Zeitschrift f hist . Theol. 1865, p. 187 sq.) A still stron- 
ger hold she gained upon the society and upon the peo- 
ple at large by the publication of some of her writings 
in 1683, when she was enabled to send them forth by 
the pecuniary aid of a pious lady who believed in Jane 
Leade’s divine mission. Her great, object in publishing 

her writings (consisting of eight large octavo volumes 

very scarce at present — like those of Jacob Bcihme, 
though less original, abounding in emblematic and figu- 
rative language, and very obscure in style) was evident- 
ly to spread her peculiar views, and by these means to 
form a society of all truly regenerated* Christians, from 
all denominations, which should be the visible Church 
of Christ upon earth, and be thus awaiting the second 
coming of the Lord, which she claimed to have been in- 


formed by revelation was near at hand (for 1700). She 
was led to seek the establishment of a distinct organi- 
zation by the movements of the German Fietists and 
Chiliasts at this period. In 1690, Kilner, of M oscow, 
agitated this subject still further by an effort to estab- 
lish a patriarchal and apostolical society of true and per- 
secuted Christians, and in 1696- Mrs. Petersen, in her 
Anleitung z. Yerstdndniss d. Offenbarung , and again in 
1698 in Der geistliche Kampf (Halle, 8vo), called upon 
the regenerate Christians to separate from the world 
and to form a new Jerusalem. In 1695, Jane Leade, to- 
gether with her friends Bromley and Pordage. removed 
to carry out these projects in London, and proposed a 
new society, to consist only of Christians, who, with- 
out separating from the different churches to which 
they belonged, should form a pure and undefiled Church 
of true Christians, to be governed only by God’s will 
and the Holy Spirit, and who should hasten the sec- 
ond coming of Christ and the beginning of the millen- 
nium. So successful was this effort that by 1702 the 
Philadelphians, as they now called themselves, were 
able to send missionaries to Germany and Holland with 
a view to making proselytes ; and, although they failed 
to accomplish their object immediately, the idea which 
constituted it took ground and spread, especially in Ger- 
many. Conrad Brilsske of Offenbach, a disciple of Bev- 
erley, Dr. Iloreh of Marburg, and Dr. Kaiser of Stutt- 
gard, labored to propagate it; the latter wrote a number 
of works on the subject under the name of Timotheus 
Fhiladelphus, and established a Philadelphian commu- 
nity at Stuttgard. An approximate estimate of the ex- 
tent of Jane Leade’s influence on Germany and Holland 
may be obtained by a reference to the extensive list of 
her correspondents in those countries (comp. Zeitsch.f 
hist. Theol. 1865, p. 222, note 38). Many, without being 
outwardly members of this and similar societies, were 
evidently favorable to them. But some enthusiasts, as 
Gebhard, Wetzel, Eva von Buttlar, etc., caused the move- 
ment to fall into discredit. The scattered elements of 
the divers societies were afterwards reunited by count 
Zinzendorf, and formed part of the Moravian institution. 
But to return to Jane Leade herself. In 1702 she felt 
that her end was near at hand. She wrote out her fu- 
neral discourse, to be read at her grave, and made all 
manner of preparations for departure. One of the 
strangest, features of this period of her life is her study 
of the writings of cardinal Petrucci and of Biehard of 
Samson. She died Aug. 19, 1704. The most noted of 
her works are, The Wonders of God's Creation manifest- 
ed in the Variety of eiyht Worlds , as they were made 
known experimentally to the A nthor (Lond. 1695, 24mo) : 
— The Tree of Faith, or the Tree of Life, springing up in 
the Paradise of God (Lond. 1696, 24mo). See G. Ar- 
nold, Kirchenhist07'ie,xo \ . ii; Gichtel, Theosophia prac - 
tic a ; Poiret and Arnold, Gesch. d.Mystik; Corrodi, Kri- 
tische Gesch . des Chiliasmus, iii, 403-121 ; Gobel, Gesch . 
d. Christl. Lebens , vols. ii and iii ; Mosheim, Eccles. Hist. 
bk. iv, cent, xvii, sec. ii, pt. ii, ch. vii, § 5; Lee, Life of 
Jane Leade; J. W. Joeger, Dissei't. de Vita et Doctrina 
Jance Leadce ; Herzog, Real-Encyklop. viii, 251 ; lloefer, 
Xouv. Biogr. Generale, xxx, 50; Ilochhuth, Gesch. der 
philadelphischen Gemeinden, Part I, Jane Leade nnd die 
Philadelphia' in England, in the Zeitschrift fir Hist. 
Theolotj. 1865, p. 172-290. See Philadelphians. (J. 
H.W.) 

Leaders. This term has a technical significance 
as applied to leaders of religious classes in the original 
Methodist societies, and in the Merhodist churches of 
the present day. See Class-meetings. The leader’s 
office is one of pastoral help. It therefore involves great 
responsibility, and requires for the proper discharge of 
its duties a deep religious experience, combined with a 
capacity to instruct believers in the practical details of 
religions truth, to console the afflicted, to encourage the 
despondent, to guide the erring, and, in short, both by 
precept and example, to lead Christians and penitents 
forward in the pathway of holiness. Leaders are ex- 


LEADERS’ MEETINGS 


30o 


LEAGUE 


pected to meet the several members of their classes ] 
weekly for religious worship and conversation, to visit 
those who are detained by sickness, and to take all suit- 
able means for aiding the religious life and progress of 
those under their care. They are also required to meet 
their pastors weekly, to report respecting the welfare of 
the members and probationers attached to their classes. 
See Leaders’ Meetings and Probationers. In some 
cases women are appointed leaders, more especially of 
classes composed of females or of children. That the 
office of class-leader has been greatly helpful to the pas- 
torate in those churches which have employed it does 
not admit of question. Hence it is a recognised obliga- 
tion of pastors in those churches not only to select the 
best persons for the office, but also to aid them in ac- 
quiring the best qualifications for its useful exercise. 
To aid in the task of instructing leaders various tracts 
and small books have been published. See Tract list 
of the Methodist Episcopal Church. (D. P. K.) 

Leaders’ Meetings. As an essential part of the 
Wesleyan system of subpastoral superintendence by 
means of class - leaders [see Leaders], an organized 
meeting was appointed to be held weekly under the 
above title. A leaders’ meeting is composed of the itin- 
erant ministers of any circuit or station, and all persons 
regularly in office as leaders or stewards. See Stew- 
ards. In England, the powers ofleaders’ meetings have 
been considerably enlarged since such meetings were 
instituted by Mr. Wesley. “They have now a veto 
upon the admittance of members into the society, when 
appealed to in such cases by any parties concerned : 
they possess the power of a jury in the trial of accused 
members: without their consent, no leader or steward 
can be appointed to office, or removed from it, except- 
ing when the crime proved merits exclusion from mem- 
bership, in which case the superintendent can at once 
depose the offender from office, and expel him from the 
society. Without their consent, in conjunction with 
the trustees of the chapel in which their meeting is at- 
tached, the sacrament of the Lord’s Supper cannot be 
administered in the said chapel; and the fund for the 
relief of poor and afflicted members of the society is dis- 
tributed under their direction and management. Reg- 
ular leaders’ meetings have from the beginning been 
found essential to the pastoral care and spiritual pros- 
perity of our societies, as well as to the orderly trans- 
action of their financial concerns. The ministers are 
directed attentively to examine, at each meeting, the en- 
tries made in the class-books in reference to the attend- 
ance of members, in order that prompt and timely meas- 
ures may be adopted in cases which, on inquiry, shall 
appear to demand the exercise of discipline, or the in- 
terposition of pastoral exhortation and admonition” 
(Grindrod’s Compendium of Wesleyan Methodism). In 
the Methodist Episcopal Church leaders’ meetings have 
no judicial or veto powers as described above. They 
are held monthly, or at the call of the pastor. Their 
usual business embraces the following items: a. That 
the leaders have an opportunity “ to inform the minister 
of any that are sick, or of any that walk disorderly and 
will not be reproved.” h. That the pastor may examine 
the several class-books, and ascertain the Christian walk 
and character of each member of the Church, and learn 
what members of the flock especially need his watch- 
care and counsel, c. To inquire into the religious state 
of all persons on trial, and ascertain who can be recom- 
mended bv the leader for admission into full connection, 
and who should he discontinued, d. To examine the 
several leaders respecting their “ method of leading their 
classes.” e. To recommend to the quarterly conference 
suitable candidates for appointment as local preachers. 
The leaders’ meeting also becomes to pastors a conven- 
ient and appropriate body of men with whom they ean 
take counsel from time to time respecting many minor 
matters of Church interest in reference to which advice 
or co-operation may seem desirable. See Class-Meet- 
ings. (D.P.K.) 

Y.—U 


Leaf, a term occurring in the Bible, both in the sin- 
gular and plural, in three senses. 

1. Leaf of a tree (prop. aleh', so called from 
springing up ; Gr. <pi>\\ov ; also *£?, opin', foliage [Psa. 
civ, 12], or in Chald. the top ol‘a tree [Dan. iv, 9, 11, lb], 
and te'reph , afresh leaf [Ezek. xvii, 9] “plucked 
off” [Gen. viii, 11]). The olive-leaf is mentioned in 
Gen. viii, II. Fig-leaves formed the first covering of 
our parents in Eden. The barren fig-tree (Matt, xxi, 
19; Mark xi, 13) on the road between Bethany and Je- 
rusalem “ had on it nothing but leaves.” The tig-leaf is 
alluded to by our Lord (Matt, xxiv, 32; Mark xiii, 28) : 
“When his branch is yet tender, and putteth forth 
leaves, ye know that summer is nigh.” The oak-leaf 

I is mentioned in Isa. i, 30, and vi, 13. Leaves, the organs 
of perspiration and inhalation in plants, are used sym- 
bolically in the Scriptures in a variety of senses; some- 
times they are taken as an evidence of grace (Psa. i, 3), 
while at others they represent the mere outward form 
of religion without the Spirit (Matt, xxi, 19). Their 
flourishing and their decay, their restoration and their 
fragility, furnish the subjects of numerous allusions of 
great force and beauty (Lev. xx vi, 3G ; Isa. i, 30 ; xxxiv, 
4; Jcr. viii, 13; Dan. iv, 12, 14,21 ; Mark xi, 13; xiii, 
28; Rev. xxii, 2). The bright, fresh color of the leaf 
of a tree or plant shows that it is richly nourished by a 
good soil, hence it is the symbol of prosperity (Psa. i, 3 ; 
Jer. xvii, 8). A faded leaf, on the contrary, shows the 
lack of moisture and nourishment, and becomes a fit 
emblem of adversity and deeav (Job xiii, 25; Isa. lxiv, 
G). Similar figures have prevailed in all ages (see We- 
myss, Symbol. Dictionary, s. v.). In Ezekiel’s vision of 
the holy waters, the blessings of the Messiah's kingdom 
.are spoken of under the image of trees growing on a 
river’s bank ; there “ shall grow all trees for food, whose 
leaf shall not fade” (Ezek. xlvii, 12). In this passage it 
is said that “the fruit of those trees shall be for food, and 
the leaf thereof for medicine” (margin, for bruises and 
sores). With this compare John’s vision of the heav- 
enly Jerusalem (Rev. xxii, 1,2): “In the midst of the 
street of it, and on either side of the river, was there the 
tree of life .... and the leaves of the tree were for the 
healing of the nations.” There is probably here an al- 
lusion to some tree whose leaves were used by the Jews 
as a medicine or ointment ; indeed, it is very likely that 
many plants and leaves were thus made use of by them, 
as by the old English herbalists. See Tree of Life. 

2. Leaf of a door tse'la, a side, in 1 Kings vi, 

34 [where the latter clause has, prob. by error, zbj?, he 
lany, a curtain], means the valve of a folding door; so 
also de'leth , a door [Isa. xlv, 1]). See Door. 

3. Leaf of a book (r2^T, de'leth , a door -valve, as 
above, hence perhaps a fold of a roll [Jer. xxxvi, 23], 
like our column of a volume). See Book. 

League (r n ^Z, berith', a contract or “covenant;” 
also nzn, chabar' [Dan. xi, 23], to “join” in alliance; 
r*2, karath', to cut, i. e. “ make” a league), a political 
! confederacy or treaty. That the Hebrews, surrounded on 
every side by idolatrous nations, might not be seduced 
to a defection from Jehovah their king, it was necessary 
that they should be kept from too great an intercourse 
with those nations by the establishment of various sin- 
gular rites; but, lest this seclusion from them should be 
the source of hatred to other nations, Moses constantly 
taught them that they should love their nevjhbor. i. e. 
every one with whom they had intercourse, including 
foreigners (Exod. xxii, 21 ; xxiii, 9; Lev. xix,34; Dent, 
x, 18, 19; xxiv, 17, 18; xxvii, 19; eomp. Luke x, 25-37). 
To this end, he showed them that the benefits which 
God had conferred upon them in preference to other na- 
tions were undeserved (Deut. vii, G— 8 ; ix, 4-24). But, 
although the Hebrews individually were debarred from 
any close intimacy with idolatrous nations by various 
I rites, yet as a nation they were permitted to form trea- 


LEAGUE -OF CAMBRAY 


300 


LEAXDER 


ties with Gentile states, with the following exceptions : 
(1.) The Canaanites , including the Philistines; with 
these nations the Hebrews were not permitted to enter 
into any alliance whatever (Exod. xxiii, 32. 33 ; xxxiv, 
12-10; Dent. vii, 1-11; xx, 1-18). r L lie Phoenicians, 
although Canaanites, were not included in this deep 
hostility, as they dwelt on the northern shore of the 
country, were shut up within their own limits, and did 
not occupy the land promised to the patriarchs. (2.) 
The Amalekites , or Canaanites of Arabia, were also des- 
tined to hereditary enmity, unceasing war, and total ex- 
termination (Exod. xvii,8, 14; Dent, xxv, 17-10, Judg. 

vi. 3-5; 1 Sam. xv, 1, 33; xxvii, 8, 0; xxx, 1, 17, 18). 
(3.) The Moabites and .1 mmonites were to be excluded 
forever from the right of treaty or citizenship with the 
Hebrews, but were not to be attacked in war, except 
when provoked by previous hostility (Dent, ii, 9-19 ; 
xxiii, 3-6 ; Judg. iii. 12-30 , 1 Sam. xiv, 47 ; 2 Sam. viii, 
2; xii, 26). With the Midianitisli nation at large there 
was no hereditary enmity, but those tribes who had con- 
spired with the Moabites were ultimately crushed in a 
war of dreadful severity (Numb, xxv, 17, 18; xxxi, 1-18). 
Yet those tribes which did not participate in the hostili- 
ties against the Hebrews were included among the na- 
tions with whom alliances might be formed, but in later 
times they acted in so hostile a manner that no perma- 
nent peace could be preserved with them (Judg. vi, 1-40 ; 

vii, 1-25; viii, 1-21). No war was enjoined against the 
Edomites; and it was expressly enacted that, in the 
tenth generation, they, as well as the Egyptians, might 
be admitted to citizenship (Numb, xx, 14-21 ; Dent, 
ii, 4-8). The Edomites also, on their part, conducted 
themselves peaceably towards the Hebrews till the time 
of David, when their aggressions caused a war, in which 
they were overcome. From that time they cherished a 
secret hatred against the Hebrews (2 Sam. viii, 13, 14). 
War had not been determined on against the Amorites 
on the east of the Jordan ; but, as they not only refused 
a free passage, but opposed the Hebrews with arms, 
they were attacked and beaten, and their country fell 
into the hands of the Hebrews (Numb, xxi, 21-35; Deut. 
i,4; ii, 24-37 ; iii, 1-18; iv, 46-49 ; Judg. xi, 13-23). 
Treaties were permitted with all other nations, provided 
they were such as would tend to the public welfare. 
David accordingly maintained a friendly national in- 
tercourse with the kings of Tyre and Hamath, and Sol- 
omon with the kings of Tyre and Egypt, and with the 
queen of Sheba. Even the Maccabees, those zealots for 
the law, did not hesitate to enter into compact with the 
Romans. When the prophets condemn the treaties 
which were made with the nations, they did so, not be- 
cause they were contrary to the Mosaic laws, but be- 
cause they were impolitic and ruinous measures, which 
betrayed a want of confidence in Jehovah their king. 
The event always showed in the most striking manner 
the propriety of their rebukes (2 Kings xvii, 4; xviii, 
20, 21 ; xx, i2. 13 : 2 Chron. xx. 35-37 ; xxviii, 21 ; Isa. 
vii, 2; xxx, 2-12; xxxi, 1-3; xxxvi,4-7; xxxix,l~8; 
I Ios. v, 13 ; vii, 1 1 ; xii, 1 ; Jcr. xxxvii, 5-10). See Al- 
liance. 

League of Cambray is the name of the league 
entered into (A.D. 1508) between pope Julius II, the 
emperor Maximilian, and the kings of France and Na- 
varre, to make war, by the aid of both spiritual and 
temporal arms, against the republic of Venice. See Jo 
Lirs II; Maximilian; V exice. 

League and Covenant. See Covenant, Sol- 
emn League and. 

League, Holy. Sec IIoly League. 

League of Smalcalde. See Smalcalde. 

Le'ah (II eb. Leah <"3S;p, weary; Sept. Ae/fl,Vulg. 
JJa), the eldest daughter of the Aramaean Laban, and 
sister of Rachel (Gen. xxvi, 16). ' Instead of the latter, 
for whom he had served seven years. Jacob took her 
through a deceit of her father, who was unwilling to 
give his younger daughter in marriage first, contrary 


to the usages of the East (Gen. xxix. 22 sq. ; compare 
Rosemn idler, Moryenl. i, 138 sq.). H.C. 1920. She was 
less beautiful than her younger sister (comp. Josephus, 
4 nt. i, 19, 7), having also weak eyes (nisn 
Sept. 6<p^ra\jnoi aaStvfic, Yulg. lippis oculis. Auth. Vers. 
“ tender-eyed,” Gen. xxix, 17 ; comp, the opposite qual- 
ity as a recommendation, 1 Sam. xvi, 12), which proba- 
bly accounts lor Jacob’s preference of Rachel both at 
first and ever afterwards, especially as he was not likely 
ever to love cordially one whom he did not voluntarily 
marry (comp. Gen. xxx, 20). See Rachel. Leah bore 
to Jacob, before her sister had any children, six sons, 
namely, Reuben, Simeon, Levi, Judah (Gen. xxix, 32 
sq.), Issaehar, and Zebulon (Gen. xxx, 17 sq. ; compare 
xxxv, 23); also one daughter, Dinah (Gen. xxx, 21), 
besides the two sons borne by her maid Zilpah, and 
reckoned as hers, namely, Gail and Asher (Gen. xxx, 
9), all within the space of seven years, B.C. 1919-1913. 
See Concubine; Slave. ‘-Leah was conscious and 
resentful (chap, xxx) of the smaller share she possessed 
in her husband’s affections; yet in Jacob’s differences 
with his father-in-law his two wives appear to be at- 
tached to him with equal fidelity. In the critical mo- 
ment when he expected an attack from Esau, his dis- 
criminate regard for the several members of his family 
was shown by his placing Rachel and her children 
hindermost, in the least exposed situation, Leah and her 
children next, and the two handmaids with their chil- 
dren in the front. Leah probably lived to witness the 
dishonor of her daughter (ch. xxxiv), so cruelly avenged 
by two of her sons, and the subsequent deaths of Debo- 
rah at Bethel, and of Rachel near Bethlehem” (Smith). 
Leah appears to have died in Canaan, since she is not 
mentioned in the migration to Egypt (Gen. xlvi, 5), 
and was buried in the family cemetery at Hebron (Gen. 
xlix, 31). — Winer, ii, 10. See Jacob. 

Leake, Lemuel Fordiiam, a minister of the Pres- 
byterian (O. S.) Church, was bom in Chester, M orris 
County, N. J., and was educated at Princeton College, 
class of 1814. After graduation he taught two years, 
then studied theology at Princeton Seminary, was li- 
censed by the Newton Presbytery Oct. 7, 1818, and be- 
came pastor of the churches of Oxford and Harmony in 
1822. In 1825 he resigned this position, and labored 
for the missionary interests of the Church. In 1831 he 
was called to Chartiers Church, at Canonsbnrg, as suc- 
cessor to Dr. M‘Millan, and there he labored until 1850, 
when he became president of Franklin College, New 
Athens, Ohio. Later he removed to Zelienople, Pa.; 
thence to Waveland, Ind. lie died Dee. 1. 1866. — Wil- 
son, Presbyterian Historical Almanac, 1867. p. 168. 

Learning, Jeremiaii, D.D., an Episcopal clergy- 
man, was born at Middletown, Conn., in 1719, graduated 
at Yale College in 1745, and. after entering the minis- 
try, quickly rose to distinction. He was at one time 
spoken of for the office of first bishop of the Protestant 
Episcopal Church of America. lie died at New Haven, 
Conn., in 1804. Among his publications are A Defence 
of Episcopal Government of the Church: — Evidences of 
the Truth of Christianity ; etc. — Allibone, Diet. British 
and A merican A nthors , vol. ii, s. v. 

Leander, St., a Spanish prelate, flourished towards 
the close of the 6th century, lie died March 13, 601 (ac- 
cording to some, Feb. 27, 596). lie was a son of Severi- 
anus. governor of Carthage, and brother of Fulgent ins, 
bishop of that city, and of St. Isidore of Seville, who 
succeeded him as bishop of Seville. Leander especially 
distinguished himself by his zeal against the Arians. 
Among his converts was Hermenigilde, eldest son of 
. Leuvigilde, king of the Goths. Upon the defeat of the 
former by the latter Leander was sent into exile, but he 
was recalled in the same year, and converted Reeearede, 
i second son of the king. After the death of Leuvigilde 
he assembled at once the third Council of Toledo, and 
caused Arianism to be solemnly condemned. For his 
services in making Spain an adherent of the faith of 


LEANG-OO-TEE 


307 


LEA VEX 


Rome he was specially rewarded by Gregory I. The ca- 
thedral of Seville claims to possess his remains, and he 
is commemorated on the 13th of March. He wrote a 
number of works, of which there are yet extant De In- 
stitutions, Yirginum at contemptu mundi (to be found in 
the Codex Regular um of St. Benedict of Amiane, pub- 
lished by Holstenius, and in the Bibliotheca Patrum,\ ol. 
xii). It is a letter to his sister, St. Florentine : — Ilomilia 
in laudem Ecclesice , etc. (Labbe, Condi, v ol. v), a discourse 
on the conversion of the Goths, pronounced at the third 
Council of Toledo. Leander is considered as the origi- 
nator of the Mozarabic rite completed by St. Isidore. 
St. Gregory the Great dedicated to Leander his disser- 
tations on Job, which he had undertaken by his advice. 
See St. Isidore, Be Vins illustribus , etc. ; St. Gregory 
the Great, Epist. and Dialog. ; St. Gregory of Tours, Hist . 
vol. v; Baronins, A modes ; Dom Mabillon, Annales Or- 
dinis Benedict i, etc.; Baillct, Fies des Saints, i, Mar. 13; 
Dom Ceillier, Hist. d. A utcurs sacres t xv ii, 1 1 5, etc. ; Dom 
Rivet, Hist. Litteraire de la France ; Richard et Giraud, 
Bibliotheque Sacree ; Hoefcr, Now. Bing. Generate , xxx, 
55 ; Wetzer u. Welte, Kirchen-Lex. vi, 38S. 

Loang-Oo-Tee, emperor of China, and founder of 
the Leang dynasty, usurped the throne about A.D. 502. 
Through devotion to the doctrines of Fo and mysticism 
of the bonzes (priests of Fo or Buddha), he neglected 
the care of the empire. lie was dethroned by one of 
his officers, lleoo-King, and died soon after (519). — 
Thomas, Biog. Diet. p. 138G. 

Lean'noth (Deb. le-annoth', TijVb,for answering , 
i. c. singing; Sept, rov n7roKpi3ayrae T Yulg. ad respon- 
dendum ), a musical direction occurring in the title of 
Psa.lxxxviii, and denoting that it was to be chanted in 
the manner indicated by the associated terms. See 
Psalms, Book of. 

Learning, skill in any science, or that improvement 
of the mind which we gain by study, instruction, ob- 
servation, etc. An attentive examination of ecclesias- 
tical history will lead us to see how greatly learning is 
indebted to Christianity, and that Christianity, in its 
turn, has been much served by learning. “All the use- 
ful learning which is now to be found ill the world is in 
a great measure owing to the Gospel. The Christians, 
who had a great veneration for the Old Testament, have 
contributed more than the Jews themselves to secure 
and explain those books. The Christians, in ancient 
times, collected and preserved the Greek versions of the 
Scriptures, particularly the Septuagint, and translated 
the originals into Latin. To Christians were due the 
old Ilexapla; and in later times Christians have pub- 
lished the Polyglots and the Samaritan Pentateuch. It 
was the study of the Holy Scriptures which excited 
Christians from early times to study chronology, sacred 
and secular; and here much knowledge of history, and 
some skill in astronomy, were needful. The New Tes- 
tament, being written in Greek, caused Christians to ap- 
ply themselves also to the study of that language. As 
the Christians were opposed by the pagans and the 
Jews, they were excited to the study of pagan and Jew- 
ish literature, in order to expose the absurdities of the 
Jewish traditions, the weakness of paganism, and the 
imperfections and insufficiency of philosophy. The first 
fathers, till the 3d century, were generally Greek writ- 
ers. In the 3d century the Latin language was much 
upon the decline, but the Christians preserved it from 
sinking into absolute barbarism. Monkery, indeed, pro- 
duced many sad effects ; but Providence here also 
brought good out of evil, for the monks were employed 
in the transcribing of books, and many valuable authors 
would have perished if it had not been for the monas- 
teries. In the 9th century the Saracens were very stu- 
dious, and contributed much to the restoration of letters. 
But, whatever was good in the Mohammedan religion, 
it is in no small measure indebted to Christianity for it, 
since Mohammedanism is made up for the most part of 
Judaism and Christianity. If Christianity had been 


suppressed at its first appearance, it is extremely proba- 
ble that the Latin and Greek tongues would have been 
lost in the revolutions of empires, and the irruptions of 
barbarians in the East and in the West, for the old in- 
habitants would have had no conscientious and religious 
motives to keep up their language ; and then, together 
with the Latin and Greek tongues, the knowledge of 
antiquities and the ancient writers would have been de- 
stroyed. ... As religion has been the chief preserver 
of erudition, so erudition has not been ungrateful to her 
patroness, but has contributed largely to the support of 
religion. The useful expositions of the Scriptures, the 
sober and sensible defences of revelation, the faithful 
representations of pure and undefiled Christianity— these 
have been the works of learned, judicious, and industri- 
ous men. Nothing, however, is more common than to 
hear the ignorant decry all human learning as entirely 
useless in religion ; and, what is still more remarkable, 
even some, who call themselves preachers, entertain the 
same sentiments. But to such we can only say what a 
judieious preacher observed upon a public occasion, that 
if all men had been as unlearned as themselves, they 
never would have had a text on which to have display- 
ed their ignorance” (Jortin’s Sermons , vol. vii, Charge I). 
See More, Hints to a Young Princess, i, G4; Cook, Miss. 
Ser. on Matt, vi, 3 ; Stennett, Ser. on A cts xxvi, 24, 25. — 
Henderson’s Buck. See Knowledge. 

Leasing (HT3, kaaab', Psa. iv, 2 ; v, G), an old Eng- 
lish word equivalent to lying or lies, as the term is else- 
where rendered. 

Leather (“lir, or, 2 Kings i, 6, properly skin, as 
elsewhere rendered, i. e. on a person or animal, also as 
taken off, hide, sometimes as prepared or tanned, Lev. 
xi,32; xiii, 48 sq. ; Numb, xxxi, 20 ; in the N.T. only 
in the adj. oeppartvog, “leathern,” Matt, iii, 4; lit. of 
skin, as in the parallel passage, Mark i, G). A girdle of 
leather is referred to in the above passage (2 Kings i, 6) 
as characteristic of Elijah, which, with the mantle of 
hair, formed the humble attire that the prophets usu- 
ally wore. In like manner John the Baptist had bis 
raiment of camels’ hair and a leathern girdle about his 
loins (Matt, iii, 4). Strong and broad girdles of leather 
are still much used by the nomade tribes of Western 
Asia (see Hackett’s Illustr. of Scriqit. p. 9G). See Skin ; 
Dress. 

We learn from the monuments [see cut on page 308] 
that the ancient Egyptians were well acquainted with 
the various processes of tanning and working in leather, 
and from them the Hebrew's undoubtedly derived their 
knowledge of the art of preparing leather for a variety 
of useful purposes. It appears that the Egyptian tan 
was prepared in earthen vessels, and that the workmen 
could preserve skins either with or without the hair. 
The preparation of leather was an important branch of 
Egyptian industry (see Wilkinson’s Egyptians, ii, 93,99, 
105). Leather appears to have been used by the an- 
cient Assyrians in some cases for recording documents 
upon (Layard’s Nineveh, ii, 147). See Tanner, 

Leaven. In the Hebrew we find two distinct 
words, both translated leaven in the common version of 
the Bible. This is unfortunate, for there is the same 
distinction between l “i5< IT, sear', and ‘j r ‘£n, chamets', in 
the Hebrew’, as between leaven and leavened bread in the 
English. The Greek £i'j uij appears to be used only in 
the former sense, and it is doubtful if it applies to a 
liquid. Chemically speaking, the “ ferment” or “ yeast” 
is the same substance in both cases; but “leaven” is 
more correctly applied to solids, “ferment” both to liq- 
uids and solids. 

1. sedr f , occurs only five times in the Scriptures, 

in four of which (Exod. xii, 15, 19 ; xiii, 7 ; Lev. ii,ll) 
it is rendered “leaven,” and in the fifth (Deut. xvi, 4) 
“leavened breads It seems to have denoted original- 
ly the remnant of dough left on the preceding baking, 
which had fermented and turned acid ; hence (accord- 


LEAVEN 


308 


LEAVEN 


! 



ing to the Lexicon of Dr. Avenarius, 1588) the German 
saner, English sour. Its distinctive meaning therefore 
is, fermented or leavened mass . It could hardly, how- 
ever, apply to the murk or lees of wine. 

2. chamets', ought not to be rendered “leaven,” 

but leavened bread. It is a more specific term than the 
former, but is confounded in our translation with it. 
In Numb, vi, 3, the cognate noun is applied to wine 
as an adjective, and is there properly translated “ vin- 
egar of wine.” In this last sense it seems to corre- 
spond to the Greek 6£or, a sort of acid wine in very 
common use among the ancients, called by the Latins 
posca, vinum culpatum (Adam, Rom. Antiq. p. 393; 
Jahn, Bibl. ArcheeoL § 14-4). This species of wine (and 
in hot countries pure wine speedily passes into the 
acetous state) [see Drink] is spoken of by the Tal- 
mudists, who inform us that it was given to persons 
about to be executed, mingled with drugs, in order to 
stupefy them (Prov. xxxi, G; Sanhedrin , folio 43, I, c. 
vi). This serves to explain Matt, xxvii, 34. A sour, 
fermented drink used by the Tartars appears to have 
derived its name kumiss from the Hebrew chamets'. 
From still another root comes also Hi!'?,' matstsah' 
(sweet, “ without leaven” [Lev. x, 1 1]), unleavened (i. e. 
bread, though in several passages “bread” and “cakes” 
are also expressed). In Exod. xiii, 7, both sear' and 


chamets' occur together, and are evidently distinct: 

“ Unleavened bread (matstsah') shall be eaten during 
the seven days, and there shall not be seen with thee 
fermented b? m ead (chamets'), and there shall not be seen 
with thee leavened dough (sear') in all thy borders.” 
See Wine. 

The organic chemists define the process of fermenta- 
tion, and the substance which excites it, as follows: 

“ Fermentation is nothing else but the putrefaction of a 
substance containing no nitrogen. Ferment, or yeast, is 
a substance in a state of putrefaction, the atoms of which 
are in a continual motion” (Turner’s Chemisti'y, by Lie- 
big). This definition is in strict accordance with the 
views of the ancients, and gives point and force to many 
passages of sacred writ (Psa. lxxix, 21 ; Matt, xvi, G, 1 1, 
12 ; Mark viii, 15 ; Luke xii, 1 ; xiii, 21 ; 1 Cor. v, 5-8 ; 
Gal. v, 9). Leaven , and fermented, or even some readily 
fermentible substances (as honey), were prohibited in 
many of the typical institutions both of the Jews and 
Gentiles. The Latin writers use corruptus as signify- 
ing fermented; Tacitus applies the word to the fermenta- 
tion of wine. Plutarch (Rom. Qucest. cix, G) assigns as 
the reason why the priest of Jupiter was not allowed to 
touch leaven, “ that it comes out of corruption, and cor- 
rupts that with which it is mingled.” See also Aulus 
Gellius, viii, 15. The use of leaven was strictly forbid- 
den in all offerings made to the Lord by tire, as in the 
case of the meat-offering (Lev. ii, 11), the trespass-offer- 
ing (Lev. vii, 12), the consecration-offering (Exod. xxix, 
2 ; Lev. viii, 2), the Nazarite-offering (Numb, vi, 15), and 
more particularly in regard to the feast of the Passover, 
when the Israelites were not only prohibited on pain of 
death from eating leavened bread, but even from having 
any leaven in their houses (Exod. xii, 15, 19) or in their 
land (Exod. xiii, 7 ; Deut. xvi, 4) during seven days, 
commencing with the 14th of Nisan. The command 
was rigidly enforced by the zeal of the Jews in later 
times (compare Mishnah, Pesach. ii, 1 ; Scliottgen, Ho- 
ren Hebraicce, i, 598). It is in reference to these pro- 
hibitions that Amos (iv, 5) ironically bids the Jews of 
his day to “ offer a sacrifice of thanksgiving with leav- 
en .” Hence, likewise, even honey was prohibited (Lev. 
ii, 11) on account of its occasionally producing fermen- 
tation. In other instances, where the offering was to 
be consumed by the priests and not on the altar, leav- 
en might be used, as in the case of the peace-offering 
(Lev. vii, 13) and the Pentecostal loaves (Lev. xxiii, 17). 
It is to be presumed also that the shew r -bread was un- 
leavened, both, a fortiori, from the prohibition of leaven 
in the bread offered on the altar, and because, in the di- 
rections given for the making of the shew-bread, it is 
not specified that leaven should be used (Lev. xxiv, 
5-9) ; for, in all such cases, what is not enjoined is pro- 
hibited. Jewfish tradition also asserts that the shew- 
bread was without leaven (Josephus, Ant. iii,G, 6: Talm. 
Minchoth, v, 2, 3). On Lev. ii, 11. Dr. Andrew Willet 
observes, “ They have a spiritual signification, because 
ferment signitietli corruption, as St. Paul applieth (1 Cor. 
v, 8). The honey is also forbidden because it had a 
leavening force” (Junius, Hexapla, 1G31). On the same 
principle of symbolism, God prescribes that salt shall al- 
ivavs constitute a part of the oblations to him (Lev. ii, 
31) on account of its antiseptic properties. Thus St. 
Paul (comp. Col. iv, G; Eph. iv, 29) uses k *salt” as pre- 
servative from corruption, on the same principle which 
leads him to employ that which is unfermented (dZvpoq) 
as an emblem of purity and uneorruptedness. See Pass- 
ovkr. 

'Phe Greek word Zvfirj, rendered “/core/?,” is used with 
precisely the same latitude of meaning as the Hebrew 
sear'. It signifies leaven, sour dough (Matt, xiii, 33; 
xvi, 12; Luke xiii, 21). Another quality in leaven is 
noticed in the Bible, viz., its secretly penetrating and dif- 
fusive power; hence the proverbial saying, “a little 
leaven leaveneth the 'whole lump” (1 Cor. v, G ; Gal. v, 
9). In this respect it w\as emblematic of moral influence 
generally, whether good or bad, and hence our Saviour 


LEBANA 


309 


LEBANON 


adopts it as illustrating the growth of the kingdom of 
heaven in the individual heart and in the world at 
large (Matt. xiii,33). Leaven, or ferment, is therefore 
used tropically for corruptness , perverseness , of life, doc- 
trine, heart, etc. (Matt, xvi, 6, 11 ; Mark viii, 15 ; Luke 
xii, 1 ; 1 Cor. v, 7, 8 ; couip. Col. iv, G ; Eph. i v, 29). The 
idea seems to have been familiar to the Jews ; compare 
Otho, Lex Rabbin. Tabu p. 227. They even employed 
leaven as a figure of the inherent corruption of man: 
“ R. Alexander, when he had finished his prayers, said, 
Lord of the universe, it is clearly manifest before thee 
that it is our will to do thy will : what hinders that we 
do not thy will ? The leaven whieh is in the mass (GL, 
The evil desire whieh is in theheart )" (Babyl.Berachoth, 
xvii, 1 ; ap. Meusehen, N. T. ex Talmude ill.). We find 
the same allusion in the Roman poet Persius (Sat. i, 24; 
compare Casaubon’s note, Comment, p. 74). Sec Werns- 
dorf, Be fermento Herodis (Alt. 1724). See Unleav- 
ened Bread. 

“The usual leaven in the East is dough kept till it 
becomes sour, and which is kept from one day to an- 
other for the purpose of preserving leaven in readiness. 
Thus, if there should be no leaven in all the country for 
any length of time, as much as might be required could 
easily be produced in twenty-four hours. Sour doughy 
however, is not exclusively used for leaven in the East, 
the lees of wine being in some parts employed as yeast” 
(Kitto, Pictorial Bible , i, 1G1). In the Talmud mention 
is made of leaven formed of the D’HHTO Vi* 
book-makers' paste ( Pesach . iii, 1). As the process of 
producing the leaven itself, or even of leavening bread 
when the substance was at hand, required some time, 
unleavened cakes were more usually produced on sudden 
emergencies (Gen. x viii, G; Judg.vi, 19). — Kitto; Smith. 
See Bake; Bread, etc. 

Leb'ana (Neh. vii, 48). See Lebanaii. 

Leb'anah (Heb. Lebanaii ', riDub, the moon as be- 
ing white, as in Cant, vi, 10, etc.; Sept, in Ezra ii, 45 
A afiaiuo ; Chaldaistically written Lebana ', in 

most MSS. in Neh. vii, 48, Sept. Aaf3avd, Auth.Vers. 
“Lebana”; Yulg. in both passages Lebana ), one of the 
Nethinim whose posterity returned from Babylon with 
Zenibbabel. B.C. ante 53G. 

Leb'anon, the loftiest and most celebrated moun- 
tain range in Syria, forming the northern boundary of 
Palestine, and running thence along the coast of the 
Mediterranean to the great pass which opens into the 
plain of Ilamath. The range oi Anti- Lebanon, usually 
included by geographers under the same general name, 
lies parallel to the other, commencing on the south at 
the fountains of the Jordan, and terminating in the 
plain of Hamath. In the following account we adopt 
in part the article by I)r. J. L. Porter, in Kitto’s Cyclo- 
pedia. s. v. See Palestine. 

I. The Xame. — In the 0. Test, these mountain ranges 
are always called Lebanon ', to which, in prose, 

the art. is constantly prefixed, ‘jilHin ; in poetry the 
art. is sometimes prefixed and sometimes not, as in Isa. 
xiv, 8, and Psa. xxix, 5. The origin of the name has 
been variously accounted for. It is derived from the 
root “ip?, “to be white. 1 ' ‘jlDpbil is thus emphati- 
cally “ The White Mountain” of Syria. It is a singular 
fact that almost uniformly the names of the highest 
mountains in all countries have a like meaning — J font 
Blanc, Himalaya (in Sanscrit signifying “ snowy”), 
Ben Xevis , Snowdon , perhaps also Alps (from alb , 
“white,” like the Latin albus, and not, as commonly 
thought, from alp, “high”). Some suppose the name 
originated in the white snow by whieh the ridge is cov- 
ered a great part of the year (Bochart, Opera, i, 078; 
Gesenius, Thesaurus. , p. 741 : Stanley, S. and P. p. 395). 
Others derive the name from the whitish color of the 
limestone rock of which the great body of the range is 
composed (Schulz, Leitunyen des Hochsten, v, 471 ; Rob- 
inson, Billie. Res. ii, 493). The former seems the more 


natural explanation, and is confirmed by several circum- 
stances. Jeremiah mentions the “snow of Lebanon” 
(xviii, 14); in the Ch aid. paraphrase fctJ&FI nsiia “snow 
mountain,” is the name given to it, and this is equiva- 
lent to a not uncommon modern Arabic appellation, Je - 
be l eth-Thelj (Gesenius, Thesaurus, 1. c.; Abulfeda, Tab. 
Syr. p. 18). Others derive the name Lebanon from 
Xifiavwrog, “frankincense,” the gum of a tree called 
Xi(3avog (Reland, Paleest. p. 312; Herod, i, 183), which 
is mentioned among the gifts presented by the magi to 
the infant Saviour (Matt, ii, 11). This, however, is in 
Hebrew Sia'isb, Lebonah (Exod. xxx, 34; Isa. lx, G). 
The Greek name of Lebanon, both in the Septuagint 
and classic authors, is uniformly A ipai'og (Strabo, xvi, 
755 ; Ptol. v, 15). The Septuagint has sometimes 'Ain- 
Xifiavog instead of Aifiarog (Dent, i, 7 ; iii, 25: Josh, i, 
4; ix, 1). The Latin name is Libanus (Pliny, v, 17), 
which is the reading of the Vulgate. It would appear 
that the Greek and Roman geographers regarded the 
name as derived from the snow. Tacitus speaks of it 
as a remarkable phenomenon that snow should lie where 
there is such intense heat (Hist, v, G). Jerome writes, 
“ Libanus XtvKaapbg — id est, candor interpretatur” 
(Adversus Jovianum, in Opera, ii, 286, cd. Migne) ; he 
also notes the identity of the name of this mountain 
and frankincense (in Osee, in Opera, vi, 100). Arab ge- 
ographers call the range Jdel Libndn (Abulfeda, Tab. 
Syr. p. 1G3; Edrisi, p. 336, edit. Jaubert). This name, 
however, is now seldom heard among the people of 
Syria, and when used it is confined to the western range. 
Different parts of this range have distinct names — the 
northern seetion is called Jdel Akkdr, the central Sun- 
mn, and the southern J. ed-Bruze. Other loeal names 
are also used. 

The eastern range , as well as the western, is fre- 
quently included under the general name Lebanon in 
the Bible (Josh, i, 4; Judg. iii, 3) ; but in Josh, xiii, 5 
it is correetly distinguished as “ Lebanon toward ii e sun- 
rising ” (r^n rnt -2 Sept. Aij3avov d™ 

dvaroXoiv yXiov ; and translated in the Yulg. Libani 
quoque regio contra orienteni). The southern section 
of this range was well known to the sacred writers as 
Hermon, and had in ancient times several descriptive 
titles given to it — Sirion, Shcnir, Sion; just as it has in 
modern days — Jdel esh-Sheik, J. eth-Thelj, J. Ant dr. 
Greek writers called the whole range ’ArriXifiavog 
(Strabo, xvi, p. 754; Ptolemy, v, 15), a word which is 
sometimes found in the Sept, as the rendering of the 
Hebrew Lebanon (ut supra). Latin authors also uni- 
formly distinguish the eastern range by the name Anti- 
libanus (Pliny, v, 20). The name is appropriate, de- 
scribing its position, lying “opposite” or “over against” 
Lebanon (Strabo, l. c.). Yet this distinction does not 
seem to have been known to Josephus, who uniformly 
calls the eastern as well as the western range A ij3a} og ; 
thus he speaks of the fountains of the Jordan as being 
near to Libanus (Ant. v, 3, 1), and of Abila as situated 
in Libanus (xix. 5, 1). The range of Anti-Lebanon is 
now called by all native geographers Jdel esh-Sh urky, 
“ East mountain,” to distinguish it from Lebanon prop- 
er, which is sometimes termed Jdel el-Ghnrbg, “ West 
mountain” (Robinson, Biblical Res. ii, 437 ; Burckhardt, 
Travels in Syria, p. 4). 

To insure greater definiteness, and to prevent repeti- 
tion, the name Lebanon will be applied in this article to 
the western range, and Anti-Lebanon to the eastern. 

II. Physical Geography. — 1. Lebanon. — (l.) Limits . — 
The mountain-chain ol'Lcbanon commences at the great 
valley which connects the Mediterranean with the plain 
of Ilamath (anciently called “ the entrance of Hamath,” 
Numb, xxxiv, 8), in lat. 34° 40', and ruus in a south- 
western direction along the coast, till it sinks into the 
plain of Acre and the low hills of Galilee, in lat. 33°. 
Its extreme length is 110 geographical miles, and the 
average breadth of its base is about. 20 miles. The 
highest peak, called Bahar d-Kudib, is about 25 miles 


LEBANON 


310 


LEBANON 



View of Lebanon above Beirut. 


from the northern extremity, and just over the little 
cedar grove; its elevation is 10,051 feet (Van de Velde, 
Memoir , p. 170). From this point the range decreases 
in height towards the south. The massive rounded 
summit of Sunnin, 23 miles from the former, is 8500 feet 
high. Jebei Keniseh, the next peak, is 6824 feet; and 
Tomat Niha, “the Twin-peaks,” the highest tops of 
southern Lebanon, are abput 6500 feet. From these the 
fall is rapid to the ravine of the river Litany, the an- 
cient Leontes. 

The chain of Lebanon, or at least its higher ridges, 
may be said to terminate at the point where it is thus 
broken through by the Litany, lint a broad and lower 
mountainous tract continues towards the south, border- 
ing the basin of the Iluleh on the west. It rises to its 
greatest elevation about Safed (Jebei Safed), and at 
length ends abruptly in the mountains of Nazareth, as 
the northern wall of the plain of Esdraelon. This high 
tract may very properly be regarded as a prolongation 
of Lebanon. 

Some writers regard the Litany as marking the south- 
ern limit of Lebanon ; and it would seem that the an- 
cient classical geographers were of this opinion (Smith, 
Diet, of G. and R. Geog. s. v. Libanus; Kitto, Physical 
J/ist . of Pal. p. 32). Diodorus Siculus describes Leba- 
non as extending along the coast of Tripolis, Byblus, 
and Sidon (/list, xix, 58); and the Litany falls into the 
sea a few miles south of Sidon. The notices of Ptolemy 
are somewhat indefinite, and represent the two chains 
of Lebanon and Anti-Lebanon as commencing at the 
Mediterranean — the former on the north, the latter on 
the south (Geog. v, 15). Strabo is more definite and less 
accurate: ‘‘There are two mountains which inclose Cocle- 
Svria lying parallel to each other. The commencement 
of both these mountains, Libanus and Anti-Libanus, is a 
little way above the sea. Libanus rises from the sea 
near 'Tripolis and Theoprosopon, and Anti-Libanus from 
the sea near Sidon. They terminate somewhere near 
the Arabian mountains, which are above the district of 
Damascus and the Traehones. ... A hollow plain lies 
between them, whose breadth towards the sea is 200 


can be no doubt that the range of Lebanon, viewed in 
its physical formation, extends from the entrance of Ha- 
math to the plain of Acre; but between the parallels 
of Tyre and Sidon it is cut through by the chasm of the 
Litaii}', which drains the valley of Coele-Syria. That 
river enters the range obliquely on the eastern side, 
turns gradually westward, and at length divides the main 
ridge at right angles. Here, therefore, it may be said, 
in one sense, that the chain terminates; and though on 
the south bank of the Litany another chain rises, and 
runs in the line of the former, it is not so lofty, its great- 
est height scarcely exceeding 3000 feet. Ancient geog- 
raphers thought Lebanon terminated on the north bank 
of the Litany; and as that river drains the valley of 
Coele-Syria, which lies between Lebanon and Anti-Leb- 
anon, they naturally supposed that the chain on the 
south bank of the Litany was the commencement of the 
latter range. I lere lies the error, which Dr. Porter was 
among the first to detect, by an examination of the gen- 
eral conformation of the mountain ranges from the sum- 
mit of Ilermon (see Bibliotheca Sacra , xi, 52; Porter, 
Damascus, i, 206). 

Anti-Lebanon is completely separated from this west- 
ern range by a broad and deep valley. The great val- 
ley of the Jordan extends northward to the western 
base of Ilermon, in the parallel of the chasm of the Lit- 
any. From this point a narrower valley, called wady 
el-Teim, runs northward, till it meets an eastern branch 
of Coele-Svria. These three valleys, forming a continu- 
ous line, constitute the western bouudary of Anti-Leba- 
non. No part of that chain crosses them (Robinson, ii, 
438). The southern end of the plain of Coele-Syria is 
divided by alow ridge into two branches. Down the 
eastern branch runs wady el-Teim, conveying a tribu- 
tary to the Jordan (Bib. Sac. 1. c. ; Ilobinson, iii. 428- 
430) ; down the western runs the Litany. The latter 
branch soon contracts into a wild chasm, whose banks 
are in some places above a thousand feet high, of naked 
rock, and almost perpendicular. At one spot the ravine 
is only 60 feet wide, and is spanned by a natural bridge, 
at the height of about 100 feet above the stream. Over 


stadia, and its length from the sea to the interior about 
twice as much. Rivers How through it, the largest of 
which is the Jordan” (xvi, 754). \ccording to Pliny 
the chains begin at the sea, but they run from south to 
north (//.A', v, 17; compare Ammian. Marcel, xiv, 26). 
Cellarius merely repeats these ancient authors (Geog. ii, 
430). Reland shows their errors and contradictions, but 
lie cannot solve them, though he derived some impor- 
tant information from 31aundrell (Palwst. p. 317. sq. ; 
comp. Karlg Trav . in Pal, Rolin.p. 483). Roscnm filler 
(Bib. Geog. ii, 207, Clark), Wells (Geog. i, 230), 'ami oth- 
ers, only repeat the old mistakes. The source of these 
errors may be seen by an examination of the physical 
geography of the district east of Tyre and Sidon. There I 


it rise jagged walls of naked limestone, pierced with 
numerous caves. The scenery is here magnificent; as 
one stands on this arch of nature’s own building, he 
can scarcely repress feelings of alarm. The cliffs al- 
most meet overhead ; rugged masses of rock shoot out 
from dizzy heights, and appear as if about to plunge 
into the chasm; the mad river far below dashes along 
from rapid to rapid in sheets of foam. In wild grandeur 
this chasm has no equal in Syria, and few in the world. 
Vet. from a short distance on either side, it is not visible. 
'The mountain chain appears to run on in its course, de- 
clining gradually, but without any interruption. The 
ridge, in fact, has been cleft asunder by some terrible 
convulsion, and through the cleft the waters of Code- 


LEBAXGIn 


311 


LEBANON 


Syria have forced their way to the Mediterranean in- 
stead of the Jordan, which is the natural outlet. It will 
thus be seen that the ridge on the south bank of the 
Litany is the prolongation of that on the north, and is 
a part of Lebanon (Kobinson, ii, 438) ; and that the 
chasm of the Litany, though the drain of Ccele-Syria, 
is no part of that valley. Neither Ccele-Syria, there- 
fore, nor Anti-Lebanon, at any point, approaches within 
many miles of the Mediterranean {Handbook for S. and 
P. p. 571 ; Kobinson, iii, 420 sq. ; Van de Velde, Travels , 
i, 115 sq.). 

(2.) Western Aspect . — The view of Lebanon from the 
Mediterranean is exceedingly grand. On approaching, 
it appears to rise from the bosom of the deep like a vast 
wall, the wavy top densely covered with snow during 
winter and spring, and the two highest peaks capped 
with crowns of ice on the sultriest days of summer. 
The western slopes are long and gradual, furrowed from 
top to bottom with deep rugged ravines, and broken ev- 
erywhere by lofty cliffs of white rock, and ragged banks, 
and tens of thousands of terrace walls, rising like steps 
of stairs from the sea to the snow-wreaths. “The whole 
mass of the mountain consists of whitish limestone, or 
at least the rocky surface, as it reflects the light, exhib- 
its everywhere a whitish aspect. The mountain teems 
with villages, and is cultivated more or less almost to 
the top; yet so steep and rocky is the surface, that the 
tillage is carried on chiefly by means of terraces, built 
up with great labor, and covered above with soil. When 
one looks upward from below, the vegetation on these 
terraces is not seen, so that the whole mountain side ap- 
pears as if composed of immense rugged masses of naked 
whitish rock, severed by deep wild ravines, running 
down precipitously to the plain. No one would suspect 
among these rocks the existence of a vast multitude of 
thrifty villages, and a numerous population of moun- 
taineers, hardy, industrious, and brave” (Kobinson, ii, 
493; comp.Volney, Travels , i, 272 sq.). 

On looking down the western slopes from the brow 
of one of the projecting bluffs, or through the vista of 
one of the glens, the scenery is totally different ; it is 
now rich and picturesque. The tops of the little stair- 
like terraces are seen, all green with corn, or straggling 
vines, or the dark foliage of the mulberry. The steeper 
banks and ridge-tops have their forests of pine and oak, 
while far away down in the bottom of the glens, and 
round the villages and castellated convents, are large 
groves of gray olives. The aspect of the various sec- 
tions of the mountains is, however, very different, the 
rocks and strata often assuming strange, fantastic shapes. 
At the head of the valley of the Dog river are some of 
the most remarkable rock formations in Lebanon. Here 
numbers of little ravines fall into the main glen, and 
their sides, with the intervening ridges, are thickly cov- 
ered with high peaks of naked limestone, sometimes 
rising in solitary grandeur like obelisks, but generally 
grouped together, and connected by narrow ledges like 
arched viaducts. In one place the horizontal strata in 
the side of a lofty cliff are worn away at the edges, giv- 
ing the whole the appearance of a large pile of cushions. 
In other places there are tall stalks, with broad tops like 
tables. In many places the cliffs are ribbed, resembling 
the pipes of an organ, or columnar basalt. A single 
perch of clear soil can scarcely be found in one spot 
throughout the whole region, but every minute patch is 
cultivated, even in grottoes and under natural arches 
(Porter’s Damascus , ii, 289). The highest peaks of the 
range are naked, white, and barren. A line drawn at 
the altitude of about 6000 feet would mark the limits 
of cultivation. Above that line the shelving sides and 
rounded tops are covered with loose limestone debris, 
and are almost entirely destitute of vegetable life. 

The western base of Lebanon does not correspond 
with the shore-line. In some cases bold spurs shoot out 
from the mountains, and dip perpendicularly into the 
sea, forming bluff promontories, such as the “ Ladder of 
Tyre,” Promontorium Album, or “ White Cape,” the well- 


known pass of the Dog River, and the Theoprosopon, 
now called Ras esh-Sbuk’ah. In other places the moun- 
tains retire, or the shore-line advances (as at Beyrut 
and Tripolis), leaving little sections of fertile plain, va- 
rying from half a mile to three miles in width. This 
was the territory of the old Phoenicians, and on it still 
lie the scattered remains of their once great cities. See 
Phoenicia. Prom the promontory of Theoprosopon a 
low ridge strikes northward along the shore past Tripo- 
lis, separated from the main chain by a narrow valley. 
When it terminates, the coast-plain becomes much 
wider, and gradually expands, till it opens at the north- 
ern base of Lebanon into the valley leading to the “en- 
trance of Hamath” (Kobinson, iii, 385). 

(3.) Eastern Declivities. — Prom the east Lebanon 
presents a totally different aspect. It docs not seem 
much more than half as high as when seen from the 
west. This is chiefly owing to the great elevation of the 
plain extending along its base, which is on an average 
about 3000 feet above the level of the sea (Van de Velde, 
Memoir , p. 175). The ritlge resembles a colossal wall, 
its sides precipitous, and thinly covered, in most places, 
with oak forests. There are very few — only some two 
or three — glens furrowing them. The summit of the 
ridge, or backbone, is much nearer the eastern than the 
western side ; and extending in gentle undulations, white 
with snow, far as the eye can see to the right and left, 
it forms a grand object from the ruins of Baalbek, and 
still more so from the heights of Anti-Lebanon. A near- 
er approach to the chain reveals a new feature. A side 
ridge runs along the base of the central chain from the 
town of Zahleh to its northern extremity, and is thinly 
covered throughout with forests of oak intermixed with 
wild plum, hawthorn, juniper, and other trees. A little 
south of the parallel of Sunnin this ridge is low' and nar- 
row r , and the Buka’a is there widest. Advancing north- 
wards the ridge increases in height, and encroaches on 
the plain, until, at the fountain of the Orontes (’Ain el- 
’Asy), it attains its greatest elevation, and there the 
plain is narrowest. From this point southwards to 
where the road crosses from Ba’albek to the Cedars, the 
central chain is steep, naked, and destitute of vegetation, 
except here and there a solitary oak or blasted pine 
clinging to the rocks (Porter’s Damascus , ii, 303 sq. ; 
Kobinson, iii, 530 sq.). 

The side ridge above described sinks dow r n in grace- 
ful wooded slopes into wady Khaled, which drains a 
part of the plain of Hums, and falls into Nahr el-Kebir. 
The main chain also terminates abruptly a little farther 
west, and its base is swept by the waters of the Kebir, 
the ancient river Eleutherus (Kobinson, iii, 558-60). 

(4.) Divers. — Lebanon is rich in rivers and fountains, 
fed by the eternal snows that crown its summit, and the 
vapors which they condense. The “streams from Leb- 
anon” were proverbial for their abundance and beauty 
in the days of the Hebrew' prophets (Cant, iv, 15), and 
its “ cold-flowing waters” were types of richness and 
luxury (Jer. xviii, 14). Some of them, too, have ob- 
tained a classic celebrity (see Reland, Palcest.\\ 269,437). 
They are all small mountain torrents rather than riv- 
ers. The following are the more important : 1 . The Eleu- 
therus (now Nahr el-Kebir), rising in the plain of Emesa, 
west of the Orontes, sweeps round the northern base of 
Lebanon, and falls into the Mediterranean midway be- 
tween Tripolis and Aradus. 8trabo states that it form- 
ed the northern border of Phoenicia and Ccele-Syria (xvi, 
753; Kobinson, iii, 576). 2. The Kadisha, or “sacred 

river,” now generally called Nahr Abii-Alv. has its high- 
est sources around the little cedar grove, and descends 
through a sublime ravine to the coast near Tripolis. At 
one spot its glen has perpendicular walls of rock on each 
side nearly 1000 feet high. Here, on opposite banks, 
are two villages, the people of which can converse across 
the chasm, but to reach each other requires a toilsome 
walk of two hours. In a wild eleft of the ravine is the 
convent of Kanobin, the chief residence of the Maronite 
patriarch {IJ andbook for Syr. and Pal. p. 586). 3. The 


LEBANON 


312 


LEBANON 


Adonis (Nahr Ibrahim), famous in ancient fable as the 
scene of the romantic story of Venus and Adonis. Kill- 
ed by a boar on its banks, Adonis dyed with his blood the 
waters, which ever since, on the anniversary of his death, 
are said to run red to the sea (Lucian, De Syria Dea, 6 ; 
Strabo, xv, 170). Adonis is supposed to be identical 
with Tamm uz, for whom Ezekiel represents t lie Jewish 
women as weeping (viii, 14), The source is a noble 
fountain beside the ruins of a temple of Venus, and near 
the site of Apheca, now marked by the little village of 
Afka (Eusebius, Vit. Const, iii, 55; Porter, Damascus , ii, 
297 ; I titter, Pal. mid Syr. iv, 558). The Adonis falls 
into the sea a few miles south of the Biblical Gebal. 4. 
The Lyeus flu men, now Nahr el-Kelb, or “ Dog Itiver,” 
rises high up on the flank of Sunnin, and'breaks down 
through a picturesque glen. At its mouth is that fa- 
mous pass on whose sculptured rocks Assyrian, Egyp- 
tian, Roman, and French (!) generals have left records 
of their expeditions and victories (Robinson, iii, 618; 
Handbook, p. 407 sq. ; Strabo, xvi, 755). 5. TheMagoras 
of Pliny (v, 17) is probably the modern Nahr Beyrut. 
0. The Tamvras or Damuras (Strabo, xvi, 756 ; Polyb- 
ius, v, 68) rises near Deir el-Kamr, the capital of Leba- 
non. It is now called Nahr ed-Dammur. 7. The Bos- 
trenus of ancient authors appears to be identical with 
Nahr el-Awalev, though some doubt this. 8. The Le- 
ontes has already been' mentioned. The lower section 
of it is now generally termed Kasimiyeh, and the upper 
section Litany. Its chief sources are at Chalcis and 
Ba’albek; but a large tributary flows down from the ra- 
vine of Zahleh, and is the only stream which descends 
the eastern slopes of Lebanon. See Leontes. 

2. Anti-Lebanon . — (1.) Peaks. — The centre and cul- 
minating point of Anti-Lebanon is Hermon. From it 
a number of ranges radiate, like the ribs of a half-open 
fan. The flrst and loftiest runs north-east, parallel to 
Lebanon, and separated from it by the valley of Coele- 
Syria, whose average breadth is about six miles. This 
ridge is the backbone of Anti-Lebanon. Where it joins 
Hermon it is broad, irregular, intersected bv numerous 
valleys and little fertile plains, and covered with thin 
forests of dwarf oak Its elevation is not more than 
4500 feet. Advancing northwards, its features become 
wilder and grander, oak-trees give place to juniper, and 
the elevation increases until, above the beautiful plain 
of Zebedany — which lies embosomed in its very centre 
— it attains a height of about 7000 feet (Van de Velde, 
Memoir, p. 175). From this point to the parallel of 
Ba'albek there is little change in the elevation or scen- 
ery. Beyond the latter it begins to fall, and declines 
gradually until at length it sinks down into the great 
plain of llamath, eight miles east of Kiblah, and sixteen 
south of Emesa. With the exception of the little up- 
land plains, and a few of the deeper valleys, this ridge 
is incapable of cultivation. The sides are steep and 
rugged, in many places sheer precipices of naked, jagged 
rock, nearly 1000 feet high. They are not so bare or 
bleak, however, as the higher summits of Lebanon. Veg- 
etation is abundant Among the rocks; and though the 
inhabitants are few and far between, immense flocks of 
sheep and goats are pastured upon the mountains, and 
wild beasts bears, boars, wolves, jackals, hvtenas, foxes 
— are far more abundant than in any other part ofSvria 
or Palestine (Porter, Damascus, ii, 315). 

1 he lowest and last of the ridges that radiate from 
Hermon runs nearly due east along the inagniliceut 
plain of Damascus, and continues onward to Palmyra. 
Its average elevation is not more than 3000 feet, anti it 
does nut rise more than about 700 feet above the plain, 
though some of its peaks are much higher. Its rock is 
chalky, almost pure white, and entirely naked — not a 
tree, or shrub, or patch of verdure is anywhere see.n upon 
it. It thus forms a remarkable contrast to the rich 
green of the plain of Damascus. From the central j 
range to this ridge there is a descent, by a series of 
broad, bare terraces or plateaus, supported by long, con- 
tinuous walls of bare, whitish limestone, varying from 


100 to 1000 feet in height. Nothing could be more 
dreary and desolate than the scenery on these steppes. 
The gravelly soil, in many places thickly strewn with 
flints, is as bare as the cliffs that bound them. Yet they 
are intersected by several rich and beautiful glens, so 
deep, however, that their verdure aud foliage can not be 
seen from a distance. Towards the east these steppes 
gradually expand into broad upland plains, and portions 
of them are irrigated and tilled. On them stand the 
small but ancient towns of Yabrud, Nebk, Jerftd, etc., 
around which madder is successfully cultivated. 

(2.) Hirers. — Anti-Lebanon is the source of the four 
great rivers of Syria : 1. The Orontes (q. \\), springing 
from the western base of the main ridge, beside the ruins 
of Lybo, flows away northward through a broad, rich 
vale, laving in its course the walls of Emesa, Hamath, 
Apamea, and Antioch. 2. The Jordan (q. v.), Palestine’s 
sacred river, bursting from the side of Hermon, rolls 
down its deep, mysterious valley into the Sea of Death. 
3. The Abana, the “ golden-flowing” stream of Damas- 
cus ( Chrysorrhoas , Pliny, v, 16; also called Dardines, 
Steph. Byz. ; see Abana), rises on the western side of 
the main ridge, cuts through it and the others, and falls 
into the lake east of the eity. 3. The Leontes (q. v.), 
Phoenicia’s nameless stream, lias its two principal foun- 
tains at the western base of Anti-Lebanon, beside Chal- 
eis and Ba’albek (Porter, Damascus, i, 1 1 ; Robinson, iii, 
498, 506). The only other streams of Anti-Lebanon are 
(4) the Pharpar, now called el- A waj, rising on the east- 
ern flank of Hermon (see Piiabpar), and (5) the torrent 
which flows down the fertile glen of llelbou (q. v.) into 
the plain of Damascus. 

3. These parallel ranges enclose between them a fer- 
tile and well- watered valley, averaging about fifteen 
miles in width, which is the Cade-Syria (Hollow Syria) 
of the ancients, but is called by the present inhabitants, 
by way of pre-eminence, el-Bekaa, or “the Valley.” 
This is traversed through the greater portion of its 
length by the river Litany, the ancient Leontes. It 
is the “valley of Lebanon” (‘pr-SH r^pp) mentioned 
in Josh, xi, 17; xii, 7, and later “the plain of Aveii” 
CpNrrppp) alluded to by Amos (i, 5), where also Sol- 
omon constructed one of his palaces (1 Kings vii, 2; ix, 
9; x, 17; Cant, vii, 4). See Ccele-Syria. 

III. Natural Science. — 1 . The geology of Lebanon has 
never been thoroughly investigated. I )r. Anderson, who 
accompanied the United States expedition under lieu- 
tenant Lynch, is the only man who has attempted any- 
thing like a seientilic examination of the mountains. 
We are much indebted to his Reconnaissance, embodied 
in Lynch’s Official Report. The German traveller Rus- 
segger also supplies sonic facts in his Reisen (vol. iii). 
Tristram, in his Land of Israel (s. f.) has considerably 
enlarged our knowledge of the geology as well as natu- 
ral history of Lebanon. 

The main ridges of Lebanon and Anti-Lebanon are 
composed of Jura limestone, hard, partially crystallized, 
and containing few fossils. The strata have been great- 
ly disturbed. In some places they are almost perpen- 
dicular; in others tilted over, laying bare veins and de- 
tached masses of trap. In the southern part of Leba- 
non, near Kedesh and Safed, are many traces of recent 
disturbance. From the earliest ages earthquakes have 
been frequent and most destructive in that region. The 
earthquake of 1837 buried thousands of the inhabitants 
of Safed beneath the ruins of their houses (Robinson, ii, 
422 sq. ; Ilandb. p. 43N). In the upper basin of the Jor- 
dan, and along the eastern flank of llcrmon, trap rock 
abounds; the latter is the commencement of the great 
trap-liclds of Haurfin (Porter, Damascus , ii, 240 sq.). 

Over the Jura limestone there is in many places a 
more recent cretaceous deposit ; its color is gray, aud 
sometimes pure white. It is soft, and abounds in flints 
and fossils, ammonites, eehinites, ostrcea, chenopus, ne- 
riuea, etc., often occurring in large beds, as at Bhamdf.n 
above Beyrut. Fossil lisli are also found imbedded in 


LEBANON 


313 


LEBANON 


the rock near the ancient Gebal (Reland, p.321). 
These cretaceous deposits occur along the whole western 
flank of Lebanon, and the lower eastern ranges of Anti- 
Lebanon are wholly composed of them (D’Arvieux, Me - 
moires, ii, 393 ; Elliot, Travels , ii, 257 ; Volney, ii, 280). 

Extensive beds of soft, friable sandstone are met with 
both in Lebanon and Anti-Lebanon. According to An- 
derson, the sandstone is of a more recent period than the 
cretaceous strata. This change in the geological struct- 
ure gives great variety to the scenery of Lebanon. The 
regular and graceful outlines of the sandstone ridges 
contrast well with the bolder and more abrupt limestone 
cliffs and peaks, while the ruddy hue and sombre pine 
forests of the former relieve the intense whiteness of t he 
latter. 

Coal has been found in the district of Metn, cast of 
Beyrut, but it is impure, and the veins are too thin to 
repay mining. Iron is found in the central and south- 
ern portions of Lebanon, and there is an extensive salt 
marsh on one of the eastern steppes of Anti-Lebanon 
(Porter, Damascus , i, 1G1 ; Handbook, p. 3G3; Volney, i, 
281 ; Burekhardt, p. 27). 

2. The Botany of Lebanon, like the geology, is to a 
great extent unknown. It appears to be very rich in 
the abundance, the variety, and the beauty of the trees, 
shrubs, and flowers of these noble mountains. The 
great variety of climate, from the tropical heat of the 
Jordan valley at the base of llermon, to the eternal 
snows on its summit, affords space and fitting home for 
the vegetable products of nearly every part of the globe. 
The forests of Lebanon were celebrated throughout the 
ancient world. Its cedars were used in the temples and 
palaces of Jerusalem (1 Kings vi ; 2 Sara, v, 11 ; Ezra 
iii, 7 ; Isa. xiv, 8 ; Josephus, ITar, v, 5, 2), Rome (Pliny, 
11. N. xiii, 11), and Assyria (Layard, Nin. and Bab. p. 
35G, G44); and the pine and oak were extensively em- 
ployed in ship-building (Ezek.xxvii,4-G). See Cedau. 
On these mountains we have still the cedar, pine, oak 
of several varieties, terebinth, juniper, walnut, plane, pop- 
lar. willow, arbutus, olive, mulberry, earob, fig, pistachio, 
sycamore, hawthorn, apricot, plum, pear, apple, quince, 
pomegranate, orange, lemon, palm, and banana. The 
vine abounds everywhere. Oleanders line the streams, 
and rhododendrons crown the peaks higher up, with the 
rock-rose, ivy, berberry, and honeysuckle. The loftiest 
summits are almost bare, owing to the cold and extreme 
dryness. There are even here, however, some varieties 
of low prickly shrubs, which lie on the ground like cush- 
ions, and look almost as sapless as the gravel from which 
they spring. Many of the flowers are bright and beau- 
tiful — the anemone, tulip, pink, ranunculus, geranium, 
crocus, lily, star of Bethlehem, convolvulus, etc. This- 
tles abound in immense variety. The cereals and rey< - 
tables include wheat, barley, maize, lentils, beans, peas, 
carrots, turnips, potatoes, melons, pumpkins, cucumbers, 
tobacco, cotton, and numerous others. 

Irrigation is extensively practiced, and wherever wa- 
ter is abundant the crops are luxuriant. Probably in no 
part of the. world are there more striking examples of 
the triumph of industry over rugged and intractable 
nature than along the western slopes of Lebanon. The 
steepest banks are terraced ; every little shelf and cran- 
ny in the cliffs is occupied by the thrifty husbandman, 
and planted with vine or mulberry (Robinson, iii, 14,21, 
615 ; Porter, Damascus, ii, 283 ; Handbook, p. 4 ! 0, 413). 

3. Zoohtrjy ,. — Considerable numbers of wild beasts still 
inhabit the retired glens and higher peaks of Lebanon, 
including jackals, hyenas, wolves, bears, and panthers (2 
Kings xiv, 9 ; Cant, iv, 8 ; Hah. ii, 17). See Palestine. 

Anti-Libanus is more thinly peopled than its sister 
range, and it is more abundantly stocked with wild 
beasts. Eagles, vultures, and other birds of prey may 
be seen day after day sweeping in circles round the 
beetling cliffs. Wild swine are numerous, and vast 
herds of gazelles roam over the bleak eastern steppes. 
See Zoology. 

IV. Climate. — There are great varieties of climate 


and temperature in Lebanon. In the plain of Dan, at 
the fountain of the Jordan, the heat and vegetation are 
almost tropical, and the exhalations from the marshy 
plain render the whole region unhealthy. The semi- 
nomads who inhabit it are as dark in complexion as 
Egyptians. The thermometer often stands at 98° Fahr. 
in the shade on the site of Dan, while it does not rise 
above 32° on the top of Hermon. The coast along the 
western base of Lebanon, though very sultry during the 
summer months, is not unhealthy. The fresh sea-breeze 
which sets in in the evening keeps the night compara- 
tively cool, and the air is dry and free from miasma. 
Snow never falls on the coast, and it is very rarely seen 
at a lower elevation than 2000 feet. Frost* is unknown. 
In the plains of Ccele-Syria (3000 feet) and Damascus 
(about 2300 feet), snow falls more or less every winter, 
sometimes eight inches deep on the streets and terraced 
roofs of Damascus, while the roads arc too rough and 
hard with frost for travelling. The main ridges of 
Lebanon and Anti-Lebanon arc generally covered with 
snow from December to March, sometimes so deeply 
that the roads are for weeks together impassable. Dur- 
ing the whole summer the higher parts of the moun- 
tains are cool and pleasant, the air is extremely dry, 
and malaria is unknown. From the beginning of June 
till about the 20th of September rain never falls, and 
clouds are rarely seen. At the latter date the autumn 
rains begin, generally accompanied with storms of thun- 
der and vivid lightning. January and February are 
the coldest months. The barley harvest begins, on the 
plain of Phoenicia, .about the end of April, but in the 
upper altitudes it is not gathered in till the beginning 
of August. During the summer, in the village of Slnini- 
lan, on the western declivity of Lebanon, at an elevation 
of 2000 feet, in the hottest part of the day the thermom- 
eter does not rise above 83° Fahr., and in the night it 
usually goes down to 7G°. From June 20th to August 
20tn the barometer often does not vary a quarter of an 
inch ; there arc few cloudy days, and scarcely even a 
slight shower. At Bludan, in Anti-Lebanon, with an 
elevation of 4800 feet, the air is extremely dry, and the 
thermometer never rises in summer above 82° Fahr. in 
the shade. The nights arc cool and pleasant. The si- 
rocco wind is severely felt along the coast and on the 
western slopes of Lebanon, but not so much in Anti- 
Lebanon. It blows occasionally during March and 
April. Dew is almost unknown along the mountain 
ridges, but in the low plains, and especially at the base 
of llermon, it is very abundant (Psa. cxxxiii, 3). 

V. Historical Notices . — Lebanon is first mentioned as 
a boundary of the country given by the Lord in cove- 
nant promise to Israel (Deut. i, 7 ; xi, 24). To the 
dwellers in the parched and thirsty south, or on the sul- 
try banks of the Nile, the snows, and streams, and ver- 
dant forests of Lebanon must have seemed an earthly 
paradise. By such a contrast we can understand Mo- 
ses’s touching petition, “ I pray thee let me go over and 
see the good land that is beyond Jordan, that goodly 
mountain, and Lebanon” (Dent, iii, 25). The mountains 
were originally inhabited by a number of warlike, inde- 
pendent tribes, some of whom Joshua conquered on the 
banks of Lake Merom (xi,2-18). They are said to have 
been of Phoenician stock (Pliny, v, 17; Eusebius, Onom. 
s. v. ; compare 1 Kings v). Further north were the Hi- 
vites (Judg. iii, 3), and the Giblitcs, and Arkites, whose 
names still cling to the ruins of their ancient strong- 
holds. See Giblitk* Akkite. The Israelites never 
completely subdued them, hut the enterprising Phoeni- 
cians appear to have had them under their power, or in 
their pay, for they got timber for their fleets from the 
mountains, and they were able to supply Solomon from 
the same forests when building the Temple (l Kings v, 
9-11 ; Ezek. xxvii, 9 sq.). At a later period we find the 
king of Assyria felling its timber for his military en- 
gines (Isa. xiv, 8 ; xxxvii, 24 , Ezek. xxxi, 16), and it is 
mentioned on the cuneiform inscriptions (q. v.). Dio- 
dorus Siculus relates that in like manner Antigonus, 


LEBAXOM 


314 


LEBAOTH 




having collected from all quarters 
hewers of wood, and sawyers, and 
ship-builders, brought down an 
immense quantity of timber from 
Li ban us to the sea to build himself 
a navy (xix, 58), The same fact 
that this mountain was the famous 
resort for timber, whether for ar- 
chitectural, naval, or military pur- 
poses, appears from the Egyptian 
monuments, where the name is 
found in the corrupted form of 
Lemctnon (Wilkinson, Egyptians , i, 
403). It is there represented as a 
mountainous country, inaccessible 
to chariots, and abounding in 
lofty trees, which the affrighted 
mountaineers, having fled thith- 
er f° r refuge, are engaged in fell- 
glyph reads l-m-n-n). mg, in order to impede the ad- 
From the Egyptian vance of the invading Egyptian 
Monuments. armv. 

During the conquests of David and the commercial 
prosperity of the nation under Solomon, the Jews be- 
came fully acquainted with the richness, the grandeur, 




and the luxuriant foliage of Lebanon, and ever after 
that mountain was regarded as the emblem of wealth 
and majesty. Thus the Psalmist says of the Messiah’s 
kingdom, “The fruit thereof shall shake like Lebanon” 
(l.xxii, Id); and 8010111011, praising the beauty of the 
Bridegroom, writes, ** 1 1 is countenance is as Lebanon, 
excellent as the cedars” (Cant, v, 15). Isaiah also pre- 
dicts of the Church, “The glory of Lebanon shall be 
given to it” (xxxv, 2; compare Lx, 13; llos. xiv, 5, G). 
Indeed, in Scripture, Lebanon is very generally men- 
tioned in connection with the cedar-trees with which it 
abounded; but its wines are also noticed (Hos. xiv, 8) ; 
and in Cant, iv, 1 1 ; llos. xiv, 7, it is celebrated for va- 
rious kinds of fragrant plants. I^ebanon is greatly cele- 
brated both in sacred and classical writers, and much of 
the sublime imagery of the prophets of the Old Test, is | 
borrowed from this mountain (e. g. Psa. xxix, 5, G ; civ. 
1G-18; Cant, iv, 8, 15; Isa. ii, 13; Zech. xi, 1, 2). • 
Anti-Lebanon seems to have ljeen early brought un- 
der the sway of Damascus, though amid its' southern 
strongholds were some tierce tribes who preserved their 
independence down to a late period (1 Chron. v. 19-23; 
Josephus, Ant, xiii, 11, 3; Strabo, xvi, p. 755, 75G). j 


During the reign of the Seleucid® several large cities 
were founded or rebuilt in these mountains, as Laodi- 
cea at the northern end of Anti-Lebanon, Chalcis at its 
eastern base, Abila in the wild glen of the Abana (Luke 
iii, 1). See Abila. At the commencement of our icra, 
Lebanon, with the rest of Syria, passed into the hands 
of Pome, and under its fostering rule great cities were 
built and beautiful temples erected. The heights 011 
which Baal-fires had burned in primeval times, and the 
groves where the rude mountain tribes worshipped their 
idols, became the sites of noble buildings, whose ruins to 
, this day excite the admiration of every traveller. Greece 
itself cannot surpass in grandeur the temples of Ba’albck 
and Chalcis. There are more than thirty temples in 
Lebanon and Anti-Lebanon (Porter, Handbook , p. 454, 
457, 557, 411; comp. Bobinson, iii, 438, G25). 

During the wars of the Seleucidte, the Bomans, and 
the Saracens, the inhabitants of Lebanon probably re- 
mained in comparative security. When, under the 
Muslem rule, Christianity was almost extirpated from 
the rest of Syria, it retained its hold there; and the 
Maronites (q. v.), who still occupy the greater part of 
the range, are doubtless the lineal descendants of the old 
Syrians. The sect originated in the 7th century, when 
the monk Maron taught them the Monothelitic heresy. 
In the 12th century they submitted to the pope, and 
have ever since remained devoted Papists. They num- 
ber about 200,000. The Druses (q. v.), their hereditary 
foes, dwell in the southern section of the range, and 
number about 80,000. The jealousies and feuds of the 
rival sects, fanned by a cruel and corrupt government, 
often desolate “that goodly mountain” with tire and 
j sword. Anti-Lebanon has a considerable Christian pop- 
ulation, but they are mixed with Mohammedans, and 
have no political status. The whole range is under the 
authority of the pasha of Damascus. 

The American missionaries have established several 
J schools among the people of Lebanon, and for some 
years past pleasing success has attended their efforts in 
the mountain, which, however, were almost wholly in- 
terrupted by the violent outbreak among the Druses in 
18G0, ending in a wholesale massacre of the Christians. 
On the suppression of this, a Maronite governor was 
appointed over the district by the Turkish government, 
under the protectorate of the live great European powers. 

V. Literature. — Bobinson, Biblical Researches, iii, 344, 
345, 439 ; Kit to, Pictorial History of Palestine, Introd. 
p. xxxii-xxxv, lv; Poland, Palcestma, i, 311; liosen- 
miiller, Pibliseh. Alterthum. ii, 23G ; Baumcr, Palastina, 
p. 29-35 ; D’Arvieux, Metnoires, ii, 250 ; Vo key. Voyage 
cn Syrie, i, 243 ; Seetzcn, in Zach’s J lonatl. Correspond. 
June, 180G ; Burckhardt, Travels in Syr. p. I sq. ; Bich- 
ter, Wallfahrtcn, p. 102, etc.; Irby and Mangles, Travels, 
p. 20G-220 ; Buckingham, .1 rob Tribes, p. 4G8 sq. ; Fisk, 
in Missionary Herald, 1824; Elliot, T ravels, ii, 27G; 
Hogg, ) 'is it to Alexandria, Jerusalem, etc., i, 219 sq. , ii, 
81 sq.; Addison, Palmyra and Damascus, ii, 43-82 ; Bit- 
ter’s Erdktmde, xvii, div. 1 ; Bobinson’s Researches, new 
edit., iii, 5S4-G25; Bibliotheca Sacra, 1843, p. 205-253; 
1848, p. 1-23, 243-2G2, 447-480, GG3-700; Schwarz, Pal- 
est. p. 55; Kelly’s Syria and Holy Land, p.7G-lG5; Por- 
ter, Damascus (Loud. 1855); Thomson, Land and Book, 
vol. i ; Van de Velde, Travels, etc., vol. i ; Churchill, Lr 5- 
anon (London, 1853, 18G2); also Druses and Maronites 
(Loud. 18G2; ; Tristram, Land of Israel (London, 18G5) ; 
Palmer, in the Quarterly Statement of the “ Palestine 
Exploration Fund,” April, 1871, p. 107 sq. See PALES- 
TINE. 

Leb'aotli (Hcb. LebaotIT, riX^P, lionesses; Sept. 

A «/3aw$), a city in the southern part of Judah, i. e. 
Simeon (Josh, xv, 32) ; elsewhere more fully Betii-le- 
baoth (.Josh, xix, G) ; also Betii-bikei (1 Chron, iv, 
31). The associated names in all these passages sug- 
gest a location in the wild south-western part of the 
tribe, possibly at t lie ruined site marked on Van de 
Velde's Map as Sbeta, on wady Suniyeh, not very far 
from Elusa, towards Gaza. 


LEBB.EUS 


315 


LEBRIJA 


Lebbae'us (A t/3/3moe), a surname of Judas or Jude 
(Matt. x, 3), one of the twelve apostles ; a member, to- 
gether with his namesake “Iscariot,” James the son of 
Alplueus, and Simon Zelotes, of the last of the three sec- 
tions of the apostolic body. The name Judas only, 
without any distinguishing mark, occurs in the lists 
given in Luke vi, 10 ; Acts i, 13 ; and in John xiv, 22 
(where we find “Judas not Iscariot” among the apos- 
tles), but the apostle has been generally identified with 
“ Lebbieus whose surname wasThadda?us”(Ae/3/3a7o£ 6 
t 7 rih:\ti^eig Oadcaioi?) (Matt, x, 3 ; Mark iii, 18), though 
Schleiermacher ( Critical Essay on St. Luke, p. 93) treats 
with scorn any such attempt to reconcile the lists. In 
both the last quoted places there is considerable variety 
of reading, some MSS. having both in Matt, and Mark 
At fifiuloi; or Gacuhiio? alone, others introducing the 
name ’\ov0ac, or Judas Zelotes, in Matt., where the Vul- 
gate reads Thaddceus alone, which is adopted by Lach- 
mann in his Berlin edition of 1832. This confusion is 
still further increased by the tradition preserved by Eu- 
sebius (//. E. i, 13) that the true name of Thomas (the 
twin) was Judas (To vfiag 6 nai 6ojga<j), and that Thad- 
dteus was one of the “seventy,” identified bv Jerome in 
Matt, x with "Judas Jacobi,” as well as by the theories 
of modern scholars, who regard the “ Levi” (Aetu'c 6 roil 
’ A\<puiov ) of Mark ii, 14: Luke v, 27, who is called “ Lo- 
bes” (A e/3/)c) by Origen (Cont. Cels. 1. i, § G2), as the 
same with Lebbaeus. The safest way out of these ac- 
knowledged difficulties is to hold fast to the ordinarily 
received opinion that Jude, Lebbieus, and Thaddteus 
were three names for the same apostle, who is therefore 
said by Jerome (in Matt, x) to have been “ trionimus,” 
rather than introduce confusion into the apostolic cata- 
logues, and render them erroneous either in excess or de- 
fect. See Thaddjeus. 

The interpretation of the names Lebbteus and Thad- 
dteus is a question beset with almost equal difficulty. 
The former is interpreted by Jerome “hearty,” corcu- 
lum, as from Tib, cor, and Thaddteus has been erroneous- 
ly supposed to have a cognate signification, homo pecto- 
rosus, as from the Syriac *IP), pectus (Lightfoot, ITorce 
lleh. p. 235 ; Bengel, Matt, x, 3), the true signification 
of “iri being mamma (Angl. teat) (Buxtorf, Lex. Talm. 
p. 25G5). Winer ( Realworterb . s. v.) would combine the 
two, and interpret them as meaning Jlerzenskind. An- 
other interpretation of Lebbams is the young lion (leun- 
culus), as from SOS?, lea (Schleusner, s. v.), while Light- 
foot and Baumg.-Crusius would derive it from Lehba, a 
maritime town of Galilee mentioned by Pliny {Hist. Nat. 
v, 19). where, however, the ordinary reading is Jehha. 
Thaddteus appears in Syriac under the form Adai ; hence 
Michaelis admits the idea that Adai, Thaddteus, and Ju- 
das may be different representations of the same word 
(iv, 370), and Wordsworth (Gr. Test, in Matt, x, 3) iden- 
tifies Thaddaeus with Judas, as both from ITIin, “to 
praise.” Chrysostom (De Prod.Jud. 1. i, c. ii) says that 
there was a “Judas Zelotes” among the disciples of our 
Lord, whom he identifies with the apostle. — Smith. See 
Jude. 

Lebeuf, Jean, a French priest and antiquary, was 
born at Auxerre March G, 1G87, and became a priest in 
the cathedral of his native place. Later he made an 
antiquarian visit through France, and in 1740 was cho- 
sen a member of the Academy of Inscriptions, for which 
he wrote many memoirs. He died in 17G0. Lebeuf 
published several dissertations on French history, for a 
fist of which, see Iloefer, Nour. Biog. Gen. xxx, 84. 
Lebi, Lebiyah. See Lion. 

Leblond, Gaspard Michel, a noted French eccle- 
siastic and antiquary, was born at Caen Nov. 24, 1738, 
and, after entering the priesthood, became abbot of Ver- 
mort. Later he lived in Paris as keeper of the Maza- 
rin Library. lie was also a member of the Institute, 
and wrote several archaeological treatises. He died June 
17, 1809. See Hoofer, None. Biog. Gen. xxx, 97. 


Lebon, Joseph, a noted French priest and politi- 
cian, was born Sept. 25, 17G5, at Arras ; pursued his stud- 
ies under the Brethren of the Oratory, and entered their 
order afterwards; then taught rhetoric at one of their 
colleges; but upon the outbreak of the Revolution he 
caught the intoxication of the hour, and finally became 
one of the worst Terrorists, mingling beastly profligacy 
with unquenchable bloodthirstiness. lie was particu- 
larly severe upon the clergy, more especially monastics; 
but when the reaction set in he suffered for his conduct 
death-punishment by the guillotine in 1795, at Amiens. 
See Lacroix’s Pressense, Religion and the Reign of Ter- 
ror, p. 200, 407. 

Lebonah. See Frankincense. 

Lebo'nah (Ileb. Lebonah ', n 2 1 12 b , frankincense, as 
often ; Sept. Atfiwva), a town near Shiloh, north of the 
spot where the Benjamite youth were directed to cap- 
ture the Shilonite maidens at the yearly festival held 
“ on the north side of Bethel, on the east side of the 
highway that goeth up from Bethel to Shechem” (Judg. 
xxi, 19). The earliest modern mention of it is in the 
Itinerary of the Jewish traveller hap-Parchi (A.D. cir. 
1320), who describes it under the name of Lubin , and 
refers especially to its correspondence with the passage 
in Judges (see Asher's Benjamin ofTudela, ii, 435). Bro- 
cardus mentions it as a very handsome village, by the 
name of Lenina, four leagues south of Nablus, on the 
right hand of the road to Jerusalem (chap, vii, p. 178). 
The identity of this place was again suggested by Mann- 
drcll, who calls it Leban (Trau. p. 8G). It is no doubt 
the Lubban visited by Dr. Robinson on his way from Je- 
rusalem to Nablus (Bib. Researches , iii, 90). lie de- 
scribes the khan el-Lubban as being now in ruins; but 
near by is a fine fountain of running water. From it a 
beautiful oval plain extends north about fifteen minutes, 
with perhaps half that breadth, lying here deep among 
the high rocky hills. About the middle of the western 
side, a narrow chasm through the mountain, called wady 
el-Lubban, carries off the waters of the plain and sur- 
rounding tract. The village of Lubban is situated on 
the north-west acclivity, considerably above the plain. 
It is inhabited; has the appearance of an old place; and 
in the rocks above it are excavated sepulchres (comp. 
De Saulcy, Karr afire, i ; 94, 95; Schwarz, Palest, p. 130; 
Wilson, ii, 292 sq. ; Bonar, p. 3G3; Mislin, iii, 319 ; Por- 
ter, Handbook , p. 330; Van de Velde, Memoir, p. 330; 
Tristram, p. 1G0). 

Lebrija, vElius Antonius of (or Lebiuxa. vul- 
garly Ncbrissensis, from Lebrixa or Lebrija, the old Nc- 
brissa, on the Guadalquivir), “un humanista de prima 
nota,” the Erasmus of Spain, was born at that place in 
1442 according to Munnoz (Nichol. Anton and Cave say 
1444). He studied in his native city, and afterwards 
went to the University of Salamanca. In 14G1 lie went 
to Italy to perfect himself in the classics. He visited 
the best schools, heard the most renowned teachers, and 
made great proficiency in Latin, Greek, Hebrew, etc., 
and even in theology, jurisprudence, and medicine. Af- 
ter ten years thus employed he returned to Spain, in- 
tending to effect a reformation, and with the special aim 
of promoting classical learning, in the universities of that 
country. He first labored in an unofficial way, and as 
teacher in the college of San Miguel at Seville ; but Sal- 
amanca was the object of his ambition. His lessons met 
with great success, and he soon became popular through- 
out Spain. 1 Ie contributed very largely to the expulsion 
of barbarism from the seats of education, and to the diffu- 
sion of a taste for elegant and useful studies. lie also 
published a large number of philological works, such as 
Latin, Greek, and Hebrew grammars, and especially a 
Latin lexicon, which was enthusiastically received by 
the universities of all countries. lie likewise applied 
philology to theology, and by that means caused it to 
make a great progress: in order to correct the text of 
the Vulgate, he compared it with the older texts, the 
| Hebrew" and Greek originals, and was one of the chief 


LEBRUN 


316 


LECLERC 


writers on the Polyglot of the Alcala, prepared under 
the direction of cardinal Ximenes. This course natu- 
rally brought him into conflict with the scholastics, 
whose system had to his day prevailed. He was charged 
with having approached the intricate subject of theol- 
ogy without any knowledge of it, and to have under- 
taken an unprecedented labor on the mere strength of 
his philological talents. The Inquisition interfered, and 
part of his Biblical works were prohibited. lie, how- 
ever, protested against this measure in his Apologia, 
addressed to his protector, cardinal Ximenes, and had 
it not been for the interference of the latter, and of oth- 
er influential friends at the court, he would no doubt 
have suffered severely (compare his Apologia, in An- 
tonii Bill. Ilisp. Yet. ii, 310 sq.) ; as it was, he was ap- 
pointed, in 1513, professor of Latin literature at the newly 
established University of Alcala de Henares ( Complu - 
turn), and here was suffered to end his days in peace, 
lie died July 2, 1522, according to Munnoz. Most of 
his works are still extant, among them a history of the 
reign of Ferdinand the Catholic, made by order of that 
prince, under the title Decades dace, etc. (posthumously 
edited, 1545). See Nicolai Antonii Bibliotheca Jlispana 
(Horn. 1072), p. 104 A, 109 B; Du Pin, None. Bill, des 
A uteurs Eccles. xiv, 120-123 ; Guil. Cave, Scriptor . eccl. 
Jlistoria litter. (Geneva?, 1094), Appendix, p. 110 B, 118 
A; llcfele, Cardinal Ximenes, p. 1 10, 124,379,458; Mun- 
noz, Elogio de A ntonio de Lebrija, in the Memorias de la 
real Academia de la Ilistoria , iii, 1-30; Herzog, Real- 
Enct/ldop. viii, 205 ; M'Crie, Reformation in Spain, p. 01, 
75, i05. *(J. H. W.) 

Lebrun, Pierre, a French theologian, born at 
Brignolles in 1001, was professor in several colleges, and 
died in 1729. He wrote, among other works, a Critical 
History of superstitious Practices which have seduced the 
People (1702). — Thomas, Biog. Dictionary, p. 1388. 

Lebuin or Liafwin, a noted colleague of Gregory 
in his mission among the inhabitants of Friesland. Ac- 
cording to his painstaking biographer, lluncbald, a 
monk of the convent of Flnon in the 10th century (in 
Surius, vi, 277, and in Pertz, ii, 300), Lebuin was a na- 
tive of Brittany, and joined Gregory at Utrecht, having 
been directed to do so in a dream. Gregory sent him 
on a mission to the neighboring people, and gave him 
the Anglo-Saxon Marchelin or Marcellin as assistant. 
They preached with great success, and soon established 
a church at Will pen, on the eastern shore of the Yssel, 
and another at Deventer. These churches afterwards 
closing by an invasion of the Saxons, Lebuin coura- 
geously resolved to go as a missionary among that na- 
tion, and went to Marklo, one of their principal cities: 
liter he went further north, towards the Weser, and 
there was well received by an influential chief named 
Folkbert, who seems to have been a Christian. Folk- 
bert advised him not to visit Marklo during the reunion 
which was held there j-early to discuss the general in- 
terests of the nation, but to conceal himself in the house 
of one of his friends, Davo. Lebuin, however, did not 
abide by this counsel, and went to the assembly. Being 
aware how ••omnis concionis illius multitudo ex diversis 
partibus coaeta primo suorum proavorum servare con- 
tendit instituta, numinibus videlicet, suis vota solvens 
ac sacrificia,” he appeared in the midst of the assembled 
warriors dressed in his priestly robes, the cross in one 
hand and the Gospel in the other, and announced him- 
self as an envoy of the .Most High, the one true God 
ami creator of all things, to whom all must turn, forsak- 
ing our idols: but,” said he, at the close of his address, 
“ if you wickedly persist in your errors, you will soon 
repent it bitterly, for in a short time there will come a 
courageous, prudent, and strong monarch of the neigh- 
borhood who will overwhelm you like a torrent, destroy- 
ing all with tire and sword, taking your wives and chil- 
dren to be his servants, and subjecting all who are left 
to his rule.” This discourse greatly excited the Saxons 
against him; but one of them, Buto, took his part, and 


Lebuin was permitted to depart unharmed. He now 
returned to Friesland, and rebuilt th£ church of Deven- 
ter, where he remained until his death. When Liudger 
built a third time the church which had been again de- 
stroyed during an invasion of the Saxons in 770, the 
remains of Lebuin were discovered. Lebuin is not to 
be mistaken for Livin, the pupil of Augustine, who went 
to evangelize Brabant towards the middle of the 7th 
century. The biography of Livin, believed to have 
been written by Boniface, cannot for a moment be con- 
sidered as referring to the apostle of Germany, it is 
full of legends, and of no historical value. See F. W. 
Be tt berg, K. Gesch. Deutschlands , ii, 405, 536, 509. — Her- 
zog, Real-Encyhiop. viii, 2G6 ; Wetzer u. Welte, Kirch en- 
Bexlkon, vi, 401 sq. 

Le'cah (Ileb. Lecah', perh. for a jour- 

ney, but according to F first, annexation ; Sept. A i)\d v. r. 
Aijxdc and Yulg. Lecha ), a place in the tribe 

of Judah founded by Er (or rather, perhaps, by a son of 
bis named Lecah), the first -named son of Shelali (L 
Chron. iv, 21). As Mareshah is stated in the same con- 
nection to have been founded by a member of the same 
family, we may conjecture that Lecah (if indeed a town) 
lay in the same vicinity, perhaps westerly. 

Lecene, Charles, a French Protestant theologian, 
was born in 1047 at Caen, in Normandy. After study- 
ing theology at Sedan, Geneva, and Saumur, lie was in 
1672 appointed pastor at Honfleur. In 1682 he supplied 
for one year the Church of Charenton, but was accused 
of Pelagianism by Sartre, pastor of Montpellier. Una- 
ble to obtain from the Consistory of Charenton a certifi- 
cate of orthodoxy such as he desired, he appealed to the 
next national synod, where he was warmly sustained 
byAllix, but the revocation of the Edict of Nantes sud- 
denly put an end to the discussion. Leeene went to 
Holland, and there connected himself with the Armin- 
ians. He then went to England, but, refusing to be re- 
ordained, and being, moreover, strongly suspected of So- 
cinianism, he was unable to accomplish anything there, 
and returned to Holland, where he remained until 1697. 
lie then went again to Phigland, and settled at London. 
He vainly tried to found an Arminian Church in the 
English metropolis. lie died in 1703. Leeene was, 
even by his theological adversaries, considered a very 
learned theologian. A plan of his for the translation of 
the Bible was taken up by his son, Michel Lecene (Amst. 
1741,2 vols. folio): Projet d'nne nouvelle version Fran- 
goise de la Bible (Rotterdam, 1696, 8vo ; translated, A n 
Essay for a new Translation of the Bible . wherein is 
shown that there is a necessity for a new Translation, 2d 
ed., to whicli is added a table of the texts of Scripture 
[Loud. 1727, 8vo]). I le wrote De VEtat de Vliomme apres 
lepcche ct de sa predestination an salut (Amsterd. 1684, 
12mo): — Entretiens sitr diverses ma tie res de theologie , 
etc. (1685, 12ino) : — Conversations sur diverses matieres 
de religion (1687, 12mo). See Colani, in Revue de The- 
ologie, vii. 343 sq., 1857 ; Hoefer, Xour. Biog. Gen. xxix, 
185; and the sketch in the Avertissement de sa traduc- 
tion dc la Bible (Amst. 1742, 2 vols. folio). (J. 11. W.) 

Leckey, William, a Presbyterian minister in Ire- 
land, nourished in the second half of the 17th century. 
He made himself conspicuous by the part he took in the 
Blood plot — an attempt, after the Restoration, to compli- 
cate the Nonconformists and the government by war- 
ring against Romanism. He was imprisoned May 22, 
1663, and, refusing to conform, was condemned to death, 
and executed on July 15 at Gallows Green, near Dublin. 
Leckey was a line preacher and an able scholar, a fellow 
of the College of Dublin, which high school petitioned 
for his life. This request was granted upon the con- 
formity of Leckey, which, as we have seen above, lie re- 
fused. .See Reid, /list, of the Presbyterian Ch. in Ireland, 
ii, 275-282. 

Leclerc, David, a Protestant theologian, was born 
at Geneva Feb. 19, 1591. lie studied at Geneva, Stras- 
burg, and Heidelberg, and in 1615 went to England to 


LECLERC 


317 


LECTIONARIUM 


perfect himself in the study of Hebrew. lie subse- 
quently returned to his native place, and in 1G18 was 
appointed professor of Hebrew at the university. He 
was ordained for the ministry in 1G28, and died April 
21, 1G54. He wrote Queestiones sacrce, in quibus multa 
Scripturce loca variaque lingua sacrte idiomata expli- 
catin ' , etc. ; accesserunt similium argumentorum diat ri- 
ba Steph.Clerici (Amst. 1685, 8vo) : — Orationes (xiii), 
conspectus ecclesiasticus et poematu ; accedunt Steph. Cle- 
rici Dissert ut tones philologica (Amsterd. 1G87, 8vo) : — a 
Latin translation of Buxtorf’s Synagogue (Basle, 1G41, 
8vo and 4to) ; etc. See La Vie de David Leclerc , in his 
Queestiones sacra; Senebier, 7 list. Litteraire de Geneve; 
Haag, La France Protestante ; Hoefer, Xouv. Biog. Ge- 
nerate, , xxx, 195. 

Leclerc, James Theodore, a Swiss Protestant 
theologian and Orientalist, was born at Geneva Nov. 25, 
1692. He became pastor and professor of Oriental lan- 
guages in that city in 1725, and died in 1758. He 
wrote, P reservatif contre le Fanatisme, ou Refutation 
des pretendus Inspires de ce Si'ecle , trad, du Latin de 
Sam. Tur retin (Gen. 1723, 8vo) : it is a work against the 
prophets of the Cevenncs : — Supplement cm Preservatif 
contre le Fanatisme (Gen. 1723, 8vo) : — Les Psaumes tra- 
duits en Franqais sur V original Ilebreu (Gen. 1740 and 
1761, 8vo). See Senebier, I list. Litteraire de Geneve; 
Haag, La France Protest ante ; Hoefer, Xouv. Biog. Ge- 
nerate, xxx, 200. (J. N. P.) 

Le Clerc, John (1), first martyr of the Reforma- 
tion in France, a mechanic by trade, was born at Meaux 
towards the close of the I5tli century. He was brought 
to the knowledge of divine truth by reading the N. T. 
translated into French by Lefevre d’^taples, and in his 
zeal for the cause he dared to post on the door of the 
cathedral a bill in which the pope was called antichrist. 
For this offence he was condemned to be whipped in 
Paris and at Meaux, was branded on the forehead, and 
exiled. He retired to Rosoy, then to Metz in 1525, 
where he continued to work at his trade, wool-carding. 
Here he one day broke the images which the Romanists 
intended to carry in procession. Instead of trying to 
hide himself, he boldly confessed his deed, and was con- 
demned to fearful bodily punishment. His right hand 
was cut 011 ”, his nose torn out, his arm and breast tom 
with red-hot pincers, and his head encircled with two 
or three bands of red-hot iron ; amid all his torments he 
sung aloud the verse of Psa. cxv, “ Their idols are silver 
and gold, the work of men’s hands.” He was finally 
thrown into the fire, and thus died. His brother Peter, 
also a wool-carder, was chosen by the Protestants of 
Meaux for their pastor, and fell a victim to persecution 
in 1 54G. See Haag, La France Protestante , vol. vi ; Hoe- 
fer, Xouv. Biog. Generate, xxx, 193; Browning, History 
of the Huguenots , i, 23. 

Le Clerc, John (2). See Clerc, Le. 

Leclerc, Laurent Jose, a French priest, was born 
in Paris Aug. 22, 1G77, studied theology, and was then 
admitted into the community of the preachers of St.Sul- 
pice, was licensed by the Sorbonne in 1704, and taught 
theology at Tulle and at Orleans. In 1722 he became 
principal of the theological seminary at Orleans, and 
died Slay 6, 173G. He published, besides other works, A 
Critical Letter on Bay IPs Dictionary. See lloefer, Xouv. 
Biog. Generate, xxx, 201. 

Lecomte, Loins, a French Jesuit, was born at Bor- 
deaux about the middle of the 17th century, lie was 
sent as missionary to China in 1G85, and, after a stay 
of some years in the mission of Shensee (Chensi), re- 
turned to France, and published in 169G Memoirs on the 
present State of China, a work which was censured by 
the faculty of theology. He died in 1729. — Thomas, 
Biog. Diet, p. 1390. 

Lectern, or Lettern (Lat. lectorium or lectricium ), 
a reading-desk or stand, properly movable, from which 
the Scripture “ lessons ” (lectiones), which form a portion 



of the various church- 
services, are chanted or 
read in many churches. 
The lectern (also called 
pufpitiim , itmbo, sugges- 
tus.pyrgus, tribunal, lec- 
tricium , or, most fre- 
quently, lectorium), of 
very ancient use, is of 
various forms and of 
different materials, and 
is found both in Roman 
Catholic churches and 
in the cathedrals and 
college-chapels of the 
Church of England. 
Originally they were 
made of wood, but later 
they were frequently 
also made of stone or 
metal, and sometimes 
in the form of an eagle 
(the symbol of iSt. John 
the Evangelist), the 
outspread wings of 

T , . x , . which form the frame 

Lectern in Ramsay Church, ,. . , 

Huntingdonshire (about 1450). supporting the volume. 

In Scotland, during the 
last century, the precentor’s desk was commonly called 
by that name, and pronounced lettern. See Chambers, 
Cyclopadia, vol. vi, s. v. ; Walcott, Sac. Archaol. p. 345. 
See Eagle. 


Lecticarii, the same as the copiata. They were 
called lecticarii from the fact that they carried the coipse 
or bier at funerals. See Copiat.e. 

Lectionarium, or Lessons. Of the many real 
and supposed meanings of the expression lectio (drdy- 
vwaic, dvayvwfffia), we have here only to consider the 
liturgical. In this sense it is used to designate the read- 
ing, which, together with singing, prayers, preaching, 
and the administration of the sacraments, constitutes 
public worship. 

This part of worship is adopted from the Jews, and, 
like that of the synagogues, was at first restricted to the 
reading of their sacred books (O. T.). The first record 
we find of the reading of the N.-Test. Scriptures in the 
churches is in Justin, Apol. i, cap. G7. But the fact of 
the reading of the Bible in general from the earliest 
times is clearly established by passages of Tertullian 
(A polog. cap. 39; De anima, cap. 9), Cyprian {Fp. 24, 33, 
edit. Oberth. 34), Origen ( Contra Cels, iii, 45, ed. Oberth. 
50), etc. It is self-evident that the canonical books 
and the homologoumena were those most generally read. 
But that lessons were occasionally read also from the 
Apocrypha and Antilegomena is shown by the yet re- 
maining lists of libri ceclesiastici and dvayiviouKOfura, 
i. e. of such books as, although not recognised as au- 
thorities in matters of faith, arc still permitted to he 
read in the churches. Other writings, especially acta 
martyram, and sermons of some of the most distin- 
guished fathers, came afterwards to be also read to the 
people. The number of pieces (i lectiones ) read at each 
service varied; the author of the Apostolic Constitu- 
tions (ii, c. 57) mentions four; two was the minimum — 
one from the Gospels, the other from the epistles or oth- 
er books, including those of the O. T. See Peru or.*:. 
At first the portions to be read, at least on every ordi- 
nary Sunday, were taken in succession in the sacred 
books ( lectio contimui), but afterwards special portions 
were appointed to be read on certain Sundays, and the 
selection was made Iw the bishop, until at last a regular 
system of lessons was contrived, which is the base of the 
one still used at present in churches where the strictly 
liturgical service is adhered to. For feast-days, at first, 
special lessons were appointed (for instance, the ac- 
count of the resurrection on Easter : see Augustine, Semi. 


LECTISTERNIUM 


338 


LECTURES 


139, 140). But it is not known at what time the plan 
which forms the basis of the present system was first 
adopted. Yet Banke (Das Kir chi. Perikopensystem , Berl. 
1847) gives us good reasons for thinking that tradition 
may be correct in representing Jerome as the author of 
the ancient list of lessons known under the name of 

comes,” and as the originator of the system in the 
Western Church. 

Such lists, indicating the portions of Scripture to be 
read in public assemblies on the different days of the 
year, are named lectionaria (sc. volumina) or ketionarii 
(libri) ; Greek, dvaymoarued, evayyeXiord^ia , tKXoyd- 
eta (they are also called evangeliarium et epistolare ; 
evangelia cum cpistolis; comes). In Latin the principal 
are the "Led. Gallic anum,” in Mabillon, Liturg. Gallic.. 
the “ comes' 11 of Jerome; the “ Calendarium Romanum ” 
(edit. Fronto, Par. 1G52) ; the “ Tabula antiquarian lec - 
tionum” in l’anli, Ad missas, in Gerbert, Monum. liturg. 
A lem. i, 409. See Augnsti, Denkwiirdigh. vol. vi ; JIandb. 
der ch?\ M?r7t.ii,6; Banke, Das Kirchl. Perikopensystem ; 
Palmer, Orig. Lit. I, i, 10; Bingham, Orig. Eccles. xiv, 3, 
§ 2; Procter, History of Book of Common Prayer , p. 210 
sq. ; Martene, De Ant. Eccles. Pit. iv, 5,1 sq. ; Freeman, 
Principles of Divine Service, i. 125 sq. See Liturgy. 

The reading of the lesson in the early ages of the 
Church was intrusted to the lector (q.v.). At present, 
in the Romish mass, when the number of officiating 
priests is complete, the epistle is read by the subdeacon 
and the Gospel bv the deacon. See Herzog, Real-Ency- 
klop. viii, 208; Blunt, Diet, of Doctr. and llist. Theol. p. 
408 sq. See Lesson. (J. H.W.) 

Lectisternium (Lat. lectus, a couch, and sternere, 
to spread), a religious festival ceremony among the an- 
cient Bomans. It was celebrated during times of public 
calamity, when the gods were invited to the entertain- 
ment, and their statues taken from their pedestals and 
laid on couches. The lectisternium, according to Livy 
(v, 13), was first celebrated in the year of Borne 354 (on 
the occasion of a contagious disease which committed 
frightful ravages among the cattle), and lasted for eight 
successive days. On the celebration of this festival en- 
emies were said to forget their animosities, and all pris- 
oners were liberated. — Brande and Cox, Dictionary of 
A rt and Sciences , vol. ii, s, v. 

Lector {dvayviborgg) or Reader was the name of 
an officer in the ancient Church whose place it was to 
read the holy Scriptures and other lessons (for instance, 
the Acta martyrum) in public worship. He was also 
intrusted with the keeping of the sacred volumes. This 
reading of the Word of God formed an important part 
in the service of the Jewish synagogues (see Luke iv. 
10; Acts xiii, 15, 27 ; 2 Cor. iii, 14), and was introduced 
into the Christian Church from thence. But we do not 
know at what period the performance of it became a 
special office. Yet Tertullian, De preeser. hcer. c. 4 1, ex- 
pressly speaks of the lector as a special officer in the 
Church, and Cyprian (Ep. 33, and edit. Obcrth. 34) men- 
tions the ordination of two readers. The early Church 
councils (Concil. Chalcedon. a. 451, c. 13. 14; Tolet. 7, 2; 
Vasense, ii, 2; Valentin, c. 1 ; A rausial, i, 18) give direc- 
tions about the duties of readers. Still, although the 
most eminent fathers laid great stress on the reading of 
Scripture in the churches, and Cyprian declares their 
office one of great honor (Epist. 34), it was yet classed 
among the ordines inferiores. This is easily accounted 
for from the fact that t lie simple reading, without any 
exegetical or homiletical explanations (which are not 
in the province of the reader), was a mere mechanical 
performance, and in after times often intrusted to chil- 
dren. After the form of the liturgy of the mass was final- 
ly settled, the lectors were forbidden to read the peri- 
copes occurring in the missa fidelium. They were also 
thereafter excluded from the altar, and suffered to read 
only at the pulpitum , and finally were obliged to leave 
to the deacon or presbyter the pronouncing of the for- 
mula solennis, probably because the reader was of lower 


degree in the hierarchy. Yet in some churches the or- 
dination of readers was a very solemn affair, especially 
among the Greeks, where it was accompanied by impo- 
sition of hands. In course of time the office of reader 
in the Bomish Church came to be absorbed in the dea- 
con’s, and identified with it. See C. Schone, Geschichts - 
forschungen ii. d. Kirchl. Gebr. iii, 108 (Berlin, 1822) ; Jo. 
Amir. Schmidt, De primitives, eccles. lectoribus illustribus 
(Helmstadt, 1090) ; Bingham, De origin, eccles. ii, 29 ; 
Suieer and Du Fresne, Lexica ; Augusti, Denkwiird. vol. 
vi ; Ifandb. d. chr. Arch, i, 262; Herzog, Real-Encyklop. 
viii, 268. 

Lectorium. See Lectern, 

Lecturers, an order of preachers in the Church of 
England, distinct from the incumbent or curate, usually 
chosen by the vestry or chief inhabitants of the parish, 
and snpported either by voluntary contributions or leg- 
acies. They preach on the Sunday afternoon or even- 
ing, and in some instances on a stated day in the week. 
The lecturers are generally appointed without any in- 
terposition of the incumbent, though his consent, as 
possessor of the freehold of the Church, is necessary be- 
fore any lecturer can officiate : when such consent has 
been obtained (but not before), the bishop, if he ap- 
prove of the nominee, licenses him to the lecture. 
Where there are lectures founded by the donations of 
pious persons, the lecturers are appointed by the found- 
ers, without any interposition or consent of the rectors 
of the churches, though with the leave and approbation 
of the bishop, aud after the candidate’s subscription to 
the Thirtv-nine Articles and the Act of Uniformity, 
such as that of lady Moyer at St. Paul’s, etc. When 
the office of lecturer first originated in the English 
Church it is difficult to determine. It is manifest from 
the statute (13 and 14 Car. II, c. 4, § 19), commonly 
known as the Act of Uniformity (1662), that the office 
was generally recognised in the second half of the 17th 
century. Even as early as 1589, however, an evening 
lecture on Fridays was endowed in the London parish 
of St. Michael Royal, and at about the same time three 
lecture-sermons were established in St. Michael’s, Corn- 
hill— two on Sundays after evening prayers, and a third 
at the same time on Christmas day. During the Great 
Rebellion lecturers used their influence and opportuni- 
ties for the overthrow of the State Church and the mon- 
archy. — Eden, Theol. Diet . s. v. ; Buck, Theol. Diet. s. v. ; 
Eadie, Eccles. Diet. p. 37 1 . 

Lectures, Bampton. See Bampton Lectures. 

Lectures, Boyle. See Boyle Lectures. 

Lectures, Congregational. See Congrega- 
tional Lectures. 

Lectures, Hulsean. See Hulsean Lectures. 

Lectures, Merchants’, a lecture set up in Pin- 
ner’s Hall in the year 1672, by the Presbyterians and In- 
dependents, to show their agreement among themselves, 
as well as to support the doctrines of the Reformat ion 
against the prevailing errors of Popery, Socinianism, 
and infidelity. The principal ministers for learning and 
popularity were chosen as lecturers, such as Dr. Bates, 
Dr. Manton, Dr. Owen, Mr. Baxter, Messrs. Collins, Jen- 
kins, Mead, and afterwards Messrs. Alsop, Howe, Cole, 
and others. It was encouraged and supported by some 
of the principal merchants and tradesmen of the city. 
Some misunderstanding taking place, the Presbyterians 
removed to Salter’s Hall and the Independents remain- 
ed at Pinner’s Hall, and each party filled up their num- 
bers out of their respective denominations. This lecture 
is kept up to the present day, and is now held at Broad 
Street meeting every Tuesday morning. — Buck, Theol. 
Dictionary , s. v. 

Lectures, Monthly. A lecture preached month- 
ly by the Congregational ministers of London in their 
different chapels, taken in rotation. These lectures have 
of late been systematically arranged, so as to form a 
connected course of one or more years. A valuable vol- 


LECTURES 


319 


LEE 


ume on the evidences of Revelation, published in 1827, 
is one of the fruits of these monthly exercises. — Buck, 
Theological Dictionary , s. v. 

Lectures, Morning, certain casuistical lectures, 
which were preached by some of the most able divines 
in London. The occasion of these lectures seems to be 
this: During the troublesome times of Charles I., most 
of the citizens having some near relation or friend in the 
army of the earl of Essex, so many bills were sent up to 
the pulpit every Lord’s day for their preservation that 
the minister had neither time to read them nor to rec- 
ommend their cases to God in prayer; several London 
divines therefore agreed to set apart a morning hour for 
this purpose, one half to be spent in prayer, and the oth- 
er in a suitable exhortation to the people. When the 
heat of the war was over, it became a casuistical lecture, 
and was carried on till the restoration of Charles IT. 
These sermons were afterwards published in several vol- 
umes quarto, under the title of the Morning Exercises. 
The authors were the most eminent preachers of the 
day; among them was, e.g. archbishop Tillotson. It ap- 
pears that these lectures were held every morning for 
one month only, and, from the preface to the volume, 
dated 1G89, the time was afterwards contracted to a fort- 
night. Most of these were delivered at Cripplegate 
Church, some at St. Giles’s, and a volume against popery 
in Southwark. Mr. Neale observes that this lecture was 
afterwards revived in a different form, and continued in 
his day. It was kept up long afterwards at several 
places in the summer, a week at each place, but latterly 
the time was exchanged for the evening. — Buck, Thcol. 
Dictionary , s. v. 

Lectures, Moyer’s, a course of eight sermons, 
preached annually, founded by the beneficence of lady 
Moyer about 1720, who left by will a rich legacy as a 
foundation for the same. A great number of English 
writers having endeavored in a variety of ways to in- 
validate the doctrine of the Trinity, this opulent and 
orthodox lady was influenced to think of an institution 
which should provide for posterity an ample collection 
of productions in defence of this branch of the Christian 
faith. The first course of these lectures was preached 
by Dr. Waterland, on the divinity of Christ. These lec- 
tures were discontinued about the middle of the last 
century. — Buck, Th. Diet . s. v. ; Eadie, Eccl. Did. p. 4-'0. 

Lectures, Religious, are discourses or sermons 
delivered by ministers on any subject in theology. Be- 
sides lectures on the Sabbath day, many think proper to 
preach on week-days ; sometimes at five in the morning, 
before people go to work, and at seven in the evening, 
after they have done. In London there is preaching al- 
most every forenoon and evening in the week at some 
place or other. — Buck, Thcol. Dictionary , s. v. 

Lectures, Warburtonian, a lecture founded by 
bishop Warburton to prove the truth of revealed relig- 
ion in general, and the Christian in particular, from the 
completion of the prophecies in the Old and New Testa- 
ment which relate to the Christian Church, especially 
to the apostasy of papal Rome. To this foundation we 
owe the admirable discourses of Hurd, Halifax, Bagot, 
Apthorp, and many others. — Buck. Thcol. Did. s. v. 

Lecturn. See Lectern. 

Ledge (only in the plural shelabhim', from 

-Vj, to mortice together; Sept. i£fy6/<fi'o, Vul g. junc- 
ture*), prop .joints, e. g. at the corners of a base or pedes- 
tal ; hence perhaps an ornament overlaying these angles 
to hide the juncture (1 Kings vii, 28, 29). In verses 35, 
3G, the term thus rendered is different, namely yad, 
lit. a hand , i. e. a lateral projection, probably referring to 
side-borders to the same pedestals. The description is 
too brief and the terms too vague to allow a more defi- 
nite idea of these appendages to the bases in question. 
See Laver. 

Ledieu, Francis, abbe, a French ecclesiastic, noted 


as a writer, was born at Peronne about the middle of 
the 17th century. In 1684 he became private secretary 
of the celebrated French pulpit orator Bossuet, bishop 
of Meaux, and was by this prelate made canon of the 
church at Meaux. He died at Paris Oct. 7, 1713. He 
wrote Memoires et Journal de VA bbe Ledieu sur la vie et 
les outrages de Bossuet ( Paris, 185G-57,4 vols.8vo),upon 
which the late Sainte-Beuve thus comments: “L’abbe 
Ledieu n’a pas le dessein de diminner Bossuet, mais il 
souvient son illustre maitre a une epreuve a laquelle pas 
une grande figure lie resisterait ; il note jour par jour h 
l’epoque de la maladie derniere et du declin tons les ac- 
tes et toutes les paroles de faiblesse qui lui echappent, 
jusqu’aux plaintes et doleances aux quelles on se laisse 
aller la nuit quand on se croit seul, et dans cette obser- 
vation il porte un esprit de petitesse qui se pronouce 
de plus en plus en avan^ant, un esprit has, qui n’est pas 
moins dangereux que lie le serait une malignite sub- 
tile” (Mon it cur, Mar. 31, 1856). Ledieu also left in INIS. 
Memoires sur Vllistoire et les Antiquites du diocese de 
Meaux. See lloefer, Xouv. Biog . Generale, xxx, 2G2. 

Ledru, Andre Pierre, a French priest and natu- 
ralist, was born at Chantenav, Main, January 22. 17G1. 
When quite young he entered the priesthood, and dur- 
ing the Revolution adopted its principles, and was ap- 
pointed curate at Fre-au-Mans. Later he was employed 
as botanist in Baudin’s expedition to the Canaries and 
the Antilles (in 179G). lie died July 11,1825. Ledru 
wrote several works, for a list of which see lloefer, Xouv. 
Biog. Generale, xxx, 2G7. 

Ledwich, Edward. I).D., an Irish antiquary, fel- 
low of Trinity College, Dublin, subsequently vicar of 
Aghaboe, Queens County, Ireland, was born in 1739, and 
died in 1823. He published The Antiquities of Ireland 
(1794), a very valuable work. He offended many of 
his countrymen by denying the truth of the legend of 
St. Patrick. 

Lee, Andrew, D.D., a Congregational minister, 
was born May 7, 1745 (O. S.), at Lyme, Conn.: gradu- 
ated at Yale College in 17GG; entered the ministry in 
17G8; was ordained pastor at Lisbon. Conn., Oct. 26, 1768 ; 
and died Aug. 25, 1832. He was made a member of 
Yale College corporation in 1807, Dr. Lee published 
An Inquiry whether it be the Duty of Man to be willing 
to suffer Damnation for the Divine Gloi'y (1786) : — Ser- 
mons on various important Subjects (8vo, 1803) ; and sev- 
eral occasional sermons. — Sprague, A nnals, i, GG8. 

Lee, Ann, the founder of the sect of Shakers , was 
born in Manchester, England, Feb. 29, 1736. She was 
the daughter of a poor mechanic, a blacksmith by trade, 
and a sister of general Charles Lee of Revolutionary 
fame. When yet a young girl she married Abraham 
Standley, of like trade as her father, and she became the 
mother of four children, who all died in infancy. When 
about twenty-two years of age Jane came under the in- 
fluence of James Wardley, at this time the great expo- 
nent of the Millenarian doctrines of the Camisards and 
French Prophets. These religious fanatics, after endur- 
ing much persecution and great suffering in their na- 
tive country, had sought a refuge in England in 1705. 
Gradually they spread their views — communicating in- 
spiration, as they thought — finding ready followers, par- 
ticularly among the Quakers, and one of this number — 
James Wardley — in 1747 actually formed a separate 
society, consisting mainly of Quakers, claiming to be 
led by the Spirit of God, and indulging in all manner 
of religious excesses, similar to those of the Camisards 
(q. v.) and French Prophets (q. v.). Wardley claimed 
to have supernatural visions and revelations, and as 
both he and his adherents were noted for their bodily 
agitations, they came to be known as Shaking Quakers. 
Of this sect Ann Lee, now Mrs. Standley, became one 
of the leading spirits. From the time of her admission 
she seems to have been particularly inspired for leader- 
ship and action. Naturally of an excitable temper, her 
experience in the performance of the peculiar religious 


LEE 


320 


LEE 


duties of this society — by them termed “religious ex- 
ercises” — was most singular and painful. Of a pious 
nature, she hesitated not to subject herself to all the 
torments of the tlesh. Often in her fits or paroxysms, 
as she clinched her hands, it is said, the blood would 
llow through the pores of her skin in a kind of san- 
guinary perspiration. This her followers believe was 
a miraculous phenomenon, and they liken it to the 
“bloody sweat” of our Saviour in the garden. Her 
flesh wasted away under these exercises, and she be- 
came so weak that her friends were obliged to feed her 
like an infant. Then, again, according to the account 
given by her followers, she would have “intervals of 
releasement, in which her bodily strength and vigor 
were sometimes miraculously renewed, and her soul 
filled with heavenly visions and divine revelations.” 
All these mortifications of the flesh were by her sect 
accepted not only as evidences ot great spiritual fervor, 
but as proofs of the indwelling of the divine spirit in 
Ann in an uncommon measure. She rose rapidly in 
the favor and confidence of her brethren, and we need 
not wonder that soon she came to have visions and rev- 
elations, and that they frequently and gladly “attested” 
them as manifestations of God to the believers. By the 
year 1770 she bad grown so much in favor among her 
people that her revelations and visions were looked upon 
with more than ordinary interest; and when in this year 
she was subjected to persecution and imprisonment by 
the secular authorities, her followers claim that the Lord 
Jesus manifested himself to her in an especial manner, 
and from this time dates the beginning of that “latter 
day of glory” in which they are now rejoicing. Imme- 
diately after her release from prison she professed su- 
pernatural powers in the midst of the little society 
gathered about her, and she was acknowledged as their 
spiritual mother in Christ. Ann was thereafter accepted 
as the only true leader of the Church of Christ — not i n the 
common acceptation of that term, but as the incarnation 
of infinite wisdom and the “second appearing of Christ,” 
as really and fully as Jesus of Nazareth was the incar- 
nation of infinite power, or Christ's first appearing, and 
she now hesitated not to style herself the 1 1 '<n\ 

signifying that in her dwelt, the Word. Among other 
things revealed to her at this time was the displeasure 
of the Almighty against the matrimonial state, and she 
opened her testimony on the wickedness of marriage. 
If nothing else could have provoked the secular powers 
to put a stop to her fanatic excesses in the garb of re- 
ligion, her attack on one of the most .sacred institutions 
of the civilized state demanded immediate action, and 
she was again imprisoned, this time for misdemeanor. 
Set free once more, she began to spread her revelations 
more generally, and actually entered upon an open war- 
fare against “the root of human depravity,” as she 
called the matrimonial act, and the people of Manches- 
ter were so enraged that she was shut up in a mad- 
house, and was kept there several weeks. Thus harassed 
and persecuted on English soil, she finally decided to 
seek (piiet and peace on this side of the Atlantic, and in 
1773 professed to have a “special revelation” to emi- 
grate to America. Several of her congregation asserted 
that they also hail had revelations of a like nature, and 
she accordingly set out for t Ins country. She came 
to America in the ship Maria. Captain Smith, and ar- 
rived at New York in May. 1774, having as her com- 
panions her brother, William Lee, .lames Whitaker, John 
Ilocknell, called elders, and others. In the spring of 
177G she went to Albany, and thence to Niskayuna, now 
Watervliet, eight miles from Albany. Here she suc- 
cessfully established a congregation, which she called 
“ the. Church of Christ's second appearing ,” formally dis- 
solved her connection with the man to whom she had 
in her youth given her hand and heart, and became 
their recognised head. It was not, however, until 1780 
that Ann Lee succeeded in gathering about her a very 
large fiock. At the beginning of this year an unusually 
great religious revival occurred at New Lebanon, and, 


improving this opportunity, she went prominently l>e- 
fore the people, taking an active part in the religions 
commotion. This proved to her cause a fine harvest 
indeed, and the number of her deluded followers greatly 
increased, and resulted in the establishment of the now 
flourishing society of New Lebanon. See Shakers. 
One of these New Lebanon converts, Valentine Bath- 
bun, previously a Baptist minister, who, however, after 
the short period of about three months, recovered his 
senses, and published a pamphlet against the imposture, 
says that “there attended this infatuation an inexpli- 
cable agency upon the body, to which he himself was 
subjected, that affected the nerves suddenly and forcibly 
like the electric fluid, and was followed by tremblings 
and the complete deprivation of strength. "When the 
good mother had somewhat established her authority 
with her new disciples, she warned them of the great 
sin of following the vain customs of the world, and, hav- 
ing fleeced them of their ear-rings, necklaces, buckles, 
and even-tiling which might nourish pride, and hav- 
ing cut'olf their hair close by their ears, she admitted 
them into her Church. Thus metamorphosed, they were 
ashamed to be seen by their old acquaintances, and 
would be induced to continue Shakers to save them- 
selves from further humiliation.” But whether it was 
the success of their unworthy cause, or their religions 
excesses, or their unwillingness to take the oath of al- 
legiance to the State of New York, they made them- 
selves obnoxious here also to the secular authorities, 
and, as in her native country, Ann Lee was subjected to 
imprisonment, and escaped trial and punishment only 
by the kind offices of the governor, George Clinton. 
In 1781 she set out, in company with her elders, on a 
quite extended preaching tour through the New Eng- 
land States, in the course of which societies were found- 
ed at Harvard, Mass., and sundry other places. She 
had always asserted that she was not liable to the as- 
saults of death, and that, when she left this world, she 
should ascend in the twinkling of an eye to heaven ; 
but, unhappily for her claims, “the mighty power of 
God, the second heir of the covenant of promise” and 
“ the Lamb’s bride,” or, as she styled herself, “ the spir- 
itual mother of the new creation, the queen of Mount 
Zion, the second appearing of Christ,” died a natural 
death at Watervliet, September 8, 1784. 

Strange as must ever appear the fanatical excesses 
of Ann Lee, and her willingness to lead men to acts of 
depravity, to blasphemous religions pretensions, it must 
be conceded that she was certainly a wonderful woman. 
Deprived of all the advantages of education, she never- 
theless, by the power of a will wholly unyielding and a 
mind of no common order, succeeded in establishing a 
religions sect, by which, at present consisting of more 
than four thousand people, some of them of marked in- 
telligence and superior talents, possessing, in the aggre- 
gate, wealth to the amount of more than ten millions of 
dollars , she is considered as the very Christ — standing 
in the Church as God himself, and at whose tribunal 
the world is to be judged. Over this society her influ- 
ence is spoken of as complete. Her word was a law 
from which there was no appeal. Obedience then, as 
now, was the one lesson that a Shaker was required to 
learn perfectly — an obedience unquestioned and entire; 
and all this when the very foundation upon which they 
rested their faith, namely, her divine mission, was no- 
toriously antagonized by a life accused, and not without 
some show of truthfulness, as openly and shamefully 
impure. See IL P. Andrews in the Ladies' Repository, 
1858, p. G4t) sq. ; Marsden (Bev. J. B.), I list, of Christian 
Churches and Sects, ii, 320 sq.; Galaxy, 1872 (Jan. and 
April). See Shakers. 

Lee, Charles, a Presbyterian minister, was born 
near Elemingsburg, I\y., May 12, 1818; was converted 
when about twenty years of age, and, though hitherto 
a farmer by employment, he decided at once upon the 
ministry, entered the college at Hanover, Ind.. and, after 
graduating in 1853, studied theology with the president 


LEE 


321 


LEE 


of his alma mater. He was licensed by the Presbytery 
of Madison in 1855, and became pastor at Graham, Ind. 
lie died May 27, 1863. “With fair talents, and yet 
amid many discouragements both in himself and from 
without, he was still not only a faithful, but a successful, 
pastor of the churches committed to his care. God 
gave him the witness of approval in the conversion of 
many under his ministry.” — Wilson, Presb. Hist. Alma- 
nac, 1864, p. 109. 

Lee, Chauncey, D.D., a Congregational minister, 
was bora at Salisbury, Conn., 1703 ; graduated at Yale 
College in 1784; entered the ministry June 3, 1789; and 
was ordained pastor in Sunderland, Yt., March 18, 1790, 
where he remained a few years, and in Jan., 1800, be- 
came pastor in Colebrook, Conn. This connection he 
dissolved in 1827, to become pastor at Marlborough, Conn., 
Nov. 18, 1828, which place he held until Jan. 11, 1837. 
lie died in Hartwick, N. Y., Dec., 1842. Lee published 
the A merican A ccomptant : cm A rithmetic (1797) : — The 
Trial of Virtue: a metrical Version of the Book of Job 
(1807) : — Sermons especially designed for Revivals (12mo, 
1824): — Letters from Aristarchus to Philemon (1833); 
and two or three occasional sermons. — Sprague, 1 nnals, 
ii, 288. 

Lee, Edward, an English prelate, was born in Kent 
in 1482; was educated at Oxford and Cambridge; be- 
came chaplain of Henry YTTI, and was finally employed 
by him in several diplomatic missions. In 1529 he was 
sent to Pome to negotiate for the divorce of the king, 
and in 1531 was appointed archbishop of York. He 
opposed the Reform doctrines of Luther, but favored 
the innovations which Henry VIII made in the Church. 
Lee died in 1544. He wrote, Apologia adversus quo- 
rumdam calumnias (Louvain, 1520) : — Epistola nuncu- 
patoria ad Dcs. lCrctsmum (Louvain, 1520): — Annota- 
tionmn Libri duo in annotationes Novi Testamenti Erasmi 
(Bale, 1520): — Epistola apologetica qua respondet D. 
Erasmi Epistolis. — AUibone, Diet, of Brit, and Am. Au- 
thors, vol. ii, s. v. 

Lee, Jason, a Methodist Episcopal minister, pioneer 
missionary to Oregon, was born at Stanstead, Lower Can- 
ada, in 1803 ; labored with the Wesleyan missionaries 
there until 1833 ; joined the New England Conference 
in that year, and was ordained missionary to Oregon. 
Here he labored nobly, buried two wives, and in 1844 
returned to New York to raise funds for the Oregon In- 
stitute, for which he was made agent by the New Eng- 
land Conference, but he died at his birthplace, March 
12, 1845. His loss was a blow to the mission, but it is 
his glorious monument for two worlds. — Minutes of Con- 
ferences, i i i , 6 1 7. (G. L. T.) 

Lee, Jesse, one of the most eminent preachers in 
the early history of the American Methodist Church, 
and recognised as the founder of Methodism in New 
England, was bom in Prince George’s County, Virginia, 
March 12, 1758. lie received a fair education, was dil- 
igently instructed in the Prayer-book and Catechism, 
and early acquired skill in vocal music, which served 
him in all his subsequent labors. 1 1 is early life was 
moral. “ I believe I never did anything in my youth 
that the people generally call wicked,” is the record in 
his journal. His father was led to a more serious mode 
of life than prevailed generally in that community 
chiefly by the influence of Mr. Jarratt, an Episcopal 
clergyman. Jesse’s parents, however, finally, in 1773, 
joined the Methodist Society then formed under Rob- 
ert Williams, one of Wesley’s preachers, the promoter of 
Methodism in those parts. In this very year Jesse ex- 
perienced in a marked manner the sense of pardoned sin, 
and continued to benefit by the powerful revival influ- 
ences which for some years prevailed in the neighbor- 
hood. In 177G he experienced a state of grace which 
he called “perfect love.” “At length I could say, ‘I 
have nothing but the love of Christ in my heart,’” is his 
record. In 1777 he removed from his home into the 
bounds of Roanoke Circuit, North Carolina, where the 
V.— X 


next year he was appointed a class-leader. He preach- 
ed his first sermon November 17, 1779, aud for a time 
supplied the preacher's place. In the summer of 1780 
he was drafted into the militia to meet the approach of 
the British army in South Carolina. Excused from 
bearing arms on account of his religious scruples, he 
rendered various other services, especially by preach- 
ing. Soon obtaining a discharge, he was earnestly so- 
licited to enter the itinerant ministry, but shrank from 
the responsibility, “fearing lest he should injure the 
work of God.” At the tenth Conference, held at Ellis 
Meeting-house, Sussex County, Virginia, April 17,1782, 
Lee was deeply impressed with “ the union and brother- 
ly love” prevalent among the preaehers, notwithstand- 
ing the warm difference that had of late existed among 
the Methodist preaehers ou the subject of the adminis- 
tration of the sacraments, and at a quarterly meeting in 
November he was prevailed upon to take charge, togeth- 
er with Air. Dromgoole, of a circuit near Edenton, North 
Carolina — the Amelia Circuit. At the Ellis [Meeting- 
house Conference, [May 6, 1783, he was received on trial. 
This year he preached with marked success. lie writes, 
“I preached at Mr. Spain’s with great liberty . . . the 
Spirit of the Lord came upon us, and we were bathed in 
tears.” “I preached at Ilowel’s Chapel from Ezek. xxxiii, 

11 I saw so clearly that the Lord was willing to 

bless the people, even while 1 was speaking, that I be- 
gan to feel distressed for them. . . . After stopping and 
weeping for some time, I began again, but had spoken 
but a little while before the cries of the people overcame 
me, and 1 wept with them so that I could not speak. I 
found that love had tears as w r ell as grief.” Under ap- 
pointment of the Conference, which began at Ellis Preach- 
ing-house, Virginia, April 30, 1784, and ended at Balti- 
more [May 28 following (see minute for that year), he la- 
bored in different circuits with like success, and was now 
regarded as an important man in the connection. Decem- 
ber 12 he was invited to meet CokcAVhatcoat, and Yascy 
at the celebrated Christmas Conference of 1784 at Balti- 
more, where, with the aid of these persons, ordained and 
sent out for the purpose by [Mr. Wesley, the Methodist 
Episcopal Church was organized. Lee could not attend 
the Conference from his distant circuit on so short a no- 
tice and at that season of the year, but was immediately 
after requested by bishop Asburv to travel with him in 
a Southern tour. This was an important event for Lee. 
He preached with the-bishop at Georgetown and Charles- 
ton. At Cheraw he met with a merchant who gave 
him such information of New England as awakened in 
him an eager desire to transfer his field of labor to that 
region. At the Southern Conference, held in North 
Carolina April 20, 1785, Lee, in ardent controversy with 
Coke, who was still in the country', sought the abroga- 
tion of certain stringent rules on slavery adopted in 1784, 
which required of each member of the society the gradual 
emancipation of his slaves. His views soon prevailed. 
He preached, 1786, in Kent Circuit, Maryland ; 1787, in 
Baltimore; 1788, in Flanders Circuit, embracing a por- 
tion of New Jersey and New York. Previously to the 
General Conference of 1796 there were no prescribed lim- 
its to the several conferences, but they were held at the 
discretion of the bishop as to time and place, the same 
preacher being sometimes appointed from different Con- 
ferences in the same year. At the Conference held in 
New York, [May 28, 1789, Lee was appointed to Stam- 
ford Circuit, in Connecticut, and now began his career in 
New England, which continued for eleven years. New 
England, from the natural temperament of its inhabit- 
ants, and their previous theological education, was a 
hard field for the introduction of [Methodism, into which 
— though spread into all the other Atlantic States, far 
into the ’West, to Canada and Nova Scotia — it had not 
hitherto ventured with a set purpose of permanent oc- 
cupancy. The dearth of earnest religious interest which 
succeeded the revivals under Edwards, Whitefield, and 
Tennant, as well as the prevalent reactionary tendency 
to rationalism, furnished sufficient demand for the zeal- 


LEE 


322 


LEE 


ous preaching of the Methodists. They felt themselves 1 
called also to a special mission in upholding their form 
of doctrine concerning entire sanctification in this life; | 
but tlieir views on the subject of free will were greatly 
misunderstood, the Methodist Arrainianism being con- 
founded with Pelagianism. ‘'The argument,” says John 
Edwards, “most constantly used against Arminianism in 
those days was its tendency to prepare the way for 
Poperv” (as being a doctrine of salvation by good works). 
The dominant theology, therefore, gave the Methodist 
preachers but a cold reception. Lee preached at Nor- 
walk first in the street, but was subsequently allowed, 
both in this and other places, the use of the court- 
house, and sometimes of the meeting-house. Thomas 
Ware, who heard Lee about this time, writes, “When he 
stood up in the open air and began to sing, I knew not 
what it meant. I drew near, however, to listen, and 
thought the prayer was the best I had ever heard. . . . 
When lie entered upon the subject-matter of his text, it 
was with such an easy, natural flow of expression, and 
in such a tone of voice, that I could not refrain from 
weeping, and many others were affected in the same 
way. When he was done, and we had an opportunity 
of expressing our views to each other, it was agreed that 
such a man had not visited New England since the days 
of Whitefield.” At Stratfield he formed the first class, 
consisting of three women, September 20, 1787. At 
Reading, December 28, he formed another class of two. 
Thus, at the end of seven months’ labor, he had secured 
fee members in society. I5ut the spirit with which he 
labored appears in his journal as follows: “I love to 
break up new ground, and hunt the lost souls in New 
England, though it is hard work; but when Christ is 
with me, hard things are made easy, and rough ways 
made smooth.” After preaching to a large congrega- 
tion on one occasion, he was, as usual, left to And shelter 
where he could, and, as he records, rode through storm, 
“my soul transplanted with joy, the snow hilling, the 
wind blowing, prayer ascending, faith increasing, grace 
descending, heaven smiling, and love abounding.” 

In February, 1790, he received three helpers, Brush, 
Roberts, and Smith, and formed the New Haven Cir- 
cuit. He passed through Rhode Island, and appeared 
in Boston July 9. Boardman and Garrettson had before 
preached there, but no permanent fruit remained of their 
labors. Lee, finding no house opened, preached on the 
Common to 3000 hearers. Though Lee often returned 
to the city, no society was formed there till July 13, 1792. 
He had better success elsewhere, and constantly labored 
throughout New England in supervision of the work, 
till the General Conference of 1790. Soon after this 
date he began to travel at large with bishop Asbury, as 
his authorized assistant in preaching and in holding 
Conferences. Thus employed, he revisited the scenes of 
his former labors in the South, and travelled also through 
New England. The period of his labors in that section 
closed in 1800. It had continued for eleven years, amid 
great difficulties, frequent theological controversies, and 
no small degree of persecution. The statistical result at 
this date was 50 preachers and 0000 members. At the 
General Conference held May 6, 1800, at Baltimore, Lee 
was nearly elected a bishop, Whatcoat being chosen over 
him by four votes. The subsequent portion of his life 
was spent mostly in the South, in earnest and successful 
labor as pastor and presiding elder. He preferred, says 
his biographer, the former position. At the Virginia 
Conference of 1807 his influence defeated, from an opin- 
ion of its imconstitutionalitv, the proposition to cal! an 
extraordinary General Conference, in order to elect a 
bishop in place of bishop Whatcoat, deceased. He had, 
for like reason, opposed his own ordination as assistant 
bishop in 1796. In the Virginia Conference of 1808 he 
advocated a petition to the following General Confer- 
ence of May 20, 1808, to establish a delegated General 
Conference. This proposition had been urged by Lee as 
early as 1792. Such action was taken by the Confer- 
ence of 1808, and the powers of the General Conference, 


as the supreme authority of the Church, were defined in 
what are termed the Restrictive Rules. In the same 
year Lee made a last visit and journey throughout New 
England, which was “an humble but exultant religious 
ovation.” In the summer of 1807 he published at Bal- 
timore his History of Methodism in America, which was 
the first work of the kind. During that year he served 
the House of Representatives at Washington as chap- 
lain, as he did .also in 1812 and 1813. In 1814 he was 
chaplain of the Senate. At the General Conference of 
1812, in New York, Lee strongly advocated, as he had 
previously done, the proposition to make the office of 
presiding elder elective. He opposed with equal zeal 
the principle of advancing local preachers to elders’ or- 
ders. He continued his faithful career as circuit preach- 
er and as chaplain to Congress till 1816. He was present 
at the funeral services of his veteran colaborer, bishop 
Asbury, held by the General Conference of 1816 at Bal- 
timore, and did not long survive himself, but died at the 
age of fifty -eight, Sept. 12, 1816. Dr. Stevens closes 
his history of the Methodist Episcopal Church with the 
following characterization of Jesse Lee : “A man of vig- 
orous, though unpolished mind, of rare popular elo- 
quence and tireless energy, an itinerant evangelist from 
the British Provinces to Florida for thirty-five years, a 
chief counsellor of the Church in its annual and general 
conferences,” “ founder of Methodism in New England 
... he lacked only the episcopal office to give him rank 
with Asbury and Coke. Asbury early chose him for the 
position of bishop. Some two or three times it seemed 
likely that he would be elected to it, but his manly in- 
dependence and firmness of opinion in times of party 
strife were made the occasion of his defeat.” “ In public 
services lie may fairly be ranked next to Asbury, and as 
founder and apostle of Eastern Methodism he is above 
any other official rank. In this respect his historic honor 
is quite unique; for, though individual men have in sev- 
eral other sections initiated the denomination, no other 
founder has, so completely as he, introduced, conducted, 
and concluded his work, and from no other one man’s 
similar work have proceeded equal advantages to Amer- 
ican Methodism” (iv, 510, 511). The same author, iu 
another place, thus presents his qualities as a preach- 
er: “ Pathos was natural to him. Humor seems, in some 
temperaments, to be the natural counterpart, or, at least, 
reaction of pathos. Lee became noted for his wit ; we 
shall see it serving him with a felicitous advantage in 
his encounters with opponents, especially in the North- 
eastern States. It flowed in a genial and permanent 
stream from his large heart, and played most vividly in 
his severest itinerant hardships; but he was full of ten- 
der humanity and affectionate piety. II is rich sensibili- 
ties, rather than any remarkable intellectual powers, 
made him one of the most eloquent and popular preach- 
ers of his day. One of his fellow-laborers, a man of ex- 
cellent judgment, says that he possessed uncommon col- 
loquial powers and a fascinating address; that his readi- 
ness at repartee was scarcely equalled, and by the skill- 
ful use of this talent he often tanght those who were 
disposed to be witty at his expense that the safest way 
to deal with him was to be civil. He was fired with mis- 
sionary zeal, and, moreover, was a man of great moral 
courage” (i, 413). “It was a kind of fixed principle with 
him,” says his biographer Lee (p. 350), “never to let a 
congregation go from his preaching entirely unaffected, 
lie would excite them in some way. He would make 
them weep if lie could. If he failed in this, he would 
essay to alarm them with deep and solemn warning of 
words and manner; and, if all failed, he would shake 
their sides with some pertinent illustration or anecdote, 
and then, having moved them, seek, by all the appli- 
ances of truth, earnestness, and affection, to guide their 
stirred-up thoughts and sympathies to the fountains of 
living waters.” — See Life and Times of Jesse Lee, by Le- 
roy M. Lee (Richmond, Va., 1848); Stevens, History of 
the M. E. Church ; Memoirs of Rev. T. Ware. (E. B. O.) 

Lee, Robert, D.D., a noted Scotch Presbyterian 


LEE 


323 


LEEK 


divine, was born at Twccdmouth about 1796; was edu- 
cated at St. Andrew's University, and became a minis- 
ter of the Gospel. After occupying two other charges, 
lie became, with Chalmers and others, minister of old 
Gray friars, Edinburgh. lie died in March, 1868, at Tor- 
quay, Devonshire. Dr. Robert Lee published a transla- 
tion of the Thesis of Erast us (184 1) : — Prayers for Pub- 
lic Worship: — Handbook of Devotion Prayers for 
Family Worship : — The Bible , with New Marginal Ref- 
erences; a work which brought upon him severe condem- 
nation for Rationalistic tendency. It is, however, by no 
means to be inferred from this that Dr. Lee was not of 
the evangelical school; he fought the Socinians with 
the utmost exertion, and, as a Scotchman expressed it, 

“ Dr. Lee emptied the Unitarian chapel” at Edinburgh. 
Dr. Lee was the leader in innovations and changes in 
the Church Establishment of Scotland. His views were 
ultra-liberal; and from the year 1858, when the innova- 
tions were complained of before the Low-Church courts, 
till the commencement of his last illness, lie fought a 
great battle, as the Daily Review expresses it, for what 
he deemed a more liberal construction of the laws of the 
Church in the matter of public worship — in other words, 
publishing, using, defending written prayers — and by his 
own force of character, his ingenuity and power as a 
controversialist, and his influence over the younger min- 
isters of the Church, he probably did more to carry for- 
ward the movement with which his name is identified 
than all the rest of his brethren who took part with 
him. Sec Scotland, Church of. (J. II. W.) 

Lee, Robert F./D.D., a (Dutch) Reformed minis- 
ter, was born in 1803, at Yorktown, N. Y. ; graduated at 
Dickinson College in 1824, and at the theological semi- 
nary at New Brunswick in 1828. The first year of his 
ministry, 1828-9, was spent as a missionary in New York 
City. He was pastor of the Reformed (Dutch) Church 
of Montgomery, in Orange Co., N. Y., from 1829 to 1858, 
when he died, in the midst of his usefulness. Dr. Lee 
was a rare man, a close student, a diligent and accu- 
rate theologian, an impressive, but not showy preacher. 
Ilis mind was remarkably clear, comprehensive, and 
acute. His judgment was ripe and instinctively right. 
Decided in ins theology, he loved its truths, and ex- 
pounded and defended them with tenacity and power. 
In the classis and synods of his Church he was a repre- 
sentative man ; among his brethren and neighboring 
congregations he was a trusted counsellor and a peace- 
maker. Without haste or prejudices, calm and wise, of 
positive character and noted piety, he was always influ- 
ential, and yet singularly modest and retiring. Ilis per- 
sonal presence was commanding, his fine countenance 
beamed with intelligence and benevolence, and his whole 
demeanor was such as became the true minister of Christ. 
Ilis death was a great loss to the whole denomination, 
of which he was a noble representative. — Corwin, Man- 
ual of Personal Recollections , p. 136. (W. J. R. T.) 

Lee, Samuel (1), D.D., a distinguished English 
Orientalist and Biblical scholar, was born at Longnor, 
in Shropshire, Maj” 14,1783; was educated but moder- 
ately, and apprenticed to a carpenter. His aptitude for 
learning, however, led him to continue his studies pri- 
vately, and he thus acquired the Latin language. He 
next mastered the Greek, and from that he advanced 
to Hebrew, Chaldee, Syriac, and Samaritan, all of which 
he acquired by his own unaided efforts before he was 
twenty-five years of age. By this time he had mar- 
ried, and exchanged his former occupation for that of a 
schoolmaster. Attracting the notice of archdeacon Cor- 
bett and Dr. Jon. Scott, he was, by their aid, enabled 
to add to his other acquisitions a knowledge of Arabic, 
Persic, and Hindustanee, as well as some European and 
other tongues. In 1815 he accepted an engagement 
with the Church Missionary Society, and became a stu- 
dent of Queen’s College, Cambridge, where he took his 
degree of B.A. in 1817. At this time he edited portions 
of the Scriptures, and of the Prayer-hook, in several Ori- 
ental languages. In 1818 he took orders, and preached 


at Shrewsbury, still carrying on his Oriental studies; at 
this time he is said to have had the mastery over eigh- 
teen languages. In 1819 he was honored, as his talents 
certainly deserved, with the professorship of Arabic, and 
in 183,4 was made regius professor of Hebrew at Cam- 
bridge University, besides receiving some pieces of 
Church preferment, and the title of D.D., first from the 
University of Halle, and then from that of Cambridge. 
Shortly before his death, Dec. 16, 1852, he was made rec- 
tor of Barley, in Somersetshire, where he died. Besides 
the editions of the Scriptures which he carried through 
the press, he published several valuable linguistical 
works, of which the most important are, Grammar of 
the Hebrew Language , compiled from the best authorities , 
chief y Oriental , which has passed through several edi- 
tions : — A Lexicon , lltb., Chald ., and Engl . (Lond. 1840) : 
— The Book of the Patriarch Job translated, with Intro- 
duction and Commentary (Lond. 1837) : — An Inquiry into 
the Nature, Progress, and End of Prophecy (Camb. 1849) : 
— Prolegomena in Bib. Polygl. Londinens. Minora (Lond. 
1828). He also published an edition of the controver- 
sial tracts of Martyn and his opponents; edited Sir Wil- 
liam Jones’s Grammar of the Persian Language, with an 
addition of his own, containing a synopsis of Arabic 
grammar; and translated and annotated the travels of 
Ibn-Batuta from the Arabic. A minor work of his. 
Dissent Unscriptnral and Unreasonable , led to a contro- 
versy with Dr. J. I’ve Smith (in 1834; the pamphlets 
were published in 1835). Dr. Lee has generally been 
recognised not only as a great scholar, but also as the 
greatest British Orientalist of his day, and his writings 
bear evident traces of a vigorous, earnest, and independ- 
ent mind, loving truth, and boldly pursuing it. See 
Lond. Genii. Magazine, 1853, pt. i, 203 sq. ; Blackicood's 
Magazine, xlix, 597 sq. ; Kitto, Bibl. Cyclop, vol. ii, s. v. ; 
Allibone, Did. Brit, and A mer. A uthors , vol. ii, s. v. 

Lee, Samuel (2), a minister of the United Pres- 
byterian Church, born at Jericho, Yt., July 20, 1805, was 
converted at the age of nineteen, and educated at Ver- 
mont University. He studied theology at Auburn 
Seminary, and was licensed and ordained by Oneida 
Congregational Council Sept. 23, 1834. He spent one 
year of his ministry at Cazenovia, N. Y., and then went 
to Northern Ohio, and took charge of the Church in Me- 
dina, Ohio. Afterwards his labors were divided between 
the churches of Mantua and Streetsborough, Olno. He 
died Jan. 28, 1866. — Wilson, Pretb. Hist. A Im. 1867, p. 310. 

Lee, Wilson, an early Methodist Episcopal minis- 
ter, was born in Sussex County, Del., in 1761 ; entered 
the itinerancy in 1784; labored extensively in the West, 
mostly in Kentucky, until 1794, when he was appointed 
to New London, Conn.; to New York in 1795; to Phil- 
adelphia in 1796-7-8 ; to Baltimore District in 1801-2-3 ; 
superannuated in 1804, and died in Arundel County, 
Md.. Oct. 11 of the same year. Mr. Lee was “one of the 
most laborious and successful Methodist preachers of his 
time.” He was eminently shrewd and circumspect, and 
deeply pious, lie was “ a witness of the perfect love of 
God for many years before he died. He was an excel- 
lent presiding cider, and an eloquent, argumentative, 
and often overpowering preacher. His labors in the 
West were very heroic, and contributed largely to the 
evangelization of Kentucky and Tennessee.” — Minutes 
of Conferences, i,127; Stevens, Memorials of Methodism , 
ch. xviii ; Bangs, Hist. Meth. Episc. Ch. vol. i. (G. L. T.) 

Leech. Sec House-leech. 

Leek (T^n, chat sir from “i2£n, to enclose, also to 
grow green; occurs in several places in the Old Testa- 
ment, where it is variously translated, as grass in 1 
Kings xviii, 5 ; 2 Kings xix, 26 ; Job xl, 1 5 ; Psa. xxxvii, 
2, etc.; Jsa. xv, 6, etc.; herb in Job viii, 12; hay in 
Piov. xxvii, 25, and Isa. xv, 6; and court in Isa. xxxiv, 
13; but in Numb, xi, 5 it is translated “ leeks;" Sept, rd 
TTpctaa, Yulg. porri). Hebrew scholars state that the 
word signifies “greens” or “grass” in general; and it is 
no doubt clear, from the context of most of the above 


LEEK 


324 


LEEIv 


passages, that this must be its meaning. See Grass. 
There is, therefore, no reason why it should not be so 
translated in all the passages where it occurs, except in 
the last. It is evidently incorrect to translate it hay, as 
in the above passages of Proverbs and Isaiah, because 
the people of Eastern countries, as it has been observed, 
do not make hay. The author of Fragments , in contin- 
uation of Calmet, has justly remarked on the incorrect- 
ness of our version, “The hay appeareth, and the tender 
grass showeth itself, and the herbs of the mountains are 
gathered” (Prov. xxvii, 25) : “Now certainly,” says he, 
“ if the tender grass is but just beginning to show itself, 
the hay, which is grass cut and dried after it has arrived 
at maturity, ought by no means to be associated with 
it; still less ought it to be placed before it.” The au- 
thor continues: “The word, I apprehend, means the 
first shoots, the rising, just budding spires of grass.” So 
in Isa. xv, G. See Hay. 

In the passage at Numb, xi, 5, where the Israelites in 
the desert long for “the cucumbers, and the melons, and 
the leeks, and the onions, and the garlic” of Egypt, it is 
evident that it was not grass which they desired for 
food, but some green, perhaps grass-like vegetable, for 
which the word chat sir is used. In the same way that 
in this country the word greens is applied to many vari- 



eties of succulent plants as food, in India subzi, from 
subz, “ green,” is u<ed as a general term for herbs cooked 
as kitchen vegetables. It is more than probable, there- 
fore, that chat sir is here similarly employed, though 
this does not prove that leeks- are intended. Eudolphus, 
as quoted by Celsius ( Hierobot . ii, 2G4), supposes that it 
may mean lettuce, or salads in general, and others that 
the succory or endive may be the true plant, lint Po- 
senmiiller states, “ The most ancient Greek and the 
Chaldee translators unanimously interpret the Hebrew 
by the Greek Trocar a, or leeks.” The name, moreover, 
seems to have been specially applied to leeks from the 
resemblance of their leaves to grass, and from their be- 
ing conspicuous for their green color. This is evident 
from minerals even having been named from 7 rpdaov 
on account of their color, as prasius, prasites, and chrv- 
soprasium. The Arabs use the word kurus, or kiirath, 
as the translation of the tto iarov of the Greeks, and 
with them it signifies the leek, both at the present dav 
and in their older works. It is curious that of the dif- 
ferent kinds described, one is called kurasal-bukl, or 
leek used as a vegetable. That the leek is esteemed in 
Egypt we have the testimonv’of Ilasselqurst, who says 
( Travels , p. 291), “ The kind called karrat bv the Arabs 


The Homans employed it much as a seasoning to their 
dishes (Horace, Ep. i, 12, 21 ; Martial, iii, 47, 8), and it 
is an ingredient in a number of recipes in Apieius re- 
ferred to by Celsius (Hierobot. ii, 2G3 ; comp. Pliny, Hist. 
Nat. xix, G ; Hiller, l/ierophyt . pt. ii, p. 3G ; Diosc. ii, 4; 
Atlien. iv, 137, 170). The leek (Allium porrum ) was in- 
troduced into England about the year 15G2, and thence, 
in due time, into America; and, as is well known, it con- 
tinues to be esteemed as a seasoning to soups and stews 
in most civilized countries. — Kitto. 

There is, however, another and a very ingenious in- 
terpretation of chatsir , first proposed by Hengstenberg, 
and received by Dr. Kitto (Pictorial Bible, Numb, xi, b), 
which adopts a more literal translation of the original 
word, for, says Kitto, “among the wonders in the natu- 
ral history of Egypt, it is mentioned by travellers that 
the common people there eat with special relish a kind 
of grass similar to clover Mayer (Reise nach yEgyp- 
tien, p. 22G) says of this plant (whose scientific name is 
Trigonella Fetnum-grcecum, belonging to the natural 
order Leguminosiv) that it is similar to clover, but its 
leaves more pointed, and that great quantities of it are 
eaten by the people. Forskal mentions the Trigonella 
as being grown in the gardens at Cairo ; its native name 
is Jlalbeh (Flor. yEgyptiaca, p. 81). Sonnini ( Voyage, i, 
379) says, “In this fertile country the Egyptians them- 
selves eat the fenu-grec so largely that it may be prop- 



erly called the food of man. In the month of Novem- 
ber they cry ‘ Green halbcli for sale !’ in the streets of 
the town ; it is tied up in large bunches, which the in- 
habitants purchase at a low price, and which they eat 
with incredible greediness without any kind of season- 
ing.” The seeds of this plant, which is also cultivated 
in Greece, are often used; they are eaten boiled or raw, 
mixed with honey. Forskal includes it in the materia 
med ica of Egypt (Mat. Med. Kahir. p. 155). There does 
not appear, however, sufficient reason for ignoring the 
old versions, which all seem agreed that the leek is the 
plant denoted by chatsir. a vegetable from the earliest 
times a great favorite with the Egyptians, as both a 
nourishing and savory food. Some have objected that, 
as the Egyptians held the leek, onion, etc., sacred, they 
would abstain from eating these vegetables themselves, 
and would not allow the Israelites to use them (compare 
Juvenal, Sat. xv, 9). We have, however, the testimony 
of Herodotus (ii, 125) to show that onions were eaten by 
the Egyptian poor, for he says that on one of the pyra- 
mids is shown an inscription, which was explained to 
him by an interpreter, showing how much money was 
spent in providing radishes, onions, and garlic for the 
workmen. The priests were not allowed to eat these 
things, and Plutarch (De Is. et Osir . ii, p. 353) tells us 
the reasons. The Welshman reverences his leek, and 


must certainly have been one of those desired by the wears one on St. David’s day; he eats the leek neverthe- 
children of Israel, as it has been cultivated and esteemed less, and doubtless the Egyptians were not ovcrscrupu- 
from the earliest times to the present time in Egypt.” | lous (Script. Ilerbal. p. 230). — Smith, 


LEES 


325 


LEGALISTS 


Lees (only in the plural E^E'J, shemcirim from 
T£'j, to keep [Jer. xlviii, 11 ; Zeph. i, 12; rendered 
“ wines on the lees” in Isa. xxv, G ; “ dregs” in Psa. lxxv, 
8] ; Sept. Tpvyiai; Vulgate fceces). The Hebrew term 
shemer (the presumed singular form of the above), 
bears the radical sense of preservation, and was applied 
to “ lees” from the custom of allowing the w ine to stand 
on the lees in order that its color and body might be 
better preserved; hence the expression “wine on the 
lees,” as meaning a generous, full-bodied liquor (Isa. 
xxv, G ; see Henderson, ad loe.). The wine in this state 
remained, of course, undisturbed in its cask, and became 
thick and sirupy ; hence the proverb “to settle upon 
one’s lees,” to express the sloth, indifference, and gross 
stupidity of the ungodly (Jer. xlviii, 11 ; Zeph. i, 12). 
Before the Wine w r as consumed it v r as necessary to strain 
off the lees; such wine w r as then termed “ w’ell refined” 
(Isa. xxv, G). To drink the lees or “ dregs” w r as an ex- 
pression for the endurance of extreme punishment (Psa. 
lxxv, 8). — Smith. An ingenious w’riter in Kitto’s Cy- 
clopaedia (s. v. Shemarim) thinks that some kind of pre- 
serves from grapes are meant in Isa. xxv, G, as the ety- 
mology of the word suggests; but this supposition, al- 
though it clears the passage from some difficulties, is op- 
posed to the usage of the term in the other places. See 
Wine. 

Leeser, Isaac, a noted Jewish theologian and re- 
ligious w’riter, was born at Neukirch, in Westphalia, in 
180G. In 1825 he emigrated to America, and became in 
1829 rabbi of the principal synagogue of Philadelphia. 
This position he resigned in 1850, and died in that city 
in 18G8. Leeser was a superior scholar and preacher, 
and among his people his memory will ever be respected 
and honored. His works, w hich are completely cited in 
Allibone, Diet, of British and American Authors, v ol. ii, 
s. v.,are mainly contributions to Jewish literature — prin- 
cipally Jew'ish history and theology. In 1843 he as- 
sumed the editorship of the Jewish Advocate (or Occi- 
dent). Very valuable is his edition of the O.-T. Scrip- 
tures in the original, based on the labors of Van dev 
lfooglit, and published by Lippincott and Co. (Philadel. 
1868, 8vo). 

Le Fevre. See Faber Stab ulex sis. 

Left (prop. senior, a primitive word ; Gr. 

tudivvpQQ, lit. well-named, i.e. lucky, by euphemism for 
apiortpcc , as opposed to ‘pE"', 0f£<o£, the right). The 
left hand, like the Latin lams, was esteemed of ill omen, 
hence the term sinister as equivalent to unfortunate. 
This was especially the case among the superstitious 
Greeks and Uomans (see Potter’s Gr. Ant. i, 323; Adams, 
Bom. Ant. p. 301). Among the Hebrew's the left like- 
wise indicated the north (Job xxiii, 9 ; Gen. xiv, 15), 
the person’s face being supposed to be turned towards 
the east. In all these respects it w r as precisely the op- 
posite of the right (q. v.). 

LEFT-HANDED (i2^ "V *1 EN, shut as to his 
right hand [ Judg.iii, 15; xx, i6] ; Sept. dpejiorEpodtZioc, 
Vulgate qni utraque manu pro dexter a utebatur, and it a 
sinistra ut dextra prcelians ), properly one that is unable 
skilfully to use his right hand, and hence employs the 
left ; but also, as is usual, ambidexter , i. e. one who can 
use the left hand as well as the right, or, more literally, 
one w'hose hands are both right hands. It w’as long 
supposed that both hands are naturally equal, and that 
the preference of the right hand, and comparative inca- 
pacity of the left, are the result of education and habit. 
But it is now known that the difference is really phys- 
ical (see Bell’s Bridgewater Treatise on the Hand), and 
that the ambidexterous condition of the hands is not a 
natural development. See Ambidexter. 

The capacity of equal action with both hands was 
highly prized in ancient times, especially in war. 
Among the Hebrew’s this quality seems to have been 
most common in the tribe of Benjamin, for all the per- 
sons noticed as being endued with it w’ere of that tribe. 


By comparing Judg. iii, 15; xx, 1G, with 1 Chron. xii, 
2, we may gather that the persons mentioned in the 
tw'o former texts as “left-handed” were really ambidex- 
ters. In the latter text w’e learn that the Benjamites 
who joined David at Ziklag w r ere “ mighty men, helpers 
of the w’ar. They w r ere armed with bow's, and could 
use both the right hand and the left in hurling [sling- 
ing] and shooting arrow's out of a bow’.” There W'ere 
thirty of them ; and as they appear to have been all of 
one family, it might almost seem as if the greater com- 
monness of this pow'er among the Benjamites arose from 
its being a hereditary peculiarity of certain families in 
that tribe. It may also partly have been the result of 
cultivation; for, although the left hand is not naturally 
an equally strong and ready instrument as the right 
( hand, it may doubtless be often rendered such by early 
and suitable training. — Ivitto. See Hand. 

Leg is the rendering of several words in the A.Y. 
Usuallv the Heb. term is hared (onlv in the dual 
075^3), the lower limb or shank of an animal (Exod. 
xii, 9 ; xxix, 17 ; Lev. i, 9, 13 ; iv, 11 ; viii, 21 ; ix, 14 ; 
Amos iii, T2) or a locust (Lev. xi, 21) ; the oidXoc; of a 
man (John xix, 31, 32, 33). pVJ, shok (Cliald. 
sheik, of an image, Dan. ii, 83), is properly the shin or 
lower part of the leg, hut used of the w'hole limb, e. g. 
of a person (Deut. xxviii, 13; Psa. cxlvii, 10; Prov. 
xxv'i, 7 ; “thigh,” Isa. xlvii, 2; in the phrase “hip [q. 
v.] and thigh,” Judg. xv, 7 ; spoken also of the drawers 
or leggins, Cant, v, 15) ; also the “ heave shoulder'’ (q. v.) 
of the sacrifice (Exod. xxix, 22, etc. ; 1 Sam. ix, 24). 
Once by an extension of ijJU, re* gel (1 Sam. xvii, G), 
properly a foot (as usually rendered). Elsewhere im- 
properly for ?Eb, sho'bel, the train or trailing dress of 
a female (Isa. xlvii, 2) ; and iTJIJX, tsccida', a step-chain 
for the feet, or peril, bracelet for the wTist (“ ornament 
of the leg,” Isa. iii, 20). See Tiiigii. 

Goliath’s greaves for his legs doubtless extended from 
the knee to the foot (1 Sara, xvii, C). See Greaves. 
The bones of the legs of persons crucified were broken 
to hasten their death (John xix, 31). See CnrciFixiox. 

Legalists. Properly speaking, a legalist is one 
who “acts according to the law f but in general the 
term is made use of to denote one who seeks salvation by 
works of law (not of the law, but of “ law f ” generally, 
whether moral or ceremonial, *£ tpyiov vopov, Horn, v, 

I 20) instead of by the merits of Christ. Many w'ho are 
alive to the truth that it is impossible to do anything 
that can purchase salvation, and who desire that thi.4 
doctrine should be earnestly and constantly inculcated 
by Christian ministers in their teaching, conceive that 
there is a danger also on the opposite side'; and that 
while plain Antinomian teaching would disgust- most 
hearers, there is a kind of doctrine scarcely less mis- 
chievous in its consequences, that which only inciden- 
tally touches on good works. They think that what- 
ever leads or leaves men, without distinctly rejecting 
Christian virtue, to feel little anxiety and take little 
pains about it; anything which, though perhaps not so 
meant, is liable to be so understood by those w ho have 
the wish as to leave them without any feeling of real 
shame, or mortification, or alarm on account of their 
| own faults and moral deficiencies, so as to make them 
anxiously watchful only against seeking salvation by 
| good works, and not at all against seeking salvation 
j without good works — all this (they consider) is likely to 
be much more acceptable to the corrupt disposition of 
' the natural man than that which urges the necessity of 
being “ careful to maintain good w’orks.” Those who 
take such a view of the danger of the case think that 
Christian teachers should not shrink, through fear of 
incurring the wrongful imputation of “ legalism,” from 
earnestly inculcating the points w’hich the apostles found 
it necessary to dw r ell on with such continual watchful- 
ness and frequent repetition. But in general the term 
| is made use of to denote one who expects salvation by 


LEGATES 


326 


LEGATES 


his own works. AVe may further consider a legalist as 
one who has no proper conviction of the evil of sin; 
who, although he pretends to abide by the law, yet has 
not a just idea of its spirituality and demands, lie is 
ignorant of the grand scheme of salvation by free grace: 
proud of his own fancied righteousness, he submits not 
to the righteousness of God; he derogates from the 
honor of Christ by mixing his own works with his ; and, 
in fact, denies the necessity of the work of the Spirit by 
supposing that he has ability in himself to perform all 
those duties which God has required. Such is the 
character of the legalist, a character diametrically op- 
posite to that of the true Christian, whose sentiment 
corresponds with that of the apostle, who justly observes, 

- By grace are ye saved, through faith, and that not of 
yourselves : it is the gift of God. Not of works, lest any 
man should boast” (Eph. ii, 8, 9). — Eden, Theol. Diet . s. 
v. ; Buck, Theol. Diet. s. v. ; Buchanan, Doctrine of Jus- 
tification, Lect. vi, especially p. 153 sq. 

Legates and Nixcios of the Homan Catholic 
Church. With reference to the endeavors of that Church 
to unite all the congregations into one vast system, and 
to rule over them successfully, preventing all heresy 
and division, the Council of Sardica (343) expressly 
stated: “Quod si is, qni rogat causam suam itcrura au- 
diri, dcprecatione sua moverit episeopuin Bomanum, ut 
de latere suo presbyteros mittat, erit in potestatc cjus,” etc. 
{Con. Sardic. c. 7, in c. 3(5, can. ii, qu. vi). The Komish 
clergy was therefore sent abroad everywhere. In the 
African churches, however, they refused to admit into 
fellowship those “qui ad transmarina (concilia) putave- 
rit appeliaudum” {Codex eccles. A fric. c. 125), and wrote 
to Celestine at Borne, “ Gt aliqui tanquam a turn sancti- 
tatis latere mittantur, nulla invenimus patrum synodo 
constitutum” (ibid. c. 138). Thomassin (Vetus ac nova 
ecclesice disciplina , p. i, lib. ii, cap. 117) has collected in- 
stances of delegations having been sent in various cases 
during the 4th and 5th centuries. But, as vicars of the 
bishop of Borne, we find in Western Illyria the bishops 
of Thessalonica after Damasus (a. 367) : in Gaul, the 
bishops of Arles after Zosimus (a. 417); in Spain, the 
bishops of Seville after Simplicius (a. 467) (Constant, 
De antijuis canonum collect ionibus, No. 23-25; Gallande, 
De vetustis canonum collect ionibus dissert, i, 23 sq. ; Pe- 
trus de A I area, De concordat sacenlotii ac imperii , lib. 
v, cap. 19 sq., 30 sq.). Among the delegates of the 
bishop of Borne we must also put the ApocrisiariL [see 
Apocktstaiiius] sent to the imperial court at Constan- 
tinople. Leo l, and particularly Gregory I, carefully 
continued the relations established by their legates, and 
created more, in order to improve the condition of the 
churches, and to increase the influence of Borne. Greg- 
ory appointed bishop Maximus of Syracuse over all the 
churches of Sicily (“ super cunctas ccclesias Sicilian te . . . 
vices sedis apostolicte niinistrare deccrnimus”), with the 
right of deciding on all except the causer, majores . This 
office was, however, vested only in the individual, not 
in the see (“Quas vices non loco tribuimus, sed perso- 
ns,” c. 6, X. De prtrsumtionibus. ii, 23, a. 592; c. 3, can. 
vii, qu. i, 30 [a. 59 1], c. 39 ; can. xi, qu. i, and Gonzalez 
Tellez to c. 1, X. De officio leyati , 5.30, a. O'). To England 
Gregory sent Augustine (a. 001), with the mission of im- 
proving the Church organization of that country, and 
particularly of upholding the episcopacy (Epist. 64, a. 
601, in c.3, can. xxv,qu.ii); and Agathon (673) also sent 
the Human abbot dolm to that country to organize wor- 
ship, convoke a council to inquire into the state of re- 
ligion, and report thereon at his return (l»eda. Hist. Keel. 
lib. iv, cap. 18). Augustine is said to have himself taken 
part in settling ecclesiastical affairs during a journey 
through Gaul, and conferred with t lie bishop of Arles as 
liis legate. Gregory I sent also other special -delegates 
to Gaul, in order to improve, the state of the churches 
there, with the aid of the bishops and the king (Tho- 
massin, c. 118). In the course of time the legates were 
empowered to act bv themselves on the orders commu- 
nicated to them at Borne. The vicariates became con- 


nected with some of the ancient bishoprics, by whose in- 
cumbents they had long been exercised, and it became 
difficult to erect new permanent ones on account of the 
opposition of the other dignitaries of the Church; so 
that special delegates were only sent when affairs of im- 
portance rendered such a step necessary. Even then it 
became customary to await the wish, or at least to se- 
cure the sanction, of the governments into whose states 
they were sent. There were, then, two kinds of legates, 
the leyati nati , and the leyati dati or missi. 

1. Leyati nati, in cases where the legation was con- 
nected with a bishopric. The rights of such a legate 
were at first very large; his jurisdiction had the char- 
acter of jurisdictio ordinaria ; it also appears as ordi- 
nurii orditut riorum, and formed a court of last resort for 
those who voluntarily appealed to it. After the lGth 
century their prerogatives were gradually restricted, 
and finally, after the introduction of the leyati a latere , 
the title became merely a nominal one, the metropolitan 
not being even entitled to having the cross borne before 
him where there was a leyatus a latere (c. 23, X. De 
privileyiis , v, 33; Innocent III, in c. 5, Cone. Lateran . 
a. 1215). 

2. Leyati missi or dati. These are divided into, (1) 
Deleyati, appointed for one specific object. It was al- 
ready forbidden in the Middle Ages to appoint members 
of the clergy in their, place. (2) Xuncii apostolici, who 
are empowered to enforce the commands contained in 
their mandates. In order to effect this object they 
were given a right of jurisdiction until the IQth centu- 
ry. To enable them to legislate in reserved cases, they 
were invested with a mandatum speciale , making the 
reservations yeneraliter for them. They could grant 
indulgences for any period not exceeding a year. All 
other legates were subject to them except such ns had 
special privileges granted them by the pope. The in- 
signia of the nuncio comprised a red dress, a white 
horse, and golden spurs. (3) Leyati ah latere. Special 
delegates who acted as actual representatives of the 
popes, and who possessed all the highest prerogatives. 
Their plenary power is thus expressed: ‘"Nostra vice, 
quin corrigenda sunt corrigat,qua> statuenda const ituat” 
(Gregor. VII, Ep. lib. i v, ep. 26). They exorcised a juris- 
dictio ordinaria in the provinces, had power to suspend 
the bishops, and to dispose of all reserved cases. The 
manifold complaints which arose in the course of time 
led the popes to alter some points of the system. Leo 
X, in t lie Lateran Council of 1515, caused it to he ruled 
that the cardinal legate should have a settled residence ; 
and the Cony reyatio pro interpretatione Cone. Trid. con- 
strued the resolutions of the councils so as to make them 
very favorable to the bishops. 

The Bctbrmation gave occasion for the sending of a 
large number of legates, and also for the nomination ol 
permanent nuncios at Lucerne, 1579; Vienna, 1581 ; Co- 
logne, 1582; Brussels, 1588 : this, however, gave rise to 
fresh disturbances in the Church. The troubles caused 
by the nuncios were the cause of the adoption of a new 
article under the yravamina nationis Germaniccr. In 
the mean time the French Bevolntion broke out, dis- 
turbing all preconceived plans. After the restoration 
of order in the hierarchy the system of legations was 
revived, but with many modifications, altering its Mid- 
dle-Age features. The second article of the French 
Concordat of 1801 states expressly: “Aucun individu sc 
disant nonce, legat, vicaire on commissaire apostolique, 
ou sc prevalent dc toutc autre denomination, lie pourra, 
sans I'autorisation du gouvernoment. exercer sur le sol 
Lram;ais ni aillenrs, aucime function relative aux affaires 
de 1 Yglisc ( iallicanc.” This clearly removed t he original 
foundation of the intercourse formerly existing between 
the papal see and these countries. Moreover, several 
Homan Catholic governments, such as Austria. France, 
Spain, etc., reserved to themselves the right to point 
out the parties who should be accredited to their courts 
as nuncios (KlUbcr, Europaisches Volkerr. § 186, Anm. 
a.). The formula of the oath of obedience to the pope, 


LEGEND 


327 


LEGEND 


which, since Gregory VII, is taken by bishops at their 
ordination, says: “ Legatum apostolicae sedis . . . hono- 
ritice tractabo et in snis necessitatibus adjuvabo” (c. 4, 
X. De jiircjurandoj ii. 24). This involves the duty ot 
supporting the procurations. But the state is also en- 
listed on account of its power. 

The usual envoys of the pope have now the titles of, 
1. Leyati nati , no longer invested with an inherent right 
to the management of ecclesiastical affairs. 2. Leyati 
dati , missi, which are divided into (1) Leyati a latere 
or de latere , who, it is stated, are entitled to be canoni- 
cally designated as cardinals a latere or legates de la- 
tere. This is incorrect, for cardinals are now seldom 
sent on such missions, if ever, but, on the contrary, other 
members of the clergy, cum potestate leyati a latere. (2) 
Nuncii apostolic i, bearers of apostolic mandates. While 
the former are looked upon as ambassadors, it is a nice 
question whether the latter occupy the second position, 
that of envoys. They are either ordinary permanent 
nuncios, as in Germany, or extraordinary, sent for some 
special purpose. (3) Internuncii (residentes), considered 
by some as forming a third class, by others as belonging 
to the second. At the Congress of Vienna, 1815, it was 


dies on those of our blessed Lord; not a few are bor- 
rowed from the pagan mythology ; but some are so ex- 
quisitely absurd that no one but a monk could have 
dreamed of imposing such nonsense on the most besotted 
of mankind. “It would be easy to accumulate proofs 
of the ready belief which the lower orders of Irish Ro- 
manists give to tales of miracles worked by their priests; 
but it is remarkable that in the earlier legends we very 
rarely find supernatural powers attributed to the secular 
ecclesiastics ; the heroes of most of the tales are monks 
and hermits, whose voluntary poverty seemed to bring 
them down to a level of sympathy with the lower or- 
ders. Indiscriminate alms, which have often been dem- 
onstrated to be the source of great evils, are always pop- 
ular with the uninstructed, and hence we find that many 
of the heroes of the legends are celebrated for the prod- 
igality of their benevolence. .The miracles attributed 
to the Irish saints are even more extravagant than those 
in the Continental martyrologies. We find St. Patrick 
performing the miracle of raising the dead to life no less 
than seventeen times, and on one occasion he restores 
animation to thirty-four persons at once. Gerald. bish- 
op of Mayo, however, surpassed St. Patrick, for he not 


decided by the first article of the Reylement sur le rany only resuscitated the dead daughter of the king of Con- 


entre les A yens diplomatiques that the first class would 
be formed of A mbassadeiirs, Leyats on Xonces; and in 
article fourth, that no change would be made in regard 
to papal representatives. See K1 fiber, 1 "dlkerrech t ; 1 leff- 
ter, I 'ulkerrceht ; Miruss, Das Europdische Gesandschafts- 
recht; Schulte, Katholisch. Kirchenrecht (Giessen, 1856) ; 
Walter, Kirchenrecht (11th edit. Bonn, 1854); Herzog, 
Real-Encyldop. viii, 269 sq. ; Wetzer und Welte, Kirchen- 
Lexikon , vi, 409 sq. 

Legend (Lat.leyenda,“ things to be read,” lessons) 
was the name given in early times, in the Roman Cath- 
olic Church, to a book containing the daily lessons which 
were wont to be read as part of divine service. This 
name, however, in process of time, v\as used to designate 
the lives of saints and martyrs, as well as the collection 
of such narratives, from the fact that these -were read by 
the monks at matins, and after dinner in the refectories. 
Among numerous theories as to the origin of the le- 
gends, the following is the most probable. Before col- 
leges were established in the monasteries where the 
schools u r ere held, the professors in rhetoric frequently 
gave their pupils the life of some saint for a trial of their 
talent for amplification. The students, being constant- 
ly at a loss to furnish out their pages, invented most of 
these wonderful adventures. Jortin observes that the 
Christians used to collect, out of Ovid, Livy, and other 
pagan poets and historians, the miracles and portents to 
be found there, and accommodated them to their own 
monks and saints. The good fathers of that age, whose 
simplicity was not inferior to their devotion, v’ere so de- 
lighted with these flowers of rhetoric that they w T ere in- 
duced to make a collection of these miraculous composi- 
tions, not imagining that at some distant period they 
would become matters of faith. Yet, when Jacob de Yo- 
ragine, Peter de Natalibus, and Peter Eibadeneira wrote 
the lives of the saints, they sought for their materials in 
the libraries of the monasteries; and, awakening from 
the dust these manuscripts of amplification, imagined 
they made an invaluable present to the world by laying 
before them these voluminous absurdities. The people 
received these pious fictions with all imaginable sim- 
plicity, and, as few were able to read, the books con- 
taining them were amply illustrated with cuts w'hich 
rendered the story intelligible. 

Many of these legends, the production of monastics, 
were invented, especially in the Middle Ages, with a 
view to serve the interests of monasticism, particularly 
to exalt the character of the monastic orders, and to 
represent their voluntary austerities as purchasing the 
peculiar favor of heaven. For this purpose they un- 
scrupulously ascribe to their patrons and founders the 
power of working miracles on the most trilling occa- 
sions. Many of these miracles are blasphemous paro- 


naught, but miraculously changed her sex, that she 
might inherit the crown of the province, in which the 
Salic law r was then established. We find, also, in the 
ecclesiastical waiters, many miracles specially worked to 
support individual doctrines, particularly the mystery 
of transubstantiation. Indeed, a miracle appears to have 
been no unusual resource of a puzzled controversialist. 
On one occasion the sanctity of the wafer is stated to 
have been proved by a mule’s kneeling to worship it; 
at another time a pet lamb kneels down at the elevation 
of the host; a spider, which St. Francis d’Ariano acci- 
dentally swallowed while receiving the sacrament, came 
out of his thigh; and when St. Elmo was pining at be- 
ing too long excluded from a participation in the sacra- 
mental mysteries, the holy elements were broi ght to 
him by a pigeon. But the principal legends devised for 
the general exaltation of the Romish Church refer to 
the exercise of power over the devil. In the south of 
Ireland nothing is more common than to hear of Satan’s 
appearance in proper person, his resistance to all the ef- 
forts of the Protestant minister, and his prompt obedi- 
ence to the exorcisms of the parish priest. In general, 
the localities of the stories are laid at some neighboring 
village ; yet, easy as this renders refutation, it is won- 
derful to find how generally such a tale is credited. 
From the archives of the Silesian Church, we find that 
some German Protestants seem to believe in the exor- 
cising powers of the Romish priests. Next to the le- 
gends of miracles rank those of extraordinary austeri- 
ties, such as that St. Polycronus always took up a huge 
tree on his shoulders when he went to pray; that St. 
Barnadatus shut himself up in a narrow' iron cage ; that 
St. Adhelm exposed himself to the most stimulating 
temptations, and then defied the devil to make him 
yield; and that St. Macarius undertook a penance for 
sin six months, because he had so far yielded to passion 
as to kill a flea. It is unnecessary to dwell upon these, 
because they are manifestly derived from the habits 
of the Oriental fanatics, and are evident exaggerations 
made without taste or judgment. See History of Rop- 
ery (Lond. 1838, 8vo). 

The most celebrated of these popular mediaeval Ac- 
tions is the Leyenda Aureu , or Golden Legend, origi- 
nally written in Latin, in the 13th century, by Jacob de 
Voragine (q. v.), a Dominican friar, who afterwards be- 
came archbishop of Genoa, and died in 1298. This work 
was the great text-book of legendary lore of the Mid- 
dle Ages. It was translated into French in the 14th 
century by Jean de Vigny, and in the 15th into Eng- 
lish by William Caxton. It has lately been made more 
accessible by a new’ French translation : La IJyende 
Doree , tradnite dn Latin , par M. G. B. (Par. 1850). There 
is a copy of the original, with the Gesta Lonyobardorum 


LEGEND 


328 


LEGEND 


appended, in the Harvard College Library, Cambridge, 
printed at Strasburg in MUG. Longfellow, in a note 
to lii.s beautiful poem, says, “ 1 have called this poem 
the Golden Legend, because the story upon which it is 
founded seems to me to surpass all other legends in beau- 
ty and significance. It exhibits, amid the corruptions 
of the Middle Ages, the virtue of disinterestedness and 
self-saeriticc, and the power of Faith, Hope, and Charity 
suflieient for all the exigencies of life and death.” The 
story is told, and perhaps invented, by Hartmann von 
der Aue, a Minnesinger of the 12th century. The orig- 
inal may be found in Marlath’s A It-deutsche Gedichtc , 
with a modern German version. There is another in 
Marbaeh’s Volksbiicher, No. 82. We may mention also, 
among other productions, the Kaiserchronik (Imperial 
Chronicle), where the legendary element forms a very 
important part of the whole, and Werner’s versified 
Marienleben (Life of Mary), written in 1173, etc. The 
authors of these w r orks were ecclesiastics, but in the fol- 
lowing age, when the mediaeval poetry of Germany was 
in its richest bloom, and the fosterers of the poetic art 
were emperors and princes, the legend was employed by 
laymen on a grand scale, and formed the subject-matter 
of epic narratives. Thus Hartmann von der Aue work- 
ed up into a poem the religious legends about Gregory; 
Konrad von Fussesbrunnen those concerning the child- 
hood of Jesus; Hudolph von Ems those about Barlaam 
and Josaphat; and Himbat von Durne those about St. 
George. Between the 14th and 1 Gth centuries legends in 
prose began also to appear, such as Hermann von Fritz- 
lar’s Von dem Ileiligen Lcben (written about 1343), and 
gradually supplanted the others. 

Much of this legendary rubbish was cleared away 
by Tillcmont, Fleury, Baillet, Launoi, and Holland us, but 
the faith in many of them still remains strong in the 
more ignorant minds of the Homish Church. The re- 
peated and still continued editions of the Acta Sancto- 
rum (ij.v.) afford sufficient evidence of this. 

The most comprehensive and valuable work on the 
subject of the legends is that commenced by the Bollan- 
dists in the 17th century, Acta Sanctorum , and still in 
process of publication. Legends are found not only in 
the Homan Catholic, but also in the Greek Church. 
They also found an entrance into the national literature 
of Christian nations. Among the Germans especially 
was this the ease, particularly in the 12th century, al- 
though specimens of legendary poems are not altogether 
wanting at an earlier period. In Great Britain, also, the 
legends of King Arthur and his Bound 'Fable have sprung 
afresh into popular favor, after centuries of comparative 
obscurity, and have once more become the treasure-house 
from which poet and painter draw subjects for their pic- 
tures, and in which essayists, weary of the old heathen 
classics, seek for illustrations and allusions. The first of 
the recent poets, however, who clearly apprehended the 
poetic and spiritual elements of the old Christian legend 
was Herder, and his example has been followed by oth- 
er poets, for example, the romantic school in Germany, 
and Bulwcr and Tennyson in England. The tendency 
to mythic embellishment showed itself more particularly 
in regard to the Virgin 31 ary, the later saints, and holy 
men and women. Of all these, the most captivating, 
as an amiable weakness, was the devotion to the Virgin. 
The denial of the title “The .Mother of God” by Nes- 
torius was that which sounded most offensive to the 
general car; it was the intelligible, odious point in his 
heresy, and contributed, no doubt, to the passionate vio- 
lence with which that controversy was agitated; and 
the favorable issue to those who might seem most zeal- 
ous for the Virgin’s glory gave a strong impulse to the 
worship; for, from that time, the worship of the Virgin 
became in the East an integral part of Christianity. 
Among Justinian’s splendid edifices arose many church- 
es dedicated to the Mother of God. The least of the 
Annunciation was celebrated both under Justin and Jus- 
tinian. lleraelius had images of the Virgin on his masts 
when he sailed to Constantinople to overthrow Phocas; 


and before the end of the century the Virgin is become 
the tutelar deity of that city, which is saved by her in- 
tercession from the Saracens. “The history of Chris- 
tianity,” says dean Milnian, “cannot be understood with- 
out pausing at stated periods to survey the progress 
and development of the Christian mythology, which, 
gradually growing up. and springing as it did from nat- 
ural and universal instincts, took a more perfect and 
systematic form, and at length, at the height of the 
Middle Ages, was as much a part of Latin Christiani- 
ty as the primal truths of the Gospel. This religion 
gradually moulded together all which arose out of the 
natural instincts of man, the undying reminiscences of 
all the older religions — the Jewish, the Pagan, and the 
Platonic — with the few and indistinct glimpses of the 
invisible world, and the future state of being in the New 
Testament, into a vast system, more sublime, perhaps, for 
its indefiniteness, which, being necessary in that condi- 
tion of mankind, could not blit grow up out of the kin- 
dled imagination and religious faith of Christendom, 
'fhe historian who should presume to condemn such a 
religion as a vast plan of fraud, or a philosopher who 
should venture to disdain it as a fabric of folly only de- 
serving to be forgotten, woidd be equally unjust, equally 
blind to its real uses, assuredly ignorant of its importance 
and its significance in the history of man ; for on this, 
the popular Christianity — popular, as comprehending 
the highest as well as the lowest in rank, and even in 
intellectual estimation — turns the whole history of man 
for many centuries. It is at once the cause and the con- 
sequence of the sacerdotal dominion over mankind, the 
groundwork of authority at which the world trembled, 
which founded and overthrew kingdoms, bound togeth- 
er or set in antagonistic array nations, classes, ranks, 
orders of society. Of this, the parent, when the time ar- 
rived, of poetry, of art, the Christian historian must 
watch the growth and mark the gradations by which it 
gathered into itself the whole activity of the human 
mind, and quickened that activity till at length the mind 
outgrew that which had been so long almost its sole oc- 
cupation. It endured till faith, with the schoolmen, 
led into the fathomless depths of metaphysics, began to 
aspire after higher truths; with the Keformers, attempt- 
ing to refine religion to its primary spiritual simplicity, 
this even yet prolific legendary Christianity, which had 
been the accessory and supplementary Bible, the author- 
itative and accepted, though often unwritten Gospel of 
centuries, was gradually dropped, or left but to the hum- 
blest and most ignorant, at least to the more imaginative 
and less practical part of mankind.” “The influence 
that these works exerted on the mediaeval mind,” says 
Hardwick, “was deep and universal. While they fed 
almost every stream of superstition, and excited an un- 
healthy craving for the marvellous and the romantic, 
they were nearly always tending, in their moral , to enlist 
the affections of the reader on the side of gentleness and 
virtue, more especially by setting forth the necessity of 
patience, and extolling the heroic energy of faith. One 
class of those biographies deserve a high amount of 
credit ; they are written by some friend or pupil of their 
subject; they are natural and life-like pictures of the 
times, preserving an instructive portrait of the mission- 
ary, the recluse, the bishop, or the man of business; yet 
most commonly the acts and sufferings of the mediteval 
saint have no claim to a place in the sphere of history, 
or at best they have been so wantonly embellished by 
the fancy of the author that we can distinguish very 
few of the particles of truth from an interminable mass 
of fiction. As these ‘ Lives’ were circulated freely in the 
language of the people, they would constitute important 
items in the fireside reading of the age; and so warm 
was the response they found in men of every grade, that, 
notwithstanding feeble efforts to reform them, or at least 
to eliminate a few of the more monstrous and absurd, 
they kept their hold on Christendom at large, and are 
subsisting even now in the creations of the medieval 
artist” {Ch. Hist. Middle Ages). 


LEGEND 


329 


LEGION 


On the origin of these legends there is a great diver- 
sity of opinion among the learned. Some trace it to the 
northern Skalds, who, accompanying the army of Hollo 
in his warlike migrations southward, carried with them 
the lays of their own mythology, but replaced their pa- 
gan heroes by Christian kings and warriors. Salmasius 
adopted the theory, which was indorsed by Warton, that 
the germs of romantic iiction originated with the Sara- 
cens and Arabians, and ascribes its introduction into Eu- 
rope to the effects of the Crusades, or, according to War- 
ton himself, to the Arab conquests in Spain; that from 
thence they passed into France, and took deepest root in 
Brittany. Others, again, have seen in the tales of chiv- 
alry only a new development of the classic legends of 
Greece and Italy. As Christianity unquestionably bor- 
rowed and moditied to its own use many of the outward 
ceremonies of paganism, so they held that the Christian 
troureur only adopted and transmuted the heroes of 
classical poetry. The researches of count Villemarque 
and lady Charlotte Schreiber, however, to which the at- 
tention of the learned world had been directed before by 
Leyden, Douce, and Sharon Turner, conclusively prove 
that the true theory as to their origin is that they are 
Cymric or Armorican, or both. The wealth of the old 
Cymric literature in this particular respect was never 
even suspected until lady Charlotte Schreiber, with the 
aid of an eminent Welsh scholar, the Rev. Thomas Price, 
brought to light in their original form, accompanied by 
an English version, the collection of early Cymric tales 
known as the Mabinogion . M.de la Villemarque', for his 
own side of the Channel, not only confirms the evidence 
of lady Schreiber, but brings forward additional items of 
proof, from fragments of Breton songs and poems, that 
the roots of their renowned fiction lie deep in their lit- 
erature also. Their very form — the eight - syllabled 
rhyme, in which the French metrical version is written 
— lie claims, and apparently with justice, as Cymric. 
See Chambers, Cyclop, s. v. ; Cyclop. Brit. s. v. ; Herzog, 
Ileal-Encyk. viii, 274 sq. ; Vogel, Yersuch. einer Gesch. v. 
Wiirdigung der Legenden, in lllgen’s Hist, theol. Abhandl. 
(Lpz. 1824), p. 141 sq. ; Mrs. Jameson, Legends of the Mo- 
nastic Orders, and her Legends of the Madonna. See 
Myth. (E. deP.) 

Legend, Golden. A renowned collection of le- 
gends written in the 13th century by Jacob de Voragine 
(q.v.). See Legend. 

Leger, Antoine (1), a French Protestant divine, 
was born in Savoy in 1504. He was professor of theol- 
ogy and Oriental languages at Geneva from 1645 until 
his death in 1661. He edited the Greek text of the 
New Testament (1638). 

Leger, Antoine (2), son of the preceding, was 
born at Geneva in 1652. He also became a Protestant 
minister, and afterwards filled the chair of philosophy 
for twenty-four years at Geneva with eminent success. 


He died in 1719. lie published several scientific trea- 
tises and many sermons. 

Leger, Jean, a French Protestant minister, was 
born in Savoy in 1615. 11c was pastor of a Church 

of the Waldenses. but fortunately escaped from the mas- 
sacre of 1655. lie afterwards went to France, and so- 
licited the intervention of the court for his countrymen. 
In 1663 he went to Holland, and became pastor of a 
Walloon Church in Leyden. lie died in 1670. Leger 
wrote a History of the Churches of the Valleys of Pied- 
mont (1669). See Wai.denses. 

Legerdemain. Sec Magic. 

Le'gion (\tytiov, Gnecizcd from the Latin legio'), a 
main division of the Homan army, corresponding nearly 
to the modern regiment. It always comprised a large 
body of men, but the number varied so much at dilfer- 
ent times that there is considerable discrepancy in the 
statements with reference to it. The legion appears to 
have originally contained about 3000 men, and to have 
risen gradually to twice that number, or even more. In 
and about the time of Christ it seems to have consisted 
of 6000 men, and this was exclusive of horsemen, who 
usually formed at) additional body amounting to one 
tenth of the infantry. As all the divisions of the Ho- 
man army are noticed in Scripture, we may add that 
each legion was divided into ten cohorts or regiments, 
each cohort into three manijAes or bands, and each man- 
iple into two centuries or companies of 100 each. This 
smaller division into centuries or hundreds, from the 
form in which it is exhibited as a constituent of the 
larger divisions, clearly shows that 6000 had become at 
least the formal number of a legion. See Smith’s Diet, 
of Class. Ant. s. v. Army, Homan. 

The word legion came to be used to express a great 
number or multitude (e. g. of angels, Matt, xxvi, 53). 
Thus the unclean spirit (Mark v, 9; compare 15), when 
asked his name, answers, “My name is Legion, for we 
are many.” Many illustrations of this use of the word 
might be cited from the Rabbinical writers, who even 
apply it or *p>;6?) to inanimate objects, as when 

they speak of *’a legion of olives,” etc. (see Lightfoot, 
Ilor. llebr. et Tulm.; Buxtorf, Lex. Talm. s. v.). — Kitto. 
See Aumy. 

Legion, Theban, according to Eucherius, was a 
legion of 6600 men (the usual number) which had come 
from the East to render assistance to Maximian. The 
latter having issued orders to his whole army to perse- 
cute the Christians, this legion alone refused to obey. 
The emperor was in the neighborhood, at Octoduriun 
(Martinach, at the foot of Mount St. Bernard); irri- 
tated when he heard of the refusal of the Theban le- 
gion, he had it decimated twice, and finally, as lie fail- 
| ed to secure its members to join in persecuting their 
Christian brethren, he ordered their extermination by 



Ancient Legionary Soldiers. (From Titus’s Column at Rome.) 


LEGIOX 


330 


LEHABIM 


tlie remainder of his army. Another account, giving 
substantially the same version of this event, embellishes 
it by what seems to have taken place about the year 
286, although it mentions a pope Marcellinus as having 
advised them rather to submit to death than to act 
against the dictates of their conscience, while this Mar- 
cellinus only became pope ten years after the above 
time. This second version appears to be but a rear- 
rangement of the legend of Eucherius, just as there have 
been others until the time of the Reformation (by Pe- 
trus Canisius and Gulielmus Ealdesanus). This legend 
was first treated as untrue in Magdeburg; then Jean 
Armand Dubourdieu, a French Reformed minister at 
London, undertook to prove that the number of the le- 
gion did not by any means amount to GGGG (the figures 
given in the second version). This led to a protracted 
controversy. The silence of the leading early ecclesias- 
tical historians — Eusebius, Lactantius, Sulpicius Seve- 
rus, and Orosius — over the event some have advanced 
to prove that it is simply a fable, but their silence does 
not, in’ our mind, go far to disprove it. Eusebius says 
little of the Western martyrs, yet mentions that an of- 
ficer picked out the Christians in the Roman army be- 
fore the beginning of the great persecution, and gave 
them the choice of renouncing their religion or of leav- 
ing the army, adding that many Christians were killed 
by his orders. The others either do not mention the 
martyrs of that period, or were by other circumstances 
prevented from becoming acquainted with much of their 
history. On the other hand, Ambrose (f 397) says, “Ev- 
ery city prides itself that has had one martyr; how 
much more, then, can Milan pride herself, who had a 
whole army of divine soldiers?” Eucherius takes this 
as an allusion to the Theban legion. Another testi- 
mony to the same effect is contained in St. Victricius’s 
work, De laudibus martyrum (390). The third is the 
discovery of a shield in the bed of the Arve, near Ge- 
neva, representing the Thebans, with the inscription 
Largitas D. J/. Valent iniani A ugusti. A fourth is found 
in the life of St.Romanus (520), who mentions, among 
others, his journey to Agaunum (Castra martyrum ), 
probably between the years 4G0 and 470. It also cor- 
roborates Eucherius's figures (6600). The fifth is that 
of Avitus, archbishop of Vienna, a breastplate originally 
belonging to whom is yet kept in the convent : this 
dates from the year 517. A sixth is given in the Vita 
of Victor of Marseilles. It is most probable, however, 
that while the legend rests on a foundation of facts, these 
facts were generalized and amplified, so that a number 
of Christian soldiers in the Roman army became a le- 
gion first of GG00, then of GGGG. Those who deny the 
truth of the legend take their stand on its similarity 
with that of a certain Simeon Metaphrastes, according 
to whom, also, one Mauritius, under the same emperor, is 
said to have suffered martyrdom with l’hotinus, Theo- 
dorus, Philippus, and sixty-seven others, all of the mili- 
tary order. Rut, aside from the name of Mauritius, all 
the others have different names, while the details of the 
event also vary. Among the writers who have con- 
tested the truthfidness of the legend concerning the 
Theban legion, the most important are Dubourdieu. llot- 
tinger. Moyle, Eurnet, and Mosheim ; it has been de- 
fended bv George Ifickes, 31. Felix de Ealthasar (De- 
fense de la Legion Thebeenne , Lucerne, 1760. 8vo), Dom 
Joseph de Lisle (Defense de la Vcritc da Martyre de la 
Legion Thebeenne , 1737, Svo), Eossignoli (Historia di San 
J launzio), and P. de Eivaz ( AW a i rcisse men ts sur les 
M arty res de la Legion Thebeenne. Paris, 1779, Svo). See 
Herzog, Heal-Encyklopadu , vol. ix, s. v. Mauritius. See 
MaURITU’S. 

Legion, Thundering (Legiofnlminatrix). the ti- 
tle of a Homan legion in the time of the emperor Marcus 
Aurelius, which, after the expulsion of the Marcomanni 
and Quadi from Hungary, while the emperor Aurelius 
was pursuing these German tribes with a detachment of 
his forces (A.D. 174), was shut up in a valley surround- 
ed on every side by high mountains, and both by the 


heat of the w r eather and the want of w r ater -was suffering 
more cruelly than from the attacks of the enemy, when 
suddenly, in this crisis, a show'er of rain reanimated the 
Roman soldiers, w hile at the same time a storm of hail, 
attended with thunder, assailed the enemy, who w-ere 
then easily repulsed and conquered. Eotli heathen and 
Christian authors agree in their relation of the principal 
circumstances of this event. The adherents of each 
religion saw r in it the influence of the prayers of their 
brethren. According to Dio Cassius (Excerpta Xiphilin. 
I,lxxi, cap. 8), the miracle was wrought by an Egyp- 
tian sorcerer in t lie train of the emperor; according to 
Capitolinus (Vita Marc. Aurel. cap. 24), it w’as the ef- 
fect of the emperor’s prayers ; but according to Tertul- 
lian ( Apologet . cap. 5; Ad Scopul. cap. 4) and Eusebius 
(Ilist. Eccles. lib. v, cap. 5), it w'as brought about by tlie 
prayers of tlie Christians in his army; hence the legion 
to which these Christians belonged was denominated 
fulminutrix . The letter of tlie emperor Marcus Aureli- 
us, commonly printed in Greek in the first Apology of 
Justin Martyr, gives the same account with the Chris- 
tian writers, but it is spurious. The marble pillar erect- 
ed at Rome in honor of Marcus Aurelius, and still stand- 
ing, represents this deliverance of tlie Roman army — 
the Roman soldiers catching the falling rain, and a war- 
rior praying for its descent. It is not, liow'ever, to be 
considered as a memorial of any influence exercised by 
the Christians in that event. See Milman, History of 
Christianity , ii, 145 sq. ; Mosheim, Eccles. Ilist. I, lik. i, 
cent, ii, part i, chap, i, § 9 ; Pressense, History of Early 
Christianity , p. 129. (J. II. W.) 

Legists and Decretists, the interpreters and ed- 
itors (ylossatores) of the Roman law. See Glosses and 
Decretals. 

Le grand, Antoine, a French writer and monk, 
born at Douay, lived about 1650-80. lie was professor 
of philosophy and theology in Douay, and w'as a disci- 
ple of the Cartesian philosophy, on which he wrote sev- 
eral treatises. lie published a Sacred History from the 
Creation to Constantine the Great (1685), and other works. 
— Thomas, l Hog. Dictionary , s. v. 

Legrand, Joachim, a French historian and abbe, 
born at Saint-Lo in 1653, was a person of great erudition, 
lie \vas secretary of legation in Spain about 1702, and 
w'as afterwards employed in the foreign office. He died 
in 1733. He published a History of the Divorce of Hen- 
ry VIII of England (1688), and a few other historical 
works. 

Legrand, Louis, a French theologian, was born in 
Eurgundy in 1711, became professor in tlie seminary of 
Saint-Sulpice, Paris, and died in 1780. He published, 
besides other works, a Treatise on the Incarnation of the 
Word (1751). lie composed the censures which the 
faculty of theology published against Rousseau's Emile 
(1762) and Euffon’s Epoques de la Nature (Diedin,1780). 
— Thomas, Biog. Diet. s. v. 

Legris- Duval, EenT; Michel, a French priest, 
who was born at Eretagne in 1705, and died in 1816, is 
noted as a zealous and efficient promoter of benevolent 
institutions. 

Legros, Antoine, a French scholar and w'riter, 
who was born in Paris about 1680, and died in 1751, 
published, besides other works, The IFor/.v? of the Fathers 
who lived in the Time of the Apostles , with Notes (1717). 

Legros, Nicolas, a French Jansenist theologian, 
was born at Rbeims in 1675. lie passed the last twen- 
ty-five years of his life in Holland, to which he retired 
for refuge from persecution. lie died in 1751. Among 
liis works are a French translation of tlie Eible (1739), 
w T hich is esteemed for fidelity; and a Manual for the 
Christum (1740). 

Le'habim (Tleb. Lehabim', D*C!T?, prob. for 
Lubim ; Sept. A a (3 trip, v. r. in Chron. Aafieiv; Vulg. 
LaabimX a people reckoned among the Midianitish 
stock (Gen. x, 13; 1 Chron. i, II). See Ethnology. 


LEHI 


331 


LEHNIN 


The word is in the plural, and evidently signifies a tribe, 
doubtless taking the name of Lehub, Mizraim’s third son 
(Gen. x, 13). Bochart affirms that tlie Leliabim are not, 
as is generally supposed, identical with the Libyans. 
His reasons are, That Libya was much too large a 
country to have been peopled by one son of Mizraim ; 
and that in other parts of Scripture Libya is either call- 
ed Phut (a'lS, Jer. xlvi, 9; Ezek. xxx, 5), or Lubim 
2 Chron. xii, 3; Nahum iii,9), and Phut was a 
brother, and not a son of Mizraim (Gen. x, C; Bochart, 
Opa*a , i, 279). These arguments do not stand the test 
of historical criticism. Phut and Lubim are not identi- 
cal (Nalmm iii, 9); and the Leliabim may have been 
joined by other tribes in colonizing Libya. It is quite 
true there is no direct evidence to identify the Lehabim 
and Lubim ; yet there seems a high probability that the 
words are only different forms of the same name — the 
former being the more ancient, the middle radical H was 
afterwards softened (as is not unusual in Hebrew, Gese- 
nius, Thesaur. p. 743, 3G0) into “1 quiescent. The Le- 
habim are not again mentioned in Scripture, but we find 
the Lubim connected with Mizraim (2 Chron. xii, 3), 
and the Kushites or Ethiopians (xvi, 8). We may 
therefore safely infer that the Lehabim were the ancient 
Lubim or Libyans, who perhaps first settled on the bor- 
ders of the Nile, among or beside the Mizraim ; but, as 
they increased in number, migrated to the wide regions 
south-west, and occupied the vast territory known to 
classical geographers as Libya (Kalisch On Gen . x, 13 ; 
see also Michaelis, Spiciley. Geoyr.; Knobel Vvllrrtafel 
des Petit.'). Dr. Beke maintains that the Lehabim, as 
well as the Mizraim, were a people of north-western 
Arabia; but his views are opposed alike to the opinions 
of ancient and modern geographers, and his arguments 
do not appear of sufficient weight to command accept- 
ance ( Oriyines Bibliccv , p. 107, 198 sq.). — Ivitto. There 
can be no doubt that the Lubim are the same as the 
BeBU or LeBU of the Egyptian inscriptions, and that 
from them Libya and the Libyans derived their name. 
These primitive Libyans appear, in the period at which 
they are mentioned in these two historical sources, that 
is, from the time of Menptah, B.C. cir. 1250, to that of 
Jeremiah’s notice of them late in the 0th century B.C., 
and probably in the case of Daniel’s, prophetically to 
the earlier part of the second century 15.0., to have in- 
habited the northern part of Africa to the west of Egypt, 
though latterly driven from the coast by the Greek col- 
onists of the Cyrenaica, as is more fully shown under 
Lubim. Geographically, the position of the Lehabim 
in the enumeration of the Mizraites immediately before 
the Naphtuhim suggests that they at first settled to the 
westward of Egypt, and nearer to it, or not more distant 
from it than the tribes or peoples mentioned before them. 
See Mizraim. Historically and ethnologically, the con- 
nection of the BeBU and Libyans with Egypt and its 
people suggests their kindred origin with the Egyptians. 
— Smith. See Libya. 

Le'hi (lleb. Leehi ', "'Pop, in pause Le'ehi , * i n3, a 
c keek or jaw-bone [usually with the art. Sept. 

Atyt v. r. Ann), a place in the tribe of Judah where 
Samson achieved one of his single-handed victories over 
the Philistines(Jndg.xv,9, 14, 19, in which last passages 
the Sept, translates oidy wiqYulg. maxilla ). It contain- 
ed an eminence — Ramath-lehi, and a spring of great and 
lasting repute (see Ortlob, Defonte Simeonis, Lips. 1703) 
— Ln hak-kore (ver. 17). The name of the place before 
the conflict was evidently Lelii, as appears from verses 
9 and 14; perhaps so called from the form of some hill 
or rock (Gesenius, Thesaur. p. 752). After the slaughter 
of the Philistines, Samson, with a characteristic play 
upon the name, makes it descriptive of his signal and 
singular victory. Lehi is possibly mentioned in 2 Sam. 
xxiii, 11 — the relation of another encounter with the 
Philistines hardly less disastrous than that of Samson. 
The Heb. there has HJfip, as if Sijfi, from the root 


(Gesenius, Thesaur. p. 470). In this sense the word 
very rarely occurs (see A. Y. of Psa. Ixviii, 10, 80 ; Ixxiv, 
19). It elsewhere has the sense of “living,” and thence 
of wild animals, which is adopted by the Sept, in this 
place, as remarked above. In ver. 13 it is again ren- 
dered “troop.” In the parallel narrative of 1 Chron. 
(xi, 15), the word H:n*2, a “ camp,” is substituted. In 
the passage 2 Sam., it is rendered in the A.Y. “into a 
troop,” but by alteration of the vowel-points becomes 
“ to Lehi,” which gives a new and certainly an appro- 
priate sense. This reading first appears in Josephus 
(-4 nt. vii, 12, 4), who gives it “a place called Siagona” 
— the jaw— the word which he employs in the story of 
Samson (. 1 nt. v, 8, 9). It is also given in the Complu- 
tensian Sept., and among modern interpreters by Boehart 
(IJieroz. i, 2, ch. xiii), Ivcnnicott ( JKssert . p. 140), J. D. 
Michaelis ( Bibeljur Unyelehrt .), Ewald ( Geschichte , iii, 
180, note). The great similarity between the two 
names in the original (Gesenius, Thesaur. p. 175 5), has 
led to the supposition that Beer-Lahai-roi was the same 
as Lehi. But the situations do not suit. The well La- 
hai-roi was below Ivadesh, very far from the locality to 
which Samson’s adventures seem to have been confined. 
Jerome states that Paula, when on her way from Beth- 
lehem to Egypt, passed from Soehoth to the fountain 
of Samson {Opera, i, 705, ed. Migne). Later writers lo- 
cate it beside Eleutheropolis (Anton. Mar. Ttin. 30 ; Be- 
laud, p. 872) ; but the tradition appears to have been 
vague and uncertain (Bobinson, ii, G4 sq.). There is 
only a deep old well, which would not answer to the 
Scripture narrative (Bobinson, ii, 20 sq.). — Smith; Kit- 
to. Yan de Yelde ( Narrative , ii, 140, 141) proposes to 
identify Bamoth-Lehi with Bamoth Nekeb (1 Sam. xxx, 
27), as well as with Baalath (1 Kings ix, 18; 2 Chron. 
viii, 0), Baalath-beer (Josh, xix, 8), or Bealoth (Josh, 
xv, 24); and all these with some ruins on tell Lekiyeh , 
three or four miles north of Bir es-Seba (comp. Memoir, 
p. 343\ a view to which we yield an assent, reluctant- 
ly, however, owing to its great distance from the Phil- 
istine territory, and the want of exact agreement in 
the Arabic name ( Lcchi and Leyiyeh). The Bcif-Liki- 
yeli, mentioned by Tobler {I) rifle Wanderuny, p. 189) as 
a village on the northern slopes of the great wady Su- 
leiman, about two miles below the upper Beth-horon, is 
a position at once on the borders of both Judah and 
the Philistines, and within reasonable proximity to Zo- 
rah, Eshtaol, Timnath, and other places familiar to the 
history of the great Danite hero. But this, again, is 
too far north for any known position of the adjoining 
rock Etam (q. v.). 

Lehmann, Christian Abraham, a German theo- 
logian, was born at Tiitenboek Jan. 4, 1735, and was ed- 
ucated at the University of Wittenberg (1754-58). In 
1700 he became deacon, in 17G4 pastor at Lockwitz, and 
in 180G senior of the district of the Dresden diocese. 
He died Dee. 30, 1813. He spent his life in practical ac- 
tivity. He was remarkably successful in an attempt to 
hold prayer-meetings, connected with Bible instruction, 
thus influencing and affecting the heart in a time when 
the great majority of the pulpits of Germany were oc- 
cupied by rationalism. Of the few books he composed, 
we mention Kunzer Entwurf der Glaubenslehre jTtr er- 
wachsene Kinder , etc. (1772, 8vo ; new and enlarged edit., 
1797, 8vo). — Doring, Gelehrte 7'heol. Dcutschl. vol. ii, s. v. 

Lehnberg, Magnus, a Swedish prelate, noted as a 
pulpit orator, was born in 1758, and became bishop of 
Linkbping. lie died in 1809. 

Lehnin, Hermann von, a monk of the convent of 
that name, said to have flourished about the close of the 
13th century, as the author of a prophetic poem, in 100 
Latin hexameter verses, concerning his convent and 
the house of Brandenburg, entitled Vatieinium Lehnin - 
ense. According to the legend, the MS,, was discovered 
in an old wall, in the 17th century, by the elector, when 
the latter intended to build a palace on the ruins of the 
convent. The poem is written in the interest of the 


LEIBNITZ 


332 


LEIBNITZ 


hierarchy; it deplores the heresy of the former house I 
of Brandenburg in the ascendant house of Ilohenzollern 
(the latter family adhering to Protestantism), and proph- 
esies the downfall of the now ruling family, to be followed 
by the restoration of the unity of Germany and the re- 
establishment of the I lorn an Catholic Church. The ex- 
istence of this poem is not, however, to be traced with 
any certainty further back than the year 1G93. It was 
first published in Lilienthal (Konigsb. 17*23, 1741), then 
at Berlin and Vienna, 1745; llern, 1758; Leipsic, 1807; 
also in France, in 1827 and 1830, by AV. Meinhold, with 
a metrical translation, Leips. 1849; C. Bosch, Stuttgard, 
1819; Gieseler. Die Lehninsche Weissagung (Erf. 1849); 
Guhrauer, Die 1 1 'eissagungen r. Lehnin (Bresl. 1850) ; AI. 
Helper, Gcschichte des K fosters Lehnin (Brandenburg, 
1851). Those who consider this poem a mere mystical- 
ly-shaped narrative of past events, name as its author 
AI. F. Seidel, assessor of the privy council (f at Berlin in 
1G93); or Andrew Fromm, counsellor of the Consistory 
(f at Prague in 1G88); or Nicolas von Zitzwitz, abbot 
of Iluysburg, who, they say, composed it about 1G92; or 
the Jesuit Frederick A Volf, chaplain to the Austrian em- 
bassy at Berlin in 1G85-8G (f 1708); or CElvcn, captain 
of cavalry at Stettin (j 1727). See L. de Bouverois, 
Extrait (Tun mnnuscrit relatifa la prophetic dufrere >87. 
de I.ehnin (German transl. by AA r . von Schi'itz (Wiirzb. 
1847); J. A. Boost, Die Weissagnngen des Monchs II. z. 
Lehnin (Augsb. 1848). — Pierer, Universal-Lexikon, viii, 
273 ; II erzog, Real- Encyklopa< lie, v, 757 sq. 

Leibnitz, Gottfried AATlhelm, Baron von — phi- 
losopher, theologian, jurist, historian, poet, mathemati- 
cian, mechanician, naturalist, and votary of all arts and 
all sciences — was the most brilliant, profound, and ver- 
satile scholar of the century following the death of Des j 
Cartes — perhaps of modern times. He is among the ' 
few who have earned the honors of all-embracing eru- 
dition — ultra progredi tie fas est. As the opponent of 
Spinoza, Biyle, and Locke; as the conciliator of Plato 
and Aristotle; as the reverential follower of the discred- 
ited schoolmen; as the precursor of Kant, and as the 
vindicator “of the ways of God to man,” Leibnitz occu- 
pies an equally eminent and important position in the 
history of philosophic opinion. His metaphysical spec- 
ulations were, however, but a small portion of his labors. 

II is greatest achievements in nearly all cases were only j 
the liberal recreations of his idle hours. He rendered 
all learning and nearly all knowledge tributary to his 
genius, and deserved the happy eulogy of Fontenelle, 
that “he drove all the sciences abreast.” lie reformed | 
and enlarged old systems of doctrine, he added new 
provinces to them, he improved their methods, he sup- 
plied them with keener instruments, he discovered new 
continents of study, and delineated them for future oc- | 
cupation and culture. AA T hatevcr region he visited in 
the wide circuit of his explorations was quickened into 
bloom and fruitage beneath his feet — 

“Snavcis Daedala tellus 
Summittit flores.” 

Life. — Leibnitz was the son of Frederick Leibnitz, 
professor of ethics in the University of Leipsic, and was 
born there July 3, 1G1G. lie was early placed at school. 
At six years of age he lost his father, from whom 
he inherited a small fortune and an extensive library. 
3’ his library inspired, moulded, and furnished forth his 
career. lie buried himself in his young years amid its 
volumes, and delighted in the unaided perusal of the 
ancient classics, llis attention was not confined to the 
great masters of style, nor to linguistic pursuits. He 
read with like diligence poets, orators, jurists, travellers 
— works of science, medicine, philosophy, and general 
information. Nothing came amiss to his insatiable ap- 1 
petite and incredible industry. At tifteen he .entered 
tho University of Leipsic, and was directed by Jacobus i 
Thomasius to mathematical and philosophfcal studies, j 
lie applied himself assiduously to the writings of Plato 
and Aristotle, and already, at the age of eighteen, was ' 
endeavoring to harmonize and combine their antago- \ 


nistic systems. One year he spent at the University of 
Jena, but he returned to his own city to prosecute his 
professional studies. Applying for the degree of doctor 
of law when he had scarcely attained his twentieth 
year, he was refused the diploma on the pretext of his 
youth. It. was cheerfully accorded by the University 
of Altdorf, which tendered him a professorship; but this 
was declined. To this period belong his A rs Combina - 
tor ia — a curious adaptation of Baymond Lully’s Art of 
Meditation and Logical Invention — and his J fathemat- 
ical Demonstration of the Existence of God. llis esti- 
mate in declining life of the former treatise maybe seen 
from his fourth letter to Kemond de Alontmortdn 1714. 

From Altdorf Leibnitz proceeded to Nuremberg, where, 
in consequence of an application filled with cabalistic 
terms, unmeaning to himself and to every one else, he 
was admitted into an association for the pursuit of the 
philosopher’s stone, and was appointed its secretary. 
Half a century before, Dos Cartes had been similarly se- 
duced in the same regions. From these visionary oc- 
cupations the young alchemist was soon withdrawn by 
the baron De Boineburg, chancellor of the elector of 
Alayence, who recommended him to prosecute history 
and' jurisprudence, and invited him to Frankfort, with 
the promise of preferment. He illustrated his change 
of abode by publishing Nova methodus discendic docen- 
dicque Jurisprudentice (IGG7), to which was appended a 
Catafogus Desideratorum. T he unsystematic treatment 
of jurisprudence had long needed reform. Leibnitz con- 
tinued his efforts in this direction by an essay, De Cor - 
pore Juris reconcinnando. He contemplated at this 
time a new and enlarged edition of Alsted’s Encyclope- 
dia, and never abandoned, but never commenced his de- 
sign. From these vast projects he was diverted by 
Boineburg, at whose instance he composed a diplomatic 
exposition of the claims of Philip AA T illiam, duke pala- 
tine of Neuburg, to the vacant throne of Poland, lie 
declined an invitation to the duke’s court, remained at 
Frankfort, and brought out a new edition of the forgot- 
ten work of AT ar ius Nizolius, De 1 ’em Principiis et Vera 
Ratione Philosopliandi. lie added notes, and prefixed 
two dissertations; one on The Philosophical Style of 
Composition , the other On Writing the History of Phi- 
losophy. In the latter he treated of Des Cartes, Aristo- 
tle, and the schoolmen, and on the mode of harmonizing 
the Peripatetic with later philosophy. All his writings 
exhibit pronounced Cart esianism. llis first approaches 
to physical science were made in his Theoria Motus Ab- 
stract^ containing the germs of his Calculus, and his 
Theoria Motus Concrcti (1G71). They were not favor- 
ably received ; but Leibnitz was still only twenty-five 
years old. Next year appeared his Sacrosancta Trini- 
tas per nova argumenta defensa , directed against AVis- 
sowatins, a Polish Unitarian. Thus, say the writers in 
the Biographie Umrersclle, “each year brought a new 
title of glory to Leibnitz, and gave him rank among the 
masters of the different sciences.” He was already a 
counsellor of the chancery of Alayence. At length his 
desire of seeing Paris was gratified. Boineburg sent 
him thither as tutor to his sons, and in charge of some 
public affairs, lie was at once admitted into the most 
brilliant scientific circles, in the most brilliant period of 
the reign of Louis NIA". Here he made the acquaint- 
ance of Iliiyghens, and improved the calculating ma- 
chine of Pascal. He was also induced to aid in pre- 
paring the Latin classics in usum Delphini. On the 
death of Boineburg (1G73) he passed over into England, 
where lie was received with distinction by Boyle, Olden- 
burg, and other members of the recent I {oval Society. 
Intelligence of the demise of the elector of Alaycnce 
readied him in London. He was thus deprived of the 
means of support. Flattering proposals had been made 
to him by Louis NlA r , but they had been refused, as 
they required adhesion to the Catholic communion. In 
his anxiety and distress, he was appointed by the duke 
of Brunswick a counsellor, with an adequate pension, 
and with the privilege of remaining abroad. He re- 


LEIBNITZ 


333 


LEIBNITZ 


turned to Paris, and remained there fifteen months. In i 
1676 he revisited England, and thence proceeded to < 
Hanover by way of Holland. Here he entered upon his . 
duties as counsellor, and — strange duties for a minister i 
of state ! — employed himself in arranging and enlarging ] 
the library of his protector, and improving the drainage 
of his mines. Ilis services were rewarded with a con- 
siderable salary, but the duke soon died (1679). He ■ 
found other employment, for he was never idle, and com- < 
posed a treatise on The Rights of A mbassadors, arguing 1 
the question of States’ Eights, which has assumed such 
prominence in Germany in recent years. The new duke 
of lirunswick engaged Leibnitz to compose the History 
of the House of Bruns wiclc. To prepare for the task, 
he visited southern Germany and Italy, consulting the 
learned, exploring monasteries, ransacking libraries, ex- 
amining old charters, deciphering mouldy manuscripts, 
and transcribing worm-eaten documents. Whatever he 
undertook he projected on a scale proportionate to his 
own vast comprehension and various knowledge, with 
little regard to the legitimate magnitude of the subject, 
or to the brevity of human life. He brought back from 
his wanderings an abundant supply of diplomatic mate- 
rials, which he arranged, and from which he extracted 
extensive works, sometimes having little direct connec- 
tion with the Chronicles of Brunswick. The first-fruits 
of these collections were the Codex Juris Gentium Diplo- 
mat icus, of which the first volume was issued in 1693, in 
folio; the second in 1700, with the title Mantissa Codicis. 
Valuable as were the documents, the most valuable part 
of the work was the Introduction, reviewing the princi- 
ples of natural and international law, and sketching the 
reform of civil jurisprudence ultimately achieved by Na- 
poleon. Other works of wide comprehension were due 
to these archaeological researches: the demonstration of 
the descent of the Guelpliic line from the Italian house 
of Este; the Accessiones Historical (1698, 2 vols. 4to, 
containing a multitude of unpublished papers), and the 
tier ipt ores Rerum Brunsricensium. The first volume of 
this historical collection appeared in 1707, folio ; the sec- 
ond in 1710; the third in 1711. These extensive accu- 
mulations were only materials to be employed for The 
History of the House of Brunswick'. In the Introduc- 
tion to the Corjms Scriptorum Leibnitz discussed every- 
thing connected with the family, the realm, and the 
country of the Guelphs, investigating the traditions of 
the early tribes that dwelt on the Elbe and the Weser, 
tracing their changes and migrations, marshalling the 
passages of the ancient authors in which they were men- 
tioned, and examining their language and the mixture 
of their dialects. It inaugurated ethnological science 
and comparative philology. 11 is inquiries, however, 
stretched far beyond the incunabula yentis, and contem- 
plated the primitive condition of the abode of the race. 
This preliminary outline isgiven in the Protoy an t (1693), 
which founded the modern sciences of geology and phys- 
ical geography. It is interesting to compare this frag- 
mentary sketch with the Vulgar Errors of Sir Thom- 
as Browne, and to note the immense sfride which was 
made by Leibnitz. Of the main work, to which this es- 
say was to be introductory — the History of the House of 
Brunswick — only a brief and imperfect outline was ever 
drawn by the accomplished author. It was published 
after his death by Eccard, in the Acta Eruditorum , in 
1717. 

These historical labors were the real task of the life 
of Leibnitz. But the long years of plodding industry 
were abundantly filled with other enterprises, and it is 
to them that his reputation is mainly due. 

By his exertions chiefly, the .1 da Eruditorum — a sci- 
entific and philosophical periodical — was established 
(vol. i, Leipsic, 1682). To this he contributed largely, 
and in its pages appeared many of his most luminous 
discoveries and suggestions. In it was published his 
Meditationes de Coynitione , Veritate et hleis (1681), pro- 
pounding his modifications of the Cartesian doctrine of 
knowledge. In the same year, and in the same work, 


appeared his rules for the Differential Calculus, the germs 
of which had been indicated in his Theoria Motus Ab- 
stracti thirteen years before. He gave no demonstra- 
tions : these were divined with wonderful ingenuity, and 
promulgated by the Bernouilli brothers. In 1687 the 
world was enriched by Sir Isaac Newton’s Principia 
Mathematica Philosophice Naturalis , which employed a 
mathematical device closely analogous to the Calculus 
of Leibnitz. A bitter controversy .in regard to priority 
of discovery and originality of invention sprung up be- 
tween the partisans of these great mathematicians. It 
is scarcely yet terminated. The rigorous and repeated 
examination of the question justifies the conclusion that 
both had independently discovered corresponding pro- 
cedures. The history of inventions is full of such coin- 
cidences. There is sufficient difference between the Flu- 
ents and Fluxions of Newton and the Calculus of Leib- 
nitz to indicate the originality of each. Neither was 
the first to enter upon this line of inquiry. To Leibnitz 
is specially due the acquisition of the powerful instru- 
ment by which so many of the triumphs of modern sci- 
ence have been won. In this connection a passing ref- 
erence may be made to his Arithmetica Binaria (1697) 
— a method of notation and computation employing only 
the symbols 1 and 0; and also to the Philosophy of In- 
finity, long meditated, but never made public. 

The conception of dynamical science continually oc- 
cupied the mind of Leibnitz, and was the natural tend- 
ency of his philosophical method. The Acta Erudito- 
rum for 1695 contained his Specimen Dynamicum ; and 
in the same year he gave to the world, through the 
Journal des S gar a ns, his Systema de Natura et Commu- 
mcat ione Substantia rum, itemque Unione inter Corpus et 
Animam iniercedenie. In the latter he propounded his 
celebrated dogma of Pre-established Harmony. The con- 
nection between mind and body, between force and mat- 
ter, between the natura naturans and the natura unt- 
il rata, is still an insoluble enigma, after all the specula- 
tions of transcendental philosophy, and all the research- 
es of modern philosophy and modern chemistry. We 
still grope for life in the dust and ashes of death. The 
veil of Isis has not been raised. Spencer, and Huxley, 
and Tyndall, et id genus omne. are compelled to acknowl- 
edge their inability to penetrate the mystery of the con- 
nection. However untenable, however hazardous, how- 
ever absurd the Pre-established Harmony of Leibnitz 
may be, it was a beautiful dream, generated in some sort 
b} r the atmosphere of the time, and certainly a bold and 
ingenious attempt to escape fiom the brute mechanism 
of Des Cartes, the pantheism of Spinoza, the puppetry of 
Malebranchc, and the materialism of the Sensationalists. 
The doctrine was illustrated, explained, and expanded 
in the Theodicee, and in many short essays and letters. 
So much, indeed, of the philosophy of Leibnitz was com- 
municated only by occasional papers and correspond- 
ence, so little by systematic works, that it is impossible 
to trace the course and development of his views in any 
brief notiee. II is two formal metaphysical works be- 
long to the last period of his life. The Nouveaux Es- 
sais, in reply to Locke, answering the English philoso- 
pher chapter by chapter, and section by section, were 
completed in 1704, but were not published for more than 
half a century. They were withheld from the press in 
consequence of Locke’s death in that year, and were first 
published byltaspe in 1763. The Theodicee, which was 
designed as a refutation of Bayle, and was undertaken 
at the request of the queen of Prussia, was completed 
two years after the death of that princess and of Bayle, 
but was not published till 1710, six years before Leib- 
nitz’s own decease. Like the Nouveaux Essais, it was 
composed in French, of which language Leibnitz was a 
perfect master. It is exquisitely written, and is the 
, finest specimen of philosophical literature since the Di- 
i alogues of Plato. A very large portion of the meta- 
physical and other writings of Leibnitz have been trans- 
mitted to us only by posthumous publication. 

Though Leibnitz composed only these two formal 


LEIBNITZ 


334 


LEIBNITZ 


treatises, his philosophical and scientific labors were mul- 
titudinous and multifarious. He was indefatigable in 
labor, and bis mind ranged with equal rapidity and 
splendor over the whole domain of knowledge. Noth- 
ing was too vast for his comprehension, too dark for his 
penetration, too humble for bis notice. He correspond- 
ed with Pelisson on the conciliation and union of the 
Protestant and Catholic communions, and was thus 
brought into connection with Possuet. With Burnet 
lie discussed the project of uniting the Anglicans and 
the Continental Protestants. He expended much time 
over the invention of a universal language. He wrote 
extensively on etymology, and the improvement of the 
German language, which he so rarely employed. Med- 
icine, botany, and other branches of natural history at- 
tracted his earnest regards. lie addressed a memoir to 
Louis XIV on the Conquest and Colonization of Egypt, 
with the view to establishing a Supremacy over Europe . 
The age of chivalry and the Crusades was not over with 
him. He certainly pointed out the road to Napoleon. 
He was deeply interested in the accounts of the Chi- 
nese, ami in the Jesuit missions for their conversion. 
He wrote much upon the philosophia Sinensis, in accord- 
ance with the delusion of the age. He engaged in an 
active but courteous controversy with Samuel Clarke, 
in which the highest and most abstruse riddles of meta- 
physics were discussed. From his historical researches 
he drew the materials for an instructive essay, IJe Ori- 
gine Erancorum (1715) ; and so various was the range of 
topics that engaged his attention, that he commented 
on the political position and rights of English freehold- 
ers. His mind, like the sun, surveyed all things, and 
brightened all that it shone upon. This enumeration of 
his inquiries gives a very imperfect view of either the 
number or the variety of his productions. The cata- 
logue of his writings tills thirty-three pages in the 4to 
edition of his works by Dutens. 

The literary fecundity of Leibnitz was equalled by his 
activity in promoting the practical interests of intelli- 
gence. Ilis correspondence linked together the schol- 
ars of all countries, furnished a bond of connection be- 
tween all learning and science, and created for the h.. t 
time a universal republic of letters. He thus communi- 
cated an impulse to the dissemination of knowledge not 
less potent than that given by Paeon’s New Atlantis, 
and by the institution of the Koval Society of England. 
Of that society he was an adjunct member, as lie was 
the chief of the foreign associates of the Academy of 
Sciences of France, lie suggested to the lirst king of 
Prussia the foundation of the Koval Academy of Perlin, 
aided in its establishment, and became its tirst president 
(1700). lie proposed a like institution for Dresden, but 
was frustrated hv the wars in Poland, for his zeal for 
liberal studies was contemporaneous with tlie conquer- 
ing campaigns of Charles XII of Sweden. When the 
Perlin Academy was endangered by the death of its 
royal founder, Leibnitz sought to open a new home for 
learning by establishing a similar society at Vienna 
(1713). The design was not carried into effect. The 
exhaustion of the finances by the War of the Spanish 
Succession, which was scarcely closed, was unfavorable 
to the scheme. Leibnitz was warmly received, was en- 
couraged by prince Eugene, was created a baron of tlie 
empire, and was appointed aulie counsellor, with a sal- 
ary of *2000 llorins. Two years previously he had been 
consulted at Torgau, in regard to tlie civilization of 
Kussia, by Peter the Great, who had made him a coun- 
sellor of the Kussian empire, and had conceded a hand- 
some pension to him. All the while he remained histo- 
riographer of Brunswick. It is reported that the elector 
of Brunswick was much dissatisfied with the slow prog- 
ress of the history of his house. When the elector became 
king of England (1714), Leibnitz hastened f;-om Vienna 
to pay his court to the monarch, hut his new majesty had 
departed for his new dominions, lie met the sovereign, 
however, on his return to his paternal domain. Tlie 
years of Leibnitz were now drawing to an end. lie suf- 


fered from acute rheumatism and other painful disor- 
ders. Having much acquaintance with medicine, he 
tried novel remedies upon himself, with no good result, 
lie prolonged his studies almost to his last days, and 
died tranquilly, with scarcely a word, on Nov. 14, 1710, 
having reached the age of “ threescore and ten years.” 
Ilis monument at the gates of Hanover, erected by king 
George, bears the modest inscription Ossa Leibnitii. 

Leibnitz was of medium height, and slender. lie 
had a large head, black hair, which soon left him bald, 
and small eyes. He was very short-sighted, but his 
vision was otherwise sound to the end of his days. His 
constitution was remarkably good, for he reached old 
age without serious malady, notwithstanding the strain 
to which it was subjected. He drank moderately, but 
ate much, especially at supper, anti immediately after 
this heavy meal retired to rest. He %vas wholly irregu- 
lar in eating. He took his food whenever he was hun- 
gry, usually in his library, without abandoning his 
books. Frequently he took his only repose in his chair, 
and occasionally pursued his reflections or researches, 
without change of place, for weeks — Fontenelle says for 
months. He read everything — good books and bad 
books, and books on all manner of subjects. He ex- 
tracted largely from the authors perused, and made co- 
pious annotations upon them. His memory was so te- 
nacious that he rarely recurred to these Adversaria. 
He sought intercourse with men of all occupations and 
of all grades of intelligence. Every work of God or 
man was an object of interest and regard to him. He 
stretched forth his hand to everything — the election of 
a king of Poland, the revival of the Crusades, the con- 
version of the heathen, the reunion of the churches, the 
codification of laws, the history of a dynasty and people, 
the constitution of the universe, the creation of new 
sciences, the derivation of words, the invention of a cal- 
culating machine, the projection of a universal language, 
the construction of windmills, or the improvement of 
pleasure carriages. The extent -of his correspondence 
was amazing, and may be conjectured from the list of 
distinguished correspondents culled by Brocket from 
the ampler catalogues of Feller and Ludovici. The 
courtesy of his epistles was as notable as their multitude. 
They were scattered over all civilized nations, and were 
on an endless diversity of topics, but they were uni- 
formly marked by deference for the persons and opin- 
ions of others. This gentleness sprung from an amiable 
and cheerful nature. It was cultivated and refined by 
intercourse with princes, and statesmen, and philoso- 
phers, and scholars, and also with the humblest classes 
of society. It was confirmed by liis belief that no hon- 
est conviction can be entirely wrong. His conversation 
was easy and abundant — as full of charm as of instruc- 
tion. It may be conceded to Gibbon that completeness 
was sacrificed by Leibnitz to universality of acquire- 
ment ; but, when all his gifts and accomplishments are 
embraced in one view, he may be justly deemed to merit 
the eulogy of his French editor, Jacques: “In point of 
speculative philosophy he is tlie greatest intellect of 
modern times; and had hut two equals, but no superiors, 
in antiquity.” 

Leibnitz was never married. He contemplated the 
experiment once, when he was fifty years of age ( k *de 
quo semel tantum in vita, atfate jam provectior. sed 
fyustra cogitavit”). The lady asked time for reflection. 
The opportunity for reflection cooled the ardor of the 
philosopher— the match was not decreed by any pre- 
estahlished harmony, and the suit was not pressed. 

The religious fervor of Leibnitz was undoubted, but 
he was negligent of the offices of religion. In his efforts 
to promote Christian unity, and to recognise only “one 
Lord, one faith, one hhpt ism,” he may have felt too keenly 
the defects of rival creeds, so as to accept from none the 
truth which seemed mutilated and imperfect in each. 

Philosophy. — The mathematical and scientific, the 
historical and juridical, the linguistic and miscellaneous 
speculations of Leibnitz have been noticed very made- 


LEIBNITZ 335 LEIBNITZ 


quatelv, but as fully as comports with the design of this 
Cyclopedia. Ilis pliilosophy awaits and merits more 
precise con si deration. It must be premised that all his 
labors, however remote in appearance from philosophical 
speculation, were inspired and animated by his own pe- 
culiar scheme of doctrine, and were really fragmentary 
applications of his distinctive principles. Hence pro- 
ceeded that pervading spirit of reform which is mani- 
fested in all the departments of knowledge handled by 
him, and which was rewarded by numerous great tri- 
umphs in so many and such dissimilar directions. When 
details are neglected, the whole body of his writings is 
found to be connected by many lines of interdependence, 
and to be harmonized into unity by a common relation 
to the central thought around which his own reflections 
incessantly revolved. God is one, and there must be 
consistency, and concord hi the creation of God. It is 
no easy task to discern this unity, and to detect the 
general scheme of the Leibnitzian philosophy. Leibnitz 
nowhere presents a symmetrical exposition of his whole 
doctrine. His Monadologie , or Principia Philosophic, | 
seu Theses in Gratiam Principis Eu genii, furnishes a clew 
to his system, but it is only a slender clew. Even if the 
Principes de la Nature et de la Grace be added as a sup- 
plement, the guiding thread is very frail. His views 
must be painfully gathered from elaborate treatises, 
from occasional essays, from scientific papers, from pass- 
ing hints, from explanations of controverted points, 
from elucidations of obscure or misapprehended state- 
ments, and from the series of his multifarious epistles. 
Here a principle is thrown out, there its applications 
are illustrated ; in one place an erroneous conclusion or 
a mistaken inference is corrected, in another, or in many 
others, fresh limitations or further expansions of a hy- 
pothesis are proposed. These different members of the 
imperfect whole are separated by months or years in the 
life of the author, or by hundreds of pages, or whole . 
volumes in his collected works. It required the patient | 
diligence of Christian Wolf to combine, complete, and 
organize in cumbrous quartos leaves scattered like the 
oracles of the Sibyl. Leibnitz had, indeed, no system 
to propound; he had no thought of promulgating a sys- 
tem or of establishing a sect. Yet his mind was thor- 
oughly systematic. The system which resulted from 
perfect coherence of thought was latent in his own mind 
from the beginning, and was consistently evolved as the 
occasion furnished the opportunity of presenting its 
several parts. The highest intellect attaches itself in- 
stinctively to a principle, and allows accident to deter- 
mine how far and when its consequences shall be un- 
rolled. Leibnitz only desired to reconcile the opinions 
of his illustrious predecessors ; to correct the errors and 
to supply the deficiencies which he recognised in the 
theory of his chief leader, Des Cartes, and to redress 
the evils which had flowed logically from those errors. 
The main design of his profound investigations was to 
give precision, harmony, and veracity to the immense 
stock of his own acquisitions and meditations. Had he 
reached the years of Methuselah he might have pro- 
posed a system, but it would have been simply the rec- 
tification of Cartesianism, or the conciliation of Plato 
and Aristotle, of Buonaventura and Aquinas. It must 
be remembered that, of his two systematic treatises, one 
was published towards the close of his life, the other 
not till half a century after his death. His natural dis- 
position apparently inclined him to accumulate knowl- 
edge for its own sake, and to reflect upon his acquisi- 
tions for his own satisfaction. He seemed to be impelled 
to publication only by some accidental stimulus. His 
whole life was a discipline and preparation for what he 
never found time to execute — never, perhaps, seriously 
thought of executing — a vast encyclopaedia embracing 
all that could be known by man. The hints thrown 
out in his long career, apt as they are for the construc- 
tion of a consistent globe of speculation, only indicate 
an undeveloped system, which is revealed by glimpses 
as the need or provocation of the moment inspired. 


From such broken and dispersed lights his philosophy 
must be divined. 

Leibnitz was essentially a Cartesian, lie was Carte- 
sian in his method, and Cartesian in his fundamental 
principles. He never revolted from his great teacher. 
He pursued the Cartesian mode of analysis and abstrac- 
tion, he employed the Cartesian procedure by mathe- 
matical demonstration, he reasoned, like Des Cartes, 
from presumptive principles, he accepted the Cartesian 
indicia of truth ; but he rendered them more precise, 
and was not wholly negligent of experience. He also 
rehabilitated the Scholastic or Aristotelian logic. He 
endeavored to combine with the dominant doctrine all 
that seemed valuable in elder systems, and he found 
some truth in all the schemes that he rejected. His 
imagination was too bold and too active to permit him 
to be the servile follower of any master, and his perspi- 
cacity was too acute to overlook the fatal defects of the 
principles and conclusions of Des Cartes. The main 
errors to be corrected sprung from the distinction made 
by the French reformer between mind and matter. Ac- 
cording to his theory, the one could not act upon the 
other. The intelligent and the material universe were 
thus hopelessly divorced. Mind was pure thought; 
matter was simple extension ; the apparent concurrence 
of the two in the phenomena of existence was due to 
divine assistancy. See Des Cartes. Beasts were ma- 
chines galvanized into the semblance of voluntary ac- 
tion by the intervention of divine power. Every" move- 
ment was a nodus vindice dignus. If mind is pure 
thought, all mental action must be an effluence, an ef- 
fect, or a manifestation of the one sole Intelligence. 
The distinction of minds was an impossibility. To 
Leibnitz the want of any piincipium indiciduatiunis — 
that old war-cry of the schoolmen — was apparent. He 
discussed this topic in a public thesis before he was sev- 
enteen (May 30, 1GG3, Ojiera, tom. ii, part i, p. 400, ed. 
Dutens). He ascribed entitative activity to matter, and 
a distinct entity to each individual mind. lie regarded 
the human mind as an assemblage of dormant capacities 
(}vTt\txtiai), to be called into action by the stimulation 
of sensations from without, and of promptings from 
within. lie departed so far from the teachings of Des 
Cartes that he ascribed soul and reason to brutes, and 
in some sort to all matter also ( Leibnitiana , § c, Opera, 
t. vi, part i, p. 315; comp. § clxxxi, p. 331 ; see Bayle, 
Diet . Hist. Grit. tit. Borarius, Pereira). If matter is 
mere extension, it must be identical with space, and is 
“ without form and void,” impalpable, inconceivable, 
unreal. To give shape to “ that which shape had none,’ 1 
motion must be recognised as an essential quality of 
matter, because form is produced by movement in space. 
Leibnitz at times goes so far as to suspect that all space 
is matter. For the production of motion, force — deter- 
minate power in action — is necessary. Of the real ex- 
istence of force the human consciousness affords assu- 
rance. From these corrections of the Cartesian postu- 
lates proceeded the mathematical and philosophical spec- 
ulations of Leibnitz in regard to vis viva, his Theory of 
Motion, Abstract and Concrete, his Dynamics, and even 
his Calculus oflnfnitesimals. All internal and external 
change, all properties and accidents of matter, are only 
“modes of motion.” The latest science is returning to 
similar hypotheses, though the language of science is 
altered. Observed phenomena appeared to be contra- 
dicted by the definition of body, as the conjunction of ex- 
tension and motion. Bodies were often at rest, under- 
going no sensible change. Motion could not belong to 
them essentially as aggregates, but only to the constitu- 
ents from whose conjoint operation the external or the 
internal movements ot‘ the mass proceeded. If a proper- 
ty was to inhere in such constituents, matter could not 
be infinitely divisible : the process of division must be 
ultimately arrested by reaching an irreducible atom ; 

“Fateare uecesse ’st, 

Esse ea, qiue unllis jam prsedita parlibus exstent, 

Et minima conetent natura.” 


LEIBNITZ 


336 


LEiBNITZ 


The motion attributed to these primordial particles is 
due to an indwelling force. Thus, from his definition 
of matter as the union of motion with extension, Leib- 
nitz was led to recognise as the primary units of the 
universe an infinity of simple elementary substances or 
forces, which he designated iwoxads. These monads 
have some resemblance to those of Pythagoras, Democ- 
ritus, and Epicurus, and also to the Ideas of Plato; but, 
unlike the Epicurean atoms, they are not solida, though 
they are c sterna . They are not material, but they are 
the souls of matter. This vaporous dematerialization 
of matter may be illustrated by Plotinus’s definition of 
matter by the successive segregation of all the proper- 
ties of specific body. Is not the theory of Boscovich, 
that matter is only an assemblage of points of force, an 
adaptation of Leibnitz’s conception ? Has not the the- 
ory of Boscovich won admiration and hesitating ap- 
proval from many distinguished men of science? 

The consequences of the rectification of the Cartesian 
conception of matter do not end here. As the motions 
or manifestations of force constitute the difference be- 
tween the several simple substances or monads, when 
there is no diversity of motion there is no difference of 
properties and no distinction of nature. Hence follows 
another dogma of Leibnitz, the Identity of Indiscerni - 
bles. The monads are infinite in number, but they are 
unlike, and present an infinite diversity of forces. There 
is also an infinite variety of gradations, from the lowest 
atoms of matter up through human souls to the supreme 
monad, or Cod. Each monad is in some sort the mirror 
of the universe of things; each possesses spontaneous 
energy or life within itself, and, in consequence of these 
characteristics, each has its own peculiar kind of reason, 
passive in matter unorganized, rudimentary in crystals 
and vegetable existence, unreflecting and instinctive in 
brutes, self-conscious and introspective in man, and as- 
cending through numberless orders of angelic intelli- 
gences. As motion is the principle of quiddity (“ the 
ghosts of defunct” terms must be evoked), force is an es- 
sential quality of all existence} and is as imperishable 
as the monad is indestructible, unless both are annihi- 
lated by the same Power by which they were created. 
Here is another anticipation of recent scientific deduc- 
tions. As these forces are immutable, their separate 
spheres of action must be exempt from intrusion. There 
may be composition of motions, or equilibrium of an- 
tagonisms, but there can be no interaction or reciprocal 
influence. 

Here presents itself the ancient insoluble enigma, 
How can bodies act upon each other? IIow can matter 
be moulded or modified by vital action ? How can it 
be subdued or directed by the intelligent volition of 
man ? IIow can it be conjoined with spirit in any form 
of animate existence? Des Cartes so completely con- 
tradistinguished mind and matter that it was impossi- 
ble for mind to act upon matter or matter upon mind — 
f rnstra ferro dieerberat umbras. Leibnitz so complete- 
ly assimilated material to spiritual existence, giving 
body to spirit, and spirit to body (Tkeod. § 124), that 
they were indistinguishable except by their properties 
— the one possessing perception only, the other having 
apperception also. There could be no intercommunion, 
no reciprocal influence between them, or between any 
monads, lo cut rather than to loose the intellectual 
knot, which was only rendered more intricate, Leibnitz 
proposed an explanation in his Sy sterna Natural (1695). 
It is his celebrated doctrine of Pre-established II ai ’mony. 
The monads are forces, sometimes active, sometimes 
suspended, intpytiai and dvvdpug, governed by their 
own inherent tendencies, and without power of acting 
upon each other; but their separate actions are so fore- 
known on one side, and predetermined on the. other, in 
the moment of creation, that their concurrent evolutions 
reciprocally correspond, and effectuate all the phenom- 
ena of the universe. Mind, therefore, does not coerce 
matter, nor does one form of matter control another, but 
the inclination of the will and the disposition of the 


matter, or the diverse evolutions of different monads, 
conjoin independently and without connection in the 
production of one result, in consequence of the pread- 
aptation of all the elementary forces to that particular 
change, at that particular moment, in that particular 
composition, and with that particular consequence. Du- 
gald Stewart illustrates this harmony by the supposi- 
tion of two clocks so regulated and adjusted as to strike 
the hours in unison. It may be an illustration; it is 
scarcely an elucidation of the doctrine. The agreement 
is only in time and performance: there is no concord- 
ance of dissimilar processes. The machinery of Divine 
Assistance, which Des Cartes had employed for the ex- 
planation of the phenomena of animal life, w T as general- 
ized by Leibnitz, applied to the whole order of things, 
and transferred to the original of all creation. There is 
thus much more than a poetic symbolism — there is a 
distinctive philosophical tenet involved in his fine ex- 
pression that ‘‘the universe is the knowledge of God.” 
This preordination of concurrences, apt for each occa- 
sion, between monadic developments, each of which is 
determined by its own inherent force, wdiich is will in 
intelligences and nature in material things, makes the 
whole endless series of change the realization of fore- 
seen and prearranged correspondences. It is the con- 
tinual evolution of the immeasurable plan entertained 
by the Creator before the beginning of the ages, and 
brought into act at the appointed time and in the ap- 
pointed order, with mathematical precision, though be- 
yond the calculation of mathematical devices. Certain 
fabrics are curiously woven with colors so arranged in 
the yarn that when the weaving is performed each col- 
or falls with exact propriety into its due place, and con- 
tributes accurately to form, to tint, to perfect the con- 
templated pattern. So, in the system of pre-established 
harmony, “ the web of creation is woven in the loom of 
time,” with threads prepared from the beginning to fall 
into the requisite connections, and to produce a fore- 
knotvn design. Each concurrent movement arrives at 
the appropriate time and place in consequence of the 
wdiole antecedent series of changes in each case, for no- 
wdiere is there any solution of continuity, and the pres- 
ent is always the progeny of the past and the parent of 
the future. The innumerable lines of evolution contin- 
ually interoseulate with each other, but never are blend- 
ed together. It will readily be perceived t hat the w hole 
intricate phantasmagoria of these unconnected monads 
is only a grand and beautiful variation of the Cartesian 
hypothesis, and is neither more valid nor more satisfac- 
tory than the fantasy it was designed to supplant. 

This doctrine of pre-established harmony is in per- 
fect consonance with Leibnitz’s vindication of the ways 
of God to man, if it did not necessitate his theological 
expositions. The Theodicee is the most exquisite, the 
most brilliant, the most profound, the most learned, and, 
in some respects, the most satisfactory of all treatises of 
philosophical theology. Many of its conclusions are 
either true, or as near the truth as the human intellect 
can attain in such inquiries. Others are merely con- 
jectural, and are sometimes fantastic, as they lie beyond 
the domain of possible knowledge. Several of its posi- 
tions have furnished pretexts for sweeping censures; 
but in such speculations error is inevitable, and a slight 
error opens the way for a host of pernicious and unde- 
signed heresies. The most notable and characteristic 
of Leibnitz’s theological dogmas, which provoked the 
malicious wit of Voltaire’s Candide , is intimately asso- 
ciated with the explanation of the combined action of 
monads. This is the theory known as Optimism. With- 
out absolutely asserting that “Whatever is. is best,” it 
alleges that the actual world is the best of all possible 
worlds, despite of acknotvledged evils and defects. This 
is supposed to be ’proved, among other evidences, by the 
Leibnitzian principle of the sufficient reason, since, if 
any better w T orld had been possible, it is reasonable to 
suppose that it would have been selected by God in 
preference to that wdiich He actually created. The acute 


LEIBNITZ 


337 


LEIDRADT 


conceptions, the ingenious arguments, the various illus- 
trations, the abundant analogies by which this thesis is 
maintained and adorned, can receive here only their 
merited tribute of admiration. When God looked upon 
the work of each of the six days of creation, “lie saw 
that it was good.” More than this it is not given man 
to know: “ that which is wanting cannot be numbered.” 
But, if all events, if all changes, if all composite actions 
occur by divine preadaptation, it must be presumed that 
this is the best of worlds. There is wonderful coherence 
in the views of Leibnitz, interrupted and fragmentary as 
is their exposition. This dialectical consistency is so 
perfect, and in its evolution so splendid and imposing, 
that his scheme presents, both in the process of its con- 
struction and in its structure, the charm of a dream of 
the imagination. Nothing approaches it in magnifi- 
cence but the ideal universe of Plato. 

Of course, if this is the best of possible worlds, and if 
its phenomena are determined by the divine preordina- 
tion or preorganization, evil, too apparent everywhere, 
must be merely contingent — a negative characteristic; a 
nonentity in itself. Leibnitz accordingly regards evil 
simply as imperfection — the privation of good. God is 
perfect : anything less than God must be imperfect. All 
limitation is imperfection; all imperfection is defect of 
good — is evil. The evil increases in quality and in de- 
gree with each remove from the perfection of the Su- 
preme Existence. Hence, in this best of worlds, the 
taint of evil is over the whole creation : 

“The trail of the serpent is over it all.” 

All this may be admitted, but it affords only an inade- 
quate explanation. It does not justify the retribution 
which is merited by all evil: it does not recognise the 
positive character of evil as the violation of the divine 
law and order; it hardly permits the notion of such vio- 
lation. Leibnitz denies the existence of physical evil 
except as a consequence of moral evil ; and moral evil 
consists in voluntary increase of imperfection, in wilful 
estrangement from the Supreme Monad. Even thus, no 
sufficient reason can be assigned for ascribing sin, and 
for attaching a material or moral penalty to what is the 
result of a natural and inevitable imperfection. This 
defect in the system is clearly pointed out by Kant. 

The unfathomable immensity of the creation can be 
but dimly apprehended by the finite and fallible mind 
of man. The mighty plan and purpose of God cannot 
be compressed within the compass of human intelligence. 
“We see as through a glass darkly.” Schemes of the 
universe framed from broken and darkling glimpses be- 
come more delusive as they become more systematic. 
Leibnitz’s intuitive principles, abstract analysis, and 
scholastic deduction were peculiarly apt to produce hal- 
lucinations. 

Analysis for the discovery of ultimate abstracts ; in- 
tuition for the acceptance of clear, distinct, and adequate 
ideas; the principle of contradiction as the test of ver- 
ity; the principle of the sufficient reason as the canon 
of actuality — these are the metaphysical principles or 
postulates of Leibnitz. The resulting philosophy, both 
in conception and in construction, is exposed to “such 
tricks as hath strong imagination,” and wants firm and 
assured foundation. It is a complex fantasy, a mathe- 
matical romance, a universe of shadows. Still, it is 
marked by wonderful acuteness, logical coherence, and 
purity of spirit. It preludes, if it does not anticipate, 
the main doctrines of Kant, and is the fruitful parent of 
all the subsequent philosophy of Germany. 

This exposition presents the leading tenets, the idees 
meres of Leibnitz, but it affords no image of the splen- 
did completeness of the entire theory, in which God is 
presented as the first beginning and the last end — the 
Alpha and Omega of the whole order of things in time 
and out of time. Nor does it do justice to the vigorous 
thought, the profound reflection, the comprehensive in- 
telligence, the keen penetration, the exhaustless learn- 
iug, the wealth of knowledge, the varietv of illustration, 
V.— Y 


the fervent and lofty morality, which give grace, and 
dignity, and grandeur to the whole and to all its parts. 
Edidi quee potui, non ut volui , sed nt me spatii angustim 
coegerunt. Fuller information must be sought from his 
own extensive works, and from the elucidations afforded 
by the numerous commentators on them. . 

Literature. — Leibmiii Opera (ed. Dutens, Gen. 17G8, 
6 vols. 4to). A complete edition of all his works is that 
by Pertz (Hamburg, 1845-47, 1st series; 1847, 2d series; 
1853-62, 3d series). The latest is by Onno Klopp, 1st 
series, 1864-G6 (5 vols. 8vo). Other editions are : ( Eu - 
vres (ed. Foucher de Careil, Paris, 1854 sq., 20 vols.); 
Deutsche Schriften (ed. Guhraner, Berlin, 1838); Opera 
Philosophica (ed. Erdmann, Berl. 1839-40) ; Opera Math- 
ematic a (ed. Gerhardt, Berlin, 1849-50) ; (Eurres (ed. 
Jacques, Par. 1842,2 vols. 12mo); (Eurres pltilosophiques 
(ed. Janet, Par. 18GG, 2 vols. 8vo) ; Ilaspe, (Euvrcs Phil- 
osophiques de feu M. Leibniz (Amsterd. ct Leips. 17G5, 
4to) ; Feder, Lettres Choisies de la Correspondance de M. 
Leibniz (Hanover, 1805); Leibnitz , Memoir recommend- 
ing the Conquest of Egypt to Louis AVF, etc. (London, 
1801); Eccard. Leben des Leibnitz (Berl. 1740); Jancourt, 
Vie de Leibniz (Amsterdam, 175G); Guhrauer, Leben des 
Leibnitz (Bresl. 1842; enlarged 1846); Vogel, Leben des 
Leibnitz (Leipsie, 184G) ; Maekie, Life of Leibnitz (Bos- 
ton, 1845). Leibnitz transmitted an Autobiography to 
his friend Pelisson, but it has never seen the light. See 
also Fontenelle, Elogc de Leibniz (Paris, 171 G); Bailly, 
Eloge de Leibniz (Paris, 1769); Kastner, Lobschrijl avf 
Leibnitz (Altenb. 1769); Hansoms, G. G. Leibnitii Prin- 
cipia Philosophic more Geometrieo demonstrata (1728, 
4to) ; Ludovici, Principia Leibniiiana (Lips. 1737, 2 vols. 
8vo) ; Bayle, I list. Grit. Diet., may be consulted, especial- 
ly under the title Korarius; Emery, Esprit de Leibniz , 
etc. (Lyons, 1772, 2 vols. 8vo; reprinted, Paris, 1803) ; 
Emery, Exposition ele la Doctrine de Leibniz sur la Re- 
ligion (Paris, 1819, 8vo) ; Brncker, Hist. Crit. Philosophic 
(Lips. 1767; still an indispensable authority for Leib- 
nitz); Dugakl Stew art, Suppl.Eney clop. Britamrica ; Sir 
James Mackintosh,?/^/.; Morell, Hist. Phil. XlXth. Cen- 
tury (New York, 1848, 8vo); Lewes, Hist, of Philosophy 
(new edition, 2 vols. 8vo), vol. ii; and the other histo- 
rians of modern philosophy; Biographie Univcrselle, s. 
v. Leibniz, by Biot, Dnvau, Maine de Biran, and Stapfer; 
Schelling, Leibnitz als Denker ; llelferich, Spinoza und 
Leibnitz ; Zimmcrmann, Leibnitz und Ilerbart (Wien, 
1849) ; Feuerbach, Darste llung, Enticickelung unel Kiddie 
der Leibnitzschen Philosophic (Anspach, 1837); Leckev, 
Hist, of Morals, i, 25 ; Baumgarten-Crusius, Dogmen- 
gesch.; Hunt, Pantheism, p. 247 ; Gass, Dogmengeseh. vol. 
ii and iii ; Hurst, Hist, of Rationalism, p. 6, 103 ; Saintes, 
Rationalism, p. 56; Farrar, Crit. Hist, of Free Thought, 
p. 56 sq. ; Dorncr, Gesch. el. protest. Theol. p. 684 sq. ; Jour- 
nal of Spec. Philos, vol. i, No. 3, art. i ; vol. iii, No. 1, art. 
v; Revue Chrct. 1868, p. 9; Brewster, Life of Sir Isaac 
Newton; Edinb.Rcv. 1846 (July); Atlantic Monthly, ISbH 
(June); Christian Examiner, xxviii, 418 sq. ; Gontemp. 
Review, May, 1867, art. iii; Meth. Qu.Itev. 1851 (April), 
p. 189, 211 ; 1862 (April), p. 335; Revue ehs d. M oinks, 
1861 (Jan.), p. 15 ; also (Sept.), p. 81. (G. F. II.) 

Leidradt, a noted Human Catholic prelate, proba- 
bly a Bavarian, flourished in the 8th century, lie was 
librarian to Charlemagne until 798, when he was made 
archbishop of Lyons. He was sent soon after by Char- 
lemagne, together with the bishop of Orleans and other 
prelates, into the southern provinces of France, to sup- 
press by moral means the spreading heresy of Adop- 
tianism, and they succeeded in bringing the chief teach- 
er of this doctrine, Felix, to acknowledge his error before 
the council held at Aix in 799. In 800 Leidradt was 
successful with his co-laborers in restoring 20,000 Adop- 
tianists. The zeal which he everywhere displayed ap- 
pears in a letter written to Charlemagne not long before 
the latter’s death, lie writes: “1 have done my best 
to increase as far as necessary the number of priests. I 
have established the Psalm service after the model of 
that observed in your palace, and have erected singing- 


LEIFCIIILD 


333 


LEIGHLIX 


schools by which the instruction may be continued. 1 
have reading-schools where not only the appointed 
services are repeated, but where the holy Scriptures in 
general are studied and explained, and in which are 
those who understand the spiritual meaning not only of 
the Gospels, but also of the prophets, the books of Sam- 
uel, the Psalms, and Job. I have had as many books 
as possible transcribed for the churches in Lyons, pro- 
cured vestments and other necessary appointments for 
divine service, and have repaired the churches.” After 
Charlemagne’s death, in the subscription to whose will 
the name of Leidradt appears, be resigned the bishopric 
and retired to the convent of the Holy Medardus, where 
he died. Neither the year of his death nor of his birth 
are known. He wrote in a clear and concise style some 
works which have since been edited. Of special value 
is a treatise of his on baptism, which was published by 
Mabillon (A nnales , vol. ii ). See Herzog, Real-Encyklo p. 
art. Baluze ; Wetzer u. Welte, Kirchen-Lex. vol. vi, s. v. 

Leifchild, John, D.D., an eminent English Inde- 
pendent minister, was born in 1780 of Methodist parent- 
age, and was brought up, and began to preach among 
the Methodists; but afterwards embracing Calvinistic 
opinions, it was impossible for him to continue preach- 
ing among them, and he was advised by Mr. Bunting, 
then the junior preacher in the circuit, to seek other 
associations. Accordingly, in 1804, he entered lloxton 
Academy, but he retained through life a friendly feel- 
ing for the friends of his youth, and profited largely by 
what he learned among them. He died in June, i862. 
Without possessing any very extraordinary natural en- 
dowments, he attained by faithful, earnest, and diligent 
labor a most successful and honorable career, and his 
life is a noble example of what may be effected by the 
right cultivation of the powers a man possesses within 
himself. Irreproachable in character, faithful in pas- 
toral attentions, powerful in the pulpit, he filled every 
chapel he occupied, built up every Church he was the 
pastor of, and, when enfeebled by age, retired from his 
work laden with honors, and not without very substan- 
tial tokens of the love and gratitude of those whom he 
had served in the Gospel. One of the deacons of Cra- 
ven Chapel states that, during the twenty-three years 
of his ministry there, more than fifteen hundred persons 
had been brought to decision and added to the Church 
through his faithful ministry. The catholic spirit of 
Dr. Leifchild was almost as prominent a feature in his 
character as his intense and pervading earnestness, lie 
was well kuown and well liked by Christians of various 
denominations, with whom he mingled freely, and whom 
he loved for the truth’s sake. See J. Ik Leifchild, John 
Leif child, his public Labors, private Usefulness , and per- 
sonal Characteristics (Loud. 1860); Grant, Metropolitan 
Pulpit (1869), ii, 152; Pm Pictures of Popular English 
Preachers (1852). p. 130: Alii bone, bid. of British and 
A nier. A uthors, vol. ii, s. v. (J. II. W.) 

Leigh, Edward, a learned English •layman, was 
horn in 1602, and was educated at Magdalen College, 
Oxford. 1 le was a member of the Long Parliament, but 
was expelled on account of his intercession in behalf of 
t he life ol king Charles. He was also a member of the 
Assembly ot Divines, and held the office of parliamenta- 
ry general. He died in 1671. Edward Leigh wrote 
largely. Of his Greek works, one of the best is Criticn 
Sacra (1639, 4to, and often ; best ed. 1662, folio), which 
not only gives the literal sense of every word in the Old 
and New Testaments, but enriches the definitions with 
philological and theological notes. It was held in high 
esteem until supplanted by the more fundamental works 
of later Hebrew lexicographers. He also wrote Anno- 
tations on the Xew Testament , which are short anti judi- 
cious, and other theological works of considerable value. 
See Alii bone, Diet. of Brit, and A m. 1 uthors, ii, 1 079. 

Leigh, Sir Egerton, an English nobleman, who 
flourished towards the close of the last century, is noted 
for his piety and charitable acts, lie was a member of 


the “London Missionary Society” from its very infancy 
(1795), as he was, indeed, the friend of every cause con- 
nected with the glory of God and the good of souls. 
“He devoted,” says Morison ( Fathers atid Founders of 
the London Miss. Soc. p. 554), “much of his time, prop- 
erty, and influence to the spread of evangelical religion 
both at home and abroad, and was so zealous in the 
cause of his divine Master as occasionally to merge the 
baronet in the humble preacher of the cross of Christ.” 

Leigh, Hezekiah G., D.D., an eminent minister 
of the Methodist Episcopal Church South, was born in 
Perquimas County, N. C., Nov. 23, 1795, was converted 
in 1817, joined the Virginia Conference in 1818, was set 
off with the N. O. Conference in 1836, was a delegate to 
every General Conference from 1824 to his death, and 
died in Mecklenburg Co., Va., Sept. 18, 1853. lie was 
also a member of the Louisville Convention at the or- 
ganization of the 31. E. Church South, and as one of the 
founders and first agents of Randolph Macon College, 
and one of the organizing committee of Greensboro’ Fe- 
male College, N. C., he rendered long and very important 
service to the cause of education in the Church. lie re- 
ceived a good academical education while young, and 
throughout his life was a diligent general student. Most 
of his ministry was spent in the office of presiding elder 
in Virginia and N. Carolina. His character was noble 
and attractive, and his mind full of lofty ardor for the 
welfare of Christianity, llis influence was wide and 
controlling for many years. He was an earnest and use« 
ful minister of the Gospel, and will long be remembered 
in the Carolinas. — Summers’s Biograph. Sketches , p. 165. 
(G.L.T.) 

Leiglilin, Synod of, was held in Campo-Lene, 
Ireland, near Old Leiglilin, A.D. 633, with the purpose 
of settling the time as to the observance of Easter. A 
few years before (630), llonorius 1 bad addressed an ex- 
postnlatory letter to the Irish clergy on the paschal 
question ; and it is worthy of remark that this was the 
first notice taken by the bishops of Rome in regard to 
the Church founded by St. Patrick, and was about 200 
years after its commencement. At this period the Irish 
were divided on the time of keeping Easter, some advo- 
cating the Roman practice, others the Irish way of ob- 
serving the 14th day of the first vernal month (if a Sun- 
day), instead of adopting its celebration on the Sunday 
following the 14th, and the matter even resulted in a 
controversy. Laurentius of Canterbury relates that Du- 
gan, an Irish bishop, when in North Britain, declared 
that he would neither eat, drink, or sleep under the 
same roof with those who held to the Roman practice. 
Cummian, who for twelve years had been an abbot of 
Iona, was greatly troubled about it. and in its investiga- 
tion he said, “I turned over the holy Scriptures, studied 
history and all the cycles I could find. 1 inquired dili- 
gently what were the sentiments of the Hebrews, Gre- 
cians, Latins, and the Egyptians concerning this solem- 
nity.” A deputation was sent from this synod, of which 
most probably Cummian was one, to ascertain from per- 
sonal inspection whether, as they had heard in Ireland, 
other nations kept Easter at the same time that the 
Romans did. The object of this deputation has been 
greatly perverted in the interest of Romanism. It was 
not to get a decision from the pope, for this they had 
had for years, and had not obeyed it ; but it was. as be- 
fore stated, simply to determine for themselves. They 
remained at Rome or in the East about two years. On 
their return they reported that all they had heard in 
Ireland they had seen in Rome — even more ( valde certi - 
ora') than they had heard. But even this report was 
not decisive, for the Venerable Bede says, *• Though the 
south of Ireland partially conformed, the northern prov- 
inces and all Iona adhered to their former practice.” 
This and other questions of nonconformity were for a 
long time pressed and resisted. In A.D. 664, when The- 
odore, the Italian archbishop of Canterbury, by order of 
the pope, came to establish the entire regime of Roman 


LEIGHTOX 


339 


LEIPS1C 


Catholicism in North Britain, the paschal and many 
other questions were again so fiercely urged that Col- 
man and most of the former clergy left and returned 
to Ireland. Again, in 1070, when Malcolm Canmore 
brought Margaret, his Saxon wife, to Scotland, she was 
shocked to find the faith and public worship of her new 
subjects so different from the Catholic Church of Eng- 
land. After laboring long to induce her husband to 
adopt the rites and order of the Saxon Catholics, she 
had a three days’ discussion with the existing clergy 
ami the Culdees of Iona, she speaking in Saxon and her 
husband interpreting in Irish. See Todd, Irish Church, 
chap, vi; Usher, Brit. Ecclcs. Antiq. cap. xvii ( JUtm/os, 
vi, 402-510). 

Leighton, Alexander, a Scottish divine, was born 
at Edinburgh in 15G8. lie was professor of moral phi- 
losophy in that city for several years prior to 1613, when 
he removed to London, and obtained a lectureship. For 
libellous or offensive expressions against the king, queen, 
and the bishops, in his book called Zion's Plea (1629), 
he was punished by the Star Chamber with mutilation, 
the pillory, and long imprisonment. He was released 
in 1(540, and died about 1646. Archbishop Laud was 
no doubt responsible for the cruel and inhuman treat- 
ment of Leighton. Sec Laud. 

Leighton, Robert, a Scottish prelate, one of the 
most distinguished preachers and theologians of the 17th 
century, was born in Edinburgh, or, as others think, in 
London, in the year 1611. He was educated at the uni- 
versity of the former city, and there took his degree of 
M.A. in 1631, when he went to the Continent to study, 
especially in France. Here he resided with some rela- 
tives at Douay, and formed the acquaintance of several 
Itoinan Catholic students, whose Christian virtues made 
him a charitable Christian towards all who bore the 
name of his Master. “ Gentle, tender, and pious from 
his earliest years, he shrunk from all violence and intol- 
erance; but his intercourse with men whose opinions 
were, so different from his own convinced his reason of 
the foil} 7 and sinfulness of ‘ thinking too rigidly of doc- 
trine.’” lie returned to Scotland in 1G41, and was im- 
mediately appointed to the parish of Newbattle, near 
Edinburgh; but as Leighton identified himself with the 
cause of Charles 1 when the latter was confined, by the 
commissioners of the Parliament, in Ilolmby House, he 
brought upon his head the displeasure of the Presbyte- 
rians, and, according to bishop Burnet, u he soon came 
to dislike their Covenant, particularly their imposing it, 
and their fury against all who differed from them. He 
found they were not capable of large thoughts; theirs 
were narrow as their tempers were sour; so he grew 
weary of mixing with them,” and became an Episco- 
palian. For this change, however, there were serious 
obstacles in Leigh ton’s case, and it has therefore been a 
matter of general disapprobation. Certainly the facility 
with which he fraternized with the party that had in- 
flicted such horrid cruelties on his excellent father, Dr. 
Alexander Leighton, in 1630, for merely publishing a 
book in favor of Presbyterianism, cannot be altogether 
approved (comp .Proceedings of the Society of Antiqua- 
ries of Scotland, iv, 463 sq.). In 1652 he resigned his 
charge, and in the following year was elected principal 
of the University of Edinburgh, a dignity which he re- 
tained for ten years. Earnest, spiritual, and utterly free 
from all selfish ambition, he labored without ceasing for 
the welfare of the students. He delivered lectures es- 
pecially to the students of theology, and occasionally 
supplied the plaec of divinity professor. 11 is theolog- 
ical lectures are known to the leamed world, and have 
been translated into English. For pure Latin, sublime 
thought, and warm diction, they have never been sur- 
passed, and seldom equalled, in that office Dr. Leigh- 
ton was truly the ornament and delight of the univer- 
sity, and a blessing to studious youth. After the resto- 
ration of Charles II and the re-establishment of the 
episcopacy in Scotland. Leighton, after much reluctance, 


accepted the bishopric of Dunblane, a small and poor 
diocese, and was consecrated at Westminster Dec. 15, 
1661. Unfortunately for his peace, the men with whom 
he was now allied were even more intolerant and un- 
scrupulous than the Presbyterians. The despotic meas- 
ures of Sharpe and Lauderdale sickened him. Twice he 
proceeded to London (in 16(55 and 1669) to implore the 
king to adopt a milder course — on the former of these 
occasions declaring “that he could not concur in the 
planting of the Christian religion in such a manner, much 
less as a form of government.” Nothing was really 
done, though much was promised, and Leighton had to 
endure the misery of seeing an ecclesiastical system 
which he believed to be intrinsically the best, perverted 
to the worst of purposes, and himself the accomplice of 
the worst of men. In 1670, on the resignation of Dr. 
Alexander Burnet, he was made, quite against his per- 
sonal wishes, archbishop of Glasgow, and he finally ac- 
cepted this great distinction only on the condition that 
he should be assisted in his attempts to carry out a lib- 
eral measure for “the comprehension of the Presbyteri- 
ans.” But finding, after a time, that his efforts to unite 
the different parties were all in vain, and that he could 
not stay the high-handed tyranny of his colleagues, he 
finally determined to resign the ecclesiastical dignity (in 
1673). After a short residence in Edinburgh, he went 
to live with his sister at Broadhurst, in Sussex, where 
he spent the rest of his days in a retired manner, devoted 
chiefly to works of religion. lie died at London June 
25, 1684. Leighton published nothing during his life- 
time. His great work is his Practical Commentary upon 
the First General Epistle of St. Peter ; not a learned ex- 
position by any means, for the writer hardl} r notices 
questions of philology at all, but perhaps no more re- 
markable instance is extant of the power which sympa- 
thy with the writer gives in enabling an expositor to 
bring out and elucidate his meaning. Another able 
work of his is Pralectioues Theoloyice , of which an edi- 
tion was published a few years ago by the late profess- 
or Seholelield of Cambridge; also some sermons and 
charges. There is an edition of his work in 4 vols. 8vo, 
Loud. 1819; but the best edition is that of Pearson (Loud. 
1828 ; N. V. 1859, 8vo). Another good edition was pub- 
lished in 1871, in 6 vols. 8vo. All of Leighton's writ- 
ings have received the highest commendations because 
of the lofty and evangelical spirit that pervades them. 
They present the truths of Christianity in the spirit of 
Plato, and it was this that recommended them so much 
to Coleridge, "whose Aids to Refection are simply com- 
mentaries on the teachings of archbishop Leighton. 
“ Few uninspired writings,” says Dr. Doddridge, “ are 
better adapted to mend the world: they continually 
overflow with love to God and man.” See Hcthcring- 
ton, Ch. of Scotland, ii, 22 sq., 70 sq. ; Burnet’s History 
of his Own Times; Burnet's Pastoral Care ; Doddridge's 
Preface to Leighton's Works ; The Remains of A ?rh bish- 
op Leighton , by Jerment (1808); his Select JPor/iV, by 
Cheever (Boston, 1832); Pearson, Life of Robert Leighton 
(1832) ; Kitto, Cycl. Bill. Liter, vol. ii, s. v. ; Chambers, 
Cyclop, vol. vi, s. v.; Chambers, hiog. Diet, of Eminent 
Scotsmen, s. v. ; Allibone, Diet. Brit, anel A mer . A uthors , 
vol. ii, s. v. 

Leipsic, Colloquy of, in 1631. The disputes 
which occurred in the 16tli century, when the two evan- 
gelical churches framed their confession of faith, had 
produced great bitterness between the Lutherans and 
Calvinists. Attempts at reconciliation had already been 
made by pious individuals in the 16th century, and still 
others in the 17th, as, for instance, by the indefatigable 
Scotchman D uncus, and by Bupertus Mehlenius, but 
with little success. It was the trial which the evan- 
gelical churches of Germany underwent during the 
Thirty Years’ War that really first made the two sister 
communions forsake their former hostility. They saw 
that they were both standing on the brink of a preci- 
pice, and the tics which bound them to each other were 
strengthened. Both the authorities and the people 


LEIPSIC 


340 


LEITOMYSL 


now used their utmost efforts to secure, if not unity, 
yet at least peace and harmony between the two 
churches. In the early part of 1631, after Gustavus 
Adolphus, the champion of evangelical liberty, had al- 
ready come to Germany, the landgrave William of 
1 Iesse amt the elector Christian William of Brandenburg 
joined the elector George of Saxony at Leipsic, and they 
resolved to oppose, by main force if necessary, the car- 
rying out of the Edict of Restitution. The landgrave 
William had brought with him the professor of theology 
Crocius and the court preacher Theophihis Neuberger; 
the elector Christian William was accompanied by the 
court preacher John Bergius. The theologians of Hesse 
and Brandenburg invited those of Leipsic to a confer- 
ence in order to attempt a reconciliation between the 
evangelical churches, or, at least, to promote a better 
understanding between them. It was intended that this 
conference should be of a private character, yet with 
the hope that the other parts of Germany would follow 
the example. The Reformed party demanded only that 
the court preacher Matthias Hoc, of Ilohenegg, should 
in the discussions abstain from the vehemence which 
distinguished his writings, and the theologians of Leip- 
sic failed not to grant this request, with the assurance 
that Hoe was very gentle in conversed ione. The elector 
George having sanctioned the plan of a private confer- 
ence, the meetings commenced, March 3, at the resi- 
dence of the upper court preacher, and under his presi- 
dency. They were held daily, and continued until 
March 23. On motion of the Reformed party the Con- 
fession of Augsburg was taken as a basis, they announ- 
cing their willingness to sign it, such as it then was in 
the Saxon form (published by order of the elector George, 
in 1628). They also thought that the princes of their 
different provinces were ready to do the same, without, 
however, undertaking to vouch lor it. They stated 
furthermore that they would neither reject the altered 
edition of the Colloquy of Worms (in 1510) nor that of 
Regensburg (in 1541) ; they referred to the position 
taken at the convention of Naumburger in 1501, and by 
t he Saxons in the preface to the Book of Concord. The 
Confession of Augsburg being thus adopted as a whole, 
every article was taken up separately and examined. 
They thus found that both parties fully coincided in the 
articles v-vii and xii-xxviii, while their differences on 
the articles i and ii were comparatively unimportant. 
With regard to the iiid article, they all agreed as to the 
interpretation of the words, but the Saxon theologians 
maintained that not only the divine, but also the human 
nature of Christ possessed omniscience, omnipotence, 
etc., by virtue of the union of the two natures in his 
personality, and that all the _glory which Christ re- 
ceived was only received by his human nature. The 
Reformed theologians, on the contrary, denied that 
Christ, as man, was omnipresent, or that in him the 
human nature had become omniscient and omnipotent. 
They agreed also in the ivth article, and the Reformed 
theologians affirmed that they did not believe Christ 
had come to save all men. They also agreed in the 
ixtli article, to which they made some addition on the 
necessity of baptism, and on infant baptism. The xtli 
article, concerning the Eucharist, came up on March 7. 
Here they could not agree, the Reformed theologians 
denying the physical participation in the body and 
blood of Christ, and asserting a spiritual participation 
through faith; of unworthy communicants, they assert- 
ed that these partook only of simple bread and wine. 
The Reformed theologians, however, maintained that if 
it was impossible to agree on this point, it was at least 
possible lor the two parties to bear charitably with each 
other, and to unite in opposing Romanism. The Sax- 
ons, who did not wish to bind themselves by any prom- 
ises in a private conference, said that (his proposition 
would have to be further considered in the fear of the 
Lord. After all the remaining articles had been agreed 
to, they came to the question of election, although this 
doctrine is not expressly presented in the Confcssiou of 


Augsburg. Both Lutherans and Reformed agreed in 
the doctrine that only a part of mankind will be saved, 
the Reformed theologians basing election oil the abso- 
lute will of God, and reprobation on the unbelief of 
man. The Lutherans, on the other hand, considered 
election as the result of God’s prescience of the faith of 
the elect. The fact that the theologians of the contend- 
ing churches had been brought to meet together peace- 
ably, and to explain to each other their respective doc- 
trines, was not without a great influence for good, al- 
though the greater hopes for the future to which it gave 
rise were not destined to be fulfilled. As the colloquy 
was a private conference, it was thought best not to 
give its proceedings an undue publicity, and only four 
copies of its protocols were published, and delivered one 
to each of the electors of Saxony and Brandenburg, one 
to the landgrave of Hesse, and one to the theological 
faculty of Leipsic. A full account, however, was subse- 
quently published in England, France, Switzerland, Hol- 
land, and Sweden. The suspicions of both parties made 
any decided advance impossible, and resulted finally in 
greater estrangement of both, and in renewed attacks 
bv the able Lutheran polemic Hoe (q. v.), of which a 
new and lengthy controversy was the result. See C. 
W. Hering, Gesch. 0. KirehUchen Vnionsversuche , etc. 
(Lpz. 1836), i, 327 sq.; Alex. Schweizer, D. protestan - 
tischen Centraldogmen, part ii, p. 525; Kurtzer Discurs 
von (/. z. Leipzic 1031 mense Martio (ingest ellten Ilelig- 
ionsvcrgleychitng , etc. (Berlin, 1635) ; Nienicyer, Col lec- 
tio confessionum in ecclesiis reformats jmblicutarum 
(Lpz. 1840). p. 053 sq.; Mosheim, Eccles. Ilist. book iv, 
cent, xvii, sect, ii, pt. ii, eh. i, § 4; Herzog, Real-Ency- 
klopddie , viii, 280. 

Leipsic, Discussion of. See Ecic; Carl- 
stadt, etc. 

Leipsic, Interim of. See Interim (III). 

Leitch, William, D.D., a Scotcli divine, was born 
in 1814 in the town of Rothesay, a famous watering- 
place on the island of Bute, Scotland, and was educated 
at the University of Glasgow, which he entered at the 
age of eighteen, and graduated as master in 1836 with the 
highest honors in the departments of mathematical and 
physical science. While a student he also lectured in the 
university on astronomy, and as a result of his studies in 
this department we have from him a work entitled God's 
Glory in the Heavens ; or, Contributions to A stro-theology , 
which contains the most recent astronomical discoveries 
stated with special reference to theological questions. 
In 1838 lie was licensed as a preacher of the Gospel in 
the Church of Scotland by the Presbytery of Dunoon. 
In 1843 he received a presentation to the parish of Mon- 
imail. He continued minister of this parish until 1850, 
when he was selected as principal of Queen’s University. 
He is well known to have been the author of certain ar- 
ticles in which, in a masterly manner, the views of the 
late Dr. Wardlaw, of Glasgow, on the subject of miracles, 
are controverted. For several years he conducted a se- 
ries of investigations on the subject of partheno-genesis 
and alternate generations, as illustrated by the phenom- 
ena of sexual development in hymenoptera. The result 
of these researches, which conflicts with that of the Ger- 
man physiologist Sicbald in the same field, is given in 
the Transactions of the. British Association for the Ad- 
rancement of Science, and in the A nnals of the Botanical 
Society of Canada. Several separate publications of 
his also appeared on the subject of education. In I860 
he became principal of Queen’s University, and this 
connection afforded him a seat in the Presbytery of 
Kingston, and, in consequence, in the synod also. 1 1 is 
position also gave him a seat in the senatus of the Uni- 
versity of Toronto, and he was appointed an examiner 
of that university. -lie died in 1862. iSee Appleton’s 
A mer . . 1 mi. Cyclop. 1864, p. 625. 

Leitomysl t r Leitomischel, John, a Bohemian 
prelate noted for his energetic character and his unre- 
lenting hostility to the Hussites, flourished in the latter 


LEJAY 


41 


LELAND 


part of the 14th and the early years of the 15th century, 
lie first comes under our notice as one of the two prel- 
ates — the archbishop of Fragile being the other — before 
whom John IIuss was to be cited for heresy. Ilis posi- 
tion and influence in Bohemia were such that Stephen 
Faletz, writing against Huss, dedicated to him his Dia- 
log us Volatilis. As the troubles at Prague increased, he 
was one of those to whom the archbishop of Prague ap- 
plied for advice, and his response was in accordance with 
ills notoriously stern and unbending character. When 
the Council of Constance met in 1414, he was present as 
a member, and took a leading part in its proceedings. 
He was the first to denounce the Calixtine practice, 
recently introduced by Jacobel at Prague, and he was 
commissioned by the council to take measures for its 
suppression. His enmity to Huss was signalized by the 
language used by him in the council, and excited the 
deep indignation of the friends of the Reformer, who did 
not hesitate to reprehend his course publicly in severe 
terms. His persistent energy, however, merited the eu- 
logiums of the council, and by them he was appointed to 
bear their threatening letter to Bohemia, in which they 
attempted to terrify the followers of IIuss into submis- 
sion. The mission, however, proved a failure. The 
person of the bishop was no longer safe in his own coun- 
try, and he returned to the council. The first reward 
of his diligence was his promotion, about A.D. 1416, to 
the bishopric of Olmutz, in Moravia. On the secession 
of Conrad, archbishop of Prague, to the Calixtines a 
short time afterwards, he was promoted to the vacant 
dignity. This, however, he was not destined to enjoy. 
The ascendency of the Calixtines must have excluded 
him from Prague, if not from Bohemia ; and perhaps 
among all the enemies of the Hussites, during the pe- 
riod of their religions wars, there was no one who could 
have been sooner made the victim of their vengeance 
than the obnoxious bishop. But as no mention is made 
of him at a subsequent date, and as he does not appear 
to have fallen into the hands of the Hussite leaders, we 
may presume that his life must have closed soon after 
the dissolution of the Council of Constance. lie was 
eminently a martial prelate, and was known by the 
sobriquet of “John the Iron.” Notices of him will be 
found in many histories of his times. See Von der Hardt, 
Authorities on the Council of Constance ; Lenfant, Coun- 
cil of Constance ; Gillett, Life and Times of John Huss , 
vols. i and ii ; F. Polacky, May. J. I/us Documenta. — Ne- 
ander, Ch. Ilist. v, 296 sq. (E. H. G.) 

Lejay, Gui-Micuel, a noted French scholar in ex- 
egetical theology, was born at Paris in 1588. While at 
the high school he paid particular attention to the East- 
ern languages, and in 1615 projected a polyglot of the 
Bible, known as the Paris Polyglot (Paris, 1629-45, 10 
vols. folio), and entitled Biblia Hebraica , Samaritana , 
ChaUIaica , Grceca , Syriara , Latina , A rabica, quibits tex- 
tus origimdes totius Scripturce sacrce , quarum pars in 
editione Co?nplutensi , delude in Antwerpiensi regiis sump- 
tibus extat, nunc integri ex manuscriptis toto fere orbe 
queesitis exemplaribus exkibentur . The first four vols. 
contain the Ileb., Chald., Sept., and Vulg. texts of the 
O. T.; vols. v and vi the N. T. in Gr., Syr., Arab., and 
Lat. ; vol. vii, the Ileb. Samar. Pent., the Sam. version, 
with translation by Morinus, the Arab, and Syr. Pent.; 
vols. viii-x, the rest of the books of the O. Test, in Syr. 
and Arab. Lejay lost largely by this publication ; but, 
as a reward for his labor and cost, he was ennobled. 
The work was the best of its kind till the London Poly- 
glot appeared, by which it was soon superseded. See 
Lelong, JHscours historique sur les principales editions 
des Bibles polyglottcs (Paris, 1713, 12mo), p. 104 sq., 879, 
399 sq., 545, 546 sq. ; Hoefcr, Xouv. Biog. Generate, xxx, 
512 sq. ; Ivitto, Cyclop. Bibl. Lit. vol. ii, s. v. 

Lejbowicz. Sec Frank. 

Lejuive, Paul, a French Jesuit missionary, was 
horn in 1592, entered the Jesuitical order, and labored in 
Canada for seventeen years. He returned to France in 


1632, and died Ang. 7, 1664. He published a descriptive 
work on Canada and its native tribes (7 vols., 1640). — 
lloefer, Xouv. Biog. Gen. xxx, 518. 

Lelancl, Aaron, a Baptist minister, sixth in de- 
scent from Henry Leland,the Puritan ancestor of all the 
Lelands in America, but in a different line from his more 
noted contemporary. Rev. John Lelaiul, was bom in Hol- 
liston, Mass., May 28, 1761. Of a naturally vigorous and 
| inquisitive mind, he grew up with a larger measure of 
intelligence than his limited means of early culture 
would have indicated as probable. He united in 1785 
with the Baptist Church in Bellingham, by which 
Church he was licensed to preach, and subsequently or^ 
dained. He soon after removed to Chester, Yt., where 
he gathered a small Church, which in thirteen years 
had become five — in Chester, Andover, Grafton, Weth- 
ersfield, and Cavendish. From Chester he visited Ja- 
maica, in the same county, guided through the wilder- 
ness by marked trees : these visits resulted in the for- 
mation of several churches in that vicinity. He was + 
not only an active and successful minister, but had im- 
portant civil trusts committed to him by the suffrages 
of his fellow-citizens. He sat in the state Legislature 
I several years; three years he was speaker of the House; 

I four years a member of the council; five years succes- 
sively lieutenant governor; and nothing but his own 
j conviction of its incompatibility with the duties of his 
higher calling prevented his (lection to the governor- 
ship of the state. He refused to permit any civil en- 
gagements to hinder his usefulness and success as a 
Christian minister, and he continued to fidfil his calling 
with great energy, zeal, and success, until worn out with 
toil. He died August 25, 1833. He was a popular and 
effective preacher. His commanding form and counte- 
nance; his musical and sonorous voice; his ready and 
fervid, often impassioned utterance; his vigorous intel- 
lect and great tenderness of spirit, gave him unusual 
power over congregations. He was often sought as an 
orator on public occasions, and called to give counsel in 
ecclesiastical questions. His zeal was enlisted in the 
temperance cause, insisting on total abstinence from in- 
toxicating beverages, and in promoting ministerial edu- 
cation and all liberal culture. He was in the hoard of 
fellows of Middlebury College from the year 1800 till his 
death. (L. E. S.) 

Leland, John (1), a celebrated English divine, 
was born at Wigan, Lancashire, Oct. 18, 1691, and was 
educated at the University in Dublin. In 1716 he be- 
came pastor of a Presbyterian Church in Dublin, lie 
afterwards distinguished himself in a series of works in 
which he defended with great eloquence the Christian 
religion against the attacks of Atheists and Deists. As 
an acknowledgment of his services, the University of 
Aberdeen gave him the title of D.D. He died Jan. 16, 
1766. His important works are, Defence of Christianity 
(Dublin, 1733, 2 vols. 8vo, and often; intended as an an- 
swer to Tin dal's Christianity .as old as the Creation. Dub- 
lin, 1773, 2 vols. 8vo) : — The divine Authority of the Old 
and Xew Testament asserted, with a particular Indication 
of the Characters of Moses and the Prophets, and Jesus 
Christ and his Apostles, against the unjust Aspersions 
and false Reasoning of a Booh entitled “ The Moral rhi- 
losopher ,,> (Loud. 1739, 8vo) : — View of the principal De- 
istical Writei'S in England in the last and present Century 
(ibid. 1751, 2 vols. 8vo), and two supplements. A new 
edition, with Appendix, by W. L. Brown, D.D., was pub- 
lished in 1798 (2 vols. 8vo). The best edition is the 
fifth, which has a valuable Introduction, comprising a 
succinct view of the subsequent history of the contro- 
versy, by Cyrus L\ Edmonds (London, 1837, 8vo). He 
who can read this work and yet remain an unbeliever 
in Christianity must be hopelessly obtuse or perversely 
prejudiced : — A d vantage and Necessity of Christian Rev- 
elation (London, 1764, 2 vols. 4to). After his death, his 
Sermons were published in 4 volumes 8vo by Dr. Isaac 
Weld, with the Life of Dr. Leland. See the last work, 


LELAND 


342 


LEMAISTRE DE SACI 


and British Biog. vol. x ; Allibone, Bid. of British and 
American A uthors , vol. ii, s. v. 

Leland, John (2), a Baptist minister, distantly 
related to Aaron Leland (see above), was born in Graf- 
ton, Massachusetts, May 14, 1754. About the age of 
eigliteen he had strong and painful religious impres- 
sions ; lie emerged into light and peace gradually, and, 
after the lapse of several months, was baptized in 
June, 1774, in Bellingham, and was regularly licensed 
by the Church, lie removed in 1776 to Virginia, 
where for above fourteen years he exercised an itin- 
erant ministry, preaching over all the eastern section 
of the state, sometimes extending his tours southward 
into North Carolina, and northward as far as Phila- 
delphia. He was ordained in Virginia, somewhat ir- 
regularly, in 1777, and again ten years later, with more 
regard to form and customary usage. II is evangelical 
labors were attended with large success. He baptized 
seven hundred persons, and gathered churches at Or- 
ange and Louisa, one of three hundred and the other 
of two hundred members. He made the acquaintance 
of Mr. Madison, with whom he maintained a pleasant 
correspondence for many years, effectively co-operating 
with him to secure the ratification by Virginia of the 
Constitution of the United States. In 171)1 he return- 
ed to New England, and the year following settled in 
Cheshire, Mass., where he resided till his death. Though 
acting for a limited period as pastor of the Church in 
Cheshire, he was always an itinerant, making extensive 
tours over western Massachusetts, often into the adja- 
cent parts of New York, and into more distant sections 
of New England ; twice visiting Virginia, and, wherever 
he went, preaching and baptizing — these two items of 
‘•the great commission” (Matt, xxviii, 19, 20) being all 
to which he felt himself called. His last record of bap- 
tism was Aug. 17, 1834, when he was over eighty years 
of age, which brought up the number of baptisms in his 
ministry to 1524. He still continued to preach, and 
died in the work at North Adams, Mass., Jan. 14, 1841. 
He recorded, when at the age of sixty-six, that he had 
then preached eight thousand sermons, and in order to 
do it had travelled distances which would thrice girdle 
the globe. His Life and Remains , edited by his daugh- 
ter, including an autobiography, additional memoirs, and 
eighty pieces — sermons, tracts, public addresses, and es- 
says on religious, moral, and political topics — most of 
which had been printed in pamphlet form during his 
life, were published not long after his decease, forming 
a volume of 700 pages 8vo. “ Elder” Leland, as he w'as 
commonly styled, was in theology a Calvinist of the old 
school, l ie was always popular as a preacher and WTit- 
er, especially among the less-cultivated class. The ele- 
ments of his success w’ere a strikingly-original, often 
eccentric cast of thought; a terse, telling expression, 
abounding in compact, apothegmatic, easily-remember- 
ed sentences ; a vigorous Saxon-English diction ; slight- 
ly provincial ( ;< Yankee”), homely illustration, often a 
spice of humor, and his sermons w'ere never wanting in 
earnest appeal. These qualities were aided by his tall 
figure, the compass of his voice, and a peculiar but ef- 
fective action. His singular views as to the limit of his 
ministerial duty, leading him to baptize converts with- 
out gathering them into churches, caused his success as 
an evangelist to leave less durable traces than might 
otherwise have been looked for. The relations of Church 
and State in Virginia and in most of New' England, 
during the earlier period of his ministry, led him into a 
habit of political activity which was sometimes censured 
bv persons unable to appreciate a state of society which 
had passed away. Two hymns, published anonymously 
in most hymn-books — one the popular evening hymn, 
“The day is past and gone;” the other beginning, “Now 
the Saviour standeth pleading” — are ascribed to his pen, 
and not improbably the simple melodies in which they 
are oftenest sung. Ilis productions, consisting of sev- 
eral sermons, essays, and addresses, were published after 
his death, with a memoir of the author by Miss L. F. 


Greene (1845, 8vo). See Sprague, Annals of the A mer - 
icon Pulpit, vi, 174. (L. E. S.) 

Leland, Thomas, D.D., an English divine, was 
born at Dublin in 1722, and w r as educated at Trinity 
College in that city, lie became senior fellow of the 
college, and w r as made a professor of poetry there in 
1763; aftenvards vicar of Bray, and later chaplain to 
the lord lieutenant of Ireland. He died in 1785. Le- 
land w r as a profound scholar and a most eloquent preach- 
er. He published the Orations of Demosthenes, Latin 
version and notes (London, 1754, 2 vols. 12mo),in con- 
junction w’ith Dr. John Stokes: — the Orations [T9] of 
Demosthenes, in English (1756-61-70,3 vols. 4to; last 
ed. 1831, 12mo): — Hist, of the Life aiul Reiejn of Philip, 
King of Macedon (1758, 2 vols.4to; last ed. 1820, 2 vols. 
8vo) : — Dissertation on the Principles of Human Elo- 
quence, etc. (1764, 4to), elicited by bishop Warburton’s 
Discourse on the Doctrine of Grace : answered (anony- 
mously) by Hurd, on behalf of AVarburton, in a very 
petulant letter. Answer to a letter to him, etc., 1764, 
4to. This is a reply to Hurd. Leland answ’ered for 
himself, and. in the opinion of all the world, completely 
demolished his antagonist. See Allibone, Did. of Brit, 
and Amer. A uthors, vol. ii, s. v. 

Lelong, Jacques, an eminent French bibliographer, 
w'as born at Paris April 1 9, 1665. In 1677 he was sent by 
his father to Malta, to be educated as a member of the 
order of Knights, but not liking the severity with which 
lie w*as treated, he obtained permission to return to Paris. 
Here he continued his studies, and, as he had not yet 
taken the vow’s of the Order of St.John of Malta, he en- 
tered the Congregation of the Oratory in 1686. lie be- 
came successively professor of mathematics in the Col- 
lege of Juilli, and aftenvards in the seminary- of Notre 
Dame des Vertus, near Paris. Later he was appointed 
librarian of that institution, and in 1699 w r as transferred 
in the same capacity io the library of the Oratoire St. Ho- 
nor?, at Paris, one of the richest in that city, especially 
in Oriental books and MSS. This position he occupied 
for tw'enty-two years, rendering the greatest services to 
the scientific w r orld by his valuable bibliographical' re- 
searches, and by a threefold catalogue. He died Aug. 
17. 1721 . His most important work, which is yet highly 
prized by students, is his Bibliotheca Sacra (Par. 1709, 2 
vols. Svo ; 2d ed. 1723, 2 vols. fol. — this latter ed. is by far 
the best). Another augmented edition was published af- 
ter his death by Desmolcts, a priest of the Oratory (Par- 
is, 1723, 2 vols. fob). A valuable supplement was after- 
wards added to it, and the whole w’ork carefully revised, 
by Chr. Fr. Burner (Lips. 1709); another enlarged and 
extended edition was published by A. G. Masch (Ilalle, 
1778-1790. 5 vols. 4to). As a historian. Lelong distin- 
guished himself particularly by his Billiot h'eque histo- 
rique de la France, contenant le catalogue des our rages 
imprimis et manuscrits, qui traitent de VhisUnre de ce 
rogaume (Par. 1719; 2d ed. by Fevrct de Fontetto, Par. 
1768, 5 vols. fob). This w’as to have been followed by 
notices on the author of these works. Lelong wrote 
Discours historiques sur les principals editions des Bibles 
Polgglottes (Paris. 1713): — Supplement a Vhistoire des 
didionuaires IJebreux de Wolfits (Par. 1707): — Xouvelle 
metkode deslangues llebraique et Chaldaique (Par. 1708), 
etc. See Desmolcts, 17c du P. Lelong, in the 2d and 3d 
edition of the Bibliotheca Sacra ; 1 1 erzog, Real-Encyldo- 
juidie, viii, 290: lloefcr, Xoui\ Biog. O ini rale, xxx, 540 
sq. ; Kit to. Bill. Cgclop. s. v. 

Lemaistre de Saci (or SacyY Isaac Louis, a 
noted French Jansenist theologian, a nephew' of Antoine 
Arnauld le Grand, was horn in Paris March 29. 1613; w'as 
ordained a priest in 1650. and became confessor or prin- 
cipal director of the recluses of Port Koval. Entangled 
in a controversy "with the Jesuits, he was persecuted by 
the authorities, both civil and ecclesiastical, in 1661, and, 
after having vainly sought refuge among friends, was 
confined in the Bastile in 1666. During his imprison- 
ment, which lasted two years, he made a French trans- 


LE MERCIER 


343 


LEND 


lation of the Old Testament. He had previously been 
one of the translators of the New Testament of Mons 
(1667). which was often reprinted. Inconsequence of 
renewed persecution, he left Port Royal in 1670, seeking 
peace and quiet at the country seat of a friend of his. 
There he died, Jan. 4, 1684. lie published French ver- 
sions of several classical works, and of valuable theolog- 
ical treatirses; also of Thomas a Kempis’s Imitation. See 
I loefer, Nouv. Biog . Generate, xxx, 568 ; Ste. Beuve, Port 
Roy til, ii, 1,2; Kit to, Bill. Cyclop, s. v. Saev, de. 

Le Mercier, Jacques, a French architect, born at 
Pontoise about 1600, is noted as the builder of the 
Church of the Sorbonne at Paris, reared by order of car- 
dinal Richelieu about 1635. Le Mercier obtained the 
title of chief architect to the king. Among other ad- 
mired works of his are the Church of the Annoneiade at 
Tours, and that of Saint Iioch in Paris. He died in 
1660.— Thomas, Biog. Bict. p. 1401 ; Hoefer, Nouv. Bioy. 
Generate , xxx, 583. 

Lemoine, Francois, a celebrated French painter of 
the 18th century, was born at Paris in 1688. He was 
the pupil of Louis Galloehe, early distinguished himself, 
and in 1718 was elected a member of the Royal Academy 
of Painting. His great reputation at this time is due 
mainly to his painting, in oil, of the Transfiguration of 
Christ on the ceiling of the choir of the Church des .Jac- 
obins, Rue du Bacq. In 1724 Lemoine visited Italy, and 
in the year following, on his return to France, was made 
professor of painting in the Academy. Louis NY ap- 
pointed him in 1736 his principal painter, with a salary 
of 4100 francs, in the plaee of Louis de Boullogne, de- 
ceased. The lirst of Lemoine’s great works was the 
cupola of the chapel of the Virgin in St.Sidpice, in fres- 
co, which he commenced in‘1729 — a work of three years’ 
labor. His masterpiece, however, is the Apotheosis of 
Hercules, painted in oil on canvas pasted on the ceiling 
of the Salon dTIcrcule at Versailles, commenced in 1732, 
and finished in 1736. He committed suicide June 4, 
1737. See Iloefer, Nouv. Bioy. Generate, xxx, 617 ; Eng- 
lish Cyclopaedia, s. v. 

L’Empereur, Constantine, a celebrated Dutch 
Orientalist, was born at Oppyck, in the Netherlands, 
about 1570. He was professor of Hebrew at Harder- 
wide until 1627, when he was called to the University 
of Leyden as professor of Hebrew, and some time after 
was made professor of theology in that high school. lie 
died in 1648. L’Empereur edited the Commentary of 
Abcn-Ezra and Mos. Aischeeli on Isa. lii, 13-liii, 12, with 
notes (Leyd. 1633) $ and the Paraphrase of Joseph ben- 
Jachja on Daniel, with translation and notes (Amsterd. 
1633), also the Mishnic tracts Baba Kama ami Middoth 
(Leyd. 1737, 4to). He wrote himself De Dignitate et Util- 
itate Linynce Hebraicte (1627, 8vo) : — Claris Talmudica , 
complectens formulas, loca dialectica et logica priscorum 
Jmheorum (Leyden, 1634, 4to): — De legg. Ilebr. forens. 
(Leyd. 1637, 4to); and Dispu tat tones thtologicce (Leyd. 
1648, 8vo). See Kitto, Cyclop. Bibl. Lit. s. v. ; Iloefer, 
Nouv. Bioy. Gen. xxx, 642 ; Fiirst, Bibl. Jud. i, 245 sq. 

Lempriere, John, a distinguished English biogra- 
pher, was born in Jersey about 1760. He was educated 
at Winchester and at Pembroke College, Oxford, and 
subsequently became first head master of Abingdon 
Grammar-school, and later of the school at Exeter. In 
1810 he resigned the latter, and the following year was 
presented to the livings of Meeth and Newton Pet rock, 
in Devonshire, which he retained until his death, Feb. 1, 
1824. Lempriere was a man of extensive learning, and 
thoroughly acquainted with antiquity. Ilia Bibliotheca 
Classica (1788, 8vo ; subsequently reprinted, with addi- 
tions by himself) is still in general use in the universi- 
ties. lie wrote also a translation of Herodotus, with 
notes (1792), of which the first volume only was pub- 
lished, and a Universal Biography (1803, 4to and 8vo). 
This last wprk, compiled with great care, has run through 
several editions. The name of Lempriere was once well 
known to every English-speaking classical student, but 


the rising generation is forgetting it, and it will soon 
become vox et preeterea nihil. A Classical Dictionary 
(. Bibliotheca Clussica, 1788) of his was for many years 
the English standard work of reference on all matters 
of ancient mythology, biography, and geography. See 
Davenport, A nn. Biog. 1824 ; Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Gener. 
xxx, 643 ; Chambers, Cyclopedia, s. v. ; Allibone, Did. 
of Brit, and Amer. Authors, vol. ii, s. v. 

Lem'uel (Hebrew Lemuel', Prov. xxxi, 1 ; 

Sept. u7ro Sto v, Vulgate Lamuel ; also Lemoel, bfcOEb 
Prov. xxxi, 4; Sept, tt aura 7roie7, Vidgate Lamuel), an 
unknown prince, to whom the admonitory apothegms 
of Prov. xxxi, 2-9 were originally addressed by his 
mother. Most interpreters understand Solomon to be 
meant either symbolically (the name signifying to God, 
i. e. created by him) or bv a pleasing epithet (see Ro- 
senmtiller, Scholia ad Prov. p. 718). The Rabbinical 
commentators identify Lemuel with Solomon, and tell 
a strange tale that when he married the daughter of 
Pharaoh, on the day of the dedication of the Temple, 
he assembled musicians of all kinds, and passed the 
night awake. On the morrow he slept till the fourth 
hour, with the keys of the Temple beneath his pillow, 
when his mother entered, and upbraided him in the 
words of Prov. xxxi, 2-9. Others (e. g. Grotius) refer 
it to Ilezekiah (by a precarious etymology), while still 
others (e. g, Gesenius) think that no Israelite is referred 
to, but some neighboring petty Arabian prince. On the 
other hand, according to Eichhorn ( Einkitung , v, 106), 
Lemuel is altogether an imaginary person (so Ewald; 
comp. Bertholdt, v, 2196 sq.). Prof. Stuart ( Comment . 
on Prov. p. 403 sq.) renders the expression “Lemuel, the 
king ofMassa,” and regards him as the brother of Agur, 
whom he makes to have been likewise a son of the 
queen of Massa, in the neighborhood of Dumah. See 
Agur; Itiiiel. In the reign of Ilezekiah, a roving 
band of Simeonites drove out the Amalekites from 
Mount Seir and settled in their stead (1 Chron. iv, 38- 
43), and from these exiles of lsraclitish origin Hitzig 
conjectures that Lemuel and Agur were descended, the 
former having been born in the land of Israel ; and that 
the name Lemuel is an older form of Nemnel, the first- 
born of Simeon {Die Spruche Salomo's , p. 310-314). 
But this interpretation is far-fetched; and none is more 
likely than that which fixes the epithet upon Solomon. 
See Proverbs. 

Lemures, the general designation given by the Ro- 
mans to all spirits of departed persons, of whom the 
good were honored as Lares (q. v.), and the bad (Lar- 
va?) were feared, as ghosts or spectres still are by the 
superstitious. The common idea was that the Lemures 
and Larva? were the same, and were said to wander 
about during the night, seeking for an opportunity of 
inflicting injury on the living (Horat. Epist. ii, 2, 209; 
Pers. v, 185). The festival called Lemuria was held on 
the 9th, 11th, and 13th of May, and was accompanied 
with ceremonies of washing hands, throwing black beans 
over the head, etc., and the pronunciation nine times of 
these words: “Begone, you spectres of the house I” 
which deprived the Lemures of their power to harm. 
Ovid describes the Lemuria in the fifth book of his 
Easti. See De Dev Sacr. p. 237, ed. Bip. ; Servius, ad 
EEn. iii, 63 ; Varro, ap. Nov. p. 135 ; comp. Ilartung, Die 
Religion der Romer, i, 55, etc. ; Smith, Diet, of Greek and 
Rom. Biog. and Myth. vol. ii, s. v. ; Chambers, Cyclop, s. v. 

Lend (represented by several Ileb. words which in 
other forms likewise signify to borroic, c.g. IT'b, lav ah' ; 
TVCXnashah' ; ~C'lV,abat'; Gr. cavei£u), \pdw). Among 
the Israelites, m the time of Moses, it must have been 
very common to lend on pledge, in the strict sense, ac- 
cording to the meaning of the word in natural law, which 
allows the creditor, in case of non-payment, to appropri- 
ate the pledge to his own behoof, without any authori- 
j tative interference of a magistrate, and to keep it just 
I as rightfully as if it had been bought with the sum 


LENFANT 


344 


LENFANT 


which has been lent for it, and which remaims unpaid. 
Ihit while pledges are under no judicial regulation, much 
extortion and villainy may be practiced, when the poor 
man who wishes to borrow is in straits, and must of 
course submit to all the terms of the opulent lender. 
It will not be imputed to Closes as a fault that his stat- 
utes contain not those legal refinements, which probably 
were not then invented, and which even yet may be 
said rather to be on record in our statute-books than to 
be in our practice. They would have been dangerous 
to his people, and peculiarly oppressive to the poor. lie 
let pledge remain in its proper sense, pledge, and thus 
facilitated the obtaining of loans, satisfying himself with 
making laws against some of the chief abuses of pledg- 
ing (Micliaelis, Mos. Recht.). See Pledge. These laws 
may be found in Exod. xxii, 25; Dent, xxiv, G, 10-13. 
By the analogy of these laws, other sorts of pledges 
equally, if not more indispensable, such as the utensils 
necessary for agriculture, or the ox and ass used for the 
plough, must certainly, and with equal, and even great- 
er reason, have been restored. The law in Deut. xxiv, 
12, 13, is expressed in sueh general terms, that we can- 
not but see that the pledge under which the debtor must 
sleep is merely given as an example, and conclude, of 
course, that, in general, from the needy no pledge was to 
he exacted, the want of which might expose him to an 
inconvenience or hardship, more especially when we find 
the lawgiver here declaring that God would regard the 
restoration of sueh pledges as almsgiving, or righteous- 
ness. So it was in fact, and at the same time it was at- 
tended with no loss whatever to the creditor; for lie had 
it in his power, at last, by the aid of summary justice, to 
lay hold of the whole property of the debtor, and if he 
hail none, of his person; and in the event of non-pay- 
ment, to take him for a hired servant. The law gave him 
sufficient security; but with this single difference, that 
he durst not make good payment at his own hand, but 
must prosecute (Lev. xxv, 30-55; Neli.v,5). See Dedt. 
In the book of Job, the character of a lender upon pledge 
is thus depicted: “He extorts pledges without having 
lent, and makes his debtors go naked” (xxii, G; xxiv, 7); 
“lie takes the widow’s ox for a pledge” (xxiv, 3) ; “He 
takes the infant of the needy for a pledge” (xxiv. 9-11). 
On this subject our Saviour exhorted his disciples to 
the most liberal and forbearing course towards all whom, 
they could aid or who were indebted to them (Luke vi, 
30-35). See Loan; Usury. 

Lenfant, Alexandre-Charles-Anne, a French 
priest of note, was born at Lyons Sept. 6, 172G, and was 
educated by the Jesuits of his native place. In 1741 he 
entered the order, and became professor of rhetoric at 
Marseilles. Endowed with great talent as a speaker, 
he became one of the most popular pulpit orators of liis 
order. After its suppression Lenfant combated the doc- 
trines of the philosophical antagonists of Christianity, 
particularly Diderot. In 1792 he was arrested by the 
Revolutionists, and subjected to capital punishment at 
Paris Sept. 3, 1793. liis works are an Oraison funebre 
on Belzunce, archbishop of Marseilles (175G, 8vo), and 
another on the father of Louis XVI (Nancy, 17GG) 
Sermons pour V A vent <t pour le Care me (Paris, 1818, 8 
vols. 12mo). See lloefer, Xonv. JJiog. Gen. xxx, G58. 

Lenfant, Jacques, a very noted French preacher 
and theologian, the son of Paul Lenfant, the Protestant 
minister of Chatilloii-sur-Seine, was born at Bazoehe, in 
Boauro, a district of the ancient province of Orleannois, 
in 1* ranee, April 13, 1GG1. Intended for the same pro- 
fession as liis lather, he was sent to prosecute his studies 
at Saumtir; and during his residence at that university 
he lived with the learned Jacques Casscl, the professor 
of Hebrew, with whom he formed a friendship which 
continued during their lives, lie completed his theo- 
logical education at Geneva and Heidelberg^, in which 
latter town he was admitted to the ministry of the 
Protestant Church in 1G84. Soon after his ordination 
he obtained the appointment of minister of the French 


Church at Heidelberg, and chaplain to the dowager 
electress Palatine. The invasion of the Palatinate by 
the French troops, under marshal Turenne, compelled 
Lenfant to leave Heidelberg in 1G88, and he settled at 
Berlin. The fear of meeting his countrymen arose from 
his having rendered himself obnoxious to the Jesuits by 
two letters which he had written against that society, 
and which are appended to his work, entitled A Pre- 
servative against a Reunion with the Church of Rome. 
Though the Protestant French church of that city had 
already a sufficient number of pastors attached to it, the 
reigning elector of Brandenburg, Frederick, afterwards 
king of Prussia, who knew Lenlant by reputation, ap- 
pointed him to that church, where for upwards of thir- 
ty-nine years he performed duty. In 1707, on a visit 
to England, he preached before queen Anne, and it is 
said that he so pleased the queen that she desired him 
to enter the Church of England, and olfered him the 
appointment as her chaplain. In 1710 he obtained the 
situation of chaplain to the king of Prussia, and coun- 
cillor of the High Consistory. Lenfant was suddenly 
attacked with paralysis, while in the apparent enjoy- 
ment of perfect health, July 29, 1728, and died on the 7th 
of August following. His disposition is represented as 
having been extremely amiable, and his manner simple 
and modest. Of a reflective turn of mind, he spoke but 
little, and that little well. Though a most voluminous 
writer, he was fond of society, and opened himself with- 
out reserve to the confidence of his friends. As a preach- 
er, his manner was pleasing and persuasive; the matter 
of his discourse was chiefly of a practical nature, and his 
eloquence was rather chaste than energetic. The style 
of his writing is elegant, though never florid ; it has less 
force than that of Jurieu, and less eloquence than that 
of Saurin, but the French is purer, and the diction 
more refined. It is not certain whether he was the first 
to form the design of the Biblioth'eque Germanique , 
which was commenced in 1720, but he took a prominent 
part in its execution, and is the acknowledged author 
of the preface. Lenfant’s first work, which appeared in 
1G83, was a review of one of Brueys, who, though a cel- 
ebrated French dramatist, has written several theologi- 
cal works in defence of the Roman Catholic faith. In 
1G88 he published a translation of a selection from the 
letters of St. Cyprian ; in 1G90, a defence of the Heidel- 
berg Catechism, which is generally annexed to his Pre- 
serratire, etc., a work M r e have before alluded to; and 
in 1G91, a Latin translation of the celebrated work of 
the pere Malebranche, La Recherche de la Verite. His 
history of the female pope Joan appeared in 1G94: the 
arguments in it are drawn from the Latin dissertation 
on that subject of Spanheim. It is said, however, that 
in after life Lenfant discovered and acknowledged the 
absurdity of this fiction. See Joan, Rope. In 1708 
appeared his remarks on the Greek edition of the New 
Testament by Mill, which are in the Biblioth'eque Choi- 
sie of Le Clerc, vol. xvi. The following works after- 
wards appeared in succession : 1. Reflexions et Re- 
morgues sur la Dispute du Pere Martiang avec nn Juif: 
— 2. Memoire J/istorique ton chant la Communion sur les 
deux especes : — 3. Critique ties Remarqnes dn Pere ) \i- 
vaseur; sur les Reflexions de Rapin touchant la Po'e- 
tique : — 4. Repome de J/ons. Len fant a Mans. Dartis ait 
sujet du Soeiniunisme. The above short works are to 
be found in the Xonvelle de la Repnbliqne des Lett res , a 
review to which Lenfant was a frequent contributor. 
In 1714 was published his learned and interesting IJis- 
toire du Coneile de Constance (Amsterd. 1714, 2 vols. 4to ; 
1727. and an Engl, transl. Loud. 1730, 2 vols. 4to). Two 
years after he wrote an apology for this work, which 
had been severely attacked in t lie Journal de Trevonx. 
In 1718, in conjunction with Beausobre, he published a 
translation of the New Testament, with explanatory 
notes, and a long and most learned introduction. It is 
l>v this work ( Le Xonv. Test, t radu it en Fravgais sur 
V original Grec, Amsterdam, 1718, 2 vols. 4 to), perhaps, 
that he is best known to English-speaking students. 


LENG 


345 


LENT 


Among the most important of his other productions 
are Poggiana , or the Life, Character , and Maxims of 
the celebrated Florentine Writer Poggio (Amsterdam, 
1720 ) : — A Prevent ice against Reunion with the See of 
Rome , and Reasons for Separation from that See (Am- 
sterdam, 1723), a work which continues to enjoy great 
popularity among Protestants : — Ilistoire tin Concile de 
Pise , et de ce qui s'est passe de plus memorable depuis 
ce Concile jusqu'a celui de Constance , a learned and ac- 
curate work, written with sufficient impartiality (Am- 
sterd. 1724, 2 vols. 4to) : — a volume containing sixteen 
Sermons on different Texts of Scripture (1728) : — a small 
volume of Remarks on Gisberfs Treatise on Pulpit Elo- 
quence , a work which has greatly added to his alreadv 
high reputation : — Ilistoire de la Guerre des Hussites et 
du Concile de Bale (Amstcrd. 1731, 2 vols.4to), for which 
he had beeu many years collecting materials, and in the 
preparation of which, through the influence of the king 
of Prussia, he had access to the archives of the corpora- 
tion of Basle. See English Cyclopaedia, s. v. : Iloefer, 
i Youv. Biog. Gene rale, xxx, 657 ; Biblioth. Germanique , 
xvi, 115 sq. 

Leng, John, an English prelate, was bom in 1665, 
and, after having completed his studies at Cambridge, 
became chaplain to king George I. In 1723 his royal 
master made Leng bishop of Norwich. He died in 1727. 
lie published editions of the Pint us and Nubes of Aris- 
tophanes (1695): — an excellent edition of Terence (Cam- 
bridge, 1701) : — Sermons at Bogie's Lectures (1717-18), 
and twelve separate Sermons (1699-1727). See Nich- 
ols’s Lit. A nee. Lyson's Environs. — Allibone, Dictionary 
of British and American A uthors , ii, 1084. 

Lengerke, Casar, a noted German theologian, was 
born at Hamburg March 30, 1803. lie was educated at 
the University of Kbnigsberg, and became a professor 
of theology and Oriental languages at that high school 
in 1829. He died Feb. 3, 1855. II is most important 
works are, De Ephrcemi Syri arte hermeneutica liber 
(1831 ): — Das Buck Daniel (1835): — Kenaan, Volks und 
Religionsgtsch. Jsraels, vol. i (1814). 

Lenoir, John, a French Jansenist priest, was born 
at Alen^on in 1G22. He became theological canon of 
Seez in 1652, and acquired great reputation as a preach- 
er both in Normandy and at Paris. He was accused 
of Jansenism, and by his quarrelsome disposition was 
made the subject of many annoyances. Itouxel de Me- 
davy, bishop of Scez, who had issued a charge for the 
publication of the Formulary, accused him of various 
errors, namely, of having permitted the publication of 
a work entitled Le Chretien Champetre by a layman, 
who said expressly that “there are four divine persons 
who are to be worshipped by the faithful, namely, Jesus 
Christ, St. Joseph, St. Anna, and St. Joachim; and that 
our Lord is present in the sacrament of the altar like a 
chicken in an egg-shell.” Lenoir presented then a pe- 
tition to Louis XIV, together with an attack on some 
propositions which he considered as heretical. His 
writings on these subjects were exceedingly violent: he 
attacked Itouxel de Medavy, who was then archbishop 
of Itoucn, and even De Harlav, the archbishop of Paris. 
A commission was appointed to judge him. and he was 
condemned, April 24, 1684, to make a public apology in 
front of the cathedral at Paris, and to work for life on 
the galleys. The sentence was not fully carried out; 
but he remained a prisoner successively in the prisons 
of St. Malo, Brest, and Nantes until his death, April 22, 
1092. He wrote, A vantages incontestables de VEglise sur 
les Calvinistes (Paris and Sens, 1673, 12mo) : — Xouvelles 
Lumieres politiques, on VEvangile nouveau (1G70 and 
1687, 12mo: this work arrested the publication of a 
ireuch translation of the History of the Council of Trent 
hy Pallavicini, and went through a third edition under 
the title of Politique et Intrigues de la cour de Rome 
f 169G, 12mo]) : — L'evcque de cour oppose it Veveque 
apostolique (Cologne, 1682, 2 vols, 12mo) -.—Lett re d M me 
la duchesse de Guise sur la domination episcopale, etc. 


(1 679, 1 2mo). See Supplem. au Necrolog. de Port Royal, 
1735; Diet. hist, des auteurs eccles.; Feller, Diet, hist.; 
Iloefer, JVouv. Biog. Gen. xxxviii, 203. (J. N. P.) 

Lent, the forty days’ fast, is the preparation for Eas- 
ter in the Western, Eastern, and Lutheran churches, 
and in the Church of England, and was instituted at a 
very early age of Christianity. In most languages the 
name given to this fast signifies the number of the days 
--Forty; but our word Lint signifies the Spring East , 
lor “ Lenten -Tide” in the Anglo-Saxon language was 
the season of spring, in German Lent. (For another 
etymology, see Lentile.) It is observed in commem- 
oration of our Lord’s fast in the wilderness (Matt, iv); 
and although he did not impose it on the world by an 
express commandment, yet he showed plainly enough 
bv his example that fasting, which God had soYrequent- 
ly ordered in the old covenant, was also to be practised 
by the children of the new. The observance of Lent 
was doubtless strongly confirmed by those words of the 
Iledeemer in answer to the disciples of John the Bap- 
tist : “ Can the children of the Bridegroom mourn as 
long as the Bridegroom is with them? But the days 
will come when t lie Bridegroom shall be taken away 
from them, and then shall they fast” (Luke v, 34, 35). 
Hence we find, in the Acts of the Apostles, that the dis- 
ciples, after the foundation of the Church, applied them- 
selves to fasting. In their epistles, also, they recom- 
mended it to the faithful. The primitive Christians 
scent to have considered Christ, in the above-mentioned 
.passage, as alluding to the institution of a particular 
season of fasting and prayer in his future Church, and 
it was therefore only natural that they should have 
made this period of penitence to consist of forty days, see- 
ing that our divine Master had consecrated that num- 
ber by his own fast, and before him Moses and Elijah 
had done the same-, it tvas even deduced from the forty 
years’ staying of the Israelites in the desert (Augustine, 
Se?'in. cclxiv, § 5). See Fasting, vol. iii, p. 489 (II). 

I. Practice of the Early Church. — In the age immedi- 
ately succeeding that of the apostles, it does not appear 
that much value was attached to the practice of fasting. 
In the Shepherd of Ilcrmas it is spoken of in disparaging 
terms. Very' little notice was taken of fasting hy the 
writers of the first centuries, which may be accounted 
for from the discouraging influence of the doctrines of 
Montanus, the tenets of the new Platonic school, and 
the progress of Gnosticism. Hence it seems that the 
observance of fasts was introduced into the Church slow- 
ly and by degrees. We learn from Justin Martyr that 
fasting was joined with prayer at Ephesus in the ad- 
ministration of baptism, which is worthy of being noted 
as an early addition to the original institution. In the 
2d century, in the time of Victor and lrctueus, it had 
become usual to fast before Easter, yet it consisted not 
in a single fast, but rather in a series of solemnities, 
which were deemed worthy of celebration. It was 
therefore the custom of several congregations to pre- 
pare themselves hy mortification and fasting, inaugu- 
rated on the afternoon of the day on which they com- 
memorated the crucifixion, and it was continued until 
the morning of the anniversary of the resurrection. The 
whole interval would thus be only about forty hours 
(Chrysostom, Orat. adv. Judwos, iii, § 4, vol. i, p. 011: ot 
—aripiQ irvTzwaav, Horn, ii in Genesin, § 1, vol. 

iv. p. 8; Iremcus, Epist. ad Victoria. Papiam ; Eusebius, 
Hist. Ecd. v, 24 ; Dionvs. Alex. Epist. Canon. ; Beveridge, 
Synod non). Clement of Alexandria, however, speaks of 
weekly fasts. Tertullian, in his treatise De Jejunio, 
complains bitterly of the little attention paid by the 
Church to the practice of fasting ; by which we may see 
that even orthodox Christians exercised in this matter 
that liberty of judgment which had been sanctioned by 
the apostles. Origen adverts to this subject only once, 
in his 10th Homily on Leviticus, where he speaks in ac- 
cordance with the apostolical doctrine. It appears, how- 
ever, from his observations, that at Alexandria Wednes- 
days and Fridays were then observed as fast-days, on 


LENT 


34G 


LENT 


the ground that our Lord was betrayed on a Wedncs- ] 
day, and crucified on a Friday. The custom of the 
Church at the end of the 4th century may be seen from a 
passage of Epiphanius: “In the whole Christian Church 
the following fast-days throughout the year are regu- 
lar] v observed : On Wednesdays and Fridays we fast un- 
til the ninth hour,” etc. 

But even at this comparatively late date there was 
no universal agreement in the practice of the Church in 
this matter, neither had fasts been established by law. 
Only later was the number of days (namely, forty) fixed 
according to the Greek and Latin names ( TtaaapaKoa - 
77 / =quailragesima). But for a long time the Oriental 
and Occidental churches differed. As the former did 
not permit its members to fast on the Sabbath, their 
fast continued one week longer (Socrates, / list. Eccles. i, 
v, c. 22; Eusebius, JJist. Eccles . v, 24; Sozomen, Hist. 
Eccles. vii, 19). The custom, so far as it existed, had 
been silently introduced into the Church, and its ob- 
servance was altogether voluntary at first. This fast- 
ing consisted in abstinence from food until three o’clock 
in the afternoon, but at a later period a custom was in- 
troduced, probably by the Montanists, affecting the kind 
of food to be taken, which was limited to bread, salt, and 
water. 

Some, however, who had become subject to the rules 
of the Church, tried to compensate themselves for their 
privation during the fasts by banqueting on the days 
preceding them (Chrysostom. De pcenitentia, horn, v, § 5, 
vol. ii, p. 315). Others adhered literally to the rules of 
fasting by avoiding strictly the prohibited food, but pre- 
pared from that which was permitted costly dainties 
(Augustine, Serin, ccviii, § 1). The fathers and teach- 
ers of the Church of this period, as Chrysostom, Augus- 
tine, Maximus of Turin, Crcsarius of Arles, etc., spoke 
often against this hypocritical fasting, and showed that 
abstinence would then only be of service when avoid- 
ance of sinful habits, etc., as well as contrition of heart, 
was connected with it. The general design, then, of 
the primitive Church in fasting forty days, we may 
give in the words of Chrysostom: “Many heretofore 
were used to come to the communion indevoutly and 
inconsiderately, especially at that time, when Christ first 
gave it to his disciples. Therefore our forefathers, con- 
sidering the mischief arising from such careless ap- 
proaches, meeting together, appointed forty days for 
fasting and prayer, and hearing sermons, and for holy 
assemblies; that all men in these days, being carefully 
purified by prayer, and alms-deeds, and fasting, and 
watching, and tears, and confession of sins, and other 
like exercises, might conic, according to their capacity, 
with a pure conscience, to the holy tabic.” 

“The ride of fasting for Lent varied greatly. It was 
usual to abstain from food altogether until evening, 
change of diet not being accounted sufficient. St. Am- 
brose exhorts men : * Differ aliquantulum, non longe fines 
est dici’ {Se rm. riii in Psalm cxviii). The food, when 
taken, was to be of the simplest and least delicate kind, 
animal food and wine being prohibited. St. Chrysostom 
{Horn, in on Stat.) speaks of those who for two days ab- 
stained from food, and of others who refused not only 
wine and oil, but every other dish, and throughout Lent 
partook of bread and water only. The Eastern Church, 
at the present day, observes a most strict rule of fasting. 
AViue and oil are allowed on Saturdays and Sundays, but 
even these days are only partially excepted from the re- 
strictions of Lent. The. discipline of Holy Week is ex- 
ceedingly rigorous. During Lent corporeal punishment 
was forbidden by the laws of Theodosius the ( ireat : ‘.Nul- 
la supplicia sint corporis quilms (diebus) ahsolutio ex- 
pectntur animarum’ {Cod. Theodos. ix, tit. x.xxv, leg. v.). 
Public games, and the celebration of birthdays, and mar- 
riages, were also interdicted (Condi. Laodic. li, liii). It 
was the special time for preparing catechumens for bap- 
tism, and most of St. Cyril’s catechetical lectures were 
delivered during Lent. St. Chrysostom’s celebrated 
Ilomilies on the /Statutes were preached during this sea- 


son. Daily instruction formed a part of the service, 
and holy communion was celebrated atleast every Lord’s 
day. The last week, the Ilolv or Great AVeck, was kept 
with still greater strictness and solemnity” (Blunt, Diet . 
of Doctrinal and Historical Theology , p. 408). 

II. Practice of later Times. — Fasting, after a time, 
ceased to be a voluntary exercise. By the second canon 
of the Council of Orleans, A.D. 541, it was decreed that 
any one who should neglect to observe the stated times 
of abstinence should be treated as an offender against 
the laws of the Church. The eighth Council of Toledo, 
in the 7th century (canon 9), condemns any one who 
should eat flesh during the fast before Easter, and says 
that such offenders should be forbidden the use of it 
throughout the year. In the 8tli century fasting began 
to be regarded as a meritorious work, and the breach of 
the observance at the stated times subjected the offender 
to excommunication. In later times some persons who 
ate flesh during Lent were punished with the loss of 
their teeth (Baronins, Annul, ad an. 1018). Afterwards 
these severities were to a great extent relaxed. Instead 
of the former limitation of diet on fast-davs to bread, 
salt, and water, permission was given for the use of all 
kinds of food except flesh, eggs, cheese, and wine. Then 
eggs, cheese, and wine were allowed, flesh only being 
prohibited, an indulgence whicli was censured by the 
Greek Church, and led to a quarrel between it and the 
Latin. In the 13th century a cold collation in the even- 
ing of fast-davs was permitted. 

The following are the fasts which generally obtained 
in the Church: 1 . The annual fast of forty days before 
Easter, or the Season of Lent. The duration of this 
fast at first was only forty hours (Tertnll. De Jejun. c. 2, 
13; Irenjeus, ap. Euseb. JJist. Eccl. 1. v, c. 24). By the 
time of Gregory the Great (in the 8th century) it had 
extended to thirty-six days, and it had been so accepted 
by the Council of Niciea; but by Gregory the Great, or 
hv Gregory IT, it was extended to forty days, the dura- 
tion of the recorded fasts of Moses, Elias, and our blessed 
Saviour (Exod. xxxiv, 28; 1 Kings xix, 8; Matt, iv, 2). 
Hence the term Quadragesima (q. v.), which had al- 
ready been used to denote this period, became strictly 
applicable. Socrates {JJist. JSccl. 1. vii, c. 19), Basil the 
Great, Ambrose, and Leo the Great speak of this quad- 
ragesimal fast as a divine institution but this can mean 
no more than that the fast was observed in imitation of 
the example of the divine Redeemer (Condi. Genonens . 
c. 7 — in canone apostolorum, G8 : “ Si quis Episcop., ant 
Prcsbyt., etc., sac. Quadragesimam Pascha?, aut quartam 
feriam, aut Parasecevem non jejunaverit,” etc. : Condi. 
Coloniens. ii, pt. 9, can. G). 2. Quarterly fasts, no traces 

of which occur before the 5th century, although Bcllar- 
minc {De bonis operibus , lib. ii, c. 19) says that the first 
three of these fasts were instituted in the times of the 
apostles, and the last by pope Calixtus, A.D. 224. 3. A 
fast of three dags before the. festival of the Ascension, 
introduced by Mamereus, bishop of A’lenne, in the mid- 
dle of the 5th century. In some places it was not cele- 
brated until after Whitsuntide. It was called Jejunium 
llogationnm , or Jejunium JAtaniarum, “ the fast of Ro- 
gations or Litanies,” on account of certain litanies sung 
on those days. The words A iraveia and Xirai, “lita- 
nies,” in Latin Supplicationes ct Jlogationcs, in their 
original signification, are but another name for prayers 
in general, of whatever kind, that either were made 
publicly in the church or by any private person. (See 
Euseb. Va7. Const. 1. i, c. 14;* 1. iv, c, GG; Chrysost. Horn, 
antequam iret in exilium ; Cod. J'heod. lib. xvi, tit. v, “ De 
luerotieus,” 1, 30, 1.) 4. Monthly fasts, a fast-day in 

every month except July and August {Condi. Jlliberit. 
can. 23; Tnron. ii, can. 18, 19). 5. Easts b< fore festi- 

vals, in the place of the ancient vigils which were abol- 
ished in the 5tlr century. G. Weekly fasts, on Wednes- 
days and Fridays, entitled stationes, from the practice 
of soldiers keeping guard, which was called statio by the 
Romans (“Stationum dies,” Tcrtnllian, De Oi'ut.; “Sta- 
tionibus quartam et sextain Sabbati dicamus,” Idem, De 


LENT 


347 


TEXTILE 


Jejunio; T ijg vgartiag, rijg TtrpaCog Kai rqg Trcipa- 
(TKfvf/g, Clem. Alex. Strom. 1. 7). These fasts were not 
so strictly observed as some others, and were altogether 
omitted between Easter and Whitsuntide. The obser- 
vance was enjoined especially upon the clergy and 
monks {Const it. A post, v, 15; Can. A post. G9). I>v the 
Council of Elvira, e. 20, at the beginning of the 4th cen- 
tury, Saturday was added to the weekly fasts, and this 
led to the gradual neglect of the Wednesday fast in the 
Western Church. The stations, or fasts on stationary 
days, terminated at three o’clock PAL (“non ultra no- 
nam detinendum,” Tertullian, De Jejunio ; “Quando et 
orationes fere nona bora eoncludat de Petri exemplo 
quod Act. x refertur,” ib. c. 2). Hence Tertullian calls 
them half-fasts (■* semijejunio stationum,” De Jejun. c. 
13). When a fast was continued the whole day, it was 
entitled Jejunium , or Jejunium perfection ; and when it 
lasted until the morning of the following day, or for 
several days together, it was distinguished by the title 
Superpositio (virep^gaig). The latter kind of fasts was 
commonly observed during the great week, or week be- 
fore Easter; but it was not strictly peculiar to’ that sea- 
son. It exceeded the others not only in point of time, 
but by the observance of additional austerities, such as 
the Z>] 00 (payia, or living on dry food, namely, bread, 
salt, and water, taken only in the evening. 7. There 
were also occasional fasts, appointed by ecclesiastical 
authority in times of great danger, emergency, or dis- 
tress (Cyprian, Epist. 8, § 1; 57, § 3; Tertullian, A pol. 
c. 40 ; De Jejun. c. 13). 

III. Practice in Modern Times. — The Christians of 
the Greek Church observe four regular fasts. The first 
commences on the 15th day of November, or forty days 
before Christmas. The second is the one which imme- 
diately precedes Easter. The third begins the week af- 
ter Whitsunday, and continues till the festival of St. 
Peter and Paul. The number of days, therefore, com- 
prised m these seasons of fasting is not settled and de- 
termined, but they are more or less long, according as 
Whitsunday falls sooner or later. The fourth fast com- 
mences the 1st of August, and lasts no longer than till 
the 15th. These fasts are observed with great strictness 
and austerity. The only days when they indulge them- 
selves in drinking wine and using oil are Saturdays and 
Sundays. 

In the English Church Lent was first commanded to 
be observed in England by Ercombert, seventh king of 
Kent, before the year 800. The Lenten fast does not 
embrace all the days included between Ash-Wednesday 
and Easter, for the Sundays are so many days above 
the number o{ forty. They are excluded because the 
Lord’s day is always held as a festival, and never as a 
fast. These six Sundays are therefore called Sundays 
in Lent, not Sundays of Lent. The principal days of 
Lent are the first day of Lent ( Caput Jejun ii, or Dies 
Cine mini), A sh- Wednesday, and the Passion-week, par- 
ticularly Thursday and Friday in that week. There is 
also a solemn sendee appointed lor Ash-Wednesday, un- 
der the title of a “ Commination or denouncing of God’s 
anger and judgments against sinners.’’ The last week 
of Lent, called Passion-week, has always been considered 
as its most solemn season. It is called the great week, 
for the important transactions which are then commem- 
orated. 

The same rules, observations, services, etc., are ob- 
served in the Protestant Episcopal Church of America 
as in the Church of England during the solemn season 
of Lent. 

In nearly all the Protestant churches of Europe, par- 
ticularly in the Lutheran Church, fasts and Lenten-sea- 
son remain up to this day pretty much the same as in 
the Pom an Catholic Church. 

See IJellarmine, Opera ; Ilergier, Dictionnaire de The- 
ologie, art. Careme; Pascal, La Liturgie catholique , s. v. ; 
Gfrorer’s Church History ; Hook, Ch. Diet. s. v. ; Piddle, i 
Christian Antiquities, p. GOO, GG8; llall. Harmony (see j 
Index); Bible and Missal, p. 170; Walcott, Sac. A r- I 


chceol. p. 348 ; Procter, On Book of Common Prayer, p. 
250, 27G, 277 ; Wheatley, Book of Common Prayer, p. 217 
sq. See Fasting. 

Lentile (only in the plural adashim', prob. 

from an obsolete root signifying to fodder ; Sept, (paicoc, 
Vulg. lens) is probably a correct rendering of the plant 
thus designated (Gen. xxv, 34 ; 2 Sam. xvii, 28 ; xxiii, 
11; Ezek. iv, 9). In Syria lentiles are still called in 
Arabic addas (Pussel, X. II. of Aleppo, i, 74). They ap- 
pear to have been chiefly used for making a kind of pot- 
tage. I’he red pottage, for which Esau bartered his 
birthright, was of lentiles (Gen. xxv, 29-34). The term 
red was, as with us, extended to yellowish -brown, which 
must have been the true color of the pottage if derived 
from lentiles, being that of the seeds rather than that of 
the pods, which were sometimes cooked entire (Vislina, 
Shabb. vii, 4). The Greeks and Pomans also ealled len- 
tiles red (see authorities in Celsius, Ilierobotanic. i, 105). 
Lentiles were among the provisions brought to David 
when he fled from Absalom (2 Sam. xvii, 28), and a field 
of lentiles was the scene of an exploit of one of David’s 
heroes (2 Sam. xxiii, 11). From Ezek. iv, 9, it would 
appear that lentiles were sometimes used as bread (comp. 

! Atlien. iv, 158). This was doubtless in times of scarci- 
ty, or by the poor (compare Aristoph. Pint. 1905). Son- 
| nini ( Travels , p. G03) assures us that in southernmost 
Egypt, where corn is comparatively scarce, lentiles mix- 
I ed with a little barley form almost the only bread in 
[ use among the poorer classes. It is called bettan, is of a 
golden yellow color, and is not bad, although rather 
heavy. In that country, indeed, probably even more 
than in Palestine, lentiles anciently, as now, formed a 
chief article of food among the laboring classes. This 
is repeatedly noticed by ancient authors; and so much 
attention was paid to the culture of this useful pulse 
that certain varieties became remarkable for their ex- 
cellence (comp. Dioscor. ii, 129). The lentiles of Pelu- 
sium, in the part of Egypt nearest to Palestine, were 
esteemed both in Egypt and foreign countries (Virgil, 
Georg, i, 228), and this is probably the valued Egyptian 
variety which is mentioned in the jNIishna (Kilaim, 
xviii. 8) as neither large nor small. Large quantities 
of lentiles were exported from Alexandria (Augustine, 
Comm, in Psa. xlvi). Pliny, in mentioning two Egyp- 
tian varieties, incidentally lets us know that one of them 
was red (compare Diog. Laertius, vii. 3), by remarking 
that they like a red soil, and by speculating whether the 
pulse may not have thence derived the reddish color 
which it imparted to the pottage made with it ( IJistor . 
Xatur. xviii, 12). This illustrates Jacob’s red pottage. 
Dr. Sliaw (i, 257) also states that these lentiles easily 
dissolve in boiling, and form a red or chocolate-colored 
pottage much esteemed in North Africa and Western 
Asia (see Thomson, Land and Book, i, 409). Dr. Kitto 
also says that he has often partaken of red pottage, pre- 
pared by seething the lentiles in water and then adding 
a little suet to give them a flavor, and that he found it 
better food than a stranger would imagine ; “ the mess,” 
he adds, “had the redness which gained for it the name 
of adorn'' 1 (Piet. Bible, Gen. xxv, 30, 34). Putting these 
facts together, it is likely that the reddish lentile. which 
is now so common in Egypt ( Descript . de V Egypte, xix, 
G5), is the sort to which all these statements refer. The 
tomb -paintings actually exhibit the operation of pre- 
paring pottage of lentiles, or, as Wilkinson (Anc. Egyp- 
tians, ii, 387) describes it, “a man engaged in cooking 



LEXTILES 


34-S 


LEXTULUS 


lentiles for a soup or porridge; his companion brings a 
bundle of fagots for the fire, and the lentiles themselves 
arc seen standing near him in wicker baskets.” The 
lentiles of Palestine have been little noticed by travel- 
lers (e. g. Burckhardt, A mb. p. 51 ). Nau ( ) ' oyage Nou - 
reau, p. 13) mentions lentiles along with corn and peas, 
as a principal article of traffic at Tortura; D’Arvieux 
(Mem. ii, 237) speaks of a mosque, originally a Chris- 
tun church, over the patriarchal tomb at Hebron, con- 
nected with which was a large kitchen where lentile 
pottage was prepared every day, and distributed freely 
to strangers and poor people, in memory of the transac- 
tion between Esau and Jacob, which they (erroneously) 
believe to have taken place at this spot. When Dr. 
Robinson was at Akabah, he says: *• The commissary in 
the' castle had also a few stores for sale at enormous 
prices, but we bought little except a supply of lentiles. 
or small beans, which are common in Egypt and Syria 
under the name of addas (the name in Hebrew and 
Arabic being alike) — the same from which the pottage 
was made for which Esau sold his birthright. We 
found them very palatable, and could well conceive that, 
to a weary hunter faint with hunger, they might be 
quite a dainty” (Bib. lies, i, 146). Again, when at He- 
bron, on the 24th of May, he observes: “ The wheat har- 
vest here in the mountains had not yet arrived, but they 
were threshing barley, addas or lentiles, and also vetch- 
es, called by the Arabs kersuma, which are raised chiefly 
for camels” (Bib. Res. ii, 242). 

The lentile (Ervum lens of Linnreus, class xvii, 3) is 
an annual plant, and the smallest of all the legumino- 
s:e which are cultivated. It rises with a weak stalk 
about eighteen inches high, having pinnate leaves at 
each joint composed of several pairs of narrow leaflets, 
and terminating in a tendril, which supports it by fas- 
tening about some other plant. The small flowers, 



which come out of the sides of the branches on short 
peduncles, three or four together, are purple, and are suc- 
ceeded by the short and flat legumes, which contain two 
or three flat round seeds, slightly curved in the middle 
(as indicated in the Latin "Which optical science has 
appropriated as a name for circular glasses with spheri- 
cil surfaces), and of a color varying from tawny red to 
almost black. The flower appears in May, and the seeds 


ripen in July. When ripe, the plants are rooted up if 
they have been sown along with other plants, as is 
sometimes done, hut they are cut down when grown by 
themselves. They are threshed, winnowed, and cleaned 
like grain. There are three or four kinds of lentiles, all 
of which are still much esteemed in those countries 
where they are grown, viz., the south of Europe, Asia, 
and North Africa. The red lentile is a small kind, the 
i seeds of which, after being decorticated, are commonly 
} sold in the bazaars of India. To the present dav a fa- 
vorite dish among the Portuguese and Spaniards is len- 
tiles, mixed with their unfailing oil and garlic, and fla- 
j vored with spices and aromatic herbs. In the absence 
I of animal food, it is a great resource in Catholic coun- 
tries during the season of Lent, and some say that from 
hence the season derives its name. It is occasionally 
cultivated in England, but only as fodder for cattle; it 
is also imported from Alexandria. From the quantity 
of gluten the ripe seeds contain, they must be highly 
nutritious, though they have the character of being 
heating if taken in large quantities. Under the high- 
sounding name “ Iievalenta Arabica,” we pay a high 
price for lentile flour, and in various culinary prepara- 
tions are unawares repeating Jacob’s pottage (Playfair, 
Analysis; Hogg, Yeg. Kingdom, p. 275). In Egypt the 
haulm is used for packing. — Kitto ; Smith ; Fairbairn. 

Lent iilus, Epistle of (Epistola Lentuli ), is the 
well-known title of an apocryphal letter on the phys- 
ical appearance of Christ, which the Romish Church 
receives as authentic, and as having been written by 
Publius Lent ulus, a Roman of Palestine, and perhaps 
of Jerusalem, to Rome. Manuscript copies of it are to 
be found, according to Joh. Albert Fabrici us ( Cod.apoc - 
ryph. Novi Testamenti, i, 302), in several libraries of 
England, France, and Italy (viz., in those of the Vatican 
and of Padua), Germany "(at Augsburg and Jena, where 
two copies formerly existed, one of which was embel- 
lished with a fine image of Christ, and had been pre- 
sented to the elector Frederick the Wise by pope Leo X). 
A librarian of Jena, Christopher Mvlius (Mcmorab. bib - 
lioth. academ. Jenensis , Jen. 1746, 8vo, p. 301 sq.), states 
that this copy was written in golden letters upon red 
paper, very richly bound, and beautifully illustrated. 
This copy, however, is lost. The work was first printed 
in the Magdeburg Centuries (q. v.) (Basil. 1550), i, 344; 
it was then reproduced in Mich. Neandri Apocrypha 
(Basil. 1567), p. 410 sq., afterwards in Joh. Jac. Grvnaei 
Monumenta s. Rat mm orthodoxographa (Basil. 1560, fob). 
Joh. Reiskius, in Exercitatt. histor. de imaginibus Jes. 
Chr. rel. (Jen. 1685, 4to), gave a twofold version of it, 
one after Grynanis, the other a reproduction of that de- 
scribed by Mylius. This epistle was highly regarded in 
former times; the papal legate, Jerome Xavier, trans- 
lated it into Portuguese (in his history of Christ, a work 
full of legends and fables), and from this language it 
was subsequently translated into Persian; Rciske and 
Fabricius translated it into German, and published it at 
Nurenberg and at Erfurt. It is also to be found in a 
condensed form in the introduction to the works of 
archbishop Anselm of Canterbury, which, though with- 
out date or name of place, are, from internal evidence, 
supposed to have been published at Paris towards the 
close of the 15th or the beginning of the 16th century; 
in this work it is accompanied by a description of the 
personal appearance of the Virgin Mary. In the earliest 
ages of the Church the question of the personal appear- 
ance of Christ while on earth had begun to attract 
i considerable attention. Had there been anything pos- 
itively known on the subject then, it would certainly 
have been eagerly received. Yet, although the Church 
fathers Justin, Tertullian, Hegesipptis, and Eusebius 
mention a letter of Pilate to Tiberius, one of Abgarus 
to Christ, and one of Jesus to Abgarus, they make no 
mention of any letter of Lentulus concerning Christ. 
On the contrary, during the first century, while the 
Christian Church was suffering persecution, the im- 
pression prevailed, derived from Isa. liii, 2, 3, that the 


LEXTULUS 


349 


LENTULUS 


Lord’s personal appearance was very unprepossessing. 
But as the Church grew in prosperity and power this 
idea underwent a complete change. Eusebius and Au- 
gustine are heard to complain that nothing is known as 
to the Lord’s personal appearance. In the Middle Ages 
a directly opposite opinion from that of the ancients pre- 
vailed, and the Lord was considered as having been an 
eminently handsome man, which opinion was only based 
on the passage Psa. xlv, 2. In the works of the Greek 
historian Xiccphorus (surnamed Callistus Xanthopu- 
lus), who lived in the 14th century, and whom Weis- 
raann considers a credulous, uncritical writer, we tind a 
description of Christ’s personal appearance, for which, 
however, the writer gives no authority, saying only that 
it is derived from the ancients. As it greatly resembles 
that of Lentnlus, and perhaps served as its basis, we give 
it here as a curiosity : IT pti'Toi cicnrXaGig rijg poptyijg 

TOV Kvpiuu ppOJV ’1})G0V XplGTOV, 0J£ djOyrtiWI' 7 TCt- 
ptiXijipapti ', rota ct Tig mg iv Tvirip 7rapaXa(3th> pv, 
copalog piv pv Tpv Ikpiv oipocpa. T pv yt piv pXiKtav 
tlr ovv civadpoppv too aioparoc, tTrrd GTnSapibv pv 
TtXtiojv. E 7 7i*avSrov t\iov tj)v Tpt\a Kai ov ttcivv 
caatiav , pdXXuv ptv ovv tcai 77 pug to ovXov ptTpUog 
TiixiQ cnroKXivovGUv , ptXaivag Ct yt rdt,* 6<bpvg ays Kai 
to navv hriKapTrug, tovq ci c<f>$uXpovg xupuTrovg 
Tivug Kiii pppa (sic 1) t7ri%av3rtZovrag, tvo<p£aXpig S’ 
pv Kai iizippiv ■ ti)v ptVTOi Tpt\a too 7rioywi'og Ear- 
3/} v Ttvd ttys, Kai ovk tig 7 toXv KaSttpivpv. M aKpo- 
Ttpav i '£ T))v Tpi\a Kt<paXi)g 77tpii^tptv ’ ovbt7roTt yap 
Evpcg iii4j3p t:ri n)v KtipaXpv hvtov obbi \tip drxpio- 
t tou, 7 rXpv Tpg pprpbg uvtov vtjTridXovTog. "Uptpa 
tTTtKXivpg ti)v ctl’xtva , ppbi 7 raw opCiov, Kai iv - 
Ttrapti'ijv sys/u Tpv ijXiKtav tov GMpaTog * iriTuxpovg 
?i Kai ud GTpoyyvXpv tyto v Tpv 6<piv tTvyxai'tv, dXX’ 
oiGTTtp T>)g pijTpug avTOU ptKpuv V770KaTaj3atvov(ra7>, 
6Xiyuv di imipoiviGGopivpi' , cgov VTro^aiiaiv to atp- 
vov Tt Kai to Guvtrov too ifiovg Kai pptpov Kai to 
K aT iiFci* dupyi]TO}\ Kard 7 tuvtcl ct pv iptytppg tij 
Ftigt Kai 7rava<nriXfp tKth’ov ppTpi. T avTa piv iv 
tovtoiq. Compare the articles Christ, Images and 
Portraits of; Jesus Christ (II, II, in vol.iv, p. 884). 
The same tendency prevailed also in the Western 
Church until the Heformation, when Luther took a more 
reasonable view of the question, saying, “It is very 
possible that some may have been as handsome, phys- 
ically, as Christ. Perhaps some were even handsomer, 
for we do not see it mentioned that the Jews ever won- 
dered at his beauty.” The same view was taken by a 
Homan Catholic writer (In libra de forma Christ i, Paris, 
1 040), who said that the Hedeemer Was not either ill 
favored nor more handsome than other men. In other 
cases, however, the Homan Catholic Church has re- 
tained the ideas presented in the epistle of Lentnlus. 

If we now look more closely into this epistle of Len- 
tnlus, we find in the edition of Grymeus (Momrn. ortho- 
dojropraphn) that it reads, “Lent ulus, Hierosolymitano- 
rum Prteses. S. p. (). liomano S. ; Apparuit temporibus 
nostris ot adlmc est homo magnje virtutis, nominatus 
Christus Jesus, qui dicitur a gentibus propheta veritatis, 
quem ejus diseipuli voeant filium Dei, suscitans mortuos 
et sanans languores [MS. Vatic. “ languentes”]. Ilomo 
quidein st at lira? procenu [Goldast. addit. “scilicet xv 
palmorum et medii”], spcctabilis, vultum habens vene- 
rabilem, (piem intuentes possum et diligere et formi- 
dare : Capillos vero circinos, crispos aliquantum ciurti- 
liores et fulgentiores [AI S. 1 Jen. “ Capillos habens co- 
loris nucis avellanaj pnematime et pianos usque ad 
aures, ab auribus vero circinos, crispos aliquantulum 
cieruliores et fulgentiores”], ab humeris volitautes [om- 
nes alii : “ ventilantes”], discrimen habens in medio ca- 
pitis juxta morem Xazarenorum [Centur. Magd. et An- 
selmi opp. “ X azarieorum”] : frontem planam et serenis- 
simam, cum iacie sine ruga (ac) macula aliqua, quam 
rubor moderatus venustat. Nasi et oris nulla prorsus 
est reprehensio, barbam habens copiosam et. rubram 
[fere omnes alii : “ impiiberem”], capillorum colore, non 
longam sed bifurcatam [omnes addunt : “adspectum 


habet simplicem et maturum”], oculis variis et Claris 
existentibus. In increpatione terribilis, in admonitione 
placidus [plurimi alii: “blandus”] et amabilis, liilaris 
servata gravitate, qui minquam vistis est ridere, here 
autem saipe. Sic in statura coqwris propagatus [plu- 
rimi alii addunt: “et rectus”] mauus habens ct membra 
[ceteri omnes: “brachia”] visu delectabilia in eloquio 
[rectius ceteri: “ eolloquio”] gravis, rarus et modest us 
speciosus inter filios hominum. Valete [Hoc X’alete de- 
est in reliquis M SS. et odd.].” 

The very contents of the letter are sufficient evidence 
of its spuriousness. Had it really been written by a Ho- 
man, it would not have been addressed to the senate, 
but to the emperor, who was the immediate master of 
the Syrian provinces. It appears that this objection 
was already noticed in former times, for in the Magde- 
burg Centuries it is said to have been addressed to the 
emperor Tiberius. A fact of still greater importance 
is that Lentulus is designated as llierosolijmitamrum 
p?'ceses. No such office existed. There was a Prases 
/Sprier and a Procurator Jiuhne but no Prases of the 
Homan inhabitants at Jerusalem. For this reason he 
is called in the Manuscr. Jen. i , Proconsul in partibus 
Jiula’ie, and in the Manuscr. Vatic, and Jen. ii, in a thor- 
oughly Homan Catholic manner, Ojficudis in provincia 
Judica , while there was no such office known in Home 
at that period. But lie is nowhere represented as a 
friend of Pilate, as Zimmcrmann attempts to make him 
in his L e be:ispesch ich te d. Kirche Ckristi, i, 70. We know 
most of the proconsuls or presides of Syria, and all the 
procurators of Jiukea, but none of them was named Len- 
tulus. In the classics there are forty-three persons of 
that name mentioned, but four only belonged to the 
times of Tiberius. One of them only, Enteus Lentulus 
GaJulicus, was, according to Tacitus (J««. iv,4G), in the 
year 20, consul with Tiberius, and in 34 was the chief of 
the legions in upper Germany (Tacitus, A mud. vi, 30) ; 
he may, indeed, according to Suetonius ( Cafip . e. 8) and 
Pliny (Epist.v, 3), have been in Juda?a during the years 
20 to 33, but there is no proof of it. On the other hand, 
the Lentulus who wrote the epistle is expressly called in 
the MS. Jen. i, Publius. Moreover, there is no mention 
at all made of the epistle by any of the ancient writers, 
whilst other epistles, even some of an apocryphal nature, 
are mentioned by them, and this one, had it then been 
known, would certainly have attracted the attention of 
the apologists at a time when the general impression 
was so strong against the fine personal appearance of the 
Lord. Nieepliorus Xantliopulus, whose description of 
Christ’s personal appearance we gave above, states only 
that it is based on old traditions, while, if such a descrip- 
tion as that given iu the Epistle of Lentulus had been 
known in the Greek Church in the 14th century, he 
would certainly not have failed to quote it as an author- 
ity. Hegarding the literary merits of the work, it must 
be confessed that it is written in old Latin ; but as it is 
full of expressions which would not naturally he used by 
a Homan citizen — as the whole tenor of the work, more- 
over, is thoroughly un classical, it is to be supposed that 
its writer aimed to imitate the style of the ancients, and 
pass it off as a work of their age. A Homan would nev- 
er have used the expression propheta veritatis. Jilii hom- 
inum, at the beginning and at the end of the epistle. So 
also the appellation Christus Jesus is evidently taken 
from the New Test., for the Uedcemer was never thus 
designated during his lifetime. Jesus himself declined 
the name of Christ, forbade his disciples calling him 
thus, and he never was called so by his enemies. How, 
then, could a heathen have come to call him Christ, and 
even to put that appellation before that of Jesus — a 
change which only took place after his claim to be con- 
sidered as the Messiah had been established beyond 
cavil. If it is claimed that Christ was called by the 
heathen the prophet of truth, yet, as Christ’s activity 
during his life was not directed towards the heathen in 
general, it could only apply to the Homans residing in 
Palestine. Yet these we do not find to have been des- 


LENTULUS 


350 


LEO 


ignated as heathen, but as Romans; and they did not 
interest themselves enough in the wandering Rabbi to 
render such an expression general among them. Nor 
was it otherwise with the heathen residing on the fron- 
tiers of Palestine. “His disciples called him the Son 
of God.” Though they gave him occasionally that name, 
it was so far from being a general custom that the gov- 
ernor himself knew nothing of it. So this, like the fol- 
lowing sentences on the raising of the dead and healing 
of the sick, is all taken from the Gospel. It also says 
that his hair was parted after the maimer of the Naza- 
rites: we find the substitution of Nazarene for Nazarite, 
which only took place afterwards. Now a Roman officer 
would know little or nothing about the Nazarites; more- 
over, Christ could not properly be called a Nazarite, for 
he drank wine, touched the dead, and did many other 
things contrary to the customs of the Nazarites. The 
remark that he was never seen to laugh, but often to 
weep, proves him to have led a solitary life, such as 
we have no example of at the supposed time of the 
writing of this epistle, and is only an idea derived from 
the Gospels, and from the state of things in the Middle 
Ages. The last words also, “beautiful among the sons 
of men,” are quite unsuited to the mouth of a Roman, 
who would never have made use of such a Hebraism, 
and it is clearly taken from the xlvth Psalm, which is 
the basis of the whole description. This consequently 
could not apply to our Lentulus, but only to a monk of 
the Middle Ages. 

Having thus seen how this epistle carries within it- 
self the proofs of its spuriousness, the question arises, 
When was it written? If it were included in the works 
of Anselm, we would have to consider it as having been 
composed in the 11th century. Yet it is simply append- 
ed to the works of this author, and was never made use 
of until the loth century, to give favor to an opinion 
which the monks had an interest to propagate. Lau- 
ren tins Valla, who lived in the 15th century, was the 
first who made any mention of it in his argument against 
the pseudo donation of Constantine. A postscript of 
great interest is appended to the 2d Jena MS., and it, 
in our estimation, tends to reveal the true character of 
the work: “ Explicit epistola Jacobi de Colunipna anno 
Domini 1421 reperit earn in annalibus Romoe, in libro 
antiquissimo in Capitolio cx dono Patriarchs Constanti- 
nopolitani.” If this postscript is to be relied on, this 
epistle was sent to Rome in the 1 1th century by a patri- 
arch of Constantinople as a present, just as it was after- 
wards sent to the elector Frederick the Wise of Saxony 
by pope Leo. But as from Constantinople there were 
generally sent Greek MSS. only, and as there is no men- 
tion made of the name of the patriarch supposed to have 
sent it, and as, moreover, the work is claimed to be a 
very old one, it is most likely that this description is a 
Latin translation of that of Nicephoros, which we gave 
above, that the translator added the postscript with the 
intention of rendering his spurious work more credible, 
and that consequently both epistle and postscript are 
spurious. Plie imitator or translator of Nieephorus, who 
gives ample proofs in his work of the source whence he 
drew when he speaks of the stature of Christ (in a copy 
in Goldast we find, after tint urn procerus, 11 scilicet xv 
pubnoriun et inedii ), gave the work the form of an epis- 
tle, and gave it the name of Lentulus, taken from some 
tradition, or which otherwise seemed suitable to him. 
It is now evident that the epistle could only have been 
written at some time after Nieephorus, and before the 
year 1500, consequently in the 11th century. Dr. Ed- 
ward Robinson, alter carefully examining all the evi- 
dences for and against the authenticity of this work, 
thus presents the results of his inquiry : “ In favor of the ! 
authenticity of the letter we have only the purport of 
the inscription. There is no external evidence what- 
ever. Against its authenticity we have 'the great dis- 
crepancies and contradictions of the inscription; the 
fact that no such official person as Lentulus existed at 
the time and place specified, nor for many years before 


[ and after; the utter silence of history in respect to the 
existence of such a letter; the foreign and later idioms 
of its style; the contradiction in which the contents of 
the epistle stand with established historical facts; and 
the probability of its having been produced at some 
time not earlier than the 1 1th century.” See Joh. Bo- 
ned. Carpzov, Theologi Ilelmstadiensis progrumma : de 
oris et corporis Jesu Christi , etc. (llelmstadt, 1774, 4to) ; 
doll. Phil. Gabler ,Theoloyus A Itorfensis an. 1819 and 1S22 
in A uthentium epistnke Rublii Lentuli ad Senatum Roma- 
nian de Jesu Christo scripts; llerzog, Real-Encyklopu- 
die, viii, 292 sq. ; Dr. Robinson in Biblical Repository , ii, 
3(57 ; Schaff, Ch. Hist, iii, 5G9 ; Jamieson, Our Lord, i, 35 ; 
Friends ’ Review , March 3, 1867, p. 769 sq. See Jesus 
Christ. 

Leo of Acimis or Achridia (now Ohkrida , in Al- 
bania), was so called because he held the archbishopric 
of Acliris, in the Greek Church, among the Bulgarians. 
ITe joined about A. D. 1053, with Michael Cerularius, pa- 
triarch of Constantinople, iu writing a very bitter letter 
against the pope, which they sent to John, archbishop 
of Irani, in Apulia, to be distributed among the mem- 
bers of the Latin Church — prelates, monks, laity. A 
translation of this letter is given by Baronins (A anal. 
Eccles. ad aim. 1053, xxii, etc.). Pope Leo IX replied in 
a long letter, which is given in the Concilia (vol. ix, col, 
949, etc., ed. Labbe ; vol. vi, col. 927, ed. Ilardouin ; vol. 
xix, col. 635, ed. Mansi), and the following year both 
Cerularius and Leo of Achris were excommunicated by 
cardinal Humbert, the papal legate (Baronins, ad aim. 
1054, xxv). Leo wrote many other letters, which are 
extant in MS. in various European libraries, and are 
cited by Aliatius, in his De Consensu Eccles. Orient, et Oc- 
cident.; by Beveridge, in his Codex Canonum; by Alex- 
is Aristenus, in his Synopsis Epistolarum Canonicarum ; 
and by Comnenus Popadopoli, in his Pranotiones Mys - 
tayoyicce. See Fabricius, Biblioth. Gr&ca, ii, 715 ; Cave, 
llist. Lift, ii, 138, ed. Oxon. 1740; Oiulin, De Scriptorib. 
et Script is Eccles. ii, 603. — Smith, Diet, of Greek and Ro- 
man Bioy. ii, 741. 

Leo /EGYPTius,or the Egyptian. The early Chris- 
tian writers, in their controversy with the heathen, re- 
fer not mifrequently to a Leo or Leon as having admit- 
ted that the deities of the ancient Gentile nation had 
originally been men, agreeing in this respect with Eve- 
merus, with whom he was contemporary, if not per- 
haps rather earlier. Augustine (De Consensu Evangel. 
i, 33, and De Civ. Dei , viii, 5), who is most explicit in 
his notice of himj says lie was an Egyptian priest of 
high rank, “ magnns antistes,” and that he expounded 
the popular mythology to Alexander the Great in a 
manner which, though differing from those rationalistic 
explanations received in Greece, accorded with them in 
making the gods (including even the Dii mnjornm gen- 
tium) to have originally been men. Augustine refers 
to an account of the statements of Leo contained in a 
letter of Alexander to his mother. It is to be observed, 
though Leo was high in his priestly rank at the time 
when Alexander was in Egypt (B.C. 332-331), his name 
is Greek ; and Arnobius (adv. Gentcs, iv, 29) calls him 
Leo Relhvus , or Leo of Pella, an epithet which Fabricius 
does not satisfactorily explain. Worth (Not. ad Tatian. 
p. 96, ed. Oxford, 1700) would identify our Leo with Leo 
of Lampsacus, the husband ofThemista or Tbemisto, the 
female Epicurean (Diog. Laert. x, f>, 25); but the hus- 
band of Tliemista was more correctly called Leonteus, 
while the Egyptian is never called by any other name 
than Leo. Arnobius speaks in such a way as to lead us 
to think that in his day the writings of Leon on the hu- 
man origin of the gods were extant and accessible, but 
it is possible lie refers, like Augustine, to Alexander’s let- 
ter. The reference to Leon in Clemens Alcxnndrinus 
is not more explicit (Stromata, i, 21, § 106, p. 139, Syl- 
burg ; p. 382, edit. Pott ; ii, 75, edit. Klotz, Lipsi.T, 1831, 
12mo). But Tatian’s distinct mention of the 'Yttojui'//- 
para, or Commentaries of Leo, shows that this system 


LEO 


351 


LEO 


had been committed to writing by himself ; and Tertul- 
lian ( De Corona , c. 7) directs his readers “to unroll the 
writings of Leo the Egyptian.” Hyginus ( Poet icon As- 
tronomicon , c. 20) refers to Leon as though lie wrote a 
history of Egypt (“ Qui res yEgvptiacus scripsit”) ; and 
the scholiast on Apollonius Ilhodius (iv, 262) gives a ref- 
erence here to what Leon had said respecting the antiq- 
uity of the Egyptians, probably depending upon the 
statements of Alexander. See Fabricius, Bill. Grivca , 
vii, 713, 719; xi, 664; Yoss, De Hist. Grcec. libri iii, p. 
179, edit. Amsterdam, 1699. — Smith, Diet, of Greek and 
Roman Biog. ii, 742. 

Leo Diaconus, or the Deacon, a Byzantine histo- 
rian of the 10 th century, of whose personal history but 
little is known, except the incidental notices in his prin- 
cipal works (collected by C. B. Ilase in his Preefatio to 
his edition of Leo), was born at Caloe, a town of Asia, 
beautifully situated at the side or foot of Mount Tmolus, 
near the sources of the Caystrus, in Asia Minor, and was 
at Constantinople pursuing his studies A.D. 966, where 
he was an admiring spectator of the firmness of the em- 
peror Nicepliorus II, Phocas, in the midst of a popular 
tumult (iv, 7). Ilase places his birth in or about A.D. 
950. lie was in Asia in or about the time of the depo- 
sition of Basilius I, patriarch of Constantinople, and the 
election of his successor, Antonius III, A.D. 973 or 974, 
and relates that at that time he frequently saw two 
Cappadocians, twins of thirty years’ age, whose bodies 
were united from the armpits to the flanks (x,3). Hav- 
ing been ordained deacon, he accompanied the emperor 
Basilius II in his unfort unate expedition against the 
Bulgarians, A.D. 981, and when the emperor raised the 
siege of Tralitza or Triaditza (the ancient Sardiea), Leo 
barely escaped death in the headlong flight of his 
countrymen (x,8). Of his history after this nothing is 
known; but Ilase observes he must have written liis 
history after A.D. 989, as he adverts to the rebellion and 
death of Phocas Bardas (x, 9), which occurred in that 
year. He must have lived later than Ilase has remark- 
ed, and at least till A.D. 993, as lie notices (x, 10) that 
the emperor Basilius II restored “in six years the cu- 
pola of the great church (St. Sophia’s) at Constantinople, 
which had been overthrown by the earthquake (comp. 
Cedren. Compend. ii, 438, ed. Bonn) of A.D. 987.” His 
works are,T<xrop<« B</3A/ot£ v, or Historia libris dece?n: 
— 0 ratio ad Basilium Imperatorem : — and, unless it be 
the work of another Leo Diaconus, Ilomilia in Michie- 
Icem A rchangelium. The two last are extant only in 
MS. The history of Leo includes the period from the 
Cretan expedition of Nieephorus Phocas, in the reign 
of Bomanus II, A.D. 959. to the death of John I, Tzi- 
misces, A.D. 975. It relates the victories of the emper- 
ors Nieephorus and Tzimisees over the Mohammedans 
in Cilicia and Syria, and the recovery of those coun- 
tries, or the greater part of them, to the Byzantine em- 
pire, and the wars of the same emperors with the Bul- 
garians and Bussians. According to Hase, Leo employs 
unusual and unappropriate words (many of them bor- 
rowed from Homer, Agathias the historian, and the Sep- 
tuagint) in the place of simple and common ones, and 
abounds in tautological phrases. His knowledge of ge- 
ography and ancient history is slight, but with these de- 
fects his history is a valuable contemporary record of a 
stirring time, honestly and fearlessly written. Scylit- 
zes and Ccdrenus are much indebted to Leo, and Ilase 
considers Zonaras also to have used his work. The 
Historia was first published at the cost of count Nicho- 
las Uomanzof, chancellor of Bussia, by Car. Bened. Ilase 
(Paris, 1818). Combefis had intended to publish it in 
the Paris edition of Corpus Histories Byzantines , with 
the Historia of Michael Psellus, but was prevented bv 
death, A.D. 1679. The Latin version which he had pre- 
pared was communicated by Montfaucon to Pagi, who 
inserted some portions in his Critice in Baronium (ad 
ann. 960, No. ix). The papers of Combefis were, many 
years after, committed to Michael le Quien, that he 
might publish an edition of Psellus and Leo, and part 


of the latter’s work was actually printed. In the disor- 
ders of the French Devolution the papers of Combefis 
were finally lost or destroyed. Hase, in his edition, add- 
ed a Latin version and notes to the text of Leo, and il- 
lustrated it by engravings from ancient gems: this edi- 
tion is, however, scarce and dear, the greater part of the 
copies having been lost by shipwreck, but his text, pref- 
ace, version, and notes (not engravings) have been re- 
printed in the Bonn ed. of the Corpus Hist. Byzantines 
(1828, 8vo). See Fabricius, Bill. Greeca , vii, 684, note 1 ; 
Cave, Hist. Lift . ii, 106; Hase, Prafatio ad Leon Diaeon. 
Historian.— Smith, Diet, of Gr. and Rom. Biog. ii, 743 sq. 

Leo the Great. See Leo the Thracian (empe- 
ror) and Leo I (pope). 

Leo the Isaurian is the name which is common- 
ly given in history to Leo III or Flavius Leo Isau- 
rus, emperor of Constantinople from the year 718 to 
741, a man remarkable on many accounts, but who, from 
his connection with the great contest about image-wor- 
ship in the Christian Church, became one of the most 
prominent historical names among the emperors of the 
East. 

1. Early History. — He was born in or on the borders 
of the rude province of Isanria, and his original name 
was Conon. He emigrated with his father, a wealthy 
farmer or grazier of that country, to Thrace. Young 
Conon obtained the place of spatharius, or broadswords- 
man, in the army of Justinian II, and soon, by his mili- 
tary talents, excited the jealousy of the emperor, as he 
drew the eyes of the people, and especially of the sol- 
diers, towards him as one fitted to command, and eompe- # 
tent even for the empire. lie was sent forward, there- 
fore, with a few troops, against the Alani, and then aban- 
doned by the emperor without succor, in the hope that 
he would be cut off and destroyed, but from this critical 
position Leo extricated himself with consummate dex- 
terity and courage. Anastasius II (A.D. 713-716) gave 
him the supreme command of the troops in Asia, which 

! was exposed to the terrible onslaughts of the Arab or 
Saracen hordes, by whom it had already been half over- 
run and conquered. This command was still in his 
hands when Theodosius III, at the beginning of 716, 
rose against Anastasius, deposed him, and seated him- 
self upon the throne. Leo, being summoned to ac- 
knowledge Theodosius, at once denounced him as a 
usurper, and attacked him under pretext of restoring 
the rightful sovereign to the throne, but probably with 
the design of seizing for himself the imperial dignity. 

He secured the support of the principal leaders in the 
army, reached the imperial troops before they could be 
gathered in sufficient force to resist him, and slew them. 

At Nicomedia he met the son of Theodosius, whom he 
defeated and captured. He next marched direct upon 
Constantinople, and Theodosius, seeing no hope of resist- 
ance, quietly resigned his sceptre in March, 718, and re- 
tired into a convent, while the vacant throne was forth- 
with occupied by Leo himself, by the suffrages of the 
troops. 

2. Imperial History. — No sooner was Leo arrayed in 
the purple than the caliph Soleiman, together with the 
noted Moslima, appeared before Constantinople with an 
immense and enthusiastic army, supported by a pow- 
erful fleet, determined to retrieve their sullied fame. 
The city was invested by sea and land, and its capture 
was considered certain ; but the indefatigable energy, 
military skill, and fearless courage of Leo, aided by the 
new invention of the Greek fire, saved the capital from 
falling, five centuries before its time, into the hands of 
the Moslems. The superstitious people ascribed their 
deliverance to the constant interposition of the Virgin, 
in which they gave the greatest possible praise to the 
genius of Leo. This third (Gibbon calls it the second) 
siege of Constantinople by the Saracens lasted precisely 
two years (Gibbon calls it thirteen months) from the 
loth of August, 718. On the 15th of August, 720, the 
caliph (now Omar, who had succeeded Soleiman shortly 


LEO 


LEO 


after the commencement of the siege) was compelled to 
raise the siege, losing in a storm the greater part of the 
remnants of his third ileet before reaching the harbors 
of Syria and Egypt. So close had been the investment 
of the city, so enormous the preparations, and so loud 
the boasts of the Saracens, that in the provinces Con- 
stantinople was given up as lost, notwithstanding all 
the splendid victories of Leo, for the very news of those 
victories had been intercepted by the vigilant blockade 
of the besiegers. The whole empire was in consterna- 
tion, and in the West the rumor was credited that the 
caliph had actually ascended the throne of Byzantium. 
Accordingly, Sergius, governor of Sicily, took measures 
to make himself independent, and to secure the crown 
for himself in case of complete success; but Leo imme- 
diately dispatched a small force to Sicily, which soon 
crushed the rebellion. The deposed monarch Anasta- 
sius, also, was tempted to plot the recovery of the throne, 
and in the attempt lost his life. In spite of his defeats 
before Constantinople, Omar continued the war for twen- 
ty years; and though, in 720. he captured Ca?sarea in 
Cappadocia, and Neo-Ciesarea in Pontus, yet Leo main- 
tained an acknowledged superiority. The great work of 
ecclesiastical reform occupied the attention of the em- 
pire, without any considerable interruption from the in- 
iidels, until the year 731. What belongs to this chap- 
ter of domestic history, though it includes elements and 
facts of political and military significance, is reserved 
for the next head. During the last seven years of Leo’s 
reign (from 734) falls the protracted life-struggle with 
the Saracens. The caliph Ilesham instigated the Svr- 
‘ ians to support an adventurer who pretended to be the 
son of Justinian II, and who, under the protection of the 
caliph, entered Jerusalem arrayed in the imperial pur- 
ple. This proved a mere farce. But something more se- 
rious happened when, in 730, the Arab general Suleiman 
invaded the empire with an army of 90,000 men, dis- 
tributed into three bodies. The first entered Cappado- 
cia, and ravaged it with fire and sword ; the second, com- 
manded by 3 1 ale k and Batak, penetrated into Phrygia ; 
the third, under Suleiman, covered the rear. Leo was 
actually taken by surprise ; but be soon assembled an 
army and defeated the second body, in Phrygia, in a 
pitched battle, and obliged Soleiman to withdraw hastily 
into Syria. The Saracens had, in the mean time, been 
routed in their invasion of Europe by Charles Martel in 
732, and the progress of their conquests seemed now for 
some time to be checked both in the East and in the 
West. The remaining great event of Leo’s reign was 
the terrible earthquake of October, 740, which caused 
great calamities throughout the empire. 

3. The Iconoclastic Controversy . — In this business Leo 
would seem to have begun of his own motion, and almost 
single-handed. No party of any account against image- 
worship existed in the Church, but he believed that by 
taking the side of iconoclasm he could hasten the con- 
version of the Jews and Mohammedans, and though at 
first very cautious, he finally, after some nine or ten 
years of his reign, issued his edict prohibiting the wor- 
ship of all images, whether statues or pictures, of Christ, 
the Virgin, or the saints. Christendom was astounded 
by this sudden proscription of its then common religious 
usages. Sec Iconoclasm. Leo, in fact, found arrayed 
against him not only the bigoted and exasperated mo- 
nastics, but the superstitious masses of the people of the 
East and West, and almost all the clergy, with all the 
bishops, excepting Claudius, bishop of Nacolia in Plirv- 
gia, and Theodosius, metropolitan of Ephesus, and per- 
haps two or three more. Even Hermanns, bishop of 
Constantinople, joined with Gregory II of Home in the 
universal outcry against the emperor’s attempt, and thus, 
almost for the first time, the bishops of the two Homes 
were (like Pilate and Ilerod) united in one common 
cause. Whether provoked by the violence, and unrea- 
sonableness, and rebellions spirit of the opposition, or 
prompted by a growing zeal for the purity of religion, or 
by the obstinacy ,of personal pride and arbitrary power, 


12 

or guided by considerations of presumed policy, or from 
whatever motives, the emperor soon after issued a sec- 
ond edict far more stringent and decisive. It command- 
ed the total destruction of all images (or statues intend- 
ed for worship) and the effacement of all pictures by 
whitewashing the walls of the churches. The image- 
worshippers were maddened. The officer who attempt- 
ed, in Constantinople, to execute the edict upon a statue 
of Christ renowned for its miracles, was assaulted by the 
women and beaten to death with clubs. The emperor 
sent an armed guard to suppress the tumult, and a 
frightful massacre was the consequence, Leo was re- 
garded as no better than a Saracen. Even his successes 
against the common foe were ingeniously turned against 
him. A certain Cosmas was proclaimed emperor in 
Leo's steail, a fleet was armed, and Constantinople itself 
was menaced ; but the fleet was destroyed by the Greek 
fire, the insurrection was suppressed, the leaders either 
fell or were executed along with the usurper. A second 
revolt at Constantinople was not suppressed till after 
much bloodshed. Everywhere in the empire the monks 
were busy instigating and fomenting rebellion. Germa- 
nus, bishop of Constantinople, already an octogenarian, 
as lie could not conscientiously aid in the execution of 
the imperial decree, quietly retired, or suffered himself 
to be removed from his see. Not quite so peaceful was 
the position pope Gregory II of Home assumed. Fol- 
lowing the bent of his own snperstitious character, he 
seized the opportunity when the emperor had his hands 
full with seditious tumults and disturbances at home, 
and, confidently relying upon the support of the igno- 
rant, and monk-ridden, and half-Christianized popula- 
tion of the West, dispatched to the emperor two most 
arrogant and insolent letters, and condemned in unmeas- 
ured terms his war upon images as a war upon the 
Christian religion itself. The emperor ordered the ex- v 
arch of Havenna to march upon Home ; but the pope, by 
the aid of the Lombards, compelled him to retire, and 
he had enough to do to maintain himself even at home. 

In fact, he was reduced to live in one quarter of Haven- 
na as a sort of captive ; and finally Gregory III, the suc- 
cessor of Gregory II, in 731 held a council at Home in 
which the Iconoclasts were anathematized. The empe- 
ror hereupon sent a formidable expedition against Italy, 
with special orders to reduce Ravenna. The expedition, 
however, failed, and Ravenna, with the Exarchate, fell 
into the hands of the Lombards, and thus Italy and the 
pope became practically independent of the Eastern em- 
pire. Leo now only sought the accomplishment of one 
object, viz., the detachment of Greece, Illyria, and Mace- 
donia from the spiritual authority of the popes, and he 
consequently annexed them to that of the patriarchs of 
Constantinople, and this created the real effective cause 
of the final schism of the Latin and Greek churches 
(734). The pope henceforth never submitted to the 
emperor, nor did he ever recover the lost portions of his 
patriarchate. Meantime, from the East, another voice 
joined in the fray — John of Damascus. He issued his 
fulminations against the emperor securely from under 
the protection of the caliphs, who were more pleased 
with the attacks upon Leo than scandalized by the de- 
fence of image worship. See John ok Damascus. It 
was in the midst of this wild and protracted controversy 
that Leo died of dropsy in 741, and left to hi& son the 
accomplishment of a task which lie had hoped he would 
himself effect. 

As to the controversy itself, one of the strongest 
points ever made against the position of Leo is that he 
attacked the fine arts, and sought to destroy and abolish 
all the beauty and ornamentation of the Christian edi- 
fices. On this ground an earnest appeal has been made 
against him, and .against all opponents of image wor- 
ship, in the interests of esthetics. Even Neander seems 
quite to take sides with Gregory against the barbarian 
emperor in this point of view. But, in the first place, 
it is by no means historically certain that Leo proceeded 
to any such lengths, or with any such motives, in his 


LEO 


353 


LEO 


iconoclasm. He proposed simply to destroy objects of 
worship. He made no war upon beauty or art. If, in 
accomplishing liis purpose, in the face of the furious op- 
position he met with, he was carried further, it was not 
strange, especially considering his education, the great 
difficulty of making nice distinctions in such cases and 
under such circumstances, and the known propensity of 
human nature to run to extremes in the heat of contro- 
versy and conflict. Many of the holiest and most or- 
thodox of the early fathers would have proscribed all 
classical learning, lest with it the classical paganism 
should be imbibed. But, in fact, neither Gregory nor 
the monks defended the use of images on esthetic 
grounds, and if they had they would have compromised 
their whole cause. It was not at all the beauty of the 
statue, but the sacred object represented, which gave it 
its meaning and value. Churches might be made as 
beautiful and decorated as highly as possible without 
the people’s adoring or bowing down to the church, or 
its altar, or its ornaments. Besides, it is not probable 
that the images or the pictures of Leo’s time were any 
very admirable specimens of esthetic achievement ; and, 
if they had been, it is not likely that they would have 
attracted the reverence of the vulgar so much as they 
did. Artistic perfection tends rather to distract and 
dissipate than to intensify the religious reverence for 
images. With the development of Grecian art Grecian 
idolatry lost its hold. It is a remarkable fact that the 
ugliest, and most misshapen, and hideous idols among 
the heathen have secured the widest and intensest de- 
votion ; and among the Christians, it has been some 
winking or bleeding statue, rudely imitating the human 
form, and not some Sistine Madonna, that has bent the 
knees of adoring multitudes. The image whose toe is 
now devoutly kissed by the faithful at St. Peter’s, in 
Borne, is not remarkable for its esthetic claims. If Leo 
was a barbarian, Gregory was hardly less so, as is evi- 
dent from the letters of the latter to his emperor. The 
ignorance of the pope is almost as remarkable as his im- 
pudence. He expressly and repeatedly confounds the 
pious Hezekiah, who destroyed the brazen serpent, with 
his pious ancestor Uzziah, and under this last name 
pronounces him a self-willed violator of the priests of 
God. lie apparently confounded them both with Ahaz, 
who was the grandson of the one and the father of the 
other. It is true, he professes to quote the passage from 
the emperor’s edict, but it is plain from internal evidence 
that, in the terms in which he gives it, it could not have 
been in that edict; and if it had been, he did not know 
enough to correct the blunder. It is said that Leo v r as 
cruel in the execution of his decree. It may be so. He 
was a soldier, a Byzantine emperor, and lived in the 8th 
century. But if the monks, and the pope, and the 
priests, and the populace, which they controlled, had not 
violently resisted the imperial decree, there would have 
been no cruelty. It is said that Leo acted arbitrarily, 
as if he had been the master of the minds and con- 
sciences of men, to make and unmake their religion for 
them. This is too true, and this was his mistake; but 
all his predecessors, with Constantine the Great, had 
made the- same mistake. It was a Byzantine tradition. 
It was the theory of the age. Protestantism, with the 
same creed in regard to images, has proceeded upon a 
different theory, and has succeeded. It is said that the 
Church, in her general councils, has decided against Leo. 
If so, it was not till after, in his son’s reign, a council 
styling itself oecumenical, and regularly convoked as 
such, consisting of no less than 348 bishops, had unani- 
mously decided in his favor. It is said that, at all 
events, the question has been historically settled against 
Leo in the subsequent history of the Church : that icon- 
oelasm was crushed and brought to naught in the East 
and in the West, and images achieved a complete tri- 
umph. lconoclasm was indeed crushed by the unnat- 
ural and murderous monster Irene, whose character will 
hardly be regarded as superior to that of Leo. In fact, 
far as images are distinguished from pictures, icono- 
V.— Z 


clasm has thus far triumphed in the East; and in the 
West it was not until after the earnest and manly re- 
sistance of Charlemagne and the Council of Frankfort 
that the image-worshipping pope and priests finally, or 
rather for a time, carried their point. 

4. Character of Leo. — Ahnost all we know of Leo 
comes to us through his enemies — his prejudiced, bigot- 
ed, unprincipled, deadly enemies. Some of the most 
odious acts alleged against him, as the burning of the 
great library at Constantinople, are purely their malig- 
nant inventions. His motives are seen only through 
their jaundiced or infuriated eyes. His very words 
come to us, for the most part, only through their gar- 
bled versions; yet, with all their zeal, they have not 
been able so to distort, or blacken, or hide his true line- 
aments, but that he still stands out to ail impartial ob- 
server one of the ablest, purest, manliest, and most re- 
spectable sovereigns that ever occupied the Constanti- 
nopolitan throne. His rapid rise from obscurity to the 
pinnacle of power, his firm and successful administration 
amid foreign assaults and domestic plots, and liis reso- 
lute prosecution of the reformation of the Church, all 
indicate a wise and provident policy, great vigor, and 
decision of will. His early military life may have ren- 
dered him cruel and obstinate, hut did not taint the pu- 
rity of his manners. He was in many respects, and 
particularly in a certain rugged and straightforward 
honesty and strength of purpose, just the man needed 
for the times. How much better and wiser he was than 
he appears we cannot say, but there is every reason to 
believe that a full and fair view of his history, if it could 
now be unearthed from the monkish rubbish, and rotten- 
ness, and filth that have overwhelmed it, would present 
him in a vastly more favorable light than that in which 
he has been left to stand. (I). B. G.) 

5. Literature. — See Henke in Ersch u. Gruber, All- 
gemcine Kn cyld opddie, sect, ii, vol. xvi (1839), 119 sq. ; 
Smith, JJict. Greek and Roman Biog. vol. ii, s. v. ; Mars- 
den, Hist. Christian Churches and Sects , ii, 153 ; Milman, 
IHst. Latin Christianity , ii,305 sq. ; Gibbon, Decline and 
Fall of the Roman Empire , v, 10 sq. ; Keichel, See of 
Rome in the Middle A ges, p. 46 sq. ; Leckey, Hist, of Mor- 
als, ii, ‘282; Ffoulkes, Christendom’s Divisions, vol. i and 
ii; Hefele, Conciliengesch. (Freib. 1855) ; English transl. 
History of Councils (Lond. 1872, 8vo), vol. i ; Baxmann, 
Politikder Papste (Elbfeld, 1868), vol. i ; Hergenrbther, 
Photius (Kegensb. 1867), vol. i ; and the references in the 
article Iconoclasm. 

Leo the Magentian {X\aytvTi]vog or May£?'rm)c), 
a commentator on Aristotle, flourished during the first 
half of the 14th century. His first name, Leo, is fre- 
quently omitted in the MSS. of his works. He was a 
monk, and afterwards archbishop of Mytilene. He wrote 
’E&'jy/fcng tig to ntpi ipytjvtlag ’ ApiaroriXovc , Com - 
mentarius in A ristotelis De Interpretatione Lihrum (pub- 
lished by Aldus, Venice, 1503, folio, with the commen- 
tary of Ammon ius, from which Leo borrowed very large- 
ly, and the paraphrase of Psellus on the same book of 
Aristotle, and the commentary of Ammonias on Aristo- 
tle’s Categories s. Prcedicamenta. In the Latin title of 
this edition, by misprint, the author is called Margen- 
tinus. A Latin version of Leo’s commentary, by J. B. 
Basarius, has been repeatedly printed with the Latin 
version of Ammonias. Another Latin version by Je- 
rome Leustrius has also been printed) : — E'^ifyi^tg tig 
rd UpoTtpa dvdXvKTiKCL tov ’ Apia-ortXovc , Commen- 
tarius in Priora Analytica A ristotelis ( printed with the 
commentary of John Philoponus on the same work by 
Trincavcllus [Venice, 1536, fob]; and a Latin version of 
it by Basarius has been repeatedly printed, either sep- 
arately or with other commentaries on Aristotle). The 
following works in INIS, are ascribed, but with doubtful 
correctness, to Leo Magentenus : Commentarius in Caie- 
gorias Aristotells (extant in the King’s library, Paris) : 
— ' ApiCToriXovg aoepwTiKdjV iXiy\wv inf again, Ex- 
posit io A ristotelis De Sophist ids Elenchis ; and ’Apia- 
roriXovg TTtpi tiTropiag TTpordatiov. These two works 


LEO 


354 


LEO 


are mentioned by Montfaucon (Bibl.Coislin. p.225); the 
latter is perhaps not a distinct work, but a portion of the 
above. In the MS. the author is called Leontius Magen- 
tenus: — Comment arius in Iseegogen s. Qntnque Voces Por- 
phgrii. Bulile doubts if this work, which is in the Mc- 
dicean library at Florence (BandinijCufu/o#. Codd. Laur. 
Medic. iii,239), is correctly ascribed to Magentenus. In 
the catalogue of the MSS. in the King’s library at Paris 
(ii, 410, 42 1), two MSS., No. mdcccxlv and mcmxxviii, 
contain scholia on the Categories, the Analytica Priora 
et Posterioree and the Topica of Aristotle, and the Isa- 
goge of Porphyry, by “ Magnentius.” Bulile conjec- 
tures, and with probability, that Magnentius is a cor- 
ruption of Magentenus or Magentinus ; if so, and the 
works arc assigned to their real author, we must add 
the commentaries on Topica and Analytica Posteriora 
to the works already mentioned. Nicolaus Comnenus 
Popadopoli speaks of many other works of Leo, but his 
authority is of little value. See Fabricius, Bibl. Greeca, 
iii, 210, 213, 215, 218, 498; vii, 717; viii, 143; xii, 208; 
Montfaucon, l. c., and p. 219; Bulile, Opera A ristoteli* , i, 
165, 305, 306, ed. Bipont; Catalog. MS tor. Biblioth. Re - 
giee (Paris, I 740, fob), 1. c. — Smith, Diet. oj'Gr. and Rom. 
Blog, ii, 744 sq. 

Leo of Modena. See Leon da Modena. 

Leo THE Philosopher (Sapiens or Philosophy s'), a 
surname of Flavius Leo VI, emperor of Constantino- 
ple, noted as the publisher of the Basilica , was born A. 
1). 865, and succeeded his father, Basil I, the Macedo- 
nian, on March 1, 886. llis reign presents an uninter- 
rupted series of wars and conspiracies. In 887 and 888 
the Arabs invaded Asia Minor, landed in Italy and Sic- 
ily, plundered Samos and other islands in the Archipel- 
ago, and until 892 did away with imperial authority in 
the Italian dominions. By Stylianus, his father-in-law 
and prime minister, Leo was subjected to a bloody war 
with the Bulgarians; but, by involving them, through 
intrigues, in a war with the Hungarians, he succeeded 
in bringing the war with himself to a speedy termina- 
tion. The following years were rendered remarkable 
by several conspiracies against his life. That of 895 
proved nearly fatal; it was fortunately discovered in 
time, and quelled by one Samonas, who, in reward, was 
created patrician, and enjoyed the emperor’s favor until 
910, when, suspected of treachery, and accused of abuse 
of his position, he was sentenced to perpetual imprison- 
ment. At the opening of the 10th century, the Arabs 
and northern neighbors of the empire made another at- 
tack on the imperial possessions. The former once 
more invaded Sicily, and took Tauromenium, and in 
904 appeared in the harbor of Thessalonica with a nu- 
merous fleet, soon made themselves masters of this 
splendid city, destroyed a great portion of it, plundered 
the inhabitants generally, and left laden with booty and 
captives. Leo died in 91 1. lie was married four times, 
in consequence of which he was excluded from the com- 
munion with the faithful by the patriarch Nicolaus, as 
the Greek Church only tolerated a second marriage; it 
censured a third, and condemned a fourth as an atrocious 
sin. 

I low Leo came by the exalted name of Philosopher 
it is difficult to understand, except it be taken in an 
ironical sense. Gibbon, wit h a few striking words, gives 
the following character to this emperor: “llis mind 
was tinged with the most puerile superstition; the in- 
fluence of the clergy and the errors of the people were 
consecrated by his laws; and the oracles of Leo, which 
reveal in prophetic style the bites of the empire, are 
founded in the arts of astrology and divination. If we 
still inquire the reason of his sage appellation, it can 
only be replied that the son of Basil was only less igno- 
rant than the greater part of his contemporaries in 
Church and State; that his education had been directed 
by the learned Photius, and that several books of pro- 
fane and ecclesiastical science were composed by the 
pen or in the name of the imperial philosopher.” 

In speaking of Leo’s literary merits, it is necessary to 


say a few words of his legislation. In his time the Latin 
language had long ceased to be the official language of 
the Eastern empire, and had gradually fallen into such 
disuse as only to lie known to a few scholars, merchants, 
or navigators. The original laws, being written in Lat- 
in, opposed a serious obstacle to a fair and quick admin- 
istration of justice ; and the emperor Basil I, the lather 
of Leo, formed and partly executed the plan of issuing 
an authorized version of the code and digest. This plan 
was carried out by Leo, who was ably assisted by Saba- 
thius, the commander of the imperial life-guards. The 
new Greek version is known under the title of BmrtAi- 
Kai Siard^ag, or, shortly, BaaiXucai ; in Latin, Basilica, 
which means “Imperial Constitutions” or “Laws.” It 
is divided into sixty books, subdivided into titles, and 
contains the whole of Justinian’s legislation, viz. the 
Institutes, the Digest, the Codex, and the Novelke; 
also such constitutions as were issued by the successors 
of Justinian down to Leo VI. There are, however, many 
laws of the Digest omitted in the Basilica, while they 
contain, on the other hand, a considerable number of 
laws, or extracts from ancient jurists, not in the Digest. 
The Basilica likewise give many early constitutions not 
in Justinian’s Codex. They were afterwards revised by 
the son of Leo, Constantine Porphyrogenitus. For the 
various editions published of the Basilica, see Smith, 
Diet, of Greek and Roman Biog. ii, 741. 

The principal works written, or supposed to be writ- 
ten, by Leo VI of special interest to us are, 1. Oracula , 
written in Greek iambic verse, and accompanied by 
marginal drawings, on the fate of the future emperors 
and patriarchs of Constantinople, showing the super- 
stition of Leo if he believed in his divination, and that 
of the people if they believed in the absurd predictions. 
The seventeenth oracle, on the restoration of Constanti- 
nople, was published in Greek and Latin by John Leun- 
clavius (ad ealeem Const. Manassa?, Basil. 1573, 8vo). 
Janus Ilutgcrsius edited the other sixteen, with a Latin 
version by George Dousa (Leyden, 1618, 4to). Other 
editions, Epositione delli Oracoli di Leoni imperatore , by 
T, Patricius (Brixen, 1596), by Petrus Lambecius, with 
a revised text from an Amsterdam codex, also notes 
and new translation (Par. 1655, fol., ad ealeem Codini), 
A German and a Latin translation by John and Theo- 
dore de Bry appeared (Frankf. 1597, 4to). It is doubt- 
ful whether Leo is actually the author of the Oracles. 
Fabricius gives a learned disquisition on the subject: — 
2. Or at tones, mostly on theological subjects : one of t hem 
appeared in a Latin version by F. Metins, in Baronius’s 
Annates; nine others by Gretserus, in the 14th volume 
of his Opera (Ingolstadt, 1660, 4to) ; three others, to- 
gether with seven of those published by Gretserus, by 
Combefis, in the 1st volume of his Biblioth. Pat. Greeeo- 
Lat. Auctor. (Paris, 1648, folio); O ratio de Sto. Xicolo, 
Greek and Latin, bv Petrus Possime (Toulouse, 1654, 
4to) ; 0 ratio de Sto. Chrysostomo, restored from the life 
of that father by Georgius Alexandrinus in the 8th vol- 
ume of the Savilian ed. of Chrysostom (Antwerp, 1614, 
folio); some others in Combefis, Biblioth, Concionatoria, 
in the Biblioth. Patrum Litgdun., and dispersed in other 
works; Leoni Imp. Uomilia nunc primuvi vulgata Greece 
et Latine ejttsdemqne qua Photiana est Confutatio, a 
Scipiojie Meeffei (Padua, 1751, 8 vo): — 3 . Epistola ad 
Omarum Saracenum de Field Christ ianee T ’eritate et Seer- 
cenortem Krroribns (in Latin [Lyons, 1509 J byChampe- 
rius, who translated a Chaldsean version of the Greek 
original, which seems to be lost : the same in the differ- 
ent Biblioth. Patrum . and separately by Prof. Schwarz 
in the Program, of the University of Leipsie, in the year 
1786) : — 4. H yfyori'ta ciaTvireoeng —apei rov BarnM^c 
Afo vrog rov Hoepov, k.t.X., Deposit to facta per Jmper- 
atorem Leontem Sapientem, etc. (Greek and Latin, by J. 
Leunclavius, in' Jus Grerco-Romemnm ; by Jac. Goar, ad 
ealeem Codini. Par. 1648, folio) : — 5. E<’c rtc 51o? # o^fpion, 
In spectacnlum Unites Dee, an epigram of little value, 
with notes by Ilrodreus and Opsop?eus, in Epigram, libri 
vii, edit. Wechel (Frankfort, 1600). See Zonaras, ii, 174, 


LEO 


355 


LEO I 


etc.; Cedrcnns, p. 591, etc.; Joel, p. 179, etc. ; Manass. p. 
108, etc.; Givcas. p. 29G, etc.; Genesius, p. 01, etc. ; Co- 
din. p. Go, etc. ; Fabricius, Bibliotheca Gneea, vii, 01)3 sq.; 
llamberger, Xachrichten con Gelehrten Manner a ; Cave, 
Hist. Lift . ; Hankins, Script. Byzant.; Omlin, Comment, 
tie SS. Eccl. ii, 394 sq. — Smith, Diet, of Greek und Roman 
Bioej. ii, 739 sq. 

Leo of Saint-Jean, a French theologian and con- 
troversialist, was born at Rennes July 9, 1000. He en- 
tered the Carmelite convent when quite young, and, be- 
ing greatly esteemed by the order, he successively tilled 
nearly all the positions in their gift. He died at the 
convent “des Billettes,” Dee. 30, 1071. He wrote Car- 
meins restitutus (Par. 1034, 4to): — Eneyelop. Prcemissum , 
sen sapientice. universalis delineatio, etc. (1035, 4to) : — 
Hist. Cannelit. provinc'ue Turonensis (IG40, 4 to). His 
sermons were published under the title La Somme ties 
Sermons parenetiques et panegyriques (1071-75, 4 vols. 
fob). See IToefer, None. Bioy. Generale, xxx, 738. 

Leo Stypiota, or Styppa, or Sty pa (Stwjjc), 
patriarch of Constantinople in the 12th century (A.D. 
1134 to 1143), flourished until about the time of the ac- 
cession of the Byzantine emperor Manuel Comnenus. 
A decree of Leo Stypiota on the lawfulness of certain 
marriages is given in the Jus Orientale of Bonefidus 
({)E(jyoi ’ Ap\is par tKoi, Sanction. Pont ifc. p. 59), and in 
the Jus Greeco- Romanian of Leunclavius (liber iii, vol. 
i, p. 217). He is often cited by Nicolaus Comnenus Po- 
padopoli. See Fabricius, Bill. Grcec. viii, 721 ; xi, GOG. 
— Smith, Diet. Greek and Roman Bioy . ii, 745. 

Leo of TiiessalonIca, an eminent Byzantine phi- 
losopher and ecclesiastic of the 9th century, character- 
ized by his devotion to learning, studied grammar and 
poetry at Constantinople, and rhetoric, philosophy, and 
arithmetic under Michael Psellus on the island of An- 
dros, and at the monasteries on the adjacent part of 
continental Greece. He afterwards settled at Constan- 
tinople and became an instructor. Introduced to the 
notice of emperor Thcophilus, he was appointed public 
teacher or professor, and the Church of the Forty Mar- 
tyrs was assigned him for a school. Soon after the 
patriarch John, who appears hitherto to have neglect- 
ed His learned kinsman, promoted Leo to the archbish- 
opric of Thessalonica. Upon the death of Tlieophilus 
(A.D. 842), when the government came into the hands 
of Theodora, the iconoclastic party was overthrown, and 
Leo and John were deposed from their sees; but Leo, 
whose worth seems to have secured respect, escaped the 
sufferings which fell to his kinsman’s lot; and when 
C;vsar Bardas, anxious for the revival of learning, es- 
tablished the mathematical school at the palace of Mag- 
naura, in Constantinople, Leo was placed at the head. 
Leo was still living in A.D. 809; how much later is not 
known. Symeon (Do Mich . et Theodora , e. 40) has de- 
scribed a remarkable method of telegraphic communi- 
cation invented by Leo, and practiced in the reigns of 
Tlieophilus and his son Michael. Fires kindled at cer- 
tain hours of the day conveyed intelligence of hostile 
incursions, battles, conflagrations, and the other inci- 
dents of war, from the confines of Syria to Constantino- 
ple; the hour of kindling indicating the nature of the 
accident, according to an arranged plan, marked on the 
dial-plate of a clock kept in the castle of Lusus, near 
Tarsus, and of a corresponding one kept in the palace at 
Constantinople. The MiS’oCoc 7rpoy)'o<Tnv//, Methndus 
Proynostica , or instructions for divining by the Gospel 
or Psalter, by Leo Sapiens, in the Medicean Library at 
Florence (Bandini, Cataloy. Codd. Laur . Medic, iii, 339), 
is perhaps by another Leo. Combefis was disposed to 
claim for Leo of Thessalonica the authorship of the cel- 
ebrated Xptjtrpoi, Oraeula , which are commonly as- 
cribed to the emperor Leo VI , Sapiens, or the Wise, and 
have been repeatedly published. But Leo of Thessalo- 
nica is generally designated in the Byzantine writers 
the philosopher (<pi\voo(poc), not the wise (aotpoc); and 
if the published Oraeula are a part of the series men- 


tioned by Zonaras (xv, 21), they must be older than 
either the emperor or Leo of Thessalonica. See Fabri- 
cius, Bill. Gneea, iv, 148, 158; vii, G97 ; xi, GG5; Alla- 
tius, De Psellis, c. 3-C ; Labbe. De Byzant . lltstor. Scrip - 
toribus UpoTptm-iKuv, pt. ii, p. 45. — Smith, Diet, of Grk. 
ami Rom. Bioy. ii, 745 sq. 

Leo the Thracian (also the Great'), or Flavifs 
Leo I, emperor of Constantinople, was born in Thrace 
of obscure parents, entered the military service, and rose 
to high rank. At the death of the emperor Mareian in 
A.D. 457, he commanded a body of troops near Sc4vm- 
bria, and was proclaimed emperor by the soldiers, at* the 
instigation of Aspar, a Gothic chief, who commanded 
the auxiliaries. The senate of Constantinople confirmed 
the choice, and the patriarch Anatolius crowned him. 
I bis is said to have been the first instance of an emper- 
or receiving the crown from the hands of a bishop, a 
ceremony which was afterwards adopted by all other 
Christian princes, and from which the clergy, as Gibbon 
justly observes, have deduced the most formidable 
consequences. See Investiture. Leo followed the 
measures of Mareian against the Entyehians, who had 
been condemned as heretics, and who had recently ex- 
cited a tumult at Alexandria, had killed the bishop, 
and placed one iElurus in his stead. Aspar for a time 
screened YElurtis; but Leo at last had him exiled, and 
an orthodox bishop put in his place. The Huns, hav- 
ing entered the province of Dacia, were defeated by the 
imperial troops, and a son of Attila was killed in the 
battle. Soon after, Leo, in concert with Anthemius, 
emperor of the West, prepared a numerous fleet, with a 
large body of troops on board, for the recovery of Afri- 
ca, which was occupied by the Vandals. Tart of the 
expedition attacked and took the island of Sardinia; the 
rest landed in Libya, and took Tripolis and other towns ; 
but the delay and mismanagement of the commander, 
who was Leo’s brother-in-law, gave time to Genserie to 
make his preparations. Coming out of the harbor of 
Carthage by night, with fire-ships impelled by a fair 
wind, he set fire to many of t lie imperial ships, dispersed 
the rest, and obliged the expedition to leave the coast 
of Africa. Leo died in January, 474. — English Cyclope- 
dia, s. v.; Smith, Diet, of Greek and Roman Biography 
and M ijtholoyy, ii, 734. 

Leo I, saint and pope, surnamed the Great, noted as 
the real founder of the papacy, was born about the year 
390, though the exact date is not ascertained. We 
have also no precise information as to his birthplace; for 
while the liber pontifealis describes liim as a Tuscan, 
and names Quintianus as bis father, Quesnel, on the au- 
thority of an expression in one of Leo’s own letters 
(xxxi, 4), and an account of bis election by a certain Pros- 
per, stated that he was born at Rome, and this opinion 
has been accepted without further inquiry by most sub- 
sequent ecclesiastical writers. While yet an acolyte, Leo 
was dispatched, in A.D. 418, to Carthage, for the purpose 
of conveying to Aurelius and the other African bishops 
the sentiments of Zosinius concerning the Pelagian doc- 
trines of Ccelestius (q. v.). Under Celestine (q.v.) he 
discharged the duties of a deacon; and the reputation 
even then (431) enjoyed by him is clearly indicated by 
the terms of the epistle prefixed to the seven books De. 
Inearnatione Christi of Cassianns. who at his request 
had undertaken this work against the Nestorian here- 
sy. About this time be was applied to by Cyril of Alex- 
andria to settle a difficulty between Juvenal, bishop of 
Jerusalem, and the primate of the ecclesiastical prov- 
ince of Jerusalem. Having obtained a great reputation 
for his knowledge, energy, and untiring activity, lie fail- 
ed not to secure the full confidence of Sixtus 111 (432- 
440), to whom he rendered valuable service, in several 
important offices intrusted to him. Attracting also the 
notice of Valentinian III, he undertook, by request of 
this emperor, a mission to Gaul, to soothe the formidable 
dissensions existing between the two generals Aetius 
and Aibinus. While Leo was engaged in this delicate lie- 


LEO I 


35G 


LEO I 


gotiation, which was conducted with singular prudenee 
and perfect success, Sixtus 111 died, Aug. o, 440, and by 
the unanimous voice of the clergy and laity the absent 
deacon Leo was chosen to till the vacant seat. Envoys 
were at once sent to Gaul to apprise him of his election, 
and having returned to Lome he was duly installed, 
Sept. 20,440. lloth the State and the Church were then 
in a critical position; the former in consequence of the 
frequent invasions of barbarians; the Church through 
its inner dissensions and quarrels. From the earliest 
ages until this epoch no man who combined lofty ambi- 
tion with commanding intellect and political dexterity 
had presided over the Roman see; and although its in- 
tl uence had gradually increased, and many of its bishops 
had sought to extend and confirm that influence, yet 
they had merely availed themselves of accidental cir- 
cumstances to augment their own personal authority, 
without acting upon any distinct and well -devised 
scheme. But Leo, while he zealously watched over his 
own peculiar tloek, concentrated all the powers of his 
energetic mind upon one great design, which he seems 
to have formed at a very early period, and wliieh he 
kept steadfastly in view during a long and eventful 
life, following it out with consummate boldness, per- 
severance, and talent. This was nothing less than the 
establishment of the 4t apostolic chair” as a spiritual su- 
premacy over every branch of the Catholic Church, and 
the exclusive appropriation for its occupant of the title 
of Papa , or father of the whole Christian world. Leo 
may therefore be regarded as the precursor of Gregory 
the Great, and in this respect certainly deserved the sur- 
name of Great, which was given him. The evil days 
amid which his lot was east were not unfavorable, as 
might at flrst sight be supposed, to such a project, 'flic 
contending parties among the orthodox clergy, terrified 
by the rapid progress of Ariauism, were well disposed to 
refer their minor disputes to arbitration. Leo, who well 
knew, from the example of his predecessor Innocent 1, 
that the transition is easy from instruction to command, 
in the numerous and elaborate replies which he address- 
ed to inquiries proceeding from various quarters, studi- 
ously adopted a tone of absolute infallibility, and as- 
sumed the right of enforcing obedience to bis decisions 
as an unquestionable prerogative of bis office, deriving 
authority for such a position from the relation of Peter 
to Christ and to the other apostles. lie represented Pe- 
ter as most intimately connected with Christ: “Petrum 
in consortium individme unitatis assn m turn, id quod ipse 
erat, voluit liominari dicendo : Tu es Petrus et super 
hane petram iedificabo ecclesiam meara, ut icterni tem- 
pli icdifieatio, mirabili munere gratia dei, in Petri solid- 
itate consistent; hac ecclesiam suam lirmitate eorrobo- 
rans. ut illam nec liumana temeritas posset appetere, nee 
portie contra illam inferi pravalerent” ( Letters , x, 1). 
This community of person into which the Lord received 
Peter is then made to extend into a community of pow- 
er: ” Quia tu es Petrus, i. e. cum ego sim lapis angularis, 
qui fucio utraque unurn, ego fundanientum, pneter quod 
nemo potest aliud poiiere: tamen tu quoque petra es, 
quia mea virtute solidaris, et qiue mild potestate sunt 
propria, sint tihi meeum parricipatione communia” ( Let - 
ters, iv, 2). Peter had been received into the commu- 
nity of person with the Lord as a reward for his recog- 
nition and worship of Christ: true, he had denied his 
blaster, but this the Lord had intentionally permitted to 
happen. But, in comparison with the other apostles, he 
possessed not only all that every one of them did, but 
also much that the others did not ( Letters , iv, 2), and 
was their original chief: *• Transivit quideni etiam in 
alios apostolos jus potestatis istius (ligandi ct solvendi) 
et ad oinnes eecleshe prineipes docreti liujus constitute 
commeavit, sed non frustra uni conimendatur, quod om- 
nibus intimetur. Petro enim jdeo hoc singulariter ered- 
itur, qui eunetis ecelesiie reetoribus Petri forma prsvpon- 
itur.” It is only in him that the apostles were intrusted 
with their mission — in him they are all saved; ami it is 
for this reason that the Lord takes special eare of him, 


and that his faith is prayed for specially , li tanqnam alio- 
runi status certior sit luturus, si mens principis victa non 
fuerit.” After identifying the Church with the incar- 
nation of Christ, Leo identifies Peter with Christ. This 
primacy of Peter continues, therefore, for while the faith 
of Peter is retained, all the privileges attached to this 
faith in Peter remain also. This primacy continues 
among the followers of Peter, for they hold the same re- 
lation towards Peter that Peter held towards Christ; as 
Christ was in Peter, so is Peter in his successors; it is 
still Peter vdio, through them, fulfils the command of 
Christ, “ Feed my sheep !" — “Christus tantam potentiam 
dedit ei, quem totius ecclesiie principem fecit, ut si quid 
etiam nostris temporibus reete per nos agitur recteque 
disponitur, illins operibus, illius sit gubernaeulis depu- 
tandum, cui dictum est : Et tu con versus confirma fratres 
tuos” (Sermon, iv, 4). While affecting the utmost hu- 
mility when speaking of himself personally as unwor- 
thy of his high office, he speaks of that office itself as 
the most exalted station. 

It was more difficult for Leo, how'ever. to prove that 
the bishop of Pome is the successor of St. Peter. Borne, 
says Leo, has been glorified by the death of the two 
greatest apostles, Peter and Paul, who brought the Gos- 
pel to the Eternal City; and Leo claims to discover a 
special Providence in this coming of Peter to Borne, so 
that that city should through him and in him become 
the centre of the Christian world. “Ut hujus enarra- 
bilis gratia; (inearnationis) per totum mundum diffun- 
deretur eftectus, Bomanum regnuni divina providentia 
pnvparavit; cujus ad eos limites incrementa perducta 
sunt, quihus cunctarum undique gentium vicina et con- 
rigua esset universitas. Disposito namque divinitus 
operi maxime congruebat, ut lnulta regna uno conliede- 
rarentur imperio et cito pervios haberet populos pnedi- 
eatio generalis, quos unius teneret regimen civitatis” 
(Serm. Ixxxii, 2). Here, finding dogmatical arguments 
unavailable for his purpose, Leo turns to history, which 
he arranges to suit himself. With regard now' to the 
relation existing between the bishop of Lome and the 
other bishops. Loo says expressly, ‘‘All the bishops have 
indeed the same office, but not the same power. For 
even among the apostles, although they were all called 
apostles, there existed a remarkable distinction, for one 
only, Peter, held the first rank. From this results the 
difference among the bishops. It is a fundamental law 
of the Church that all have not the equal right to ex- 
press all things, blit that in each province there is one 
(the bishop of the principal place in the province) who 
has the first voice among his brethren. Again, those 
wdio occupy more important sees (the metropolitans of 
dioceses) have still greater power. But the direction 
of the whole Church is the eare of the chair of St. Peter, 
and no one can take anything away from him who is 
the head of all.” Potent but unconscious instruments in 
forwarding Leo’s ambitious schemes were found in the 
barbarian chiefs whose pow'er w as not yet consolidated, 
and who were eager to propitiate one who possessed 
such weight with the priesthood, ami through them 
could either calm into submission or excite to rebellion 
an ignorant and fanatic multitude. But. though the 
minds of men were in some degree prepared and dis- 
posed to yield to such domination, it w as scarcely to be 
expected that the effort should not provoke jealousy and 
resistance. A strong opposition was speedily organized 
both in the West and in the East, and soon assumed the 
attitude of open defiance. • In the West the contest w as 
brought to an issue by the controversy with Hilary of 
Arles (see IHlakifs Aukeatensis') concerning the dep- 
osition of Chelidonius. bishop of Vesontio (Besan^on), 
who had married a widow, which was forbidden by the 
canons. Chelidonius appealed to Leo, who reinstated 
him in his see. Hilary was summoned to Borne upon 
several charges brought against him by other bishops 
of Gaul, to whom his severity was obnoxious; and Leo 
obtained a rescript from the emperor Valent iniau III 
suspending Hilary from his episcopal office. This sus- 


LEO I 


357 


LEO I 


pension, however, does not appear to have been lasting, 
although the fact has been taken hold of by controver- 
sial writers as a stretch of jurisdiction in the see of 
Home. Quesnel published a dissertation upon this con- 
troversy in his edition of the works of Leo (Paris, 1675). 
The total defeat and severe punishment of the Galilean 
bishop tilled his supporters with terror, and the edict 
of Valentinian served as a sort of charter, in virtue of 
which the Roman bishops exercised for centuries un- 
disputed jurisdiction over France, Spain, Germany, and 
Britain. In the East the struggle was much more com- 
plicated and the result much less satisfactory. The ar- 
chimandrite Eutyches (q. v.),in his vehement denunci- 
ation of Nestorius. having been betrayed into errors, very 
different, indeed, but considered equally dangerous, was 
anathematized, deposed, and excommunicated, in A.D. 
448, bv the synod of Constantinople. Against this sen- 
tence he sought redress by soliciting the interference of 
the bishops of Alexandria and Home. His cause was 
eagerly espoused by the former. As for Leo, he wrote 
to the patriarch Flavianus (q. v.), telling him that “he 
had been informed of the disturbances which had taken 
place in the Church of Constantinople by the emperor, 
and was surprised that Flavianus had not at once writ- j 
ten to him about it, and informed him thereof before 
the subject bad been disclosed to any one else.” Leo 
also informed Flavianus that he had received a letter 
from Eutyches complaining that his excommunication 
had been without just cause, and that his appeal to 
Home had not been considered. Flavianus was to send 
to Borne a competent envoy, with full information of all 
the particulars of the ease, to render final judgment in 
the matter. In a case like the present, says Leo, in 
his conclusion, the first thing of all to be attended to is 
“ut sine strepitu concertationum ct custodiatur caritas 
et veritas defendatur.” In a letter of the same date to 
the emperor, Leo rejoices that Theodosius has not only 
a royal, but also a priestly heart, and carefully guarded 
against schism, for “the state also is in the best con- 
dition when the holy Trinity is worshipped in unity.” 
Meanwhile a general council was summoned to be held 
on the 1st of August, 449, at Ephesus, and thither the 
ambassadors of Leo repaired, for the purpose of reading 
publicly the above letter to Flavianus. But a great 
majority of the congregated fathers, acting under con- 
trol of the president, Dioscurus of Alexandria, refused 
to listen to the document, passed turn id tuously a series 
of resolutions favorable to Eutyches, excommunicated 
the most zealous of his opponents, and not only treated 
the Boman envoys with indignity, but even offered vio- 
lence to their persons. Hence this assembly, whose 
acts were all subsequently annulled, is known in eccle- 
siastical history as the Synodns Latrocinalis. The ve- 
hement complaints addressed to Theodosius by the or- 
thodox leaders proved fruitless, and the triumph of their 
opponents was for a time complete, when the sudden 
death of the emperor, in 450, again awakened the hopes 
and called forth the exertions of Leo. In consequence 
of the pressing representations of his envoys, Anatolius, 
the successor of Flavianus, together with all the clergy 
of Constantinople, was induced to subscribe the Con- 
fession of Faith contained in the Epistle to Flavianus, 
and to transmit it for signature to all the dioceses of 
the East. Encouraged by this success, Leo solicited 
the new monarch, Marcian, to summon a grand council 
for the final adjustment of the question concerning the 
nature of Christ, which still proved a source of discord, 
and strained every nerve to have it held in Italy, where 
his own adherents would necessarily have preponderated. 
In this, however, he failed, as the council was held at 
Chalcedon in October, 451. Although the Boman leg- 
ates, whose language was of the most imperious de- 
scription, did not fail broadly to assert the pretensions 
put forth by the representative of St. Peter, at first all 
went smoothly. The Epistle to Flavianus was ad- 
mitted as a rule of faith for the guidance of the uni- 
versal Church, and no protest was entered against the 


spirit of arrogant assumption in which it was conceived. 
But when the whole of the special business was con- 
cluded, at the very last sitting, a formal resolution wtjs 
proposed and passed, to the effect that while the Boman 
see was, in virtue of its antiquity, entitled to take for- 
mal precedence of every other, the see of Constantino] le 
was to stand next in rank, was to be regarded as inde- 
pendent from every other, and to exercise full jurisdic- 
tion over the churches of Asia, Thrace, and Pont us. 
The resistance of Leo was all in vain. The obnoxious 
canons were fully confirmed, and thus one half of the 
sovereignty at which he aimed was lost forever, at the 
very moment when victory seemed no longer doubtful. 
Leo made another and last effort on the 22d of May, 
452, when he wrote to Marcian and to Pulcheria, threat- ‘ 
ening, but in vain, to excommunicate Anatolius. In 457, 
after the death of Marcian, the party of Eutyches made 
a last effort, and besought the new emperor to assemble 
a council to condemn the decrees of that of Chalcedon, 
but the emperor refused to yield to this request. 

In the mean time serious events were taking place 
at Borne. In 452 the dreaded king of the Jluns, Attila, 
invaded Italy, and, after sacking and plundering Aqui- 
leia, Pavia, and Milan, he marched against Borne. Va- 
lentinian. proving himself unfit for his high position, 
remained at Ravenna, and riCtius himself saw safety in 
flight only. The Boman senate assembled to deliberate 
on what should be done in this emergency, and resist- 
ance being considered impossible, Leo was chosen as a 
mediator and sent to Attila. What the arguments em- 
ployed by the eloquent suppliant may have been history 
has failed to record; but the Iluns spared Borne, and, 
in consideration of a sum paid by the inhabitants, with- 
drew from Italy and retired beyond the Danube. This 
action of Attila appeared so strange that it was consid- 
ered impossible to account for it except by a miracle. 
According to the legend, Attila confessed to his ofiicers 
that during the address of Leo a venerable old man ap- 
peared to him, holding a sword with which he threat- 
ened to slay him if he resisted the voice of God. When 
again in 455 Borne lay at the mercy of the Vandals, who, 
taking advantage of the disturbances which followed 
the death of Valentinian, had invaded Italy, the senate 
had a second time recourse to Leo, and sent him to 
Genseric. But this time his eloquence did not prove 
so successful, Genseric consented only to promise not 
to burn the city, and to spare the life of the inhabitants, 
and from plunder three of the most important churches. 
The other parts of the town were abandoned to the sol- 
diers for a fortnight. The remainder of Leo’s life passed 
without further disturbance. While engaged in his 
schemes of aggrandizement, he never neglected for a 
moment to pursue and repress heresy within the states 
where his authority was recognised. Having learned 
that there were still a large number of Maniclueans in 
Borne, he caused them to be hunted up and punished. 
He acted with as much severity against the Pelagians 
and the Briscillianists. Barbevrac ( Traitc de la morale 
dcs Peres, c. 17, § 2) even accuses him of having approved, 
and perhaps instigated, the violent measures taken 
against the heretics during his pontificate, and adduces 
in proof the letter of this pope to Turibius, bishop pri- 
mate of Spain, concerning the Briscillianists. Bcau- 
sobre (in his Uistoire du Munich., 1. 9, c. 9, t. 2, p. 756) 
goes further, and charges Leo with having falsely ac- 
cused the Maniclneans and Briscillianists of the mis- 
deeds for which they were condemned. 

Leo is said to have been the originator of the fasts 
of Lent and Pentecost. An old legend, found in a num- 
ber of ancient writers, relates that in the latter part of 
his lifo Leo cut off one of his hands ; some. Th. Ray- 
naud among them, give as the reason that a woman of 
great beauty having once, on Easter-dav, been permitted 
to kiss his hand, the pope felt unholy desires, and thus 
punished this rebellion of the flesh, and they add that it 
is from that time the custom of kissing the pope’s foot 
was introduced. JSabellicus and others assert that the 


LEO I 


358 


LEO II 


pope only punished himself for having conferred orders 
on a man who proved unworthy. All state that his 
hand was finally restored to him by a miracle. He 
died April 11, 461. 

The works of Leo consist of discourses delivered on 
the great festivals of the Church, or on other solemn 
occasions, and of letters. T. Sermones.— Of these, the 
lirst by the Roman pontiffs which have come down to 
posterity, we possess 06. There are 5 De Xatali ipsins, 
preached on anniversaries of his ordination, 6 De Col- 
Pet is, 9 De Jejunio Deeimi Mensis, 10 De Xativitate 
Domini, $ In Epiphania Domini, 10 De Passione Domi- 
ni . 2 De Resurrectione Domini, 2 De Ascensione Domini , 
3 De Pentecoste , 4 De Jejunio Pentecostes, 1 In Xatali 
Apostolorum Petri et Pauli, 1 In Xatali S. Petri Apos- 
toli, 1 In Oetavis Apostolorum Petri et. Pauli, 1 In Xatali 
A. LaurenJtii Martyris, 0 De Jejunio Septimi Mensis, 1 De 
( Ira libus A see ns ion is ad Beatitudinem , 1 Tractatus con- 
tra flceresi/n Eutgchis. Milman (Hist. Lat. Christianity, 
i, 258) thus comments on these productions of Leo : 
* k His sermons singularly contrast with the florid, des- 
ultory, and often imaginative and impassioned style of 
the Creek preachers. They are brief, simple, severe ; 
without fancy, without metaphysic subtlety, without 
passion; it is th.e Roman censor animadverting with 
nervous majesty on the vices of the people; the Roman 
praetor dictating the law, and delivering with authority 
the doctrine of the faith. They are singularly Chris- 
tian— Christian as dwelling almost exclusively on Christ, 
his birth, his passion, his resurrection ; only polemic so 
far as called upon by the prevailing controversies to as- 
sert with special emphasis the perfect deity and the 
perfect manhood of Christ.” II. Epistol.e. — These, 
extending to the number of 173, are addressed to the 
reigning emperors and their consorts, to synods, to re- 
ligious communities, to bishops and other dignitaries, 
and to sundry influential personages connected with the 
ecclesiastical history of the times. They afford an im- 
mense mass of most valuable information on the pre- 
vailing heresies, controversies, and doubts on matters of 
doctrine, discipline, and Church government. Resides 
the 96 Sermones and 173 Epistohe mentioned above, a 
considerable number of bracts have from time to time 
been ascribed to this pope, but their authenticity is 
either so doubtful or their spuriousness so evident that 
they are now universally set aside. A list of these, and 
an investigation of their origin, will be found in the edi- 
tion of the brothers Rallerini, more particularly described 
below. In consequence of the reputation deservedly 
gained by Leo, his writings have always been eagerly 
studied. Rut, although a vast number of MSS. are still 
in existence, none of these exhibit his works in a com- 
plete form, and no attempt seems to have been made to 
bring together any portion of them for many hundred 
years after his death. The Sermones were dispersed in 
the Lectvmaria, or select discourses of distinguished di- 
vines, employed in places of public worship until the 
1 1 tli century, when they first began to be picked out of 
these cumbrous storehouses and transcribed separately, 
while the E pistole were gradually gathered into imper- 
fect groups, or remained embodied in the general col- 
lections of papal constitutions and canons. 

Of the numerous printed editions of Leo I’s works, 
the first was published bv Sweynheym and Pannartz 
(Rome, I 170, fob), under the inspection of Andrew, bish- 
op of Aleria, comprising 02 Sermones and 5 Epistoltp. 
The best two editions were published at Paris (1675, 
2 vols. Ito) by Pasquier Quesnel and by the Rallerini 
(Verona, 1755-57, 3 vols. foL). Of Quesners edition it 
is due to say that, by the aid of a large number of MSS., 
preserved chiefly in the libraries of Franco, he Was en- 
abled to introduce such essential improvement* into the 
text, and by bis erudite industry illustrated so clearly 
the obscurities in which many of (he documents were 
involved, that the works of Leo now for the first time 
assumed an uumutilated, intelligible, and satisfactory 
aspect. Rut the admiration excited by the skill with 


which the arduous task had been executed soon received 
a check. Upon attentive perusal the notes and disser- 
tations were found to contain such free remarks upon 
many of the opinions and usages of the primitive Church, 
and, above all, to manifest such unequivocal hostility to 
the despotism of the Roman see, that the volumes fell 
under the ban of the Inquisition very shortly after their 
publication, and were included in the Index Librorum 
Prohibitorum of 168*2. Notwithstanding these denun- 
ciations, the book enjoyed great popularity, and was re- 
printed, without any suppression or modification of the 
obnoxious passages, at Lyons, in 1700. Hence the 
heads of the Romish Church became anxious to supply 
an antidote to the poison so extensively circulated. 
This undertaking was first attempted by Peter Cacciari, 
a Carmelite monk of the Propaganda, whose labors (-S'. 
Leonis Magni Opera omnia [Rome, 1753-1755, 2 vols. 
fob] ; Exercitat tones in Universa S. Leonis Magni Opera 
[Rome, 1751, fol.]) might have attracted attention and 
praise had they not been, at the very moment when 
they were brought to a close, entirely thrown into the 
shade by those of the brothers Peter and Jerome Ralle- 
rini, presbyters of Verona. Their edition, indeed, is en- 
titled to take the first place, both on account of the pu- 
rity of the text, corrected from a great number of MSS., 
chiefly Roman, not before collated, the arrangement of 
the different parts, and the notes and disquisitions. A 
full description of these volumes, as well as of those of 
Quesnel and Cacciari, is to be found in Selibnemann 
(Bibl. Pat rum Lat. vol. ii, § 42), who has bestowed more 
than usual care upon tins section. See Maimbourg, 
Ilistoire da Pontifical de Leon (Paris, 1687, 4to); Arendt, 
Leo d. Grasse (Mainz, 1835, 8vo); Gesch. cl. Bom. Literal. 
(vSuppl. Rand. 2d part, § 150-162); Alex.de Saint-Che- 
ron, Ilistoire du Pontificat de St. Leon le Grand et de son 
siecle (2 vols. 8vo.) ; Ph. de Morn ay, Ilistoire Pontificate 
(1612, l2mo, p. 71); Rruys, Hist, cles Papes (La Have, 
1732, 5 vols. 4to), i, 218; Raronius, Annales Ecclesiastici 
(Lucques, 1738, 10 vols, fob ), vii, 535-638; viii, 1-240; 
G. Bertazzolo, Breve Descrittione. clella 1 ’ita di sun Leone 
pritno et di A ttila Flagello di Dio ( Mantua, 1614, 4to); 
Gfrorer, Kirchengesch. ii, 1 ; E. Perthel, Pabst Leo's / 
Leben u. Lehren (1843) ; C.T. Hefele, Conciliengeschichte , 
vol. ii ; Milman, Hist. Latin Christianity/, vol, i, ch. iv; 
Neander, Church History . ii, 104, 160 sq., 508 sip, 708 sq. ; 
Diimoulin. 1 7e et Religion de deux bons Papes Leon I et 
Gregoire I (1650) ; Baxmann, Politilc der Pdpste, i, 13 sq., 
Lea, Studies in Ch. Hist. (Phil. 1860, 8vo ; see its Index) ; 
Riddle, Hist. Papacy, i, 171 sq. ; Schroekh, Kirchengesch. 
xvii,90 sq. ; Herzog, Real-Encykl. viii, 296-311; Smith, 
Did. of Greek and Roman Biog. and Myth, ii, 746 sq. ; 
Migne, Xonv. Encyc. Theol. ii, 1152 ; Bergicr. Diet, de 
Theol. iv, 34 sq. ; Hoefer, Xonr. Biog. Generate , xxx, 704 
-708 Engl. Cgclop. s. v.; Christian Remembrancer. 1854, 
p- 201 sq. 

Leo II, Pope, was born at Cedelle. in Sicily, in the 
early part of the 7th century, lie became lirst canon 
regular, then cardinal priest, and finally pope, as suc- 
cessor of Agatlio. Although bis predecessor had died 
in January of the same year, he was installed as late as 
August, 682, by the emperor Constantine V, as “the 
most holy and blessed archbishop of old Rome, and uni- 
versal pope.” The reasons of this delay are unknown. 
Soon after his election Constantine requested him to 
send to Constantinople an ambassador, with full author- 
ity to decide at once on all questions of dogmas and 
canons, and other ecclesiastical interests. Rut Leo, per- 
ceiving the aim of the request, sent only a sub-deacon, 
who would not act in matters of any importance without 
lirst consulting with Rome. He also immediately as- 
sembled a synod to approve of the acts of the sixth 
(ecumenical council held at Constantinople in 681, which 
had been brought to Rome by the legates of Agatlio. 
In 683 he sent a legate to Constantine, with a letter 
anathematizing the heresy of the Monothelites, and also 
pope llonorins (625-638), ‘‘who. instead of purifying 
the Apostolic Church by the doctrines of the apostles, 


LEO III 


359 


LEO III 


has come near overthrowing the faith by his treason” 
(Labbc, Cone, vi, 1240). I^eo sought to induce all the 
churches to accept the decisions of that council, and for 
that purpose translated them from Greek into Latin, 
sending a copy of them in the latter language to the 
Spanish bishops. He appears also to have given his 
ambassador four letters, somewhat similar as to their 
contents (see Mansi, xi, 1050-1058), addressed to the 
bishops of Ostrogothia, count Simplicius, king Erwig, 
and the metropolitan bishop Quiricus of Toledo, ex- 
pressing his wish that all the bishops of Spain would 
indorse the acts of the Council of Constantinople. In 
these letters he says: “Honorius has falsified the invi- 
olable rule of apostolic succession which he had received 
from his predecessors.” Baronins, wishing to rehabili- 
tate Leo, denies the authenticity of these letters, while 
I‘agi attempts to uphold it; Gfrbrer (Kirchengescli. vol. 
iii, pt. i, p. 397 sq.) also maintains their genuineness, and 
adduces in proof of it their corresponding precisely with 
the decisions of the fourteenth Council of Toledo. Leo 
also obtained from Constantine a promise that after the 
death of the titular archbishop of Bavenna his succes- 
sors should, according to an old custom fallen into dis- 
use, come to Home to be consecrated. In exchange for 
this concession, Leo relieved the see of Bavenna from 
the obligation of paying the taxes formerly levied on 
the occasion of such consecration. Leo was a great 
friend of Church music, and did much towards improv- 
ing the Gregorian chant. lie built a church to Ft. 
Paul, and is said to have originated the custom of sprink- 
ling the people with holy water. lie died in July, C 83 : 
the exact date is not ascertained, and the Homan Cath- 
olic Church commemorates him on the 28th of June. 
See Du pin, Biblioth . des A uttnrs Becks, v, 105 ; Flatina, 
JJistoria delle Yite dei Sommi Pontefici ; Ciaconius, 1 'Has, 
ei Res gestic Pontificnm Pomanormn (Bom. 1077, 4 vols. 
folio), i, 478; Herzog, Pcal-Encyliop. viii, oil ; Hoefcr, 
jYour. Biog, Generate, xxx, 708; Baxmann, Eolitih der 
Papste , i, 185; Bower, History of the Popes , iii, 134 sq. ; 
Biddle, Hist, of the Papacy , i, 300. 

Leo III, Pope, who brought about the elevation of 
the Frankish king to the position of emperor of the 
"West, and thus relieved the Le man pontificate of fur- 
ther subjection to the Greek emperors, was a native of 
the Eternal City, and was elected after the death of 
Adrian 1, Dec. 25, 795. Immediately after his election 
he communicated the intelligence to Charlemagne, and, 
like his predecessor, acknowledged allegiance. Charle- 
magne replied by a letter of congratulation, which he 
intrusted to the abbot Angilbertus, whom he commis- 
sioned to confer with the new pontiff respecting the re- 
lations between the see of Borne and the “Patrician of 
the Homans,” for this was the title which Charlemagne 
had assumed. In 796 Leo sent to Charlemagne the 
keys of St. Peter and the standard of the city of Borne, 
requesting the king to send some of his nobles to admin- 
ister the oath of allegiance to the people of Borne, and 
thus the dominion of Charlemagne was extended over 
the city and duchy of Borne, in the year 799, an atro- 
cious assault, the motive of which is not clearly ascer- 
tained, was committed on the person of the pope. While 
Leo was riding on horseback, followed by the clergy, and 
chanting the liturgy, a canon by the name of Paschal 
and a sacristan called Campulus, accompanied by many 
armed ruffians, fell upon him, threw him from his horse, 
and dragged him into the convent of St. Sylvester, 
when they stabbed him in many places, endeavoring 
to put out his eyes and cut out his tongue. Leo, how- 
ever, was delivered by bis friends from the hands of the 
assassins, and taken to Spoleti under the protection of the 
duke of Spoleti, where he soon after recovered; thence he 
travelled as far asPaderborn in Germany, where Charle- 
magne then was, by whom the pope was received with 
the greatest honors. Charlemagne sent him back to 
Borne with a numerous escort of bishops and counts, 
and also of armed men. The pope was met outside of 
the city gates by the clergy, senate, and people, and ac- 


companied in triumph to the Lateral! palace. A court 
composed of the bishops and counts proceeded to the 
trial of the conspirators who had attempted the life of 
the pope, and the two chiefs, Paschal and Campulus, 
were exiled to France. F rom this very lenient sente nee 
and other concomitant circumstances, it appears that 
Charlemagne had greatly at heart the conciliation of the 
Homans in general, in order to deter them from betaking 
themselves again to the protection of the Greek emper- 
ors. In 800 Charlemagne himself visited Italy, and was 
met at Nomentum, outside of Home, by the pope, and 
the next day he repaired to the Basilica of the Vatican, 
escorted by the soldiers and the people. Alter a few 
days Charlemagne convoked a numerous assembly of 
prelates, abbots, and other persons of distinction, Franks 
as well as Homans, to examine certain charges brought 
against the pope bv the partisans of Paschal and Cam- 
pulus, but no proofs were elicited, and Leo himself, tak- 
ing the book of gospels in liis hand, declared himself in- 
nocent. On Christmas-day of that year the pontiff of- 
ficiated in the Basilica of the Vatican, in presence of 
Charlemagne and his numerous retinue. As C’haile- 
magne was preparing to leave the church, the pontiff 
stopped him, and placed a rich crown iq oil his head, 
while the clergy and the people, at the same moment, 
cried out “Carolo piissimo,” “Augusto magno impera- 
[ tori,” with other expressions ami acclamations which 
were wont to be used in proclaiming Homan emperors. 
Three times the acclamations were repeated, after which 
the pope was the first to pay homage to the new emper- 
I or. From that time Charlemagne left off the titles of 
king and patrician, and styled himself Augustus and 
emperor of the He, mans, and he addressed the emperor 
of Constantinople by the name of brother. Thus was 
the Western empire revived 325 years after Oiloaccr had 
deposed Bomulus Augustulus, the last nominal successor 
of the CcTsars cn the threne of the West. From that 
time all claim of the Eastern emperors to the supreme 
dominion over the duchy of Home was at an end, and 
the popes from the same date assumed the temporal au- 
thority over the city and duchy, in subordination, how- 
ever, to Charlemagne and his successors; they began, 
also, to coin money, with the pont ill’s name on one side 
and that of the emperor on the other. In 804 the pope, 
during Christmas, visited Charlemagne at his court at 
Aquisgrana (Aix-la-Chnpclle). In the division which 
Charlemagne made by will of his dominions among his 
sons, the city of Borne was declared to belong to him 
who should bear the title of emperor. Louis le Dcbon- 
naire was afterwards invested with that title by Charle- 
magne himself, and we find him accordingly, after the 
death of his father, assuming the supreme jurisdiction 
over that city on the occasion of a fresh conspiracy 
1 which broke out against Leo, the heads of which were 
convicted by the ordinary courts of Borne, and put to 
! death. Louis found fault with the vigor of the sentence 
and the haste of its execution, and he ordered his neph- 
ew, Bernard, king of Italy, to proceed to Home and in- 
vestigate the whole affair. Leo, who seems to have 
been alarmed at this proceeding, sent messengers to the 
court of Louis to justify himself. Meanwhile he fell 
seriously ill, and the people of Home broke out into in- 
surrection, and pulled down some buildings he had begun 
to construct on the confiscated property of the conspira- 
tors. The duke of Spoleti was sent for with a body of 
troops to suppress the tumult, when Leo suddenly dieel 
in 81 6, and Stephen IV was elected in his place. Leo 
is praised by Anastasius, a biographer of the same cen- 
tury, fe>r the many structures, especially churches, which 
he raised or repaired, and the valuable gifts with -which 
he enriched them. In his temporal polity he appears 
to have been more moderate and prudent than his pre- 
decessor, Adrian I, who was perpetually soliciting Char- 
lemagne in his letters for fresh grants of territory to his 
see. Thirteen letters of Leo are published in Labbe’s 
Concilia, x ii, 1111-1127. He is also considered the au- 
thor of tli e Epistolce ad Carolum Magnum imp,, ex edi- 


LEO IV 


360 


LEO IX 


tione et cum notis Hcrmanni Conringii (Helmst. 1G47, 
4to). The Enchiridion Leon is paper, containing seven 
penitential psalms and some prayers, has been errone- 
ously attributed to him. See rii. Jaffe, Rep. Pontijic . 
(Berlin, 1851, 4to), p. 215 ; V. Pagi, Erevittrium historico- 
chronoloyico-criticuni illustriora pontif. (4 to), ii, 1 ; J. G. 
Faber, Uissertatio de Leone III, papa Romano (Tubing. 
1748, 4to); Milman, llist, Latin Christianity, ii, 454 sq. , 
1 'alike, Hist, of Papacy, i, 24 sq.; Baxmann, Politik der 
Pdpste, i,304 ; Neaniler, Ch. Hist, ii (see Index) ; Kiddle, 
llist. of Papacy, i, 32G; llowcr, llist. Popes , iv, 142 sq.; 
Schrockh, Kirchenyesch. xix, GOO sq. ; xx, 510; xxii,37 
sq.; Keiehel, See of Rome in the Middle Ayes, p. 72 sq. ; 
Lea, Studies in Church llist. p. 34 sq., 38, 58, 88 note, 170 ; 
Enyl. Cyclop.; lloefer, Xouv. Bioy. Generale, xxx, 710; 
Gfrbrer, Kirchenyesch, iii, 1, 2. 

Leo IV, Pope, was a native of Rome, and succeeded 
Sergius II in 847. lie was hastily elected, and conse- 
crated without waiting for the consent of the emperor 
Lotharius, because Rome was then threatened by the 
Saracens, who occupied part of the duchy of Benevento, 
and who a short time before had landed on the banks of 
the Tiber, and plundered the basilica of St. Peter’s on 
the Vatican, which was outside of the walls. Leo’s con- 
secration, however, was undertaken with the express 
reservation of the emperor’s rights, and when, in order 
to prevent a recurrence of the violence of the Saracens, 
Leo undertook to surround the basilica and the suburb 
about it with walls, the emperor sent money to assist 
in the work. The building of this Roman suburb oc- 
cupied four years, and it was named after its founder, 
Civitas Leonina. Leo also restored the town of Porta, 
on the Tiber, near its mouth, settling there some thou- 
sands of Corsicans, who had run away from their country 
on account of the Saracens. Towers were built on both 
banks of the river, and iron chains drawn across to pre- 
vent the vessels of the Saracens from ascending to Rome. 
The port and town of Centum Cellar being forsaken on 
aceount of the Saracens, Leo built a new town on the 
coast, about twelve miles distant from the other, which 
was called Leopolis; but no traces of it remain now, as 
the modern Civita Vcechia is built on or near the site 
of old Centum Celia?. Leo IV held a council at Rome 
in 853, in which Anastasius, cardinal of St. Marcel, was 
deposed for having remained liVe years absent from 
Rome, notwithstanding the orders of the pope. Leo 
died in July, 855, and tifteen days after his death Bene- 
dict III was cdected in his place, according to the most 
authentic text of Anastasius, who was a contemporary; 
but later writers introduce between Leo IV and Benedict 
III the fabulous pope Joan (q. v.). Leo has left us two 
entire epistles, as also fragments of several others, and a 
good homily, which are contained in Labbe’s Cone. See 
Baronins, Anna!, xiv, 310; Ciaeonius, i, G14; Gfrorer, 
Kirchenyesch ichte, iii, 1 , 2; Baxmann, Politik d . Pdpste , 
i, 281, 352; Lea, Studies in Cli. History, p. 61, 91 ; Rid- 
dle, Hist, of Papacy, i, 33G sip; Reichel, See of Rome in 
the Middle Ayes , p. 9G ; Labbe, Concil. ix, 995 ; ( iiescler, 
Eccles. llist. ii, 220 sq. ; 1 1 erzog, Real- Encyklop. viii, 312 ; 
Mosheim, Eccl. llist. ii, 77 ; Hoefcr, Xouv. Ploy. Gener. 
xxx, 711 ; Enylish Cyclopaedia, s. v. 

Leo V, 1 ’ope, was born at Priapi, near Ardea (ac- 
cording to some at Arezzo). He entered the order of 
Benedictines, became cardinal, and was finally elected 
to the papal chair Get. 28. 903. A few days afterwards, 
Christopher, cardinal priest of St. Lorenzo, in Damaso, 
and chaplain of Leo, instigated an insurrection at Rome, 
and made the pope prisoner, under the plea that he was 
incapable of governing. Christopher now exacted from 
Leo a formal abdication, and the promise of returning 
into his convent. According to Sigonius, Leo died “of 
grief’ in his prison one month and nine days after his 
election. He was buried in St.John of Ldteran. But 
Christopher himself did not remain long in the papal 
chair, as a new revolt of the Romans drove him from the 
usurped see, and put iu his place Sergius III, who was 


the favorite of the celebrated Marozia, a powerful but 
licentious woman, who disposed of everything in Rome, 
'fhe 10th century may well be termed the darkest a?ra 
of the papacy. See Platina, llistoria de Vitis Pont if - 
cum , etc.; Artaud de Montor, llist. des souverains Pon- 
tif es Rom a ins, ii, G2; Du Chenc, llist. des Papes; Bax- 
mann, Politik der Pdpste, ii, 7G sq. ; Bower, llist. of the 
Popes, v, 8G; Riddle, llist. of the Papacy , ii, 3G; Gene- 
brard, Chron. ; Herzog, Real-Encyklop. viii, 315 ; Enylish 
Cyclopaedia ; I Iocfer, Xouv. Bioy. Gener ale, xxx, 71 1. 

Leo VI, Pope, a native of Rome, succeeded John X 
July G, 928, and died seven months afterwards; some 
say that he was put to death by Marozia, like his pre- 
decessor. lie was succeeded by Stephen VII, — Enylish 
Cyclopicdia; lloefer, Xouv. Bioyr. Generale, xxx, 712; 
Bower, History of the Popes, v, 95. 

Leo VII, Pope, a Roman, sometimes called Leo VI, 
succeeded John XI, the son of Marozia, January 8, 93G. 
lie mediated peace between Alberie, duke of Rome, and 
Hugo, king of Italy, who had offered to marry Marozia, 
in order to obtain by her means the possession of Rome, 
but was driven away by Alberie, also Marozia’s son. 
Leo is said to have been a man of irreproachable con- 
duct, but little is known of him. He died in 939, and 
was succeeded by Stephen VIII. We have of him an 
epistola to Hugo, abbot of St. Martin of Tours, published 
in D’Acherv’s Spicileyium ; two others to Gerard, arch- 
bishop of Lorch, and to the bishops of France and Ger- 
many. See Mabillon, A nnales Ordinis S. Benedicti, vols. 
ii and iv; Muratori, Rerum Italicarum Script ores, vol. 
iii; Flcury, llist. Ecclesiast.; Baronius, Annul, cent, x; 
Bower, llist. of the Popes , v, 97 sq. ; Reichel, Roman See 
in the Middle Ayes, p. 121 ; Baxmann, Politik der Pdpste, 
ii, 93; Herzog, Real-Encyklop. viii, 3IG; Enylish Cyclo- 
pcedia; lloefer, Xouv. Bioy. Generale, xxx, 712. 

Leo VIII, Pope, a Roman, succeeded John XIT, 
who was deposed for his misconduct by a council assem- 
bled at Rome, in presence of the emperor Otho I, in 9G3. 
But soon after Otho had left Rome, John XII eame in 
again at the head of his partisans, obliged Leo to run 
away, and resumed the papal office. John, however, 
shortly after died or was murdered while committing 
adultery, and the Romans elected Benedict A". Otho, re- 
turning with an army, took the city of Rome, exiled Ben- 
edict, and reinstated Leo, who died about 9G5, and was 
succeeded by John XIII. See Baronius, A nrnil. xvi, 129 ; 
Platina, llistoria, p. 14; Bower, llist. of the Popes, v, 1 1 2 
sq. ; Riddle, Hist, of the Papacy, ii, 42; Reichel, Roman 
See in the Middle Ayes, p. 126 sq., 216; Baxmann. Pol- 
itik der Pdpste, \\, 1 1 4; lloefer, Xouv. Bioy. Gen. xxx, 713. 

Leo IX (Bruno), Pope, bishop of Toul, was bom iu 
Alsaee in 1002, and was cousin-german of the emperor 
Conrad the Salic. He was noted for great scholarly at- 
tainments, and was elected in 1049 to succeed Damasus 
II, at the joint recommendation of the emperor Henry 
III and of the famous Hildebrand (afterwards Gregory 
All), who became one of Leo IX’s most trusted advisers 
and guides. Indeed, it has often been a matter of com- 
ment that the reign of Leo IX was rather Gregorian in 
tendency. Leo was continually in motion between Ger- 
many and Italy, holding councils and endeavoring to 
reform the discipline and morals of the clergy, and also 
to check the progress of the Normans in Southern Italy, 
against whom he led an army, hut was defeated in Apu- 
lia and taken prisoner by the Normans, who treated him 
with great respect, but kept him for more than a }'ear 
in Benevento. Having made peace with them by grant- 
ing to them as a tief of the Roman see their conquests 
in Apulia and Calabria, he was allowed to return to 
Rome, where he died in 1054. and was succeeded by 
A'ictor II. Among the councils held by Leo IX, one 
was convened at Rome (1050) against Berengar (q. v.), 
and in favor of Lanfranc (q. v.). Another important 
council held during his pontiticate was that of Kheims 
in 1049, where many laws were enacted against simony, 
clerical matrimony, and the conditions and relations of 


LEO X 


361 


LEO X 


monks and priests. Labbe and Cossart’s Cone . contain 
nineteen letters of this pope (ix, 041)— 1001). 8ee Baro- 
nins, Annul, xvii, 10-107 ; Muratori, Ilerum Ifalicarum 
Scriptures, iii, 277, 278 ; Gfrbrer, Kirchengeschichte , iv, 1 ; 
11 btier, Die deutschen Pdbste , ii, 3-214; Baxmann, Poll- 
tik dev Pdpste, i, 359 sq. ; ii, 101 sq. ; Bower, I list, of the 
Popes, v, 104 sq. ; Kiddle, Hist, of the Papacy, ii, 105 sq. ; 
Hunkier, Leo IX u. s. Zeit (Mavence, 1851); Milman, 
Hist, of Latin Christianity , iii, 240 sq. ; Kanke, Hist, of 
the Papacy ; Keichel, Roman See in the Middle Ayes, p. 
180 sq., 101 sq., 217, 244, 202; Herzog, Peal-Encyhlop. 
viii, 317 sq. ; English Cyclop, s. v. 5 Hoefer, Xouv.Biog. 
Generate, xxx, 714. 

Leo X ( Gioranni dd Medici), pope from 1513 to 
1521, was born at Florence Dec. 11, 1475. lie was the 
second son of the celebrated Lorenzo de’ Medici (bom 
Jan. 31, 1448; died April 8, 1402), suniamed “ the Mag- 
nificent,” and grandson of Cosmo de’ Medici (born in 
1380, died in 1404). From infancy Giovanni had been 
destined by his father to an ecclesiastical career, for to 
the lot of Pietro, the elder child, fell the succession in the 
Florentine government, and, as Giovanni early showed 
signs of ability, the great aim of Lorenzo was to secure 
for his house, by his second child, the intiuence of the 
Church. At the tender age of seven Giovanni was sub- 
jected to the tonsure, and at once presented by Louis 
XII of France with the rich living of the abbey of Font- 
douce, and by pope Sixtus IV himself with that of 
the wealthy convent of Passignano. Various other rich 
livings were added to these successively, and in 1488, 
finally, the youthful ecclesiastic, of but thirteen years of 
age, was by pope Innocent VIII (father-in-law of Gio- 
vanni’s sister Maddalena) presented with the cardinal’s 
rank, limited by the condition only that the insignia of 
this distinction should not be assumed until his studies 
had been completed at Pisa. Hitherto his education 
had been intrusted to tutors mainly, and among them 
were the famous Greek historian Ohalcondvlas, and the 
learned Angelo Poliziano, he now set out at once for 
Pisa, and having there completed his theological stud- 
ies in 1492, was on March the 9th of this same year in- 
stalled at Florence into the cardinal’s position, and three 
days after set out for and took up his residence in the 
Eternal City. Scarce had a month passed his induction 
to the cardinal’s dignity when intelligence reached Kome 
that Lorenzo the Magnificent was no more, and hastily 
Giovanni retraced his steps to Florence, to afford succor 
and support to his weak but elder brother Pietro, upon 
whom now depended the continuance of the power of 
the Medici over Florence. In July of this year (1492) 
Innocent VIII died, and as Giovanni had opposed the 
election of his successor, Alexander VI, the Medici could 
no longer hope for support from the papacy. Blind- 
ly and madly, amid all these disadvantages, Pietro, un- 
satisfied with absolute power unless he coidd display 
the pomp and exercise the cruelties of despotism, con- 
trived, in the short space of two years, to secure, in- 
stead of the love and good will, the hatred of the Flor- 
entines. Their enthusiastic devotion to the house of 
the Medici hitherto alone prevented any attempt to 
subvert his authoritv. They remained quiet even in 
1494, when Charles VIII of France came into Italy to 
enforce his claim to the throne of Naples, and when Pi- 
etro joined the house of Aragon, instead of becoming a 
confederate of the French, as his ancestors had always 
been. But when Pietro, equally presumptuous in secu- 
rity and timid in danger, terrified by the unexpected 
success of the French, fled to the camp of Charles, and, 
kneeling at his feet, abandoned himself and his country 
to his mercy, the indignation of the Florentines could 
no longer be stayed, and, entering into a treaty with the 
French, they stipulated especially the exile of the Medi- 
ci (Nov. 1494). After his capitulation to king Charles, 
Pietro had returned to Florence, but the enraged popu- 
lace made his stay impossible, and he quickly fled the 
city. Giovanni, bolder and more courageous than his ! 
elder brother, assisted by a few faithful friends, well- I 


armed, made a last attempt to assert the Medicean au- 
thority, and put down the insurrection by a bold exer- 
cise of force. It soon, however, became but too appa- 
rent to the young cardinal that his hope was all vanity. 
“The people multiplied themselves against Pietro,” as 
Guicciardini (Storia Fioreniina [Opere inedite],iii, 110) 
phrases it, and Giovanni, in the disguise of a friar, was 
glad enough to find himself outside the city gates, and 
on the open Bologna road, taking the same road as 
Pietro, followed by their younger brother Giuliano, still 
a mere lad. They went first to John Bentivoglio in 
Bologna, but, as they were not received here, went to 
Castello, and found a refuge with Vitelli. In this and 
other places, the Medici, the cardinal included, lived for 
some time, having frequent endeavors made for their 
restoration. But when Giovanni was finally persuaded 
that all such efforts were fruitless, he decided to quit his 
native country, now ravaged by foreign armies, and be- 
trayed by the wretched policy of pope Alexander AT, 
and he set out on a journey to F'rance, Germany, ami 
the Netherlands. F’or the assertion that the cardinal 
undertook this journey for political ends there is not 
the slightest foundation. While abroad he sought lit- 
erary associations mainly. He courted the acquaint- 
ance of men of learning, and not nnfrequcntly displayed 
his own taste for literature and the liberal arts. In 
1503, upon the death of Alexander AT, against whom he 
cherished a bitter hatred, and on whose account only he 
had avoided Kome after the expulsion of his family from 
Florence, he returned to the banks of the Tiber. Pius 
III, who succeeded Alexander AT, lived only a few weeks, 
and, upon a further election, the pontifical chair was oc- 
cupied by Julius II, a friend and admirer of Giovanni 
de’ Medici. Our cardinal's elder brother had died in 
the mean time (in the battle of Gariglianoin 1503), and, 
no longer distracted by the imprudent conduct and the 
wild plans of an imbecile, he gave himself up wholly to 
the interests of his ecclesiastical position. By the friend- 
ship of a nephe w of the pontiff, Galcotto della Kovere, 
he was brought into closer relations with Julius II, and, 
after the latter had entered Perugia in 1500 (8ept. 12), 
cardinal Giovanni was intrusted with the government 
of that town, and only a short time after was honored 
with the appointment of papal field marshal, under the 
title of “legate of Bologna,” to the army against the 
French. The campaign, however, proved rather unsuc- 
cessful, and at the battle of Kavenna the cardinal was 
taken prisoner and sent to Milan, whence he made his 
escape while the French soldiers were busy in prepara- 
tions for their removal to F'rance. The cardinal's great 
aim, now that the French had quitted Lombardy and the 
Florentine republic, was to re-establish his house in the 
government of Florence. During the first eight years 
of their exile the Medici had made four unsuccessful at- 
tempts to regain their power; on the failure of thtir 
last attempt, their successful opponent, I’ietro Sodcrini, 
had been chosen gonfaloniere for life : to dethrone 8o- 
derini, then, was the great object to he accomplished by 
the cardinal. The gonfalonicre’s reign thus far had been 
noted for its moderation and benign influence on Flor- 
ence, and had secured to the country great prosperity; 
but Soderini’s integrity was not unimpeachable to the 
mind of the Medici, and Giovanni appealed to the Holy 
League, consisting of the pope, the emperor, the A T eiie- 
tians, and F’erdinand of Aragon, to undertake the res- 
toration of the Medici, on the ground that Sodcrini 
showed great partiality to foreigners, and that his gov- 
ernment was extremely corrupt. To secure the services 
of the Holy League no charges against Sodcrini were 
really needed, but lie brought them, and promptly thej' 
replied. A body of 5000 Spaniards, brave to ferocity, 
were marched under Kavmond de Cardona against Flor- 
ence in August, 1512. On their way they stormed the 
town of Prato, and massacred the citizens, which so in- 
timidated the Florentines that they immediately capit- 
ulated, and consented to the return of the Medici as pri- 
vate citizens. Cardinal de’ Medici and his brother Gi- 


LEO X 


3G2 


LEO X 


uliano soon after entered Florence, and, though they had 
asked only their restoration as private citizens, without 
any share in the government, they had hardly been re- 
admitted when they forced the signoria, or executive, 
to immediately call a “ parlamento,” or general assem- 
bly of the people, in the great square (September). This 
general assembly of the sovereign people had repeatedly 
been used by ambitious men as a ready instrument of 
their views, and it proved such tin this occasion. All 
the laws enacted since the expulsion of the Medici in 

I 494 were abrogated. A “ balia,” or commission, was ap- 
pointed. consisting of creatures of that family, with dic- 
tatorial powers, to reform the state. No bloodshed, how- 
ever, accompanied the reaction ; but Soderini, having 
been deposed by the establishment of this new form of 
government, he and other citizens opposed to the Me- 
dici were banished, and “ thus once again, after an exile 
of eighteen years, the fatal Medici were restored to Flor- 
ence; once again fixed their fangs in the prey they had 
been scared away from, and 1 the most demoeratical de- 
mocracy in Europe’ was once again muzzled and chain- 
ed. A conspiracy of priest and soldier — that detesta- 
ble and ominous combination, more baneful to human- 
ity than any other of the poisonous mischiefs compound- 
ed out of its evil passions and blind stupidities — had as 
usual trampled out the hopes and possibilities of social 
civilization and progress” (Trollope, iv, 348). 

Scarcely had the Medici re-established themselves at 
Florence when news came from Home that the supreme 
pontiff had died. It was on the 20th of February, 1513, 
that “ the furious nature” of his holiness the pope Julius 

II was quieted forever. Leaving his brother Giuliano, 
and his nephew Lorenzo, son of Pietro, at the head of 
the affairs of Florence, “our cardinal posts up in all 
haste to Pome,” says Trollope (iv, 351), “ to see whether 
mayhap Providence, in the utter inscrutableness of its 
wisdom, may consider him, Giovanni de’ Medici, as the 
best and fittest person to be intrusted with heaven’s 
vicegerency,” accompanied in this excursion to the con- 
clave by Filippo Strozzi — son of the great banker, the 
founder of the still well-known Strozzi palace, possessor 
of one of the then largest fortunes in Florence, and “on 
whose young shoulders was one of the longest heads 
that day in Florence” — as his friend, companion, and . . . 
banker. “ Especially in this last capacity was Filippo 
necessary to the aspiring cardinal, so soon to become 
pope by the grace of God and the capital of Strozzi.” 
The younger members of the conclave had previously 
decided to elect one of their own age as successor to Ju- 
lius II. and upon cardinal de’ Medici, only thirty-seven 
years old, fell their choice, influenced, as we have seen 
by the quotation from Trollope, in a great measure by 
the exertions of the banker Strozzi. One of the first 
acts of the new pontiff, who assumed the name of Leo 
X. was to appoint two men of learning, Bembo and Sado- 
leto, for his secretaries, lie next sent a general amnes- 
ty to be published at Florence, where a conspiracy had 
been discovered against the Medici* for which two indi- 
viduals had been executed, and others, with the cele- 
brated Maehiavclli among the rest, had been arrested 
and put to the torture. Leo ordered Giuliano even to 
release the prisoners and recall those that were banished, 
Soderini among the rest. This accomplished, Giuliano 
was invited to Pome, where he was made gonfalionere 
of the Holy Church. “All the rich and lucrative of- 
fices of t lie apostolic court were conferred on Florentines, 
not a little to the disgust of the Human world” (Trollope, 
iv, 359). Of course, that Leo should do anything and 
everything to enhance the dignity and greatness of the 
Medicean family no one could object to, and, conse- 
quently, no one had aught to say when he appointed his 
nephew Lorenzo, the eldest son of Pietro, a profligate 
young scapegrace, but the only heir remaining to suc- 
ceed in the government of Florence, governor of the re- 
public and general in chief, with absolute and supreme 
authority over all the Tuscan forces contributed by the 
commonwealth to the armies of a new league formed in 


! 1515 by the emperor, the king of Aragon, the duke of 
Milan, and the Florentines against France and Venice. 
To have made Lorenzo, as Leo would have liked to 
do. sovereign prince, under the title of duke or some 
other like distinction, would have been premature, but 
with the appointment as made no one found fault, and it 
passed generally approved. Nor was any objection raised 
to Leo’s further action in behalf of Florence, constituting 
it a dependency of Pome, which it continued during the 
remainder of his life, ilis cousin Giulio de’ Medici, 
archbishop of Florence, on the decease of Julius II, Leo 
X at once promoted to the cardinal's dignity, and, in ad- 
dition, intrusted him with the legateship of Bologna. 
By these new positions the influence of the Medici had 
been greatly improved, but the ever-plotting Leo, far- 
seeing as he was, comprehended clearly that still more 
was needed to secure to his house the throne of Florence. 
L T pon bis accession to the pontificate he found the war 
renewed in Northern Italy. Louis XII had sent a fresh 
army, under La Trimouille, to invade the dueliy of Mi- 
lan. The Swiss auxiliaries of duke Maximilian Sforza 
defeated La Trimouille at Novara, and the French were 
driven out of Italy. The Venetians, however, had allied 
themselves with Louis XII, and Leo sent Bembo to Ven- 
ice to endeavor to break the alliance. Differences oc- 
curred between Leo and Alfonso d’Este, duke of Ferrara, 
who demanded the restoration of Peggio, taken from 
him by Julius II, which Leo promised, but never per- 
formed ; on the contrary, he purchased Modena of the 
emperor Maximilian, disregarding the rights of the house 
of Este to that town. The pope held likewise Parma 
and Piacenza, and it appears that he intended to form 
out of these a territory for his brother Giuliano, and he 
made attempts to surprise Ferrara also with the same 
view. His predecessor Julius had had in view the in- 
dependence of all Italy, and he boldly led on the league 
for this purpose; Leo had a narrower object — his own 
aggrandizement and that of his family, and he pursued it 
with a more cautious and crooked policy. To secure the 
adhesion of Louis XII, Leo reopened the Council of the 
Lateran, which had begun under Julius II, for the ex- 
tinction of the schism produced by the Council of Pisa, 
convoked by Louis XII in order to check the power of Ju- 
lius, who was his enemy. For such proceedings there was 
now no longer any reason, ami Louis XII gladly made 
his peace with Leo in 1514, renounced the Count il of 
Pisa, and acknowledged that of the Lateran. But in the 
following year Louis XII died, and his successor. Fran- 
cis I, among other titles assumed that of duke of Milan. 
Under him a new Italian war opened. The Venetians 
joined Francis I, while the emperor Maximilian, Ferdi- 
nand of Spain, duke Sforza, and the Swiss made a league 
to oppose the French. The pope did not openly join 
the league, blit he negotiated with the Swiss by means 
of the cardinal of Sion, and paid them considerable 
sums to induce them to defend the north of Italy. The 
Swiss were posted near Susa, but Francis, led by old Tri- 
vulzio, passed the Alps by the Col de 1’Argentier, en- 
tered the plains of Saluzzo, and marched upon Pavia, 
while the Swiss hastened back to defend Milan. The 
battle of Marignano was fought on the 14th of Septem- 
ber, 1515. The Swiss made desperate efforts, and would 
probably have succeeded had not Alviano, with part of 
the Venetian troops, appeared suddenly with cries of 
“Viva San Marco,” which dispirited the Swiss, who be* 
lieved that the whole Venetian army was coming to the 
assistance of the French. The result was the retreat of 
the Swiss, and the entrance of the French into Milan, 
who took possession of the duchy. Leo now saw dear- 
ly that t lie salvation of his house lay in a union with 
I’ ranee, and at once made proposals to Francis, who, in 
turn, eagerly embraced the proffered aid of the Church. 
It was on the 21st of October, 1 51 5, that news reached 
Florence of this new alliance concluded by the holy fa- 
ther and the French king Francis I fur the mutual de- 
fence of their Italian states, the king obliging himself 
specially to protect the pontiff, Giuliano and Lorenzo de’ 


LEO X 


303 


LEO X 


/ 

Medici, and the Florentines, and that both Lorenzo and 
Giuliano should receive commissions in the French ser- 
vice, with pay and pensions. IJ' there had been danger 
to the Medici government in Florence, it threatened 
front the side of France, but that danger they escaped by 
this new alliance, brought about, in a great measure, by 
the sympathy which the two parties felt for each other. 

At a meeting which these new allies subsequently 
held at Bologna (December, 1515) a marriage was agreed 
upon between Lorenzo, the pope’s nephew, and Made- 
leine de Boulogne, niece of Francis de Bourbon, duke of 
Vendome, from which marriage Catharine de’ Medici, 
afterwards queen of France, was born, and thus the un- 
ion of the French and Florentine interests became more 
closely cemented. But in ecclesiastical affairs also new 
measures were taken by a concordat, only abrogated by 
the French Revolution, which regulated the appoint- 
ment to the sees and livings in the French kingdom. 
Instead of capitular election, the king was to nominate, 
the pope to collate to episcopal sees. Annates were re- 
stored to the pope, who also received a small stipulated 
patronage in place of his indefinite prerogative of re- 
serving benefices. It is true the Parliament ami Uni- 
versity of Paris both opposed this concordat, but the 
king and the pope each secured what they desired. To 
the king thus fell the real power and the essential pat- 
ronage of the Church; by the pope the recognition of 
his own authority was obtained. The two, as Reichel 
{See of Rome in the Middle Ages. p. 538) has aptly said, 
by this new measure, “ shared between them the ancient 
liberties of tlie Galliean Church. The rising freedom 
of the laity was thereby crushed; the pope recovered 
most of his ancient power.” Nothing could seem bright- 
er now than the Medicean prospects and the future of 
the papacy. There was only one more tiling to be im- 
mediately accomplished — to make Lorenzo a sovereign 
prince “by grace of God, or, at all events, clearly by 
grace of God’s vicegerent on earth.” Upon the most 
flagrant of pretences, the duke of Urbino, Francesco 
Maria della Revere, was deposed, and upon Lorenzo fell 
the mantle of the duchy’s sovereignty, and at hast the 
measure of Leo’s ambition was nearly full. (In 1519, 
upon the death of Lorenzo, the dueliy of Urbino was add- 
ed to the territory of the Church.) This family ambi- 
tion, however, by no means found pleasure in the eyes of 
the Roman people, while the Florentines were flattered 
by the advance of their “first citizens” to the position of 
prince and pope. Prominent among the enemies of the 
Medici was the house of Petrucci. headed by the cardi- 
nal of that name, who was led into a conspiracy to mur- 
der the pope by the latter’s expatriation of his brother 
from Sienna. Not satisfied with the acquisition of the 
duchy of Urbino, Leo longed also for the possession of 
the free state of Sienna, lying between the territories of 
the Church and those of the republic of Florence, and to 
this end sent Borghcsi, its governor, into exile. At first 
Borghesi’s brother, cardinal Petrueei, formed the mad 
design of stabbing Leo on their first meeting, but he 
finally abandoned this enterprise as too daring, and a 
conspiracy was formed instead to cause the death of Leo 
X bv poison. Fortunately for Leo, the plot to take his 
life was timely discovered, and the cardinal expiated the 
intended crime with his life by secret strangling, while 
many others of like social standing suffered abasement 
and oth^r punishment. To secure himself against a 
second attempt of the kind, Leo now (in 1517) created a 
whole host of able and experienced Florentines cardinals 
— no less than thirty-one of them altogether. 

It was about this time also that the Lateran Council ap- 
proached itsclose, and that the measures were inaugurated 
which resulted so unfavorably to the cause of the papacy 
and the Church of Borne, and have made the year 1517 
forever memorable in the ecclesiastical annals for the 
foundation and commencement it gave to the revolution 
in the Church, commonly known by the name of the 
Reformation (q. v.). One of the greatest desires of Leo 
X, as pope of Rome, was the continuation of the incom- 


plete structure commenced under Julius II — the building 
of St. Peter’s church. Leo, who had made for himself a 
name as the protector and patron of art, and had well- 
nigh revived the Periclean age of the Greeks, could not 
brook the thought that, while he was pontiff within the 
walls of the Eternal City, this great enterprise, likely to 
immortalize the name of its patron in the annals of art, 
should he passed over, and, finding the coffers of the 
papacy drained by his predecessor, saw only one way in 
which to secure the necessary funds for so stupendous an 
undertaking — the sale of indulgences (q. v.), securing to 
the contributor for this objeet forgiveness of sin in any 
form (comp. Moslieim, Ecci Hist. ii. 6G, note G; Bower, 
Hist. ofPapacg, vii, 409 sq. ; Robertson, Hist, of Reign of 
Charles U, Harper’s edit., p. 125 sq., especially the foot- 
notes on p. 12G). Such utter disregard of the essence 
of religion resulted in one of the boldest assaults on the 
Romish Church that it had ever sustained. The very 
thought that forgiveness of sin was to be offered on sale 
for money “must have been mortally offensive to men 
whose convictions on that head had been acquired from 
contemplating the eternal relation between God and 
man, and who, moreover, had learned what the doctrine 
of Scripture itself was on the subject” (Ranke, Hist. Pap. 
i, GG). In Saxony, especially, men of piety and thought 
generally commended the interpretation which Luther 
gave to this subject. They all regretted the delusion of 
the people, who, being taught to rely for the pardon of 
their sins on the indulgences which they could secure by 
purchase, did not think it incumbent on themselves either 
to study the doctrines of genuine Christianity, or to prac- 
tice the duties which it enjoins. Even the most unthink- 
ing were shocked at the scandalous behavior of the Do- 
minicans— John Tetzel (q.v.) and his associates, who had 
the sale of indulgences intrusted to them — and at the 
manner in which they spent the funds accumulated from 
this traffic. These sums, which had been piously be- 
stowed in hopes of obtaining eternal salvation and hap- 
piness, they saw squandered by the Dominican friars in 
drunkenness, gaming, and low debauchery, and “ all be- 
gan to wish that some check were given to this com- 
merce, no less detrimental to society than destructive to 
religion” (Robertson, p. 12G). Indeed, even the princes 
and nobles objected to this traffic ; they were irritated at 
seeing their vassals drained of so much wealth in order 
to replenish the treasury of a profuse pontiff, and when 
Luther’s warm and impetuous temper did not suffer him 
any longer to conceal his aversion to the nnscriptural 
doctrine of the Thomists, or to continue a silent specta- 
tor of the delusion of his country, from the pulpit in 
the great church of Wittenberg he inveighed bitterly 
against the false opinions, as well as the wicked lives, 
of the preachers of indulgences (see Lbsclicr’s Reforma- 
tionsakten , i, 729). “ Indignation against Roman impost- 
ure increased ; universal attention and sympathy were 
directed towards the bold champion of the truth” (Giese- 
ler, Kcclts. Hist. [Harper’s edit.] iv, 33). On Oct. 31, 
1517, finally, to gain also the suffrage of men of learn- 
ing, Luther published ninety-five theses against the 
traffic in indulgences, setting forth his objections to this 
abuse of ecclesiastical power. Not that he supposed 
these points fully established or of undoubted certainty, 
but he advanced them as the result of his own investi- 
gation, and as subjects of inquiry and disputation unto 
others, that he might be corrected if his position eoukl be 
impugned. He sent them to the neighboring bishops 
with a petition for the abolition of the evil if his views 
were found to he well grounded, and appointed a day on 
which the learned churchmen might publicly dispute 
the point at issue, either in person or by writing; sub- 
joining to them, however, solemn protestations of his 
high respect for the apostolic see, and of his implicit 
submission to its authority. Many zealous champions 
immediately arose to defend opinions on which the 
wealth and power of the Church were founded; in es- 
pecial manner the opposition of the Dominicans (q. v.) 
was roused, for the spirit of this order had become pe- 


LEO X 


3G4 


LEO X 


culiarly sensitive on account of some recent humiliations, 
particularly by the late of Savonarola (i].v.), t lie events 
at Herne, and bv the still surviving controversy with 
Renchliu (q. v.), aside from the fact that the different 
mendicant orders cherished constant jealousy against 
each other. (The conjecture of some that the jealousy 
of the Augustine monk was apparent in Luther’s attack 
on Tetzcl because to the Dominicans had been intrusted 
the indulgence traffic is too ridicidons to need repetition 
here. Comp, however, Gieseler, Eccles. Ilist. iv, 25, note 
17 ; Mosheim, Eccles. Hist. blc. iv, cent, xvi, sec. i, ch. ii, 
note 18.) Fn opposition to Luther’s theses, Tetzel him- 
self came forward with counter theses, which lie pub- 
lished at Frankfort -on -the -Oder. Prominent among 
others also were Eck (q. v.), the celebrated Augsburg 
divine, and Prierias (q. v.), the inquisitor general, who 
both replied to the Augustine monk with all the viru- 
lence of scholastic disputants. “ Hut the manner in 
which they conducted the controversy did little service 
to their cause. Luther attempted to combat indulgences 
by arguments founded in reason or derived from the 
Scriptures; they produced nothing in support of them 
but the sentiments of the schoolmen, and the conclusions 
of the canon law, and the decrees of popes. The deci- 
sion of judges so partial and interested did not satisfy 
the people, who began to call into question even the au- 
thority of these venerable guides when they found them 
standing in direct opposition to the dictates of reason 
and the determination of the divine law” (Robertson, p. 
128). See Luther; Reformation. 

At Rome these controversies, though they had be- 
come a matter of interest to all the German people, were 
looked upon with great indifference. Leo judged it sim- 
ply a wrangling of two mendicant orders, and he w r as 
determined to let the Augustinians and Dominicans set- 
tle their own quarrels. The adversaries of Luther, how- 
ever, feared for their cause, and they saw no other way 
by which to secure anew peace to themselves, and the 
respect of the people, than by a wholesale slaughter of 
the Reformer and his friends. The solicitations of the 
Dominicans at the Vatican became daily more frequent 
and urgent ; and when at last it became necessary for 
Leo to take some decided action, he simply commission- 
ed his cardinal legate Cajetan (q. v.) to bring the Au- 
gustiniau friar to his senses, and Luther was summoned 
to and promptly appeared at the Diet of Augsburg, in 
October, 1518. If Leo ever committed a blunder, it was 
done in this instance by appointing to the task of con- 
verting Luther a monastic of the very, order he had so 
seriously attacked for its complicity in the indulgence 
traffic. If Luther was ever so much inclined to yield, 
a Dominican was certainly not the proper agent to ac- 
complish such a purpose. Cajetan, moreover, treated 
Luther rather imperiously, and peremptorily required 
him to confess his errors, before the least attempt had 
been made to reply to his arguments, and of course our 
Augustinian, high-spirited as lie was, turned away in 
disgust, and appealed a pupa non bene informato ad me- 
lius infbrmundum ; and afterwards, when the whole doc- 
trine of indulgence, as it had been developed up to the 
present time, was confirmed by a papal bull, the new 
heretic appealed from the pope to a general council (at 
Wittenberg, Nov. 28, 1518). Hv this time, however, the 
.strife had assumed more gigantic proportions; around 
Luther were now gathered the great, and the strong, 
and the learned of the Teutonic race. A special help- 
meet lie had found in his colleagues of the lately founded 
high school of learning at Wittenberg; and as in the 13th 
century from Oxford and Prague had proceeded the 
action against the Latin system, so it now proceeded 
from Wittenberg, until it terminated in the Reformation. 
When too late, the Roman court realized the mistake it 
had committed in intrusting Cajetan with the settle- 
ment of this difficulty, and another legate, the pope’s 
own chamberlain, Charles of Miltitz (q. v.). was dis- 
patched in December (1518) to give assurances to the 
electoral prince Frederick, by the valuable present of the I 


consecrated golden rose (q. v.),of the good intentions of 
pope Leo towards Saxony, and at the same time, if pos- 
sible, to conciliate Luther, in whom was now seen the 
representative of Wittenberg University, and at whose 
back stood one to whom even his enemies confess but 
few men of any age can be compared, either for learning 
and knowledge of both human and divine things, or for 
richness, suavity, and facility of genius, or for industry 
as a scholar — Philip Melancthon (q.v.). Unfortunately 
for the cause of the Dominicans, this very elector of 
Saxony, who had identified himself with and become 
the champion of the cause of the Wittenberg reform 
movement, was now, upon the death of Maximilian I, 
made regent of the empire in northern Germany (Jan. 
12, 1519), and Miltitz saw only one way in which to set- 
tle the controversy — by appeasing the wrath of Luther, 
lie accordingly battered “ the friar of Wittenberg,” as 
he was contemptuously called at Rome, by all manner 
of kindness, assured him that his case had been misrep- 
resented to Leo, and actually succeeded in inducing Lu- 
ther to promise, not, indeed, recantation, as he desired, 
but a promise to be silent if his opponents were silent, 
and an open declaration of obedience to the see of Rome: 
thus the whole matter apparently had reached its end. 

1 The opponents, however, were not silent; the contro- 
versy was renewed with greater animosity than before. 
See Carlstaut; Eck; Leirsic Disputation. Lu- 
ther was forced to reply; the primacy of the pope and 
other questions became involved, which obliged addi- 
tional research and study on the part of the reformers, 
and “in this way Luther gained so thorough an insight 
into the errors and corruption of the Roman Church that 
he gradually began to see the necessity of separating 
himself from it. lie felt himself called as a soldier of 
God to fight against the wiles and deceit of the devil, 
by which the Church was corrupted” (Gieseler, iv, 42). 
This he did hereafter, fearless of consequences, by both 
his pen and tongue. Luther’s was a nature that recoil- 
ed from no extremity. The result was “ the bull of con- 
demnation,” issued June 15, 1520, which brought about 
the formal abjuration of the papacy on the part of Lu- 
ther by the public burning of the bull, together with the 
papal law-books, Dec. 10 of this very year. January 3, 
1521, came the bull of excommunication, and a demand 
for its execution by the Diet of Worms, the body to 
which Luther appealed. See Reformation. 

While these religious disputes were carried on with 
great warmth in Germany, and threatened the very 
existence of Romanism, pope Leo was much more con- 
cerned with what occurred around him in Italy. A pol- 
itician of the best sort in the affairs of his native coun- 
try, ever solicitous lor its welfare, lie saw greater danger 
calling for prompter action on the political horizon than 
any that had yet appeared, in his estimation, on that ot 
ecclesiasticism. Leo. indeed, trembled for Florence at 
the prospect of beholding the imperial crown placed on 
the head of the king of Spain and of Naples, and the 
master of the New World ; nor was he less afraid of see- 
ing the king of France, who was the duke of Milan and 
lord of Genoa, exalted to that dignity, lie even fore- 
told that the election of either of them would be fatal 
to the independence of the holy see, to the peace ot 
Italy, and perhaps to the liberties of Europe, lint June 
28, 1519, the king of Spain was elected successor to 
Maximilian. This was, indeed, an event calculated to 
cause a series of infinite perplexities to God’s •vicegerent 
on earth. So the important decision was taken, a se- 
cret league, offensive and defensive, signed with the 
new Cresar on July 8, 1521, by which it was stipulated 
that the duchy of Milan was to be taken from the 
French and given to Franccseo Maria Sforza, and Par- 
ma and Piacenza to be restored to the pope. Leo 
subsidized a body'of Swiss, and Prospero Colonna. with 
the Spaniards from Naples, joined the papal forces at 
Rologna, crossed the Po at Casalmaggiore, joined the 
Swiss, and drove the French governor Lautrec out of 
Milan. In a short time the duchy of Milan was once 


LEO X 


3 Go 


LEODEGAR 


more clear of the French, and restored to the dominion 
of JSforza. Parma and Piacenza were again occupied by 
the papal troops. At the same time Leo declared Al- 
fonso d’Este a rebel to the holy see for having sided 
with the French, while the duke, on his part, complain- 
ed of the bad faith of the pope in keeping possession of 
Modena and Reggio. The news of the taking of Milan 
was celebrated at liomc with public rejoicings, but in 
the midst of all this Leo fell ill on Nov. 25, and died 
Dec. 1, 1521, not without reasonable suspicion of poison, 
though some have maintained that he died a natural 
death. (See Trollope, Hist, of Florence, iv, 385 sq., who 
cpiotcs strong proof in favor of the assertion that Leo X 
died of poison.) 

Personally Leo was generous, or rather prodigal ; he 
was fond of splendor, luxury, and magnificence, and 
therefore often in want of money, which lie was obliged 
to raise by means not often creditable. lie had a dis- 
cerning tas>te, was a ready patron of real merit, was 
fond of wit and humor, not always refined, and at 
times degenerating into buffoonery : this was, indeed, 
one of his principal faults. II is state policy was like 
that of his contemporaries in general, and not so bad 
as that of some of them. He contrived, however, to 
keep Pome and the papal territory, as well as Flor- 
ence, in profound peaee during his reign — no trifling 
boon — while all the rest of Italy was ravaged by French, 
and Germans, and Spaniards, who committed all kinds 
of atrocities. lie was by no means neglectful of liis 
temporal duties, although lie was fond of conviviality 
and ease, and many eliargcs have been brought against 
his morals. He did not, and perhaps could not, enforee 
a strict discipline among the clergy or the people of 
Home, where profligacy and licentiousness had reigned 
almost uncontrolled ever since the pontificate of Alex- 
ander VI. It is to be regretted, however, that any one 
should have been able to say of a pope so distinguished 
as a patron of learning as Leo X that in his splendid 
and luxuriant palace Christianity had given place, both 
in its religious and moral influence, to the revived phi- 
losophy and the unregulated manners of Greece; that 
the Vatican was visited less for the purpose of worship- 
ping the footsteps of the apostles than to admire the 
great works of ancient art stored in the papal palace 
(comp. London Quart. Her. 183G, p. 234 sq. ; Tain a, Italy 
[Homo and Naples], p. 185). As a pontificate, that of 
Leo X, though it lasted only nine years, “ forms one of 
the most memorable epoehs in the history of modern 
Europe, whether we consider it in a political light as a 
period of transition for Italy, when the power of Charles 
V of Spain began to establish itself in that country, or 
whether we look upon it as that period in the history 
of the Western Church which was marked by the mo- 
mentous event of Luther’s Information. But there is a 
third and a more favorable aspect under which the reign 
of Leo ought to be viewed, as a flourishing epoch fur 
learning and the arts, which were encouraged by that 
pontiff, as they had been by his father, and, indeed, as 
they have been bv his family in general, and for which 
the glorious appellation of the age of Leo X lias been 
given to the first part of the lfith century” {Engl. Cy- 
clop.), The services which Leo rendered to literature 
arc many, lie encouraged the study of Greek, founded 
a Greek college at Rome, established a Greek press, and 
gave the direction of it to John Lasearis; he restored 
the Roman University, and tilled its numerous chairs 
with professors; he directed the collecting of MSS. of 
the classics, and also of Oriental writers, as well as the 
searching after antiquities; and by his example encour- 
aged others, and among them the wealthy merchant 
Chigi, to the same. lie patronized men of talent, of 
whom a galaxy gathered round him at Rome. He cor- 
responded with Erasmus, Machiavclli, Ariosto, and other 
great men of his time, lie restored the celebrated li- 
brary of his family, which, on the expulsion of the Med- 
ici, had been plundered and dispersed, and which is 
known by the name of the Bibliotcea Lnurenziana at 


Florence. In short, Leo X, if not the most exemplary 
among popes, was certainly one of the most illustrious 
and meritorious of Italian princes. See Guicciardini, 
Storia (V Italia; Roseoc, Life and Pontificate of L< o X 
(Loud. 1805, 4 vols. 4to) ; Farroni, Vita Leonis X (1797) ; 
Amlin, Leon X (1844); Giovio, Vita Leonis X (1G51); 
Artaud do .Mon tor. Ilistoire des Sou verai ns pape s, vol. iv. 
For the bulls and speeches of pope Leo X, see Fabricius, 
Bibliotheca Latina Media ? et lufrmce Etatis ; Sismondi, 
Ilist. des Republiques Italiennes ; Ranke, 1 list, of the Pa- 
pacy, vol. i, ch. ii; Selirockh, Kirchengcsch. xxxii, 491 
sq. ; xxxiv, 83, 91 ; and his Kirchengesch. s. cl. Ref i, 7G 
sq., 314 sq. ; iii, 207 sq., 21 1 sq. ; Raumor, Gesch. tier Pa- 
dagogik, i, '54 sq. ; Bower, 11 1st. of the Popes , vii, 400 sq. ; 
Trollope, History of Florence (Loud. 18G5, 4 vols. 8vo), 
especially vol. iv, book x ; Leo, Gesch. Italiens, vol. v, ch. 
iii. (J.I1.W.) 

Leo XI, Pope {Alessandro de Medici), a descendant 
of the house of the Medici, was bom at Florence in 1535. 
After representing Tuscany for some years at the court 
of pope Pius V, he was made bishop of Pistoia in 1573, 
and archbishop of Florence in 1574. Made cardinal in 
1583. he was sent by his predecessor, Clement VIH, leg- 
ate a latere to France to receive Henry IV into the 
bosom of the Roman Catholic Church. He was very 
old when elected, on the 1st of April, 1G05, by the ut- 
most exertions of the French, against the wishes of the 
Spanish. He died on the 27th of the same month, it is 
said, from the fatigue attending the ceremony of taking 
possession of the patriarchal church of St. John the Lat- 
eral!. See Artaud de Mon tor, Ilistoire des Sovverains 
Pont if cs ; Bower, History of the ropes, vii, 47G ; Iloefer, 
Xonv. Liog. Generate , xxx, 725 ; Engl. Cyclop, s. v. 

Leo XII, Pope (cardinal Annibale della Genga), 
was born in the district of Spoleto in 17G0, of a noble 
family of the Romagna; was made archbishop of Tyre 
in 1793, and was later employed as nuncio to Germany 
and France by Pius VII. who made him a cardinal in 
181 G. On the death of this pontiff lie was elected pope, 
in September, 1823. lie was well acquainted with di- 
plomacy and foreign politics, and in the exercise of his 
authority, and in asserting the claims of his see, he as- 
sumed a more imperious tone than his meek and benev- 
olent predecessor. lie re-established the right of asy- 
lum for criminals in the churches, and enforced the 
strict observance of fast days. He was a declared en- 
emy of the Carbonari and other secret societies. He 
proclaimed a jubilee for the year 1825; and in his cir- 
cular letter accompanying the bull, addressed to the 
patriarchs, primates, archbishops, and bishops, he made 
a violent attack on the Bible Societies, as aeting in op- 
position to the decree of the Council of Trent (session 
iv) -concerning t lie publication and use of the sacred 
books. Leo also entered into negotiations with the new 
states of South America for the sake of filling up the 
vacant sees. He gave a new organization to the uni- 
versity of the Sapienza at Rome, which consists of five 
colleges or faculties, viz., theology, law, medicine, phi- 
losophy. and philology; and he increased the number of 
the professors, and raised their emoluments. He pub- 
lished in October, 1824. a Moto Proprio , or deerec, re- 
forming the administration of the papal state, and also 
the administration of justice, or Procedura Civile , and 
he fixed the fees to be paid by the litigant parties. He 
corrected several abuses, and studied to maintain order 
and a good police in his territories. lie died February 
10, 1829, and was succeeded by Pius VIII. See Engl. 
Cyclop, s. v.; Iiudoni, Leone XII e Pio VIII (1829); 
Schmid, Trauerre de ovf Leo XII (1829) ; Artaud de 
Montor, Ilistoire du pape IJon XII (1843, 2 vols. 8vo) ; 
Wiseman, Recollections of the last four Popes (sec In- 
dex). 

Leodegar, a saint (in French St.Leger), was born 
about GIG. He was educated by liis uncle (some say 
his grandfather), the bishop of Poitiers, who made him 
archdeacon. Leodegar was afterwards called to the 


LEOX 


3GG 


LEOX 


court as adviser of Bathilde, and tutor of her young son 
Chotaire. lu G59 lie was appointed bishop of Autun. 
That diocese was then in a rather dilapidated condition, 
and Leodegar applied himself at once to its restoration, 
lie supported the poor, instructed the clergy and the peo- 
ple, decorated and enriched the churches, and reformed 
the morals of convents by introducing the rule of St. 
Benedict, for which purpose he held a synod at the end 
of 670. lie was also instrumental in securing to Chil- 
deric II, of Austrasia, the western part of France in 
670; but the fickle monarch did not long consent to be 
ruled by bis advice, and Leodegar was finally disposed 
of by public execution after Childerie’s death, being ac- 
cused of complicity in his murder, in 678, His death is 
commemorated in the Homan Catholic Church Oct. 2. 

Leon da Modena (ben-Isaac ben-Mokdecai), 
also called Jehudah Arje M odanese, one of the most cel- 
ebrated Italian rabbis, the Jewish John Knox of the 
16th century in Italy, was born in Venice April 23, 1571, 
of an ancient and literary family, originally from France. 
Leon displayed his talents and extraordinary intellect- 
ual endowments at a most tender age. The Sabbatic 
lesson [see IIaphtaraii], it is said, he read before the 
whole congregation in the synagogue when he was only 
two and a half years old, and he began to preach (" } 123^*1) 
when he had scarce reached the age of ten. At thir- 
teen Leon came before the public with a treatise against 
gambling with dice and cards (entitled “,10, 

first published in 1596, and reprinted in French, Latin, 
and German), and thus active, and retaining all the 
vigor and elasticity of youth, he remained through life, 
though subjected to great suffering by the great misfor- 
tune of passing his days by the side of an insane wife, 
and bv following his promising sons to an early grave. 
With a genius so fertile, and a mind so well endowed, 
coupled with a thirst for learning and devotedness to 
Biblical literature and exegesis, master of the Latin, 
Italian, and Hebrew, he surveyed the whole theological 
and philosophical field with ease, and became the author 
of numerous poetical, liturgical, ethical, doctrinal, po- 
lemical, and exegetical works. Unfortunately, how- 
ever, for Leon Modena, he was fickle in mind, and loth 
to adhere long to one opinion, in consequence of which 
we find him to-day the decided exponent of Mosaism, 
to-morrow the staunch defender of Kabbinism, the next 
day in favor of a total abrogation of the whole ceremo- 
nial law, and perhaps on the day following an apologist 
for Christianity, because, as he expressed it, Judaism 
lor tiled its base. Both the orthodox and liberal Jews j 
claim Leon as the exponent of their doctrines; but we j 
think that justly he can be claimed only by the Re- j 
formed Jewish Church, for his masterpiece is, after all, 
the Kol Sakol (p2'2 51p), the existence of which was 
long known, but it was only in the present century that 
the MS. was discovered in the library of die duke of 
Barnia. It was then drawn from its hiding-place, and 
was published under the supervision of the late rabbi 
Keggio in rfszpn rrna (Gorz, 1852); an English 
translation appeared in The Jewish 'Times (New York), 
in the last numbers of 1871. This work contains a con- 
cise and terse exposition of the. religious philosophy of 
Judaism, and of the ideas embodied in the various cere- 
monial practices, and is written from a most liberal 
stand-point. He also wrote *1 Z"l *j3, a treatise on Me- 
tempsychosis, in which he takes ground against the 
Caba lists (published in C^p Er“%p.Gl sip) Hebrew 
and, Italian Dictionary, called PTT.m mb a (“ The Cap- 
tivity of Judah”), or 1-1 *rs (“Explanation of 
Words”), in which he explains in Italian all the difficult 
expressions in the Hebrew Bible, and which is preceded 
by grammatical rules (Yciflee, 1612; Padua, 1610; also 
printed in the margin of the Hebrew Bibles published 
for the use of the Italian Jews, following the order of 
the canonical books) : — Rabbinical and Dalian Vocabu- 1 


lary, called “'S (“The Lion’s Mouth”), of which 

the Italian title is Raccolta delle rod Rabin, non II ebr. 
ne Chald.f etc. (Padua, 1040; appended to the preceding 
work; afterwards printed separately in Venice, 1648): — 
A polemical treatise against the Cabalists, whom he de- 
spised and derided, on the genuineness of their inter- 
pretation of the Pentateuch (Sohar), entitled “nx “SO 
OH*: (edited by Dr. Ftirst, Leipzie, 1840) : — Ilistoria del 
Riti JJebraici ed observanza deyli Ilebrei di questi tempi , 
or the history of the rites, customs, and manner of life 
of the Jews, consisting of thirteen chapters, and written 
in Italian (Paris, 1637 ; in a revised form, Venice, 1638). 
This celebrated and most useful manual was translated 
into English by Edmund Chilmead (Loud. 1650); and 
also edited by Simon Oekley, under the title History of 
the present Jews throughout the World (London, 1707), in 
Picard’s Ceremonies and Reliyious Customs of the vari- 
ous JYations of the known World, vol. i (London, 1733) ; 
into French by father Simon, who prefaced it with an 
elaborate account of the Karaites ami Samaritans (Par. 
1674); into Dutch (Amsterd. 1683), and into Latin by 
Grosgebauer, Ilistoria rituum Jndaorum (Frank fort-on- 
the-Main, 1693) : — Commentary on the Books of Samuel : 
— Commentary on (he fee Meyilloth , i. c. the Song of 
Songs, Ruth, Lamentations, Ecclesiastes, and Esther: — 
Commentary on the Psalms : — Commentary on Proverbs : 
— Commentary on the Sabbatic Lessons : — and a polemi- 
cal work against Christianity, entitled 2~m but 
several of these works have not as yet been published. 
Leo died in Venice, where he was chief rabbi, in 1648. 
See his autobiography, entitled iYVi"V m *n. extant only 
in MS., from which extracts were made by Cartnolv. Rev, 
Orimtale (1842), p. 49 sq., and Reggio, PlTCpn 
(1852) ; Fiirst, Bibl. J udedca, ii, 383 sq.; Steinsehneider, 
Cataloyus lAbr, Ilebr. in Bibl. Bodleiana, col. 1345-56 ; 
Der Jsraeulische Yolkslehrer (Frankfort-on-the-Main, 
1854), iv, 91 sq., 186 sq., 247 sq. ; 1855, v, 396 sq.; Geiger, 
in Lieberniann’s Yolkskalender- Jahrbuch, 1856; Griitz, 
Gesch. d.Juden, x, 141 sq. ; Kitto, Cyclop. Bibl. Lit. vol. 
ii, s. v. 

Leon or Leone, J acob Jehudah, a Jewish writer 
of note, who was born, of Moorish descent, in 1614, in 
Holland, and flourished first at Middelburg and later at 
Amsterdam, is noted as a writer on the Temple model 
(compare Retrato del Templo , Middelb. 1642, or Hebrew 
rv:2P, Amst. 1G50), and as an illustrator of the 
Talmudical writings. He also figured prominently as 
a polemical writer, contending for the inspiration of the 
O.-T. writings, while he ruthlessly attacked the Gospel 
doctrines. lie is now generally supposed to have been 
the author of Colloquium M iddelburyense (attributed by 
Fabricius to Manasse ben-lsrael), and of Con diffe rentes 
theologos de la Chrisiiamdad. Leon died after 1671. See 
I Griitz, Gesch. d. Juden, x, 24 sq., 200 sq. ; Fiirst, Biblioth . 
Jiai. ii, 232 sq. 

Leon, Luis Ponce de, a Spanish ecclesiastic, was 
born at Belmonte, in the south of Spain, in 1527 (ac- 
cording to the Tesoro de los Prosadores Espaiioles por 
Ochod [Paris, 1841], at Granada; and according to St, 
Antonio and Ticknor at Belmonte in 1528). He stud- 
ied at Salamanca, entered in 1543 the order of the An- 
gustines. and was thereafter known under the name of 
Luis de Leon. Having been received D.D., he was in 
1561 appointed to a professorship at St. Thomas. Ilis 
knowledge and success created him many enemies, at 
the head of whom were the Dominicans of Granada. 
Accused of heresy and of having translated parts of the 
Bible into the vernacular, contrary to the orders of the 
Sanctum OtKcinm, he was in 1572 imprisoned in the 
dungeon of the Inquisition at Valladolid, and appeared 
over fifty times before the high court. His defence, 
which is extant, contains 200 closely-written pages in 
the purest Castilian. Although unable to prove any- 
thing against him, his judges condemned him to the 


LEONARD 


367 


LEONARDONI 


rack; but this sentence was reversed by the Inquisito- 
rial high court of Madrid, and lie was liberated with 
the advice of being more careful in future. In 1578 he 
returned to his convent and resumed his otHee. lie 
thereafter devoted himself exclusively to theology and 
to the duties of his order; but his health never recov- 
ered entirely from the shock it had undergone while in 
the prisons of the Inquisition. lie became general and 
provincial vicar of his order in Salamanca, and died in 
1501. His principal writings arc poems in Latin aud in 
Spanish; the latter arc distinguished for beauty of lan- 
guage and purity cf style. His original pieces have 
been published, with a German translation, by C. B. 
Sehlilter and W. Storck (Munster, 1853). His whole 
works, consisting of the above, together with transla- 
tions from the classics, the Psalms, and parts of the book 
of Job, were collected and published (Madrid, 1804— 1G, G 
vols.). See Qnevcdo, Vita de L. de L. (Madrid, 1631); 
Herzog, Real-Encyklopddie , s. v. 

Leonard, St., a French nobleman who flourished in 
the first half of the Gth century, was a convert and pu- 
pil of Kemigius. He retired at first into a convent near 
Orleans, and afterwards into a hermitage in the neigh- 
borhood of Limoges. Here he applied himself to the 
conversion of the people. A few followers soon gath- 
ered around him, and he founded the convent of No- 
blac. lie took special interest in prisoners, and the le- 
gend relates that centuries after bis death prisoners 
were released and captives brought back from distant 
countries through his intercession. His prayers are said 
to have saved the life of the queen of France in a dan- 
gerous confinement, and he became also the protector of 
travellers, lie died in 559, and is commemorated on 
the Gth of November. He is especially recognised in 
France and in England. — Herzog, Real-Encyklop. viii, 
332 ; Migue, Nour. Encyc. Theoloy. ii, 1168. (J. N. P.) 

Leonard, Abiel, S.T.D., an army chaplain and 
Congregational minister, was born at Plymouth, Mass., 
Nov. 5, 1740; graduated at Harvard College in 1759; and 
was ordained pastor of the original Church in Woodstock, 
Conn., in 1763. In 1775 he was appointed chaplain in 
the Be volution ary army, and was in the service of his 
country until 1778, when he went home on a furlough 
to see his sick child. Having remained longer than 
the appointed time, he found, upon his return, that he 
was superseded, which news so affected him that he put 
an end to his life in the western part of Connecticut, 
Aug. 14, 1778. Dr. Leonard was an elegant speaker, and 
published two sermons. See Cony. Quar. 1861, p. 350. 

Leonard, George (1), a Congregational, and sub- 
sequentW an Episcopal, minister, was born in Middle- 
borough, Mass., April 6, 1783; graduated at Dartmouth 
College in 1805; studied with Dr. Perkins, of West 
Hartford ; and was ordained over the Church in Can- 
terbury, Conn., in 1808. After two years he was dis- 
missed, and preached in various places in Massachu- 
setts. In 1817 he was ordained a deacon in the Episco- 
pal Church by bishop Griswold; admitted to priest’s 
orders the following. year at Marblehead; and was rec- 
tor of Trinity Church, Cornish, N. II., and of St. Paul’s, 
Windsor, Yt., until his death, which took place at the 
house of his sister in Salisbury, N. II., June 28, 1834. 
u Disinterested and judicious counsellor, open-hearted 
and honest man, and a sincere Christian.” Several of his 
sermons were published. See Cony. Quar. 1859, p.354. 

Leonard, George (2), a Baptist minister, was born 
in Raynham, Bristol Co., Mass., Aug. 17, 1802; entered 
Brown University in September, 1820; graduated in 
1824; and after being for some time a subordinate in- 
structor in the Columbia College at Washington, went 
to the Newton Theological Institution to study theology. 
In August, 1826, he was ordained pastor of the Second 
Baptist Church of Salem, Mass., and while there filled 
also the office of secretary of the Salem Bible Transla- 
tion and Foreign Mission Society; but his health com- 
pelled him to resign that position in 1829. Having 


somewhat recovered, he became pastor of the Church 
in Portland, Me., in October, 1830. Here he labored 
faithfully aud successfully until his death, Aug. 11, 1831. 
He wrote a Dissertation on the Duty of Churches in ref- 
erence to Temperance (published in the Christian Watch- 
man , 1829). The year after his death (1832), a small 
volume containing twelve of his Sermons, together with 
the sermon delivered on the occasion of his death by the 
Rev. Dr. Babcock, was published under the direction of 
his widow.— Sprague, A nnals of the A mer . Pulpit , vi, 729. 

Leonard, Josiah, a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in Kingsborough, N. Y., April 15, 1816. He grad- 
uated from Union College in 1837, and finished his the- 
ological course in Union Seminary, lie w*as ordained 
to the ministry in 1840, and was pastor of the following 
churches successively: Mexicovillc, N. Y., 1840-4*2; 
Oswego, 1842-45 ; Delhi, 1845-48 ; Fulton, 111., 1856-71. 
In 1872 he became stated supply at Clinton, la., where 
he died, Feb. 22, 1880. (W. P. S.) 

Leonard, Levi Washburn, D.D., a Congrega- 
tional minister, was born at S. Bridgewater, Mass., June 
1, 1790, and was educated at Harvard University, where 
he graduated in 1805. He then studied theology at 
Cambridge, and Sept. 6, 1820, became pastor at Dublin, 
N. II., where he continued until 1854. He died at Ex- 
eter Dec. 12, 1864. He published several school-books 
and other works of general interest only. — Drake, Diet, 
of A merican Biography , s. v. ; Appleton, A mer. A nnual 
Cyclopcedia, 1864, p. 623. 

Leonard, Zenas Lockwood, a Baptist preach- 
er, was born at Bridgewater, Mass., January 16, 1773. 
In June, 1790, he was converted, and shortly after joined 
the church in Middleborough. In May, 1792, he entered 
the sophomore class of Brown University, and graduated 
with honor in 1794. On leaving college he commenced 
a course of theological study with Rev. W. Williams, of 
Wren t ham, Mass. In 1796 he was ordained pastor of 
the Baptist church in Stnrbridge, Mass. The next year 
he opened a grammar-school, which he continued for sev- 
eral years. Mr. Leonard was active in procuring a divi- 
sion of the Warren, R. L, Baptist Association, Nov. 3, 180 1 , 
and the formation of the Sturbridge Association, Sept. 30, 
1802. He was particularly active in promoting promi- 
nent benevolent objects, especially the Sabbath-school, 
the temperance cause, African colonization, and missions. 
On Oct. 13, 1832, he was, by his own request, dismissed 
from the charge of his congregation. For six terms he 
represented his district in the councils of the state. Mr. 
Leonard manifested supreme deference to the authority, 
truth, and spirit of the Gospel ; stability of purpose ; un- 
compromising advocacy of the cause of freedom, right- 
eousness, and public virtue ; and unwearied activity in 
performing the various duties of his profession. II is pie- 
ty was of steady progress, ripening continually until his 
death. He died June 24, 1841. The only printed pro- 
ductions of his pen, with the exception of contributions 
to various periodicals, arc the Circular Letters to the 
Association for the years 1802, 1810, 1822, aud 1825. — 
Sprague, Annals of the A mer. Pulpit , vi, 347 sq. 

Leonardo da Porto Maurizio, a noted mission- 
ary priest and the founder of the Brotherhood of the 
Heart of Jesus, was born in Liguria in 1676. While 
yet a youth he became a pupil of the Jesuits, and a 
member of the Order of the Reformed Franciscans. He 
was especially active in promoting the doctrine of the 
immaculate conception. He died about the middle of 
the 18th century, and was sainted by Pius VI in 1796. 

Leonardo da Vinci. See Vinci. 

Leonardoni, Francesco, an Italian painter, was 
bom at Venice in 1654; visited Spain and settled at 
Madrid; gained great eminence as a portrait- painter; 
executed several historical works for the churches, char- 
acterized by a grand style of design ; and died at Madrid 
in 1711. Among his principal works are a large altar- 
piece of the Incarnation, in the Church of San Geronimo 
el Real, at Madrid:— and* two subjects from the Life of 


LEONBRUNO 303 LEOXTIUS 


St. Joseph , in the Church of the Colegio de Atoeha. See 
Spooner, Biog. Hist, of Fine *1 rts, s. v. 

Leoubruno, Lorenzo, an Italian painter, was born 
at Mantua in 1489; studied under count Castiglione, the 
friend of Raphael; appointed painter to the duke of Man- 
tua; gave offence to Giulio Romano, in consequence of 
which he was obliged to quit Mantua; settled at Milan, 
and died there about 1 537. Three of his pictures at Man- 
tua are very highly praised, viz., St. Jerome : — The Meta - ' 
morphosis of Midas : — and The Body of Ch rist in the A rms 
of the I dry in. See Spooner, Biog. Hist, of Fine A rts, s. v. 

Leonidas, father of the celebrated Origen, was a 
Christian martyr of the 3d century. Previous to his 
execution, his son, in order to encourage him, wrote to 
him as follows: “Beware that your care for us does not 
make vou change your resolution !” The father accept- 
ed the heroic exhortation of the son, and yielded his 
neck joyfully to the stroke of the executioner.— Fox, 
Book of Martyrs, p. 23. 

Leonistae is the name bv which the Waldenses are 
sometimes referred to, and is derived from Leona (Lyons). 

Leontes, an important river of northern Palestine, 
doubtless the present Litany, which bursts in a deep 
chasm through the Lebanon range (Robinson, lies, iii, 
409 sq. ; Ritter, Erdk. xvii,48 sq. ; Smith, Diet . of Class. 
Geog. s. v.). For a description, see Lebanon. 

Leontius, a Christian martyr and saint, probably 
of Arabian origin, was born at Yieentia, in Yenetia, in 
the 3d century after Christ, lie afterwards moved 
to Aquileia, in Yenetia, where, in company with St. 
Carpophorus, who was either his brother or intimate 
friend, he distinguished himself b} r zeal in favor of 
Christianity. For this offence they were both brought 
before the governor Lysias, and after being tortured in 
various modes, and, according to the legend, miracu- 
lously delivered, they were at last beheaded, probably 
A.D. 300. Their memory is celebrated by the Romish 
Church on Aug. 28. See the Acta Sanctorum (in Aug. 
20), where several difficulties are critically discussed at 
length. — Smith, Diet, of Or. and Bom. Biog. voL ii, s. v. 

Leontius of Antioch, a learned Syrian theologian 
of the early Church, was born in Phrygia about the close 
of the 3d or the opening of the 4th century. He was a 
disciple of the martyr Lucianus, and, having entered the 
Church, was ordained a presbyter. In order to enjoy 
without scandal the society of a young female, Eusto- 
lius or Eustolia, to whom he was much attached, he 
mutilated himself, but, notwithstanding, did not escape 
suspicion, and was finally deposed from his office. On 
the deposition, however, of Stephanas, or Stephen, bish- 
op of Antioch, he was, by the favor of the emperor Con- 
stantins and the predominant Arian party, appointed to 
that see about 318 or 349. Leontius died about A.D. 
358. Of his writings, which were numerous, nothing 
remains except a fragment of what Cave describes, we 
know not on what authority, as O ratio in Passionem S. 
Babylw (cited in the Paschal Chronicle in the notice of 
the Decian persecution). In this fragment it is dis- 
tinctly asserted that both the emperor Philip and his 
wife were avowed Christians (Socrates, Hist. Ecdes. ii, 
2G; Sozomen, Hist. Kccles. iii, 20; Theodoret, Hist. Kecks. 
ii, 10, 24 ; Philostorgius, Hist. Kccles. iii. 15, 17, 18 ; Atha- 
nasius, Apolog. de Fuga sua. c. 20; Hist. Aria nor. ad 
Monaehos, c. 28; Citron. Putsch, i, 270, 289, ed. Paris; p. 
210, 231, cd.Yenice; p. 503, 535, cd. Bonn; Cave, Hist. 
Litteraria, i, 211, ed. Oxon. 1740-43 ; Fabricius, Biblioth. 
Graica , viii, 324). — Smith, Diet, of Greek and Bom . Biog. 
vol. ii, s. v. 

Leontius of Arabissus, in Cappadocia, of which 
town he was bishop, nourished as an ecclesiastical writer. 
The period in whicli he lived, however, is quite uncer- 
tain. Photius has noticed two of his works: 1. Big -n)v 
kt'igiv \6yog (Sermo de Creatione'), and, 2. Big rov Aa£- 
apov ( De Lazaro ), and gives extracts from both these 
works (Photius, Cod. 272). See also Cave, Hist. Litter. 


i, 551; Fabricius, Bibl. Grceca, viii, 324; x, 2G8, 77L — 
Smith, Diet, of Greek and Roman Biog. vol. ii, s. v. 

Leontius of Arelate, or Arles, was bishop of 
that city about the middle of the 5th century. Several 
letters were written to him by pope Ililarius, A.D. 4G1- 
4G7, which are given in the Concilia, and a letter of Le- 
ontius to the pope, dated A.D. 462, is also given in the 
Concilia and in D’Achery’s Spieilegium (v, 578 of the 
original edition, or iii, 302 in the edition of De la Barre, 
Paris, 1723, folio). Leontius presided in a council at 
Arles, held A.D. 475, to condemn an error into which 
some had fallen respecting the doctrine of predestina- 
tion. He appears to have died in A.D. 484. He is 
mentioned by Sidonius Apollinaris ( Kpist . vii, G). See 
Concil. iv, eol. 1039, 1041, 1044 (1828, ed. Labbe) ; Cave, 
Hist. Lift, i, 449; Fabricius, Bibl. Grceca, viii, 324; xii, 
G53 ; Bibl. Med. et Infm. Latinitatis, v, 2G8 (ed. Mansi) ; 
Tillemont, Memoires, xvi, 38. — Smith, Diet, of Greek 
and Roman Biog . vol. ii, s. v. 

Leontius of Byzantium (1), an ecclesiastical writ- 
er of the latter part of the 6th and commencement of tho 
7th century, is sometimes designated, from his original 
profession, Scholasticus, i. e. pleader. As there are sev- 
eral works of that period which bear the name of Leon- 
tius, distinguished by various surnames, it is sometimes 
doubtful to whom they should be assigned. According 
to Oudin, Leontius flourished as an inmate of the mon- 
astery which had been founded by St. Saba near Jeru- 
salem, and was for a time its abbot (De Scriptor. Kccles. 

1, eol. 14G2, etc.). Cave, confounding two different per- 

sons bearing this name, places our Leontius in the reign 
of Justinian, but from one of the works with which 
he is credited it is evident that he flourished half a cen- 
tury later. The works which appear to be by our Leon- 
tius are as follows: 1. (Scholia'), taken down 

from the lips of Theodoras (first published with Latin 
version by Leunclavius, and commonly cited by the 
title De Sectis in a volume containing several other 
pieces [Basle, 1578, 8vo], and reprinted in the Auctari- 
nm Bibliothecce Patrum of Ducajus, vol. i [Paris, 1024, 
folio], in the Bibliotheca Patrum , vol. xi [Paris, 1G44, 
fob], and in the Bibliotheca Patrum of Gall and, xii, 625, 
etc. [Yenice, 1728, folio]. The Latin version alone is 
given in several other editions of the Biblioth. Patrum). 

2. Contra Kutychianos et Nestorianos Libri tres , s. con - 
futatio utriusque Fictionis inter se contrarice. Some 
inaccurately speak of the three books into which this 
work is divided as distinct works. 3. Liber adversus eos 
qni proferunt nobis qitccdam Apollinarii, /also inscript a 
nomine Sanctorum Patrum , s. adversus Fraudes A pol- 
linaristarum. 4. Solutiones Argument at ionum Seven. 
5. Dnbitationes hypothetic et defnientes contra eos qui 
negant in Christo jtost Unionem duas veras Mat unis. 
These pieces have not been printed in the original, but 
in a Latin version from the papers of Franeiscus Turri- 
anus (published by Canisius in his Lectiones Antique, 
vol. iv, or ii, 525, etc., ed. Basnage, and reprinted in the 
Bibliotheca Patrum, vol. ix [Lyons, 1G77, folio], and in 
the above-mentioned volume of Galland). G. Apologia 
Concilii Chalcedoncnsts (printed, with a Latin version 
and notes, by Antonio Bougivianni, in the Concilia, vii, 
799, ed. Mansi [Florence, 17G2, folio], and reprinted by 
Galland, l. c.). In the title of this work Leontius is 
called Monachns Ilierosolymitanus , but the word Ilie- 
rosolymitamis is possibly an error of the transcriber. 
At any rate, Galland identifies the writer with our Leon- 
tius, and the subject of the work makes it probable that 
he is right. 7. ,1 d versus Knfychianus (s. Severianos) et 
Nestorianos in octo libros distinctum (described by Canis- 
ius as being extant in MS. at Munich, and by Fabricius 
as occurring in the catalogue of the Palatine library). 
8. Liber de Dnplici Nat ura in Christo contra Hcercsin 
Monophy sit arum (Labbe and Cave speak of this as ex- 
tant in MS. at Yienna, and they add to it Disputatio 
contra Philosophum A rianum : this, however, seems to be 
an extract from Gelasius of Cyzicus), which probably is 


LEONTIUS 


369 


LEOPARD 


one of the discussions between the “holy bishops” of the 
orthodox party and the “ philosophers” who embraced 
the opposite side, and the Leontius who took a part in it 
was a bishop of the Cappadocian Caesarea, and contem- 
porary of Athanasius. 9. According to Nicephorus Cal- 
listus (//. E. xviii, 43), our Leontius wrote also “an admi- 
rable work,” in thirty books, unfortunately lost, in which 
he overthrew the tri tlieistic heresy of John the Labori- 
ous, and firmly established the orthodox doctrine. Cave 
also ascribes to our Leontius Oratio in medium Pente- 
costem et in C tec uni a Nativitate, necnon in illud: A 'elite 
judicare secundum fticiem (published by Combcfis, with 
a Latin version, in his Audarium Novum, vol. i [Paris, 
1G48, fol.]). It is so given by the editors of the Biblioth. 
j Pat mm, vol. ix (Lyons, 1G71, folio), but Fabrieius (Bibl. 
Grteca , viii, 321) ascribes the homily to Leontius of Ne- 
apolis, while Galland omits it altogether. A homily on 
the parable of the good Samaritan, printed among the 
supposititious works of Chrysostom ( Opera, vii, 50G, cd. 
Savill), seems also to be a production of our Leontius. 
There arc various homilies extant in IMS. by “ Leontius 
presbyter Constantinopolitanus.” See Canisius, Vita Lc- 
ontii in Biblioth, Patrum, vol. ix (Lyons, 1G77, fol.), and 
Lectiones A ntiquee, i, 527, etc., ed. Basnage : Cave, Hist. 
Lift, i, 543 Yossius, De Ilistorieis Greeds Liber , iv, c. 18 ; 
Fabrieius, Bibliotheca Grteca, viii, 309, etc., 318; xii, G48 ; 
Gudin, Be Seriptoribus et Scripfis Eccles. i, col. 14G2 ; 
Mansi, ConriL vii, col. 797, etc. ; Galland, Bibl. Patrum, 
xii, Prolegom. c. 20. — Smith, Diet, of Greek and Roman 
Biog. ii, 75G sq. 

Leontius of Byzantium (2), the author of a part 
of the Xoovoypatpia, lived in the reign of Constantine 
Porphyrogenitus. A second portion, bringing the work 
down to the second year of Bomanus, son and successor 
of Porphyrogenitus, and probably only reaching or de- 
signed to reach a later period, is an addition by another 
hand. In fact, the work which is entitled Xpouoypci- 
<pta, Chronographia, is composed of three parts, by three 
distinct writers: (I.) The history of the emperor Leo V, 
the Armenian. Michael Ii of Aurorium, Theophilus, the 
son of Michael, and Michael III and Theodora, the son 
and widow of Theophilus ; by the so-called Leontius, 
from the materials supplied by Constantine Porphyro- 
genitus. (2.) The life of Basil the Macedonian, by Con- 
stantine himself (though Labbe and Cave would assign 
this also to Leontius); and (3.) The lives of Leo VI and 
Alexander, the sons of Basil, and of Constantine Por- 
phyrogenitns, and the commencement of the reign of 
Bomanus II; by an unknown later hand. This third 
part is more succinct than the former parts, and is in a 
great degree borrowed, with little variation, from known 
and existing sources. The first edition of the Chrono- 
graphia prepared for publication with a Latin version 
was by Combefis, and was published in the Paris edition 
of the Byzantine historians, forming a part of the volume 
entitled O i peril Ototpdinjv , Scrijitores post Thcophanem 
(IG85, folio); again published in the Venetian reprint 
(1729, folio), and again, edited by Bekker (Bonn, 1838, 
8vo). The life of Basil by Constantine Porphyrogeni- 
tus was printed separately as early as 1G53, in the Xvp- 
fiiKTct of Allatius (Cologne, 8vo). See Fabrieius, Bibl. 
Grteca, vii, G81 ; viii, 318 ; Cave, Hist. Lift, ii, 90. — Smith, 
Diet, of Greek and Roman Biography , ii, 757 sq. 

Leontius of Neafolis (or of IlagiopoVis, accord- 
ing to his own authority), in Cyprus, who was bishop 
of that city, which Le Quien (Or ions Christianus, ii, 
10G1) identifies with the Nova Lemissus, or Nemissus, 
or Ncmosa, that rose out of the ruins of Amathus, 
fiourished in the latter part of the Gth and the early 
part of the 7th century. Baronins, Possevino, and oth- 
ers call Leontius bishop of Salamis or Constantin, but in 
the records of the second Nicene or seventh General 
Council, held A.D. 787, Actio iv ( Concilia , vii, col. 23G, 
ed. Labbe; iv, col. 193, ed. Ilardouin; viii, col. 884, ed. 
Coleti; and xiii, col. 44, ed. Mansi), he is expressly de- 
scribed as bishop of Neapolis, in Cvprus. His death is 
V. — A a 


said to have occurred between G20 and G30. His prin- 
cipal works are Abyot vnip ri/g Xpianavuiv cnroXoyiag 
Kara ’lovduitov ical neoi tlieovtov rtZv ciyitov, Semio- 
tics pj'o Defensione Christ ianorum contra Judtcos ac de 
imaginibus sanctis. A long extract from the fifth of 
these sermons was read at the second Nicene Council 
{Concilia, 1. c.) to support the use of images in worship; 
and several passages, most of them identical with those 
cited in the council, are given by John of Damascus in 
his third oration, and in De Imaginibus {Opera, i, 373, 
etc., ed. Le Quien). A Latin version of another portion 
of one of these discourses of Leontius is given in the 
Lectiones A ntiquee of Canisius, i, 793, edit. Basnage: — 
B/o£ too itytov *1 tocivvov dpxttirtericoTrov J A\iiaripti- 
ac tov ‘EXt ppovoc, Vita Saudi Joanvis Archiepiscopi 
Alexandrite Cognomcnto Eleemonis , s. Eleemosyvarii. See 
John the Almsgiveh. This life by Leontius was men- 
tioned in the second Nicene Council ( Concilia , vol. cit., 
col. 24G Labbe, 202 Ilardouin, 89G Coleti, 53 Mansi), and 
is extant in No. 8 in the Imperial Library at Vienna. 
An ancient Latin version by Anastasius Bibliothecarius 
is given by llosweid {De Vitis Patrum, pars i), Surius 
{De Probat is Sanctorum Vitis'), and Bollandus {Acta 
Sanctorum, January, ii, 498, etc.). The account of St. 
Yitalis or Vi tali us, given in the Acta Sanctorum of Ilol- 
landus (January), i, 702, is a Latin version of a part of 
this life of John the Almsgiver: — Biog rof> boiov 2i- 
puoi> tov aaXov, Vita Simcta Symeonis Simplicis, or 
B ( 0 £ Kai TioXiTSia rov cj3i3d "Xvyttbv tov cut Xpttrrov 
hroropctoSivTOQ XaXov, Vita et Conversatio Abbatis 
Symeonis qui cognominatus cst Stnltus propter Christum, 
was also mentioned in the Nicene Council (f.c.).and pub- 
lished in tli cActa Sand, of the Bollandists (July), i, 13G, 
etc. The other published works of Leontius are homi- 
lies : Sct'tno in Simeonem qiuimlo Dominum in Vlnas sus- 
cepit: — In Diem festum tnedice Pentecostes ; both with a 
Latin version in the A’oj’MWi A udarium of Combcfis, vol. i 
(Par. 1G48, fol.). As Leontius is recorded to have writ- 
ten many homilies in honor of saints (iyKtcpia and for 
the festivals of the Church {Traryyvpacoi Xuyoi), espe- 
cially on the transfiguration of our Saviour, it is not un- 
likely that some of those extant under the name of Le- 
ontius of Constantinople may be by him. He wrote 
also napaXXi]Xiov Xoyot (3\ Parallelorum, s. Locorum 
communium Thiologicornm Libri ii ; the first book con- 
sisted of twv 3{ itov, and the other rtov dvSptoirivtov. 
Turrianus possessed the second book; but whether that 
or the first is extant, we know not; neither lias been 
published. It has been thought that John of Damas- 
cus, in his Ptirallela, made use of those of Leontius. 
Fabrieius also inserts among the works of our Leontius 
the homily E<c tli f3aia. In Festum {s. Ramos) Palma- 
rum, generally ascribed to Chrysostom, and printed 
among his doubtful or spurious works (vii, 334, ed. Sa- 
vill; x, 7G7, cd. Montfaucon, or x, 915, and xiii, 354, in 
the recent Parisian reprint of Montfaucon’s edition). 
Maldonatus {ad. loan, vii) mentions some INIS. Commen- 
tarii in Joannem by Leontius, and an Oratio in laitdem 
S. Epiphanii is mentioned by Theodore Studita in his 
A ntirrheticus Sccundus, apud Sismondi, Opp. v, 1 30. (See 
Fabrieius, Bibl. Greeca, viii, 320, etc. ; Cave, Hist. Lift, i, 
550; Gudin, De Scriptor. Ecclesiasticis, i, col. 1575, etc.; 
Vossius, De Ilistor. Grtcc. lib. ii, c. 23; Le Quien, Oriens 
Christianus, ii, col. 10G2; Acta Sanctor. July, v, 131.) — 
Smith, Diet, of Greek and Roman Biography, ii, 758. 

Leopard (Ileb. ( “I2)3, numer', so called as being 
spotted, Cant, iv, 8; Isa. xi, G; Jer. v, G; xiii, 23; IIos. 
xiii, 7; Iiab. i, 8; Chald. *1*23 .nemar', Dan. vii, G; Gr. 
TretpcaXig, Dan. vii, G; Bev. xiii. 2 ; Ecclus. xxviii, 23). 
Though zoologists differ in opinion respecting the iden- 
tity of the leopard and the panther, and dispute, sup- 
posing them to be distinct, how these names should be 
respectively applied, and hv what marks the animals 
should be distinguished, ne vert heless there can be no 
doubt that the namer of the Bible is that great spotted 
feline which anciently infested the Syrian mountains, 


LEOPAKD 


370 


LEOPOLD II 


and even now occurs in the wooded ranges of Lebanon, 
for the Arabs still use ninir, the same word slightly 
modified, to denote that animal. The Abyssinian name 
di tiers scarcely from either; and in all these tongues it 
means spotted. Pigikris , according to Kirscher, is the 
Coptic name ; and in English leopard ” has been adopt- 
ed as the most appropriate to represent both the Hebrew 
word and the Greek 7r apdaXig (which is imitated in the 
Talmudic >Iishna,/>«6« Mejz. viii, 2), although 

the Latin leopardus is not found in any author anterior 
to the fourth century, and is derived from a gross mis- 
take in natural history. Gesenius ( Thes . fl<b. p. 443) 
contends that the scriptural animal was rather striped 
than spotted Jer. xiii, 23). and thinks that 

not improbably the tiger was also comprised under this 
name, as the Hebrews had no specific name for that an- 
imal ( Thesaur . p. 889). The panther {Ftlis petrdus of 



Syrian Panther (Felis rardus). 


Linn.) lives in Africa (Strabo, xvii, 828; Pliny, x, 94), 
Arabia (Strabo, xvi, 774, 777), as well as on Lebanon 
(Seetzen, xviii, 343; Burckhardt, Trai\ i, 99), and the 
hills of middle Palestine (Schubert, iii, 119), not to men- 
tion more distant countries, as India, America, etc. The 
most graphic description of the (African and Arabian) 
panther is by Ehrcnberg (Symbol. phgs. Mammal , dec. 
2, pi. 17). The variety of leopard, or rather panther, 
of S} r ria is considerably below the stature of a lioness, 
but very heavy in proportion to its bulk. Its general 
form is so well known as to require no description be- 
yond stating that the spots are rather more irregular, 
and the color more mixed with whitish, than in the 
other pantherine felinre, excepting the Eelis Uncia or 
Felis Irbis of High Asia, which is shaggy and almost 
white (Sonnini, Trar. i,395). It is a nocturnal, cat-like 
animal in habits, dangerous to all domestic cattle, and 
sometimes even to man (comp. Plin. x, 91; llom. Hymn 
in Yin. 71 ; Oppian, Cgneg. iii, 76 sq. ; Cyrill. Alex, in 
JIos. 1. c. ; Tsetz. Chiliad, ii, 45; Poiret, Yoijage , i, 2241. 
In the Scriptures it is constantly placed in juxtaposition 
with the lion (Isa. xi, 15 ; ,ler. v. 6 ; I los. xiii. 7 ; Eeclus. I 
xxviii, 23 [27] ; comp. .Elian, 1'. If. xiv. 4) or the wolf. 
The swiftness of this animal, to which llabakkuk (i, 8) 
compares the ChaUliean horses, and to which Daniel (vii, 
0) alludes in the winged leopard, is well known. So great 
is the tlcxibilitv of its body that it is able to take sur- 
prising leaps, to climb trees, or to crawl snake-like upon 
the ground. Jeremiah and Hosea (as above) allude to 
the insidious habit of this animal, which is abundantly 
confirmed by the observations of travellers: the leop- 
ard will take up its position in some spot near a vil- 
lage, and watch for some favorable opportunity for plun- 
der. From the Canticles (as above) we learn that the 
hilly ranges of Lebanon were in ancient times frequent- 
ed bv these animals, and it is now not uncommonly seen 
in and about Lebanon, and the southern maritime moun- 1 


tains of Syria (Jvit to, Piet. Bible, note on Cant, iv, 8). 
There is in Asia Minor a species or variety of panther, 
much larger than the Syrian, not unfrequent on the 
borders of the snowy tracts even of Mount Ida, above 
ancient Troy; and the group of these spotted animals 
is spread over the whole of Southern Asia to Africa. 
From several names of places (e. g. Bcth-Nimrah, etc.), 
it appears that, in the earlier ages of Lsraelitish domin- 
ion, ii was sufficiently numerous in Palestine, and re- 
cent travellers have encountered it there (see Bibliotheca 
Sacra , 1848, p. GG9 ; Lynch’s Expedition . p. 2P2). Leop- 
ard skins w r ere worn as a part of ceremonial costume by 
the superiors of the Egyptian priesthood, and by other 
personages in Nubia; and the animal itself is represent- 
ed in the processions of tributary nations (Wilkinson, i, 
285, 291, 319). In Dan. vii, 7, the third stage of the 
prophetical vision is symbolized under the form of a 
leopard with wings, representing the rapidly formed 
Macedonian empire; its four heads corresponding to the 
division of Alexander’s dominions among his four gen- 
erals. In Kev. xiii, 2, the same animal is made a type 
of the spiritual power of the Koman hierarchy, support- 
ed by the secular power in maintaining Paganism in 
opposition to Christianity. See generally Bocbart, lli- 
eroz . ii, 100 sq. ; Schoder, Specim. hieroz. i, 46 sq. ; We- 
myss, Claris Sgmbolica, s. v. ; Wood, Bible Animals, p. 
29 sq. ; Thomson, Land and Book, ii, 15G sq. 

Leopold II of Germany (1790-1792) and I of Tus- 
cany (1765-1790 ), the second son of Maria Theresa of 
Austria and her husband Francis of Lorraine, is noted 
in Church History for the part he took in the ecclesias- 
tical affairs of Tuscany, w hich, after Maria Theresa had 
succeeded to the Austrian dominions, according to trea- 
ties, establishing the independence of Tuscany as a 
state separate from the hereditary states of Austria, de- 
volved upon Leopold, his elder brother Joseph being the 
presumptive heir of the Austrian dominions. His prin- 
cipal reforms in Tuscany concerned the administration of 
justice and the discipline of the clergy in his dominions. 
By his l * Motu proprio” in 1786, he promulgated a new 
criminal code, abolished torture and the pain of death, 
and established penitentiaries to reclaim offenders. In 
the ecclesiastical department, after having instituted 
various reforms, he actually, in July, 1782, abolished the 
Inquisition in Tuscan}', and placed the monks and nuns 
of His dominions under the jurisdiction of the respective 
bishops. The discovery of licentious practices carried 
on in certain nunneries in the towns of Pistoja and Prato 
with the connivance cf their monkish directors induced 
Leopold to investigate and reform the whole system of 
monastic discipline, and he intrusted Bicci, bishop of 
Pistoja, with full pow'er for that purpose. This occa- 
sioned a long and angry controversy with the court of 
Borne, which pretended to have the sole cognizance of 
matters affecting individuals of the clergy and monastic 
orders. Leopold, however, carried his point, and the 
pope consented that the bishops of Tuscany should have 
the jurisdiction over the convents of their respective di- 
oceses. Bicci, who had high notions of religious purity, 
and was by his enemies accused of Jansenism, attempt- 
ed other reforms: he endeavored to enlighten the people 
as to the proper limits of image-worship and the invo- 
cation of saints; lie suppressed certain relics which gave 
occasion to superstitious practices; he encouraged the 
spreading of religious works, and especially of the Gos- 
pel, among his thick ; and, lastly, he assembled a dioce- 
san council at Pistoja in September, 1786, in which he 
maintained the spiritual independence of the bishops. 
He advocated the use of the liturgy in the oral language 
of the country, he exposed the abuse of indulgences, ap- 
proved of the four articles of the Gallican Council of 
1682, and, lastly, appealed to a national council as a le- 
gitimate and canonical means for terminating contro- 
versies. Several of Bicei’s propositions were condemned 
by the pope in a bull as scandalous, rash, and injurious 
to the Holy See. Leopold supported Bicci, but he could 
not prevent his being annoyed in many ways, and at last 


LEOPOLD IV 


371 


LEPROSY 


he saw him forced to resign liis charge. (For further tie- ! 
tails of this curious controversy, see Potter, 1 le de Scipion 
de Ricci [Brussels, 1825, 3 vols.8vo].) Leopold himself 
convoked a council at Florence of the bishops of Tus- 
cany in 1787, and proposed to them fifty-seven articles 
concerning the reform of ecclesiastical discipline. He 
enforced residence of incumbents, and forbade plurali- 
ties; suppressed many convents, and distributed their 
revenues among the poor benefices — thus favoring the 
parochial clergy, and extending their jurisdiction, as 
he had supported and extended the jurisdiction of the 
bishops. He forbade the publication of the bidls and 
censures of Borne without the approbation of the gov- 
ernment ; he enjoined the ecclesiastical courts not to in- 
terfere with laymen in temporal matters, and restrain- 
ed their jurisdiction to spiritual affairs only; and he 
subjected clergymen to the jurisdiction of the ordinary 
courts in all criminal cases. All these were considered 
in that age as very bold innovations for a Botnan Cath- 
olic prince to undertake. See Ricci. 

Leopold IV, margrave of Austria, son of Leopold 
III, was born Sept. 29, 1073. He was educated by the 
priest Udalrich, under the direction of Altmann, bishop 
of Passau, and succeeded his father in 1096. Ilis chief 
object during his whole reign was to promote the hap- 
piness of his subjects. He avoided war, and husbanded 
the resources of his country with great care. He was 
about to accompany the emperor, Henry IV, in a cru- 
sade to Jerusalem, when the insurrection of the emper- 
or’s son, Henry V, obliged him to change his plans. At 
first he went to assist the emperor (in 1105), but some- 
what later he was influenced by his brotlicr-in-law, 
Borzywoy II, duke of Bohemia, and the promises of 
Henry V, to join the latter, to w hose sister Agnes, wid- 
ow of Frederick of Suabia, he w r as married in 1 106. The 
remainder of his reign passed in peace and prosperity, 
although occasionally (especially in 1118) he was sub- 
jected to annoyances by the inroads of the Hungarians. 
In 1125, after the death of Henry V, he wras spoken of 
for emperor, but declined in favor of Lothaire. duke of 
Saxony. Leopold died Nov. 15, 1136, and was canonized 
by pope Innocent VIII in 1485. He founded a large 
number of convents, among which are those of Neuburg, 
of Mariazell, and of the Holy Cross, and built a number 
of churches. See A, Klein, Gesch. des Christenthums in 
Oesterreick (Vienna, 1840), vol. i and ii ; Leopold d. llei- 
lige (Vien. 1835) ; L. Lang, D. hi. Leopold (Reutlingen, 
1836); Fez, Vita sancti Leopoldi ; same, Scriptures Re- 
rum Austriacarum, i, 575; Boltzmann, Compendium vi- 
tal S. Leopoldi ; Jaffe, Gesch. des deutschen Reiches untcr 
Lothcir dem Sachsen (Berlin, 1843) ; and his Geschichte cl. 
deutsch. Reiches u. Konrad III (Han. 1845) ; Herzog, 
Real-Encyklop. viii, 332; Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Genercde , 
xxx, 797. 

Leper (some form of to smite with a providen- 
tial infliction ; Xeirpoc;). See Lei* rosy. 

Leporius, a monastic who flourished in the second 
half of the 4th and the early part of the 5th century, a 
native of Gaul, embraced asceticism under the auspices 
of Cassianus about the opening of the 5th century, at 
Marseilles, where he enjoyed a high reputation for pu- 
rity and holiness. Advancing the view that man did 
not stand in need of divine grace, and that Christ w r as 
born with a human nature onl}’, he was excommunica- 
ted in consequence of these heretical doctrines. He be- 
took himself to Africa, and there became familiar with 
Aurelius and St. Augustine, by "whose instructions he 
profited so much that he not only became convinced of 
his errors, but drew up a solemn recantation addressed 
to Procidus, bishop of Marseilles, and Cvllinnius, the 
bishop of Aix (see below as to the title and value of this 
treatise), while four African prelates bore witness to the 
sincerity of his conversion, and made intercession on his 
behalf. Although now reinstated in his ecclesiastical 
privileges, Leporius does not seem to have returned to 
his native country, but, laying aside the profession of a 


monk, was ordained a presbyter by St. Augustine, A.D. 
425, and appears to be the same Leporius so warmly 
praised in the discourse l)e Vita et Moribus Clericorum. 
\Ve know nothing further regarding his career except 
that he was still alive in 430 (Cassianus, De Incarn. i, 
4). The treatise above alluded to is still extant, under 
the title Libellus emenclationis sice satisfactionis ad 
Episcopos G allice, sometimes with the addition Confes- 
sionem Fidei Catholicie continens de Mysterio Incetrna - 
tionis Christ i, cum Err oris pristini Detest at ione. It was 
held in very high estimation among ancient divines, 
and its author was regarded as one of the firmest bul- 
warks of orthodoxy against the attacks of the Nesto- 
rians. Some scholars in modern times, especially Ques- 
nel, who has written an elaborate dissertation on the 
subject, have imagined that we ought to regard this as 
a tract composed and dictated by St. Augustine, found- 
ing their opinion partly oil the style, and partly on the 
terms in which it is quoted in the acts of the second 
Council of Chalcedon and early documents, and partly 
on certain expressions in an epistle of Leo the Great 
(elxv, edit. Quesnel) ; but their arguments are far from 
being conclusive, and the hypothesis is generally reject- 
ed. Fragments of the Libellus were first collected by 
Sismondi from Cassianus, and inserted in his collection 
of Gaulish councils (i, 52). The entire work was soon 
discovered and published by the same editor in his 
Opuscula Dogmatica Yetcrum quinque Scriptomun (Par. 
1630, 8vo), together with the letter of the African bish- 
ops in favor of Leporius. It will be found also in the 
collection of councils by Labbe (Paris, 1671, folio); in 
Garnier’s edition of Marius Mercator (Paris, 1673, fob), 
i, 224; in the Bibliotheca Patrum Max. (Lugd. 1677), 
vii, 14; and in the Bibliotheca Patrum of Galland (Ven. 
1773). ix, 396. Consult the dissertation of Quesnel in 
his edition of the woTks of Leo, ii, 906 (ed. Paris); Jlis- 
toire Litteraire de la France , ii, 167 ; the second disser- 
tation of Gamier, his edition of M. Mercator , i, 230 ; the 
Prolegomena of Galland ; Sehbnemaun, Bibliotheca Pair. 
Latt. ii, § 20. — Smith, Diet. Greek and Roman Biography , 
vol. ii, s. v. 

Leprosy ('TV^%,tsara r dth, a smiting , because sup- 
posed to be a direct visitation of heaven; Gr. XtTrpa, so 
called from its scaliness, hence English “leper,” etc.), a 
name that was given by the Greek physicians to a scaly 
disease of the skin. During the Dark Ages it was indis- 
criminately applied to all chronic diseases of the skin, 
and more particularly to elephantiasis, to which latter, 
however, it does not bear the slightest resemblance. 
Hence prevailed the greatest discrepancy and confusion 
in the descriptions that authors gave of the disease, un- 
til Dr. AVillan restored to the term lepra its original sig- 
nification. In the Scriptures it is applied to a foul cu- 
taneous disease, the description of which, as well as the 
regulations connected therewith, are given in Lev. xiii, 
xiv (comp, also Exod. iv, 6, 7 ; Numb, xii, 10-15 ; 2 Sam. 
iii,29; 2 Kings v, 27 ; vii, 3; xv, 5; Matt, viii, 2; x, 8, 
etc.). In the discussion of this subject we base our ar- 
ticle upon that of Ginsburg, in Kitto’s Cyclopadia , but 
with extensive additions and modifications from other 
sources. 

I. Scriptural and Talmudical Statements . — (I.) Leprosy 
in Human Beings. — 1. Cases and Symptoms of Biblical 
Leprosy. — Lev. xiii, 2-44, which describes this distem- 
per as laying hold of man, gives six different circum- 
stances under which it may develop itself They are as 
follows : 

(1.) The first circumstance mentioned in Lev. xiii, 
2-6 is that it may develop itself without any apparent 
cause. lienee it is enjoined that if any one should no- 
tice a rising or swelling (rXIL 1 ). an eruption or scab 
(nnso), or a glossy pimple (rnHD) in the skin of his 
flesh, which may terminate in leprosy (P^PS), lie is at 
once to be taken to the priest, who is to examine it and 
pronounce it leprosy, and the man unclean, if it exhibits 
these two symptoms, viz. a , the hair of the affected spot 


LEPROSY 


LEPROSY 


changed from its natural black color to white; and, b, 
the spot deeper than the general level of the skin of the 
body (ver. 2,3). But if these two symptoms do not ap- 
pear in the bright pimple, the priest is to shut him up 
for seven days, examine him again on the seventh day, 
and if the disease appears to have made no progress 
during this time, he is to remand the patient for another 
seven days (ver. 4, 5), and then, if on inspecting it again 
he finds that the bright spot has grown darker (nni), 
and that it has not spread on the skin, he is to pro- 
nounce it a simple scab (rnE012 P.nSO), and the per- 
son clean after washing his garments (ver. G). If, how- 
ever, the pustule spreads over the skin after it has been 
pronounced a simple scab and the individual clean, the 
priest is to declare it leprosy, and the patient unclean 
( ver. 7, 8), It is thus evident that the symptoms which 
indicated scriptural leprosy, as the Mishna rightly re- 
marks (Xeyaim, iii, 3), are bright pimples, a little de- 
pressed, turning the hair white, and spreading over the 
skin. 

As the description of these symptoms is very concise, 
and requires to be specilied more minutely for practical 
purposes, the spiritual guides of Israel defined them as 
follows: Both the bright pimple (r“nz) and the swell- 
ing spot (PX'r), when indicative of leprosy, assume re- 
spectively one of two colors, a principal or a subordinate 
one. The principal color of the bright pimple is as 
white as snow JlT^*),and the subordinate resem- 

bles plaster on the wall (22*nn ‘T'DI) ; whilst the 
principal color of the rising spot is like that of an egg- 
shell (n:£2 QTnp3), and the secondary one resembles 
white rvool ("pb Xeyaim, i, 1); so that if the af- 

fected spot in the skin is inferior in whiteness to the 
film of an egg it is not leprosy, but simply a gathering 
(Maimonides, On Leprosy , i, 1). Any one nmv examine 
the disease, except the patient himself or his relatives, 
hut the priest alone can decide whether it is leprosy or 
not, and accordingly pronounce the patient unclean or 
clean, because Dent, xxi, 5 declares that the priest must 
decide eases of litigation and disease. But though the 
priest only can pronounce the decision, even if he be a 
child or a fool, yet he must act upon the advice of a 
learned layman in those matters (Xeyaim, iii, 1 ; Mai- 
monides, l. e., ix, 1,2). If the priest is blind of one eye, 
or is weak-sighted, he is disqualified for examining the 
distemper (Mislina, /. e., ii,3). The inspection must not 
take place on the Sabbath, nor early in the morning, nor 
in the middle of the day, nor in the evening, nor on 
cloudy days, because the color of the skin cannot prop- 
erly he ascertained in these hours of the day; but in the 
third, fourth, filth, seventh, eighth, or ninth hour (AV 
(jaim, ii,2) ; and the same priest who inspected it at first 
must examine it again at the end of the second seven 
days, as another one could not tell whether it has spread. 
If lie should die in the interim, or be taken ill, another 
one may examine him, but not pronounce him unclean 
(Maimonides, On Leprosy , ix, 4 ). There must be at least 
two hairs white at the root and in the body of the 
bright spot before the patient can be declared unclean 
( Maimonides, l. c., ii, 1). If a bridegroom is seized with 
this distemper he must be left alone during the nuptial 
week {Xeyainu iii, 2). 

(2.) The second case is of leprosy ’reappearing after it 
has been eured (Lev. xiii, !)-17), where a somewhat dif- 
ferent treatment is enjoined. If a person who has once 
been healed of this disease is brought again to the priest, 
and if the latter finds a white rising in the skin (rs« 
“:Z3), which has changed the hair into white and con- 
tains live flesh (“'H he is forthwith to recognise 

therein the reappearance of the old malady, and declare 
the patient unclean without' any quarantine whatever, 
since the case is so evident that it requires no trial (ver. 
9-1 1). There were, however, two phases of this return- 
ed distemper which exempted the patient from unelean- 


2 

ness. If the leprosy suddenly covered the whole body 
so that the patient became perfectly white, in which 
case there could be no appearance of live flesh (ver. 12, 
13), or if the whiteness, after having once diminished 
and allowed live flesh to appear, covers again the whole 
body, then the patient was clean (ver. 14-17). This, 
most probably, was regarded as indicative of the crisis, 
as the whole evil matter thus brought to the surface 
formed itself into a scale which dried and peeled oil. 
The only other feature which this case represents be- 
sides the symptoms already described is that leprosy at 
times also spread over the whole skin and rendered it 
perfectly white. As to the live flesh (^n *V!*E), the 
Sept., the Chaldee, the Mishna, and the Jewish rabbins, 
in accordance with ancient tradition, take it to denote 
sound, fleshy or a spot in the flesh assuming the appear- 
ance of life after it had been paled by the whiteness 
overspreading the whole surface. The size of this spot 
of live flesh which renders the patient unclean must, ac- 
cording to tradition, be at least that of a lentil (Mai- 
monides, L c., iii, 1-3). 

(3.) The third case is of leprosy developing itself from 
an inflammation (j"TV— ) or a burn (TX P";-), which 
is to be recognised by the same symptoms (Lev. xiii, 
18-28). Hence, when these suspicious signs were dis- 
cernible in that part of the skin which was healed of an 
inflammation, the patient was to go to the priest, who 
was at once to pronounce it leprosy developed from an in- 
flammation, if the symptoms were unmistakable (ver. 19, 
20). If the priest found these marks, he remanded the 
patient for seven days (ver. 21), and if the disorder spread 
over the skin during the time the patient was declared 
leprous and linelcan (ver. 22); but if it remained in the 
same condition, he pronounced it the cicatrix of the in- 
flammation Cpnm rms) and the patient clean (ver. 
23). The same rules applied to the suspicious appearance 
of a burn (ver. 24-28). According to the I lebrew canons, 
is defined inflammation arising from “an injury 
received from the stroke of wood or a stone, or from hot 
olive husks, or the hot Tiberian water, or from anything, 
the heat of which does not come from fire, whilst riZ’S 
denotes a burn from live coals, hot ashes, or from any 
heat w hich proceeds from fire” ( Xegaim , ix, 1 ; Mairaon- 
ides. On Leprdsy, v, 1). It will be seen that there is a 
difference in the treatment of the suspicious symptoms 
in (1.) and (3.). In the former instance, where there is 
no apparent cause for the symptoms, the suspected in- 
valid has to undergo two remands of seven days before 
his case can be decided ; whilst in the latter, wdiere the 
inflammation or the burn visibly supplies the reason for 
this suspicion, lie is only remanded for one week, at the 
end of which his case is finally determined. 

(4.) The fourth ease is leprosy on the head or chin 
(Lev. xiii, 29-37), which is to be recognised by the af- 
fected spot being deeper than the general level of the 
skin, and by the hair thereon having become thin and 
yellowish’. When these symptoms exist, the priest is 
to pronounce it a scall (pP*), which is head or chin 
leprosy, and declare the patient unclean (ver. 30). But 
if this disorder on the head or chin does not exhibit these 
symptoms, the patieflt is to be remanded lor seven day's, 
when the priest is again to examine it, and if he finds 
that it has neither spread nor exhibits the required cri- 
teria, he is to order the patient to cut off* all the hair of 
his head or chin, except that which grows on the af- 
flicted spot itself, and remand him for another w'eek, and 
then pronounce him clean if it continues in the same 
state at the expiration of this period (ver. 31-34); and if 
it spreads after he has been pronounced clean, the priest 
is forthwith to declare him unclean without looking for 
any yellow hair (ver. 35, off). The Jewish canons define 
pr: hy r ‘‘an affection on the head or chin which causes 
the hair on these affected parts to fall off’ by the roots, 
so that the place of the hair is quite bare” (Maimonides, 
On Leprosy , viii, 1), The condition of the hair, consti- 


LEPROSY 


373 


LEPROSY 


tuting one of the leprous symptoms, is described as fol- 
lows : “ is small or short, but if it be long, though it 
is yellow as gold, it is no sign of uncleanness. Two yel- 
low and short hairs, whether close to one another or far 
from each other, whether in the centre of the netheh or 
on the edge thereof, no matter whether the netheh pre- 
cedes the yellow hair or the yellow hair the netheh , are 
symptoms of uncleanness” (Maimonides. L c., viii, 5). 
The manner of shaving is thus described: “The hair 
round the scall is all shaved off except two hairs which 
are close to it, so that it might be known thereby whether 
it spread” {Key aim, x, 5). 

(f>.) The fifth case is leprosy which shows itself in 
white polished spots, and is not regarded as unclean 
(Lev. xiii, 38, 39). It is called hohah (p»l"3, from pHS, 
to be white), or, as the Sept, has it, aXtyog, vitiligo alba, 
white scurf. 

(6.) The sixth case is of leprosy either at the back or 
in the front of the head (Lev. xiii, 40-44). When a 
man loses his hair either at the back or in the front of 
his head, it is a simple case of baldness, and he is clean 
(ver.40,41). But if a whitish red spot forms itself on the 
bald place at the back or in the front of the head, then 
it is leprosy, which is to be recognised by the fact that 
the swelling or scab on the spot has the appearance of 
leprosy in the skin of the body; and the priest is to 
declare the man’s head leprous and unclean (ver. 42-44). 
Though there is only one symptom mentioned whereby 
head leprosy is to be recognised, and nothing is said 
about remanding the patient if the distemper should 
appear doubtful, as in the other cases of leprosy, yet the 
ancient rabbins inferred from the remark, “ It is like lep- 
rosy in the skin of the flesh,” that all the criteria spec- 
ified in the latter are implied in the former. Hence the 
Hebrew canons submit that “there are two symptoms 
which render baldness in the front or at the back of the 
head unclean, viz. live or sound flesh, and spreading; 
the patient is also shut up for them two weeks, because 
it is said of them that ‘ they are [and therefore must be 
treated] like leprosy in the skin of the flesh’” (Lev. 
xiii, 43). Of course, the fact that the distemper in this 
instance develops itself on baldness,, precludes white 
hair being among the criteria indicating uncleanness. 
The manner in which the patient in question is* de- 
clared unclean by two symptoms and in two weeks is as 
follows: “If live or sound flesh is found in the bright 
spot on the baldness at the back or in the front of the 
head, he is pronounced unclean ; if there is no live flesh 
he is shut up and examined at the end of the week, and 
if live flesh has developed itself, and it has spread, he 
is declared unclean, and if not lie is shut up for another 
week. If it has spread during this time, or engendered 
live flesh, he is declared unclean, and if not he is pro- 
nounced clean. He is also pronounced unclean if it 
spreads or engenders sound flesh after he has been de- 
clared clean” (A 'egaim, x, 10; Maimonides, On Leprosy, 
v, 9, 10). 

2. Regulations about the Conduct and Purification of 
leprous Men. — Lepers were to rend their garments, let 
the hair of their bead hang down dishevelled, cover 
themselves up to the upper lip, like mourners, and warn 
off every one whom they happened to meet by calling out 
“Unclean! unclean!” since they defiled every one and 
everything they touched. For this reason they were 
also obliged to live in exclusion outside the camp or 
city (Lev. xiii, 45, 46; Numb, v, 1-4; xii, 10-15; 2 
Kings vii, 3, etc.). “The very entrance of a leper into 
a house,” according to the Jewish canons, “renders ev- 
erything in it unclean” {Xegaim, xii, 11 ; Kelim , i, 4). 
“If lie stands under a tree and a clean man passes by, 
he renders him unclean. In the synagogue which he 
wishes to attend they are obliged to make him a sep- 
arate compartment, ten handbreadths high and four cu- 
bits long and broad ; he has to be the first to go in, and 
the last to leave the synagogue” ( Xegaim , xii, 12 ; Mai- 
monides, On Leprosy , x, 12) ; and if he transgressed the 


prescribed boundaries he was to receive forty stripes 
(Pesachim, 67, a). All this only applies to those who 
had been pronounced lepers by the priest, blit not to 
those who were oil quarantine (Xegaim, i, 7). The 
rabbinic law also exempts women from the obligation 
to rend their garments and let the hair of their head 
fall down {Sot a, iii, 8). It is therefore no wonder that 
the Jews regarded leprosy as a living death (comp. Jo- 
sephus, A nt. iii, 11,3, and the well-known rabbinic say- 
ing T’-D DViTJ ^TIS'D), and as an awful punishment 
from the Lord (2 Kings v, 7 ; 2 Chron. xxvi, 20), which 
they wished all their mortal enemies (2 Sam. iii, 29; 2 
Kings v, 27). 

The healed leper had to pass through two stages of 
purification before he could be received back into the 
community. As soon as the distemper disappeared he 
sent for the priest, who had to go outside the camp or 
tow r n to convince himself of the fact. Thereupon the 
priest ordered two clean and live birds, a piece of cedar 
wood, erimson wool, and hyssop; killed one bird over a 
vessel containing spring water, so that the blood might 
run into it, tied together the hyssop and the cedar wood 
with the erimson wool, put about them the tops of the 
wings and the tip of the tail of the living bird, dipped 
all the four in the blood and w r ater which were in the 
vessel, then sprinkled the hand of the healed leper seven 
times, let the bird loose, and pronounced the restored 
man clean (Lev. xiv, 1 7 ; Xegaim, xii, 1). The healed 
leper was then to wash his garments, cut off all his hair, 
be immersed, and return to the camp or city, but re- 
main outside his house seven days, which the Mishna 
{Xegaim, xiv, 2), the Chaldee Paraphrase, Maimonides 
(On Leprosy , xi, 1), etc., rightly regard as a euphemism 
for exclusion from connubial intercourse during that time 
(ver. 8), in order that he might not contract, impurity 
(comp. Lev. xv, 18). With this ended the first stage 
of purification. According to the Jewish canons, the 
birds are to be “free, and not caged,” or sparrows; the 
piece of cedar wood is to be “a cubit long, and a quar- 
ter of the foot of the bed thick;” the crimson wool is to 
be a shekel’s w eight, i. e. 320 grains of barley ; the hys- 
sop must at least be a liandbreadth in size, and is nei- 
ther to be the so-called Greek, nor ornamental, nor Ko- 
man, nor wild hyssop, nor have any name whatever ; 
the vessel must be an earthen one, and new ; and the 
dead bird must be buried in a hole dug before their 
eyes (Xegaim, xiv, 1-6 ; Maimonides, On Lep?'osy, xi, 1). 

The second stage of purification began on the seventh 
day, when the leper had again to cut off the hair ofhis 
head, his beard, eyebrows, ete.,wash his garments, and 
be immersed (Lev. xiv, 9). On the eighth day lie had 
to bring two lie-lambs without blemish, one ewe-lamb 
a year old, three tenths of an ephah of fine flour mixed 
with oil, and one log of oil; the one lie-lamb is to be a 
trespass-offering, and the other, with the ewe-lamb, a 
burnt and a sin-offering; but if the man was poor he 
was to bring two turtle-doves, or two young pigeons, 
for a sin-offering and a burnt-offering, instead of a lie- 
lamb and a ewe-lamb (ver. 10, 11, 21). With these of- 
ferings the priest conducted the healed leper before the 
presence of the Lord. What the offerer had to do, and 
how the priest acted when going through these cere- 
monies, cannot be better described than in the following 
graphic language of the Jewish tradition. “ The priest 
approaches the trespass-offering, lays both his hands on 
it, and kills it, when two priests catch its blood, one 
into a vessel, and the other in his hand; the one who 
caught it into the vessel sprinkles it against the wall of 
the altar, the other goes to the leper, who, having been 
immersed in the leper’s chamber [which is in the wom- 
en’s court], is waiting [outside the court of Israel, or the 
men’s court, opposite the eastern door] in the porch of 
Nicanor [with his face to the west]. He then puts his 
head into [the court of Israel], and the priest puts some 
of the blood upon the tip of his right ear; he next puts 
in his right hand, and the priest puts some blood upon 
the thumb thereof ; and, lastly, puts in his right leg, 


LEPROSY 


374 


LEPROSY 


and the priest puts some blood on the toe thereof. The | 
priest then takes some of the log of oil and puts it into 
the left hand of his fellow-priest, or into his own left 
hand, dips the finger of his right hand in it, and sprin- 
kles it seven times towards the holy of holies, dipping 
his finger every time he sprinkles it ; whereupon he goes 
to the leper, puts oil on those parts of his hotly on which 
he had previously put blood [i. e. the tip of the ear. the 
thumb, and the toe], as it is written, ‘on the place of 
the blood of the trespass-offering 7 [Lev. xiv, 28], and 
what remains of the oil in the hand of the priest he 
puts on the head of him who is to be cleansed, for an 
atonement” ( Xegaim , xiv, 8-10; Maimonides, Ullchoth 
Mechosrei Kepora , iv). It is in accordance with this 
prerogative of the priest, who alone could pronounce the 
leper clean and readmit him into the congregation, that 
Christ. commanded the leper whom he had healed to 
show himself to this functionary (Matt, viii, 2, etc.). 

(II.) Leprous Garments and Vessels. — Leprosy in gar- 
ments ami vessels is indicated by two symptoms, green j 
or reddish spots , and spreading. If a green or reddish 
spot shows itself in a woollen or linen garment, or in a 
leather vessel, it is indicative of leprosy, and must be 
shown to the priest, who is to shut it up for a week. 
If, on inspecting it at the end of this time, he finds that 
the spot has spread, he is to pronounce it inveterate 
leprosy ri’lIS ), and unclean, and burn it (Lev. 

xiii, 47-52) ; if it has not. spread he is to have it washed, 
and shut it up for another week, and if its appearance 
has then not changed, he is to pronounce it unclean and 
burn it, though it has not spread, since the distemper 
rankles in the front or at the back of the material (ver. 
53-55). But if, after washing it, the priest sees that 
the spot has become weaker, he is to cut it out of the 
material; if it reappears in any part thereof, then it is a 
developed distemper, and the whole of it must be burned ; 
and if it vanishes after washing, it must be washed a 
second time, and is clean (ver. 5G-59). The Jewish 
canons deline the color green to be like that of herbs , 
and red like that of fair crimson , and take this enact- 
ment literally as referring strictly to wool of sheep and 
flax, but not to hemp and other materials. A material 
made of camel’s hair and sheep’s wool is not rendered 
unclean by leprosy if the camel’s hair preponderate, but 
is unclean when the sheep’s wool preponderates, or when 
both are equal, and this also applies to mixtures of flax 
and hemp. Dyed skins and garments are not rendered 
unclean by leprosy ; nor are vessels so if made of skins 
of aquatic animals exposed to leprous uncleanness (A5- 
</cm«.xi,2,3; Maimonides, ut sup. xi, 1 ; xii, 10; xiii, 1-3). 

(III.) Leprous Houses. — Leprosy in houses is indi- 
cated by the same three symptoms, viz. spots of a deep 
green or reddish hue, depressed beyond the general 
level, and spreading (Lev. xiv. 33-48). On its appear- 
ance the priest was at once to be sent for, and the house 
cleared of everything before his arrival. If, on inspect- 
ing it, he found the lirst two symptoms in the walls, viz. 
a green or red spot in the wall, and depressed, he shut the 
house up for seven days (ver. 34-38), inspected it again 
on the seventh day, and if the distemper spread in the 
wall he had the affected stones taken out. the inside of 
the. house scraped all round, the stones, dust, etc., cast 
into an unclean place without the city, and other stones 
and plaster put on the wall (ver. 39-42). If. after all this, 
the spot reappeared and spread, he pronounced it invet- 
erate leprosy, and unclean, had the house pulled down, 
and the stones, timber, plaster, etc., cast into an unclean 
place without the city, declared every one unclean, till 
evening, who had entered it. ami ordered every one who 
had either slept or eaten in it to wash his garments 
(ver. 43-47). 

As to the purification of the houses which haVe been | 
cured of leprosy, the process is the same as tlgtt of healed 
men, except that in the case of man the priest sprinkles I 
seven times upon his hand, while in that of the house 
he sprinkles seven times on the upper door-post without. 
Of course the sacrifices which the leprous man had to 


bring in his second stage of purification are precluded 
in the case of the house (Maimonides, On Leprosy , xv, 8). 

3. Prevalence , Contagion , and Curableness of Leprosy , 
— Though the malicious story of Manctho that the 
Egyptians expelled the Jews because they were afflict- 
ed with leprosy (Josephus, Ap. i, 2G), which is repeated 
by Tacitus (lib. v, c. 3), is rejected by modern histo- 
rians and critics as a fabrication, yet Michaelis ( Lairs 
of M oses, art. 209), Thomson ( The Land and the. Book, 
p. G52 ). and others still maintain that this disease was 
••extremely prevalent among the Israelites.” Against 
this, however, is to be urged that, 1. The very fact that 
such strict examination was enjoined, and that every 
one who had a pimple, spot, or boil was shut up, shows 
that leprosy could not have been so widespread, inas- 
much as it would require the imprisonment of the great 
mass of the people. 2. In cautioning the people against 
the evil of leprosy, and urging on them to keep strict- 
ly to the directions of the priest, Moses adds, *• Remem- 
ber what the Lord thy God did to Miriam on the way 
when you came out of Egypt” (Dent, xxiv, 9). Now 
allusion to a single instance which occurred on the way 
from Egypt, and which, therefore, was an old case, nat- 
urally implies that leprosy was of rare occurrence among 
the Jews, else there would have been no necessity to 
adduce a bv-gone ease; and, 3. Wherever leprosy is spo- 
ken of in later books of the Bible, which does not often 
take place, it is only of isolated cases (2 Kings vii, 3 ; 
xv, 5), and the regulations are strictly carried out, and 
the men are shut up so that even the king himself 
formed no exception (2 Kings xv, 5). 

That the disease was tint contagious is evident from 
the regulations themselves. The priests had to be in 
constant and close contact with lepers, had to examine 
and handle, them; the leper who was entirely covered 
was pronounced clean (Lev. xiii, 12, 13); and the priest 
himself commanded that all things in a leprous house 
should be taken out before he entered it, in order that 
they might not be pronounced unclean, and that they 
might be used again (Lev. xiv, 3o), which most unques- 
tionably implies that there was no fear of contagion. 
This is, moreover, corroborated by the ancient Jewish 
canons, which were made by those very men who had 
personally to deal with this distemper, and according to 
which a leprous minor, a heathen, and a proselyte, as 
well as leprous garments, and houses of non-Israelites, do 
not render any one unclean ; nor does a bridegroom, 
who is seized with this malady during the nuptial week, 
defile any one during the first seven days of his mar- 
riage (comp. Xegaim. iii, 1, 2 ; vii, 1 ; xi, 1 ; xii. 1 : Mai- 
monides. On Leprosy, vi, 1 ; vii. 1, etc.). These canons 
would be utterly inexplicable on the hypothesis that the 
distemper in question was contagious. The enactments, 
therefore, about the exclusion of the leper from society, 
and about defilement, were not dictated by sanitary cau- 
tion, but had their root in the moral and ceremonial 
law, like the enactments about the separation and un- 
cleanness of menstrnous women, of those who had an 
issue or touched the dead, which are joined with lepro- 
sy. Being regarded as a punishment for sin. which God 
himself inflicted upon the disobedient (Exod. xv. 2G; 
Lev. xiv, 35), this loathsome disease, with the peculiar 
rites connected therewith, was especially selected as a 
typical representation of the pollution rtf sin, in which 
light the Jews always viewed it. Thus we are told that 
k * leprosy comes upon man for seven, ten. or eleven 
things: for idolatry, profaning the name of God, nn- 
ehastity, theft, slander, false witness, false judgment, 
perjury, infringing the borders of a neighbor, devising 
malicious plans, or creating discord between brothers” 
(Era chin, 1G, 17 ; Baba Bathra. JG4; A both de II. Xa- 
thnn , ix ; Midrash' Rabba on Lev it. xiv). “ Cedar wood 
and hyssop, the highest and the lowest, give the leper 
purity. Why these? Because pride was the cause of 
the distemper, which cannot be cured till man becomes 
humble, and keeps himself as low as hyssop” (Midrash 
Babba, Koheleth , p. 104). 


LEPROSY 


375 


LEPROSY 


As to the curableness of the disease, this is unques- 
tionably implied in the minute regulations about the 
saeritices and conduct of those who were restored to 
health. Besides, in the case of Miriam, we find that 
shutting her up for seven days cured her of leprosy 
(Numb, xii, 11-13). 

II. Identity of the Biblical Leprosy with the modem 
Distemper bearing this Name . — It would be useless to 
discuss the different disorders which have been palmed 
upon the Mosaic description of leprosy. A careful clas- 
sitication and discrimination is necessary. 

1. The Greeks distinguished three species of lepra, 
the specific names of which were ct\(p6c, \tvKt), and ps- 
Xac , which may be rendered the vitiligo, the white and 
the black. Now, on turning to the Mosaic account, we 
also find three species mentioned, which were all in- 
cluded under the generic term of bahereth, or 

“ bright spot” (Lev. xiii, 2-4, 18-28). The first is called 
pins, bohak, which signifies “brightness,” but in a sub- 
ordinate degree (Lev. xiii, 39). This species did not 
render a person unclean. The second was called 

bahereth lebandk, or a bright white bahereth. The 
characteristic marks of the bahereth lebandk mentioned 
by Moses are a glossy white and spreading scale upon 
an elevated base, the elevation depressed in the middle, 
the hair on the patches participating in the whiteness, 
and the patches themselves perpetually increasing. This 
was evidently the true leprosy, probably corresponding 
to the white of the Greeks and the vulgaris of modern 
science. The third was ill’13 rpHZ, bahereth kchdh, 
or dusky bahereth, spreading in the skin. It has been 
thought to correspond with the black leprosy of the 
Greeks and the nigricans of Dr. Wiliam These last two 
were also called tsardath (i. c. proper leprosy), 

and rendered a person unclean. There are some other 
slight affections mentioned by name in Leviticus (chap, 
xiii), which the priest was required to distinguish from 
leprosy, such as rX'J, seeth ; ^S’J, shapkdl; pF3, ne- 
thek ; ’prvr, shechen , i. e. “elevation,” “ depressed,” etc. ; 
and to each of these Dr. Good {Study of Med. v. 590) has 
assigned a modern systematic name. But, as it is use- 
less to attempt to recognise a disease otherwise than by 
a description of its symptoms, we can have no object in 
discussing his interpretation of these terms. We there- 
fore recognise but two species of real leprosy. 

(I.) Proper Leprosy. — This is the kind specifically de- 
nominated bahereth, whether white or black, but 

usually called white leprosy, by the Arabs barras ; a dis- 
ease not unfrequent among the Hebrews (2 Kings v, 27 ; 
Exod. iv, G; Numb, xii, 10), and often called lepra Mo- 
saica. It was regarded by them as a divine infliction 
(hence its TIeb. name F^iS, tsardath, a stroke i. e. of 
God), and in several instances we find it such, as in the 
case of Miriam (Numb, xii, 10), Gehazi (2 Kings v, 27), 
andUzziah (2 Chron. xxvi, lG-23),from which and oth- 
er indications it appears to have been considered hered- 
itary, and incurable by human means (comp. 2 Sam. iii, 
29,* 2 Kings v, 7). From Dent, xxiv, 8, it appears to 
have been well-known in Egypt as a dreadful disease 
(comp. Description de VEgypte, xiii, 159 sq.). The dis- 
tinctive marks given by Moses to indicate this disease 
(Lev. xiii) are, a depression of the surface and whiteness 
or yellowness of the hair in the spot (vcr. 3, 20, 25, 30), or I 
a spreading of the scaliness (ver. 8,22,27,36), or raw j 
flesh in it (ver. 10, 14), or a white-reddish so?-e (ver. 43). [ 

The disease, as it is known at the present day, com- 
mences by an eruption of small reddish spots slightly 
raised above the level of the skin, and grouped in a cir- 
cle. Tlies^ spots are soon covered by a very thin, semi- 
transpareut scale or epidermis, of a whitish color, and 
very smooth, which in a little time falls off, and leaves 
the skin beneath red and uneven. As the circles in- 
crease in diameter, the skin recovers its healthy appear- 
ance towards the centre; fresh scales are formed, which 


are now thicker, and superimposed one above the other, 
especially at the edges, so that the centre of the scale 
appears to be depressed. The scales are of a grayish- 
white color, and have something of a micaceous or pearly 
lustre. The circles are generally of the size of a shil- 
ling or half crown, but they have been known to attain 
halt a foot in diameter. The disease generally affects 
the knees and elbows, but sometimes it extends over the 
whole body, in which case the circles become confluent. 

It does not at all aftect the general health, and the only 
inconvenience it causes the patient is a slight itching 
when the skin is heated; or, in inveterate cases, when 
the skin about the joints is much thickened, it may in 
some degree impede the free motion of the limbs. It is 
common to both sexes, to almost all ages, and all ranks 
of society. It is not in the least infectious, but it is al- 
ways difficult to be cured, and in old persons, when it is 
of long standing, may be pronounced incurable. It is 
commonly met w ith in all parts of Europe, and occasion- 
ally iu America. Its systematic name is Lepra vulgaris . 

Moses prescribes no natural remedy for the cure of lep- 
rosy (Lev. xiii). lie requires only that the diseased 
person should show himself to the priest, and that the 
priest should judge of his leprosy ; if it appeared to be a 
real leprosy, he separated the leper from the company 
of mankind (Lev. xiii, 45, 46 ; comp. Numb, v, 2 ; xii, 10, 
14; 2 Kings vii, 3 ; xv, 5; Josephus, Apion, i, 31 ; Ant. 
iii, 11,3; !lTrrs,v, 5,6 ; see Wetstein, A r . T. i, 175; Light- 
foot, Hor. 1/eb. p. 861 ; Withob, Opusc. p. 169 sq.). Al- 
though the law’s in the Mosaic code respecting this, dis- 
ease are exceedingly rigid (see Michaelis, Orient. Bibl. 
xvii, 19 sq.; Medic, hermeneut. Untersuch. p. 240 sq.), it 
is by no means clear that the leprosy was contagious. 
The fear or disgust which was felt towards such a pe- 
culiar disease might be a sufficient cause for such severe 
enactments. All intercourse with society, however, was 
not cut off (Matt, viii, 2 ; Luke v, 12; xvii, 12), and even 
contact with a leper did not necessarily impart unclean- 
ness (Luke xvii, 12). They were even admitted to the 
synagogue (Lightfoot, Hor. Heb. p. 862). Similar liber- 
ties are still allowed them among the Arabians (Nie- 
buhr, Beschr. p. 136) ; so that we are probably to regard 
the statements of travellers respecting the utter exclu- 
sion of modern lepers in the East as relating to those 
affected w ith entirely a different disease, the elephanti- 
asis. In Lev. xiv are detailed particular ceremonies 
and offerings (compare Matt, viii, 4) to be officially ob- 
served by the priest on behalf of a leper restored to- 
health and purity. See D. C. Lutz, De duab. avib.pur- 
gationi leprosi destinatis earundemque mysterio, Hal. 1737 ; 
Biihr, Symbol, ii, 512 sq. ; Baumgarten, Comment. I, ii, 
170 sq. ; Talmud, tract Negaim, vi, 3 ; Otho, Lex. Babb . 
p. 365 sq. ; llhenferd, in Meuschen, N. T. Talmud, p. 1057. • 

(II.) Ehphcintiasis. — This more severe form of cu- 
taneous, or, rather, scrofulous disease has been con- 
founded with leprosy, from which it is essentially differ- 
ent. It is usually called tubercular leprosy {Lepra nodosa , 
Celsus, Med. iii, 25), and has generally been thought to 
be the disease with which Job w’as afflicted (S-**) 

Job ii, 7 ; comp. Dent, xxviii, 35). See Jon’s Disease. 

It has been thought to be alluded to by the term “botch 
of Egypt” (C^-2 •prrj. Dent, xxviii, 27), where it is 
said to have been endemic (Pliny, xxvi, 5 ; Lucret. vi, 

1 1 12 sq. ; comp. Aretasus, Cappad. moi'b. diut. ii, 13 ; see 
Ainslie, in the Transactions of the Asiatic Society, i, 282 
sq.). The Greeks gave the name of elephantiasis to 
this disease because the skin of the person affected with 
it was thought to resemble that of an elephant, in dark 
color, ruggedness, and insensibility, or, as some have 
thought, because the foot, after the loss of the toes, 
when the hollow of the sole is filled up and the ankle 
enlarged, resembles the foot of an elephant. The Arabs 
called it Judhdm, which means “mutilation,” “amputa- 
tion,” in reference to the loss of the smaller members. 
They have, liow r ever, also described another disease, and 
a very different one from elephantiasis, to which they 


LEPROSY 


376 


LEPROSY 


gave the name of Dal JV, which means literally mor- 
bus elephas. The disease to which they applied this 
name is called by modern writers the tumid Barbadoes 
leg , and consists in a thickening of the skin and subcu- 
taneous tissues of the leg, but presents nothing resem- 
bling the tubercles of elephantiasis. Now the Latin 
translators from the Arabic, tinding that the same name 
existed both in the Greek and Arabic, translated Dal 
fil bv elephantiasis, and thus confounded the Barbadoes 
leg with the Arabic Judhdni , while this latter, which 
was in reality elephantiasis, they rendered by the Greek 
term lepra. See Kleyer, in Miscall, nut. curios. 1083, p. 
8 ; Bartholin. Morb. Bibl. c. 7 ; Miehaelis, Einleit. ins A . 
T. i, 58 sq.; Reinhard, Bibclkrank. iii, 52. 

Elephantiasis first of all makes its appearance by 
spots of a reddish, yellowish, or livid hue, irregularly 
disseminated over the skin and slightly raised above its 
surface. These spots are glossy, and appear oily, or as 
if they were covered with varnish. After they have 
remained in this way for a longer or shorter time, they 
are succeeded by an eruption of tubercles. These are 
soft, roundish tumors, varying in size from that of a pea 
to that of an olive, and are of a reddish or livid color. 
They are principally developed on the face and ears, 
but in the course of years extend over the w'hole body. 
The face becomes frightfully deformed; the forehead is 
traversed by deep lines and covered with numerous tu- 
bercles; the eyebrows become bald, swelled, furrowed 
by oblique lines, and covered with nipple-like eleva- 
tions; the eyelashes fall out, and the eyes assume a fixed 
and staring look; the lips are enormously thickened and 
shining; the beard falls out; the chin and ears are en- 
larged and beset with tubercles; the lobe and ake of the 
nose are frightfully enlarged and deformed ; the nostrils 
irregidarly dilated, internally constricted, and excoria- 
ted; the voice is hoarse and nasal, and the breath intol- 
erably fetid. After some time, generally after some 
years, many of the tubercles ulcerate, and the matter 
which exudes from them dries to crusts of a brownish 
or blackish color; but this process seldom terminates in 
cicatrization. The extremities are affected in the same 
way as the face. The hollow of the foot is swelled out, 
so that the sole becomes tlat; the sensibility of the skin 
is greatly impaired, and, in the hands and feet, often 
entirely lost; the joints of the toes ulcerate and fall off 
one after the other; insupportable fuetor exhales from 
the whole body. The patient’s general health is not 
affected for a considerable time, and his sufferings are 
not always of the same intensity as his external defor- 
mity. Often, however, his nights are sleepless or dis- 
turbed by frightful dreams; he becomes morose and 
melancholy; lie shuns the sight of the healthy because 
, lie feels what an object of disgust he is to them, and life 
becomes a loathsome burden to him; or he falls into a 
state of apathy, and, after many years of such an exist- 
ence, he sinks either from exhaustion or from the super- 
vention of internal disease. 

About the period of the Crusades elephantiasis spread 
itself like an epidemic over all Europe, even as far north 
as the Faroe Islands; and henceforth, owing to the 
above-named mistakes, every one became familiar with 
leprosy under the form of the terrible disease that lias 
just been described. Leper or lazar-houses abounded 
everywhere : as many as 2000 are said to have existed 
in France alone. In the leper hospital in Edinburgh 
the inmates begged for the general community — sitting 
for the purpose at the door of the hospital. They were 
obliged to warn those approaching them of the presence 
of an infected fellow-mortal bv using a wood rattle or 
clapper. The infected in European countries were 
obliged to enter leper hospitals, and were considered le- 
gally and politically dead. The Church, taking the 
same view of it, performed over them the solemn cere- 
monies for the burial of the dead — the priest closing 
the ceremony by throwing upon them a shovelful of 
earth. The disease was considered to be contagious 
possibly only on account of the belief that was enter- 


tained respecting its identity with Jewish leprosy, and 
the strictest regulations were enacted for secluding the 
diseased from society. Towards the commencement of 
the 1 7 tli century the disease gradually disappeared from 
Europe, and is now mostly confined to intertropical 
countries. It existed in Faroe as late as 1G7G, and in 
the Shetland Islands in 173G, long after it had ceased in 
the southern parts of Great Britain. This fearful dis- 
ease made its appearance in the island of Guadaloupe 
in the year 1730, introduced by negroes from Africa, 
producing great consternation among the inhabitants. 
In Europe it is now principally confined to Norway, 
where the last census gave 2000 cases. It visits occa- 
sionally some of the sea-port localities of Spain. It has 
made its appearance in the most different climates, from 
Iceland through the temperate regions to the arid plains 
of Arabia — in moist and dry localities. It still exists 
in Palestine and Egypt — the latter its most familiar 
home, although Dr. Kitto thinks not in such numerous 
instances as in former ages. The physical causes of the 
malady are uncertain. The best authors of the present 
day who have had an opportunity of observing the dis- 
ease do not consider it to be contagious. There seems, 
however, to be little doubt as to its being hereditary. 
See Good's Study of Medicine, iii, 421; liayer, Mai. de 
la Peau, ii, 296; Simpson, On the Lepers and Leper- 
houses of Scotland and England , in Edinb. Medical and 
Surgical Journal , Jan. 1, 1842 ; J. Gieslesen, De elephan- 
tiasi Norvegica (llavn. 1785); Michael. U. orient Bibl. 

iv, 1G8 sq. ; Ik Haubold, Vitiliginis lejirosce rarioris his- 
toria c. epicrisi (Lips. 1821) ; C. J. llille, Rarioris morbi 
elephantiasi partiali similis histor. (Lips. 1828) ; Rosen- 
baum, in the Hall. Encyklop. xxxiii, 254 sq. 

Elephantiasis, or the leprosy of the Middle Ages, is 
the disease from which most of the prevalent notions 
concerning leprosy have been derived, and to which the 
notices of lepers contained in modem books of travels 
exclusively refer. It is doubtful whether any of the 
lepers cured by Christ (Matt, viii, 3; INI ark i, 42; Luke 

v, 12, 13) w'ere of this class. In nearly all Oriental 
towns persons of tliis description are met with, excluded 
from intercourse with the rest of the community, and 
usually confined to a separate quarter of the town. Dr. 
Robinson says, with reference to Jerusalem, ‘-Within 
the Zion Gate, a little towards the right, are some 
miserable hovels, inhabited by persons called lepers. 
Whether tlieir disease is or is not the leprosy of Scrip- 
ture I am unable to affirm; the symptoms described to 
us w ere similar to those of elephantiasis. At any rate, 
they are pitiable objects, and miserable outcasts from 
society. They all live here together, and intermarry 
only with each other. The children are said to be 
healthy until the age of puberty or later, when the dis- 
ease makes its appearance in a finger, on the nose, or in 
some like part of the body, and gradually increases as 
long as the victim survives. They were said often to 
live to the age of forty or fifty years” (Bib. lies, i, 359). 
With reference to their presence elsewhere, he remarks, 
“ There are said to be leprous persons at Nablus (She- 
chem) as well as at Jerusalem, but we did not here meet 
w ith them” (ib. iii, 113 note). On the reputed site of 
the house of Naaman, at Damascus, stands at the pres- 
ent day a hospital filled with unfortunate patients, the 
victims affected like him with leprosy. See Plante. 

2. That the Mosaic cases of true leprosy were confined 
to the former of these two dreadful forms of disease is 
evident. The reason why this kind of cutaneous dis- 
temper alone w-as taken cognizance of by the law doubt- 
less was because the other was too well marked and ob- 
vious to require any diagnostic particularization. With 
the scriptural symptoms before us. let us compare the 
most recent description of modern leprosy oT the malig- 
nant type given by an eye-witness who examined this 
subject : “ The scab comes on by degrees, in diffi rent 
parts of the body; the hair falls from the head and eye- 
brow's; the nails loosen, decay, and drop off; joint after 
joint of the lingers and toes shrink up, and slow'ly fall 


LEPROSY 


377 


LEPROSY 


away ; the gums are absorbed, and the teeth disappear ; 
the nose, the eyes, the tongue, and the palate are slowly 
consumed; and, dually, t lie wretched victim shrinks 
into the earth and disappears, while medicine has no 
power to stay the ravages of this fell disease, or even to 
mitigate sensibly its tortures” (Thomson, Land and Book, 
p. 653, etc.); and again, “ Sauntering down the Jaffa 
road, on my approach to the Holy City, in a kind of 
dreamy maze, ... I was startled out of my reverie by 
the sudden apparition of a crowd of beggars, ‘sans eyes, 
sans nose, sans hair, sans everything.’ They held up 
towards me their handless arms, unearthly sounds gur- 
gled through throats without palates” (ibid. p. 651). 
We merely ask by what rules of interpretation can we 
deduce from the Biblical leprosy, which is described as 
consisting in a rising scab, or bright spot deeper than 
the general level of the skin, and spreading, sometimes 
exhibiting live flesh, and which is non-contagious and 
curable, that loathsome and appalling malady described 
by l)r. Thomson and others? 

3. As to the leprosy of garments, vessels, and houses, 
the ancient Jewish tradition is that “leprosy of gar- 
ments and houses was not to be found in the world gen- 
erally, but was a sign and a miracle in Israel to guard 
them against an evil tongue” (Maimonides, On Leprosy, 
xvi, 10). Some have thought garments worn by lep- 
rous patients intended. The discharges of the diseased 
skin absorbed into the apparel would, if infection were 
possible, probably convey disease, and it is known to be 
highly dangerous in some cases to allow clothes which 
have so imbibed the discharges of an ulcer to be worn 
again. The words of Jude, ver. 23, may seem to counte- 
nance this, “Hating even the gaiment spotted by the 
flesh.” But, 1st, no mention of infection occurs; 2d, no 
connection of the leprous garment with a leprous human 
wearer is hinted at; 3d, this would not help us to ac- 
count for a leprosy of stone walls and plaster. Thus 
Dr. Mead (id sup.) speaks at any rate plausibly of the 
leprosy of garments, but becomes unreasonable when he 
extends his explanation to that of walls. There is more 
probability in the idea of Sommer (Bibl. Abhandlunyen, 
i, 224) that what is meant are the fusting-stains occa- 
sioned by damp and want of air, and which, when con- 
firmed, cause the cloth to moulder and fall to pieces. 
Micliaelis thought that wool from sheep which had died 
of a particular disease might fret into holes, and exhib- 
it an appearance like that described in Lev. xiii, 47, 59 
(Micliaelis, art. ccxi, iii, 290, 291). But lvoollen cloth 
is far from being the only material mentioned; nay, 
there is even some reason to think that the words ren- 
dered in the A.V. “warp” and “ woof” are not those dis- 
tinct parts of the texture, but distinct materials. Linen, 
however, and leather are distinctly particularized, and 
the latter not only as regards garments, but “ anything 
(lit. vessel) made of skin” — for instance, bottles. This 
classing of garments and house-walls with the human 
epidermis as leprous has moved the mirth of some and 
the wonder of others. Yet modern science has estab- 
lished what goes far to vindicate the Mosaic classifica- 
tion as more philosophical than such cavils. It is now 
known that there are some skin-diseases which originate 
in an acarus, and others which proceed from a fungus. 
In these we may probably find the solution of the para- 
dox. The analogy between the insect which frets the 
human skin and that which frets the garment that cov- 
ers it, between the fungous growth that lines the crev- 
ices of the epidermis and that which creeps in the inter- 
stices of masonry, is close enough for the purposes of a 
ceremonial law, to which it is essential that there should 
be an arbitrary element intermingled with provisions 
manifestly reasonable. Micliaelis (ibid. art. ccxi, iii, 
293-9) has suggested a nitrous efflorescence on the sur- 
face of the stone, produced by saltpetre, or rather an acid 
containing it, and issuing in red spots, and cites the ex- 
ample of a house in Lubeck; he mentions, also, exfolia- 
tion of the stone from other causes; but probably these 
appearances would not be developed without a greater 


degree of damp than is common hi Palestine and Arabia. 
It is manifest, also, that a disease in the human subject 
caused by an acarus or a fungus would be certainly con- 
tagious, since the propagative cause could be transferred 
from person to person. Some physicians, indeed, assert 
that only such skin-diseases are contagious. Hence, 
perhaps, arose a further reason for marking, even in their 
analogues among lifeless substances, the strictness with 
which forms of disease so arising were to be shunned. 

Whatever the nature of the disorder might be, there 
can be no doubt, as Bauiugarten has remarked (Comm. 
ii, 175), that in the house respect w r as had to its pos- 
sessor, since when it came to be in a good condition a 
cleansing or purification quite analogous to the man’s 
was prescribed. He w r as thus taught to see in his ex- 
ternal environments a sign of what was or might be in- 
ternal. The later Jews appear to have had some idea 
of this, though others viewed it differently. Some rab- 
bins say that God sent this plague for the good of the 
Israelites into certain houses, that, they being pulled 
down, the treasure which the Amorites had hidden there 
might be discovered (Patrick on Lev. xiv, 34). But 
“ there is good reason,” adds the learned prelate, “from 
these words [‘I put the plague of leprosy upon a house’], 
to think that this plague was a supernatural stroke. 
Thus Aberbanel understands it: ‘When he saitli “I put 
the plague,” it shows that this thing ivas not natural, 
but proceeded from the special providence and pleasure 
of the blessed God.’ So the author of Sepher Cosri (pt. 
ii, § 58) : God inflicted the plague of leprosy upon houses 
and garments as a punishment for lesser sins, and when 
men continued still to multiply transgressions, then it 
invaded their bodies. Maimonides will have this to be 
the punishment of an evil tongue, i. e. detractions and 
calumny, which began in the avails of the offender’s 
house, and went no farther, but vanished if he repented 
of his sin ; but if he persisted in his rebellious courses, 
it proceeded to his household stuff; and if he still went 
on, invaded his garments, and at last his body” (J lore 
Nebochim , pt. iii, cap. 47). 

Finally, as to the moral design of all these enactments. 
“ Every leper was a living sermon, a loud admonition to 
keep unspotted from the ivorld. The exclusion of lepers 
from the camp, from the holy city, conveyed figuratively 
the same lesson as is done in the New Testament pas- 
sages (Lev. xxi, 27; Eph. v, 5). . . . It is onl} r when we 
take this view of the leprosy that we account for the 
fact that just this disease so frequently occurs as the 
theocratic punishment of sin. The image of sin is best 
suited for reflecting it : he who is a sinner before God is 
represented as a sinner in the eyes of man also, by the 
circumstance that he must exhibit before men the image 
of sin. God took care that ordinarily the image and 
the thing itself w r ere perfectly coincident, although, no 
doubt, there were exceptions” (llengstenberg, Christol. 
on Jer. xxxi, 39). See Uxcleaxxess. 

Literature. — Besides the above notices and canons on 
leprosy given in the Misclma, tract Neyaim ; also by Mai- 
monides, Yoel Ila-Chezaka IliJchoth Mechosse Kapara , 
cap. iv, and IJilchoth Tamath Tsoraoth ; and by Kashi 
and llashbam, Commentar. on Lev. xiii, xiv; see, among 
modern writers, Mead, Medica Sacra, in his Medical 
IFoiA's (Edinb. 1765), iii, 160, etc.; Michaelis, Laics of 
Moses (Lond. 1814), iii, 257-305; Mason Good, The Study 
of Medicine (Lond. 1825), v, 585 sq. ; Schilling, L)e lepra 
Commentationes (Lugd. Bat. 1778); Ilensler, ) ‘om abend- 
landischen A nssatze im Mittelalter (Hamb. 1790) ; Jahn, 
Biblische A rchaoloyie (Vienna, 1818), I, ii, 355 sq. ; Biihr, 
Symbolik des Mosaischen Cultus (lleidelb. 1830), ii, 459 
sq., 512 sq. ; Sommer, Biblische Abhandlunyen, vol. i 
(Bonn, 1846) ; Bruner, Die Krankheiten des Orients (Er- 
lang. 1847), p. 163 sip ; Trusen, J)ie Sitten, Gebrduche und 
Krankheiten der Alien I lehr. (Bresl. 1833) ; Saalschiitz, 
Das Mosaische llecht (Berlin, 3853), i, 217 sq. ; Keil, 
Ilandbuch der Biblischen A rchaoloyie (Frankfort-on-the- 
Main, 1858), i, 270 sq., 288 sq. ; Bonorden, Lepra squa- 
mosa (Hal. 1795); Lutz, Be acibus pur ej at. leprosi (Hal. 


378 


LESLEY 


LE QUIEX 


1757); Withof, De leprosariis vet. Ilebrcponnn (Duisb. 
175b) ; M array, 11 istoriu leprce (Gbtt.1749); J. Thomas. 
De lepra Grcecor. et Judiror. (Basil. 1708); Norberg, l)e 
lepra Arabian (Loml. 1790) ; Hilary, Observ.on the Dis- 
eases of Barbadoes (Loml. 1759), p. 326 sq, : Sprengol, 
Pathol, iii, 794-835; Frank, De eurumlis liomin. morbis, 

I, ii, 476; Schnurrer, in the Halle Encyklop. vi, 451 sq. ; 
Bust, llandb. d. Chirurg. ii, 581 sq. ; Boussille-Chamseru. 
Recherches sur le veritable Caractere de la Lepre des 
1/ebreux , and Relation Chirurg. de YArmee de V Orient 
(Paris, 1804); Cazenave and Schedel, Abrege Pratique 
des Maladies de la Pean : A re tarns, Morb. Chron . ii, 13 ; 
Fracastorius, De Morbis Contagiosis; Johannes Manar- 
dus, Epist. Medic, vii, 2. and to iv, 3, 3, § 1 ; Avicenna, 
J)e Medic, v, 28, § 19 : also Dr. Sim in the Xorth Amer- 
ican Ch 'magical Revieiv , Sept, 1859, p. 876 ; Decker, Die 
Elephantiasis oder Lepra A rabica (Lehr, 1858) ; also the 
monographs cited by Volbeding. Index , p. 42 ; and by 
Hase, Leben Jcsu , p. 137. The ancient authorities are 
Hippocrates, Prorrhetica , lib. xii, ap. fin. ; Galen, Expli- 
cate Linguarum Ilippocratis , and De A rt. Curat, lib. ii ; 
Celsus, De Medic, v, 28, § 19. See Disease. 

Le Quien, Michael, a Dominican, who was bom at 
Boulogne in 1CG1, was remarkable for bis learning in 
Greek, Hebrew, and Arabic, and in Oriental Church His- 
tory. His Joannis Damasceni opera (Paris, 1 7 12, in two 
folio volumes) is a superior edition of that father. His 
most important work is Oriens Christianas, insuper et 
Africa, an account of the churches, patriarchs, etc., of 
the East (3 vols. 8vo), the first part of which appeared 
before, the second part after the author’s death, which 
took place at the convent in St. Honore in 1733. 

Lerins, Convent of, one of the oldest, and once 
one of the most important monastic establishments in 
France, is situated in the island of St. Honore, on the 
coast of Provence, opposite Antibes. The legend con- 
cerning its origin is as follows: Ilonoratus, a man of 
noble descent, and who had even been once consul, em- 
braced the Christian faith, together with bis brother, in 
spite of the remonstrances of his family. They first re- 
tired to an island near Marseilles, but Ilonoratus after- 
wards went back to Provence, where lie settled at Le- 
rins, under the protection of the bishop of Frvus. His 
reputation for sanctity induced many to join him, and 
they lived, some in communities {coenobites'), others as 
hermits in separate cells. It was the time when mon- 
achism was lately introduced into Europe from the East, 
and convents were arising along the shores of the Med- 
iterranean, and on the coasts of Italy (Gallinara, Gor- 
gona, Capra j a), of Dalmatia, and of France. Martinus 
had just established a convent at Turonum, whose rules 
were adopted in those that were established by Cassian. 
The statement that the Cassian rules were first intro- 
duced at Lerins is therefore erroneous. Under Honora- 
tus, who was afterwards appointed bishop of Arles, the 
last-named convent made rapid progress. Lerins be- 
came one of the most important schools for the clergy 
of Southern Gaul, and furnished a large number of bish- 
ops, among whom we will mention Hilarius of Arles and 
Eucherius of Lyons: at that time monks were often 
made bishops. In the 5th century the convent became 
imbued with semi-Pelagian ideas, which thence spread 
into Southern France. In the 7th century the monks of 
Lerins seem to have relaxed in their obedience to their 
rule, for Gregory wrote to the abbot Conon inviting 
him to reform their morals. This reform was accom- 
plished by a Benedictine abbot, Aigulf, but only after a 
struggle which fur a while threatened to destroy the 
convent, the opposition party going so far as to call in 
the assistance of neighboring lords, and murdering the 
abbot and some of his followers. Still, as the reform 
had been inaugurated, the convent resumed its former 
prosperity, and in the beginning of the 8th century its 
abbot counted 3700 monks under his command. Soon 
after, however, it was overrun by the Saracens from 
Spain; the abbot Porcarius, in prevision of this event, 


sent thirty-six of the younger monks and forty children 
to Italy, while he and those who remained were mur- 
dered, with the exception of four, who were retained 
prisoners. They escaped after a while, and, having re- 
turned to Lerins, formed the nucleus of a new convent. 
In 997, under the renowned Odilo, the convent once more 
rose to eminence, and attained its greatest fame under 
Adalbert (1030-1066). Baymund, count of Barcelona, 
gave the monks a whole convent in Catalonia, and they 
had possessions in France, Italy, Corsica, and the islands 
j belonging to Italy. A nunnery at Tarascon, established 
by the seneschal of Provence, was also subject to their 
rule, together with a large number of canonici regulares , 
to whom the abbot Giraiul gave two churches in 1226, 
under the condition that they should always remain 
I subject to the rule of Lerins. Their prosperity decreas- 
ing, the abbot, Augustin Grimald, afterwards bishop of 
j Grasse, connected them with the Benedictines in 1505, 
and this fusion received in 1515 the sanction of pope 
Leo X and of Francis I. In 1635 the island was taken 
by the Spaniards, who retained it until 1657 ; and, al- 
though the convent continued to exist, it lost hence- 
forth all its importance. See Vincentius Barralis, Chro- 
nologinm Sanctorum et a Homan clarorum v iroritm insu - 
j Ice Lerinensis (1613); Abrege de YJJistoire de Y Orel re de 
i S. Benoist, par la Congregation de St. Maur, i, 215 sq., 
468 sq. ; ii, 245; Hist, des Ordres Monastiqitc-s, i, 116 sq. 
— Herzog, Real-Encyklopadie , viii, 333 sq. 

Lesbonax (At(x/3wj'ai0, a son of Potamon ofMyt- 
ilene, a philosopher and sophist, lived in the time of Au- 
gustus. He was a pupil of Timocrates, and the father 
of Polemon, who is known as the teacher and friend of 
Tiberius. Suidas says that Lesbonax wrote several phil- 
osophical works, but docs not mention that he was an 
orator or rhetorician, although there can be no doubt 
that he is the same person as the Lesbonax who wrote 
geXtrai f)i]Topucai and tpinriKai tTzioroXcu (sec Photius, 
Bibl. cod. 74, p. 52). — Smith, Diet, of Greek and Roman 
Biography, ii, 772. 

Le'shem (Ileb. id. £123, si gem, as in Exod. xxviii, 
19, etc. : Sept. Atotp v. r. Aaytc), a city in ihe northern 
part of Palestine (Josh, xix, 47) ; elsewhere called La- 
isii (Judg. xviii, 7). See Dan. 

Leshem. See Liguke. 

Lesley, John, a very celebrated Scotch prelate, was 
born in 1527, and was educated in the University of 
Aberdeen. In 1547 he was made canon of the cathedral 
church of Aberdeen and Murray, and after this he trav- 
elled into France, and, pursuing his studies in the uni- 
versities of Toulouse, Poitiers, and Paris, finally took 
the degree of doctor of laws, lie continued abroad till 
1554, when he was commanded home by the queen re- 
gent, and made official and vicar general of the diocese 
of Aberdeen; and, entering into the priesthood, be be- 
came parson of line. About this time, the Eeformcd 
doctrine, beginning to spread in Scotland, was zeal- 
ously opposed by Lesley; and at a solemn dispute be- 
tween the Protestants and Papists, held in 1560 at Ed- 
inburgh, Lesley was a principal champion on the side 
of the latter. However, this was so far from putting an 
end to the divisions that they daily increased, and, occa- 
sioning many disturbances and commotions, both parties 
agreed to invite home the queen, who was then absent 
in France. On this errand Lesley was employed by the 
Boman Catholics, and made such dispatch that he came 
to Yitri, where queen Mary was then lamenting the death 
of her husband, the king of France, several days before 
lord James Stuart, sent by the Protestants. Having de- 
livered to her his credentials, he told her majesty of lord 
James Stuart’s mission, and actually succeeded in per- 
suading her to embark with him for Scotland. Imme- 
diately upon his arrival home he was appointed senator 
to the College of Justice and a privy councillor, and a 
! short time after was presented with the living of Lun- 
j dores, and, upon the death of Sinclair, was made bishop 


LESLIE 


379 


LESS*(IUS) 


of Ross. While in this position lie took a prominent part 
in the civil as well as ecclesiastical affairs of his coun- 
try, and secured to the Scots what arc commonly called 
‘•the black acts of Parliament” (1500). During the 
flight of queen Mary to England he defended her cause 
against the Covenanters. In 1579 he was made suffra- 
gan bishop and vicar general of Rouen, in Normandy, 
and, after persecution and imprisonment, died in 1590. 
His writings are not of particular interest to theological 
students. See AUibone, Diet, of British' and American 
Authors, vol. ii, s. v. ; Collier, Bccl. Hist, of England (see 
Index, vol. viii). 

Leslie, Charles, a prominent writer in the politi- 
cal and theological controversies of the 17th century, 
was the son of bishop John Leslie, of the Irish sees of 
Raphoe and Clogher, and was born in Ireland about [ 
1050, and educated at Trinity College, Dublin. Ilis 
course in life was very eccentric. In 1071 he went to 
England to study law, hut in a few years turned him- 
self to divinity, was admitted into orders, and. settling 
in Ireland, became chancellor of Connor. He was living 
in Ireland at the time of the Revolution, and distin- 
guished himself in some disputations with the Roman 
Catholics on the side of the Protestant Church. Though 
a zealous Protestant, he scrupled to renounce his alle- 
giance to king James, and to acknowledge king William 
as his rightful sovereign. There was thus an end to 
his prospects in the Church, and, leaving Ireland, he 
went to England, and there employed himself in writing 
many of his controversial works, especially those on the 
political state of the country. When James II was 
dead, Leslie transferred his allegiance to his son, the 
Pretender; and, as he made frequent visits to the courts 
of the exiled princes, he so far fell under suspicion at 
home that he thought proper to leave England, and 
join himself openly to the court of the Pretender, then 
at Bar-le-Due. lie was still a zealous Protestant, and 
had in that court a private chapel, in which he was ac- 
customed to officiate as a minister of the Protestant 
Church of England. When the Pretender removed to 
Italy, Leslie accompanied him ; but, becoming at length 
sensible of the strangeness of his position, a Protestant 
clergyman in the court of a zealous Roman Catholic, 
and age coming on, and with it the natural desire of 
dying in the land which had given him birth, he sought 
and obtained from the government of king George I, in 
17*21, permission to return, lie died at Glaslough, in 
the county of Monaghan, in 1722. Leslie’s writings in 
the political controversies of the time were all in sup- 
port of high monarchical principles. II is theological 
writings were controversial ; they have been distributed 
into the six following classes: those against, 1, the 
Quakers; 2, the Presbyterians ; 3, the Deists; 4, the 
Jews; 5, the Socinians; and, 6, the Papists. Some of 
them, especially the book entitled .1 short and easy 
Method with the Deists, are still read and held in esteem. 
Towards the close of his life he collected his theological 
writings, and published them in two folio volumes (1721). 
They were reprinted at Oxford (1832, 7 vols. 8vo). His 
other numerous works have not been published uniform- 
ly. Among them we notice .1 View of the Times , their 
Principles and Practices , etc. (2d ed. Loud. 1750, G vols. 
linio): — The Massacre of Glencoe (Anon., Loud. 1703, 
4to): — The Axe laid to the Boot, of Christianity, etc. 
(Loud. 170G, 4to) : — Querela temporum, or the Danger of 
the Church of England (Lond. 1G95. 4to) : — A Letter, etc., 
against the sacramental Test (Lond. 1708, 4to) : — Answer 
to the Remarks on his first Dialogue against the Socin- 
ians. Bayle styles him a man of great merit and learn- 
ing, and adds that he was the tirst who wrote in Great 
Britain against the fanaticism of Madame Bourignon : 
his books, he further says, are much esteemed, and es- 
pecially his treatise The Snake in the, Grass. Salmon 
observes that his works must transmit him to posterity 
as a man thoroughly learned and truly pious. Dr. 
llickes says that he made more converts to a sound 
faith and holy life than any man of the age in which he 


lived; that his consummate learning, attended by the 
lowest humility, the strictest piety without the least 
tincture of narrowness, a conversation to the last degree 
lively and spirited, yet to the last degree innocent, 
made him the delight of mankind. See Biog. Brit. ; 
Enegc. Brit. ; Jones, Christ. Biog. ; Engl. Cyclop, s. v. ; 
Darling, Cyclop. Billing, ii, 1825; Allibone, Dictionary 
of British and A merican A uthors, vol. ii, s. v. 

Leslie, John, D.D., a noted prelate of the Irish 
Church, father of the celebrated Charles Leslie, was de- 
scended from an ancient family, and born in the north 
of Scotland about the beginning of the 17th century, 
and was educated at Aberdeen and at Oxford. Af- 
terwards he travelled in Spain, Italy, Germany, and 
France. He spoke French, Spanish, and Italian with 
the same propriety and fluency as the natives; and war, 
so great a master of the Latin that it was said of him 
when in Spain, “ Solus Lesleius Latine loquitur.” lie 
continued twenty-two years abroad, and during that 
time was at the siege of Rochelle, and in the expedition 
to the isle of Rhe with the duke of Buckingham. He 
was all along conversant in courts, and at home was 
happy in that of Charles I, who admitted him into his 
privy council both in Scotland and Ireland, in which 
stations he was continued by Charles 11 after the Resto- 
ration. His chief preferment in the Church of Scotland 
was the bishopric of the Orkneys, whence he was trans- 
lated to Raphoe, in Ireland, in 1633, and the same year 
sworn a privy councillor in that kingdom. During the 
Rebellion he openly and valiantly espoused the cause 
of his royal master, and after the Restoration was trans- 
lated to the see of Clogher. He died in 1671. See Cham * 
bers, Biog. of Eminent Scotsmen , s. v. 

Less, Gottfried, a noted German theologian of 
the Pietistic school, was born in 1736 at Conitz, in West 
Prussia, lie was a pupil of Baumgarten, professor of 
theology at Gottingen. He studied at the universities 
of Ilalle and Jena, and in 1762 became court preacher at 
Hanover, lie was rather a practical than scholastic 
theologian, and was inclined both to Mysticism and Pi- 
etism. Less was author of a work ou the authenticity, 
uncormpted preservation, and credibility of the New 
Testament, which has been translated from German into 
English, and highly commended by Michaelis and 
Marsh. It is not so prolix as Lardner. The German 
title is Beweis der Wo hr licit dir christlichen Religion 
(1768). lie also wrote Ueber die Religion (1786): — Ver- 
suclt eincr praktischen Dogmatik (1779): — Christliche 
Moral (1777). 

Less(itis), Leonhard, a Jesuit moralist, was born 
at Brecht, in Brabant, Oct. 1, 1554, and was educated at 
the University of Leyden, to which, after a two years’ 
stay at Rome, he was called as professor of philosophy 
and theology in 1585. The pope had just condemned 
seventy-six propositions of Bajus,whom the Jesuits, dis- 
ciples of Scotus, had attacked; but soon Less and Hamel 
falling into the opposite extreme of Pelagianism, the 
faculty, after due remonstrance, solemnly condemned 
also fifty-four propositions contained in their lectures. 
Still, as several universities of note were inclined to 
judge moderately of Less’s heretical tendency, he re- 
tained his position, and remained in high standing, es- 
pecially with his order. lie died Jan. 5, 1623. His nu- 
merous and well-written essays on morals partake of 
the sophistry so often employed in his order. Among 
the most important, we notice his Libri io dejustifia et 
jure, ceterisqne virtntibus cardinalibus, often reprinted 
since 1605 (last edit. Lngd. 1653, folio), with an appen- 
dix by Theophile Raynaud pro Leon. Less, de licito usu 
(equivocafionum et mentalium reservationum. Also the 
first volume of his Opp. theol. (Paris, 1651. fob; Antw. 
1720); and his essays De libero arbitrio, De prociden- 
tia, De perfectionibus dir inis, etc. He followed the sys- 
tem of the scholastic moralists, of whom Schrockh {Kir- 
chengesch. seif d. Reform, iv, 104) says: “They, in fact, 
continued the old method of their predecessors since the 


LESSEE 


3S0 


LESSING 


13th century, in so far as that branch of theology was 
then advanced, i. e. treating it as a dependence of the 
dogmatic system; yet they differed from them inas- 
much as they set forth their views in large works of 
tlicir own, evinced more learning, a better style, and a 
certain regard for the times in which they lived.” Less 
attacked also the Protestant. Church in his Consulted io. 
quiz fdes et religio sit capessenda (Amstelod. 1009; last 
edit. 1701). llis chief argument was that that Church 
did not exist before the Keformation; lie was triumph- 
antly answered on this point by Balthasar Meisner, of 
Wittenberg (f 1020), in his Consultatio c atholica dejide 
Lu titer ana capessenda et Romano- papist ica deserenda 
(1023). Still Less always retained the highest consider- 
ation in his Church, was even reputed to work miracles, 
and was finally canonized. See Herzog, Real-Encyklo- 
padie, viii, 340 ; Gieseler, Kirchen Gesch. vol.iii; Linsen- 
mann, Michael Rains (Tub. 1807). 

Lesser, Friedrich Christian, a German theolo- 
gian, was born INI ay 29, 1 092, at Nordhausen. 1 n early life 
lie manifested a desire for the knowledge of natural his- 
tory, and m this department he afterwards distinguished 
himself greatly. In 1712 he entered the University of 
Halle, to study medicine, but soon altered his plan, and 
entered on the study of theology, by the advice of the 
learned theological professor Francke. He finished his 
theological studies at the University of Lcipsic, and be- 
came pastor of a Church in his native city in 1710; in 
addition to it, he assumed in 1724 the supervision of the 
Orphan House. In 1739 he became pastor at the col- 
legiate church of St. Martin, and in 1743 of St. Jacob’s 
Church. He died Sept. 17, 1754. Besides his works on 
natural history, in some of which he endeavored to com- 
bine natural history with theology, e. g. Theology of 
Stones ( Lithotheologia , llamb. 1735, 8vo); Theology of 
Insects (De sapientia , omnipotentia et procidentia ex par- 
tihus insectorum cognoscenda, etc., Nordh. 1735,8vo),etc., 
he left productions of a theological character, of which 
a complete list is given by During in his Gelthrt. Theol, 
Devtschlands , li, 287 sq. 

Lessey, TiiEorniLUS, a distinguished English Wes- 
leyan minister, was born in Cornwall April 7, 1787 ; en- 
tered the regular ministry about 1808; and after labor- 
ing with great ability and success in most parts of the 
United Kingdom, was in 1839 made president of the 
Conference, and died June 10, 1841. Mr. Lessey was 
one of the most eminent preachers and eloquent plat- 
form speakers of his time, and was the familiar friend 
of dames Montgomery, the poet. Bichard Watson, and 
Bobert Hall. Many instances of his remarkable elo- 
quence are recorded, and many souls were saved by his 
preaching. — Wakeley, Heroes of Methodism, p. 390 ; Ste- 
vens, Ilist. of Methodism (see Index). (( J. L. T.) 

Lessing, Gotthold Ephraim, the generator of 
modern German literature of the 18th century, both sec- 
ular and ecclesiastic, declared by Macaulay to have been 
“ beyond dispute the tirst critic in Europe,” who “in the 
same breath convulsed powerfully both the dramatic 
and theological world, and by Ins critical acuteness has 
laid hands on both, and has produced polemics and called 
forth controversy in art as well as in religion, without 
having left behind him a finished system in either de- 
partment, indeed without having been a professional 
poet in the strict sense of the word, or a professional 
theologian.” 

Life . — Lessing was born at Kamentz (Camenz), in 
Upper Lusatia, Jan. 22, 1729. Ilis father was the Prot- 
estant (Lutheran) “pastor primarius” of the place, and 
was widely noted for his learning, especially in the his- 
torical department. Designed for the ministry, young 
Lessing was trained by his pious parents “ in the way he 
should go;” and he was uot_ simply taught what he 
should believe, but how and why he should believe. 
Long before he was old enough to be sent to school the 
youth displayed an uncommon desire for books. After 
thorough preparation at an elementary school, he en- 


tered at the age of twelve the high-school at Meissen, 
and of his extraordinary diligence in study a sufficient 
idea may be formed when it is stated that while there 
he perused a number of classic authors besides those 
which entered into the regular course, translated the 
third and fourth books of Euclid, drew up a history of 
mathematics, and, on taking leave of it, delivered a dis- 
course “ De Mathematica Barbarorum.” In 1746 he was 
ready to proceed to the university, and, as his parents 
had fondly hoped, to enter upon the studies which should 
tit him for the ministry of the word of God. His moth- 
er, in particular, designed that her Gotthold Ephraim 
“ should be a real man of God.” 

Like an earnest and ardent student, which he always 
proved himself, Lessing now devoted his time to all the 
studies which that university encouraged, except the 
one upon which the family hopes were set — theology; 
and this need not be wondered at, if we will but glance 
for a moment at a programme of the lectures in the four 
faculties of that high-school upon Lessing’s entry. In 
theology, jurisprudence, medicine, and philosophy twen- 
ty-two lectures were delivered weekly, yet the names 
of the lecturers were prominent only in the last-named 
department; they were notably obseure in that of the- 
ology. In philosophy Gottsched was lecturing upon the 
early Greek philosophers, Christ upon Horace and Ovid, 
Jbcher upon the Beformation. Winckler upon Epictetus, 
Muller upon logic, May upon ethics, and Heiusius upon 
rectilinear and spherical trigonometry. Ernesti, the fu- 
ture noted theologian, was yet lecturing in the depart- 
ment of ancient literature, and it was by his direct and 
permanent influence, as well as by the exertions of pro- 
fessor Christ, that Lessing was led to enter upon the pro- 
found philological studies, which Anally resulted in such 
great service to classical literature and art. Thrown 
into company with Mylius, an old schoolmate of his, 
and an ardent advocate of the stage as a means of moral 
reform, and other auditors of professor Kastner, who was 
then lecturing on dramatic art, Lessing acquired a de- 
cided taste for the theatre, and was finally led to aban- 
don his classical studies altogether, not only devoting 
himself more fully to this one study, but actually com- 
ing to entertain the thought of going on the stage him- 
self. His conduct greatly displeased his parents and his 
sister, who warned him against it as being not merely 
trifling, but sinful. But Lessing continued in his course. 
Driven further, also, by the announcement that the fam- 
ily could contribute no allowance for his support except 
with extreme difficulty, he determined to shift for him- 
self, and decided for his subsistence hereafter to devote 
his talents to poetry, criticism, and belles-lettres, as that 
field of literature which had been least of all cultivated 
by his countrymen, and where, besides having few rivals, 
he might employ his pen with greater advantage to oth- 
ers as well as to himself, llis first productions were one 
or two minor dramatic pieces, which were printed in a 
journal entitled Ennuntcrungen zum Vergniigen. In the 
meanwhile the gossip about his relation to the ungodly 
Mylius, who had by this time become his most intimate 
associate, spread, and reached the ears of his aged par- 
ents. Desperate measures only could secure his return 
to the parental hearthstone. Madame Lessing was over- 
whelmed with grief; her Gotthold Ephraim must be re- 
stored to her immediate influence, or he would forever 
be lost to the Church and the blessings of religion, and 
for once the end should justify the means. Accordingly, 
the youthful sinner was written to: “On receipt of this, 
start at once ; your mother is dying, and wishes to speak 
to you before her death.” Of course, no sooner had the 
letter reached Lessing than we find him starting for the 
little country town, llis personal appearance and as- 
surances of his good intentions, both as a Christian and 
an obedient son, soon quieted the disconsolate parents, 
and he was suffered once more to return to Lcipsic. 
From this place he removed in 1750 to Berlin — the home 
I of freethinkers, whither the arch-atheist Mylius had pre- 
I ceded him some time — certainly not a very comforting 


LESSING 


LESSING 381 


turn in His personal history for his well-nigh despairing 
parents. 

Lessing was now twenty years of age. lie had no 
money, uo recommendations, no friends, scarcely any ac- 
quaintances — nothing but his cheerful courage, his con- 
fidence in his own powers, and the discipline acquired 
through past privations. He was so poor that he was 
unable to obtain even the decent clothing necessary to 
make a respectable appearance, lie applied for aid to 
his parents, but they neither felt able nor willing to grant 
his request, and he had no other course open to him but 
to throw himself upon the influence and resources of his 
old schoolmate, Mv 1 ius, who was now editing a paper in 
Berlin. By this friend’s exertions, oftentimes not stop- 
ping short of real sacrifices, Lessing managed to exist. 
Master of English, F rench, Italian, and Spanish, he found 
work in translating from these languages, while he also 
contributed largely to different literary journals of the 
Prussian metropolis. Gradually he was introduced to 
the notice of the scholars of the city, among them Men- 
delssohn, the Jewish philosopher, and Nicolai, the noted 
publisher and author of works of value in the depart- 
ment of secular German literature. Indeed, the associa- 
tion of Mendelssohn the Jew, and Lessing the Chris- 
tian, has perhaps had greater influence ou the position 
which Lessing assumed in after life than any he had 
with other persons. Both were yet young men. The 
former had come to Berlin from Dessau in indigent cir- 
cumstances, ignorant of the German language, but de- 
termined, nevertheless, to rise above his condition, and 
to master not only the German, Latin, and English, but 
also the intricate subject of philosophy; and in this at- 
tempt he had so well succeeded that at the first meeting 
of Lessing and Mendelssohn, in 1751, the latter was al- 
ready acknowledged a man of superior ability and a 
scholar. They recognised in each other qualities that 
could well be used unitedly for the good of humanity, 
and they soon were content only when in each other’s 
society. For two hours every day regularly they met 
and discussed together literary and philosophical sub- 
jects. Lessing came to comprehend the truth that vir- 
tue, honor, and nobility of character could be found in the 
Jew also, which the people of his day, led by a narrow- 
minded clergy, were prone to disbelieve : and this gave 
rise first to his important play entitled Die Judin , and 
later to his chef-d’oeuvre, Nathan der Weise (transl. by 
Ellen Frothingham,N.Y. 1871,1 2mo, with which compare 
the essays by Kuno Fischer [Mannheim, 18G5] and David 
Strauss [Berlin, 1866, 8vo, 2d ed.], and Griitz, Gesch.der 
Juilen, xi, 35 sq.; also the works on German literature at 
the end of this article). Near the close of 1751 Lessing 
decided to return once more to the university, and this 
time chose Wittenberg, to penetrate into “ the innermost 
sanctuary of book-worm erudition.” For nearly a year 
he here gave himself up to the study of philology and 
history, especially that of the Reformation and the Re- 
formers. llis reputation as a critic grew daily, and in 
five years after his first entry at Berlin he was counted 
among the most eminent literati of the Prussian capital. 
Even at this early age Lessing had ventured into the 
whole circle ol aisthetic and literary interests of the day, 
never failing to bring their essential points into notice, 
and subjecting them to an exhaustive treatment, not- 
withstanding the fragmentary form of the composition, 
while in point of style he had already attained an apt- 
ness and elegance of lauguage, a facile grace and sport- 
ive humor ot treatment, such as few writers of that day 
hail even dreamed of. “ His manner lent enchantment 
to the drvest subjects, and even the dullest books gained 
interest from his criticisms.” It was during his sojourn 
at Berlin that, with his and Mendelssohn’s assistance, 
Nicolai (q.v.) started the Library of Polite Liter at. (1757) 
and the Universal German Library (1765). (See Hurst’s 
Hagen baeli, Ch. m*t. 1 Hth and 19 th Cent, i, 278, 307.) 

In 1760 the Academy of Sciences of Berlin honored 
itself by conferring membership on Lessing, and shortly 
after a somewhat lucrative position fell to his lot in 


Breslau, whither he at once removed, and where he re- 
mained five years. It is in this, the chief city of Silesia, 
that most of Lessing’s valuable contributions to the de- 
partment of general literature were prepared. After a 
short visit to his parents, Lessing returned in 1765 to 
Berlin, then removed to Hamburg, and in 1770 finally 
started for Wolfeubiittel, to assume the duties of libra- 
rian to the duke Frederick William Ferdinand of Bruns- 
wick, a position congenial to his taste, and here he re- 
mained until his death, Feb. 15, 1781. 

Theological Position. — W r e here consider Lessing as a 
writer and thinker of the 18th century, but in so far oulv 
as the works which he published, both his own produc- 
tions and those that were sent forth with his approval, 
affected the theological world in his day and since, more 
especially in Germany. Originally intended for the 
pulpit, Lessing suddenly came to entertain the belief 
that morality, which to him was only a synonym of re- 
ligion, should be taught not only from the pulpit, but 
also on the stage. Germany, in his day, was altogeth- 
er Frenchified. ‘*We are ever,” said he himself, “the 
sworn imitators of everything foreign, and especially 
are we humble admirers of the never sufficiently ad- 
mired French. Everything that comes to us from over 
the Rhine is fair, and charming, and beautiful, and di- 
vine. We rather doubt our senses than doubt this. 
Rather would we persuade ourselves that roughness was 
freedom; license, elegance; grimace, expression ; a jingle 
of rhymes, poetry ; and shrieking, music, than entertain 
the slightest misgiving as to the superiority which that 
amiable people, that first people in the world (as they 
modestly term themselves), have the good fortune to 
possess in everything which is becoming, and beautiful, 
and noble.” Such had been the doctrines taught by the 
great rider Frederick II himself, and no wonder the peo- 
ple soon fell into the frivolous ways of the French; and, 
as the literature is said to be the index of a people, 
we need feel no surprise at Lessing’s great onslaught 
on Gottsehed and his followers while yet a student of 
the university in which this leader of the school of 
French taste held a ] n.Lssorship. Nor must it be for- 
gotten that the history of literature stands in unmis- 
takable connection with the history of the thinking 
and struggling intellect generally, and consequently, 
also, with the history of religion and philosophy. One 
is reflected in the other. The influence of the vapid 
spirit of French literature of the age of Voltaire was 
transferred to German ground, and soon the fruits be- 
came apparent in the general spread of French illumin- 
ism (q. v.) and a sort of humanism. See Rousseau. 
The great German philosopher Wolf, following closely 
in the footsteps of Leibnitz, had sought to cheek this 
rapid flow of the Germans towards infidelity by a sys- 
tem of philosophy that should lay securely the founda- 
tions for religion and morality, ‘‘fully persuaded that 
the so-called natural religion, which he . . . expected to 
he attained by the efforts of reason, and which related 
more to the belief in God and in immortality than to 
anything else, would become the very best stepping- 
stone to the temple of revealed religion” (Hagenbach, 
Ch. Hist. 1 Xth and 19i7? Cent, i, 78). Indeed, the theolo- 
gians themselves sought to prove, by the mathematical, 
demonstrative method, the truth of the doctrines of rev- 
elation, and the falsity of infidelity, forgetting altogether 
the great fact that ‘‘that sharp form of thought which 
bends itself to mathematical formulas is not for every 
man, least of all for the great mass;” and had it not been 
for the influence which pietism was exerting in the 18th 
century upon orthodox Christianity, the latter must 
have suffered beyond even the most ardent expectations 
of the most devoted German Yoltaircans. As it was, 
even, there gradually arose a shallow theology, destitute 
of ideas, and limited to a few moral commonplaces, known 
under the name of neology (q. v."), which, at the time of 
Lessing's appearance, controlled the German mind. See 
Semlek. An active thinker like Lessing, who, when yet 
a youth, could write to his father that “ the Christian 


LESSING 


382 


LESSING 


religion is not a thing which one can accept upon the 
word and honor of a parent,” but that the way to the 
possession of the truth is for him only “who lias once 
wisely doubted, and by the path of inquiry attained con- 
viction, or at least striven to attain it,” such a one was 
not likely to remain passive in this critical period of the 
history of thought. Unfortunately, however, the mature 
Lessing had shifted from the position of the youthful 
inquirer, and, instead of accepting the truth when at- 
tained bv conviction, he had come to believe that truth 
is never to be accepted. “It is not the truth of which 
a mail is, or thinks he is, in possession that measures 
the worth of the man, but the honest effort he has made 
to arrive at the truth; for it is not the possession of 
truth, but the search for it, that enlarges those powers 
in which an ever-growing capacity consists. Possession 
satisties, enervates, corrupts.” “ I f God,” he says, “ held 
all truth in his right hand, and in his left hand nothing 
but the ever-restless instinct for truth, though with the 
condition of forever and ever erring, and should say to 
me, Choose, I would bow reverently to bis left hand 
and say, Father, give; pure truth is for thee alone!” 
Thus, forgetting altogether that Christianity is not a 
striving after truth, but possession of the truth, Lessing 
became unconsciously one of the greatest promoters of 
nationalism in its worst form (comp. Hurst, History of 
Rationalism , p. 147, 149). We say Lessing unconsciously 
became the promoter of nationalism ; for, with Dorner 
( Gesch . </. Protest. T/ieol. p. 731), we believe that his ob- 
ject was not to write against religion, but against theol- 
ogy; not against Christianity, but only against the poor 
proofs that were advanced in its behalf. Indeed, his 
own words on Diderot’s labors condemn the charge so 
often brought against Lessing, that he was an outright 
opponent of Christianity, a pure deist, and nothing more. 
In reviewing one of Diderot’s Avorks, he says : “J shoi't- 
sighted dogmatist, who avoids nothing so carefully as a, 
doubt of the memorial maxims that make his system , will 
gather a host of errors from this work. Our author is 
one of those philosophers who give themselves more 
trouble to raise clouds than to scatter them. Wherever 
the fatal glance of their eyes fall, the pillars of the firm- 
est truth totter, and that which we have seemed to see 
quite clearly loses itself in the dim, uncertain distance; 
instead of leading us by twilight colonnades to the lumin- 
ous throne of truth, they lead us by the ways of fancied 
splendor to the dusky throne of falsehood. Suppose, 
then, such philosophers dare to attack opinions that are 
sacred. The danger is small. The injury which their 
dreams, or realities — the thing is one with them — inflict 
upon society is as small as that is great which they in- 
flict who would bring the consciences of all under the 
yoke of their own.” 

While librarian of Wolfenbiittel, Lessing discovered 
there a MS. copy of the long-forgotten work of Berengar 
(q. v.) of Tours against Lanfrane (q. v.), which proved 
that some of the views of the Lutheran Church concern- 
ing the doctrine of the Eucharist had already been ad- 
vanced by one of the most eminent teachers of the lltli 
century. Here was an evident service to theology, and 
for it he was commended by the theological world. Not 
so, however, when, with the same intent to serve, he sent 
forth a work which for years had been waiting for a 
printer and an editor. It is true the work was of de- 
cided intidcl tendency, but Lessing never could hesitate 
on that account to give to the world what had been in- 
tended for its perusal find judgment, and lie therefore 
sent forth “the Wolfenbiittel Fragments,” as they are 
termed, in his Beit rage zur Gesch. der Literatur (1774- 
1778), which treat, 1, of the tolerance of the Deists; 2, of 
the accusations brought against human reason in the 
pulpit ; 3, of the imjiossibility of a revelation which all 
men could believe in in the same manner; 4, of the pas- 
sage of the Israelites througlFthe Led Seal 5, of the O. 
Test, not having been written with the intention of re- 
vealing a religion; 0, of the history of the resurrection. 
The last essay, especially, called forth a storm of oppo- 


sition, but this did not prevent Lessing’s publishing in 
1778 a final essay on the object of Jesus and of the apos- 
tles. With the views of these fragments, however, 
Lessing by no means himself coincided. See Wolfen- 
buttel Fragments. They were intended simply to 
induce deeper researches on the part of theologians, and 
to establish a more stringent system of criticism. He 
desired to raise from a deep lethargy, and to purify from 
all uncritical elements, the orthodox whom he had so 
valiantly defended against neology, and proved that this 
was his intention by the manner in which he opposed 
the attempt of the nationalists to substitute the intui- 
tions of reason for the dictates of the heart and for the 
promptings of faith. “What else,” he asks, “is this 
modern theology when compared with orthodoxy than 
filthy water with clear water? With orthodoxy we 
had, thanks to God, pretty much settled; between it and 
philosophy a barrier had been erected, behind which 
each of these could walk in its own way without mo- 
lesting the other. But what is it that they are now 
doing? They pull down this barrier, and, under the 
pretext of making us rational Christians , they make us 
most irrational philosophers. In this we agree that our 
old religions system is false, but I should not like to say 
with you [he is writing to liis brother] that it is a patch- 
work got up by jugglers and scmiphilosophers. I do not 
know of anything m the world in which human inge- 
nuity lias more shown and exercised itself than in it. A 
patchwork by jugglers and scmipliilofophers is that re- 
ligious system which they would put in the place of the 
old one, and, in doing so, would pretend to more rational 
philosophy than the old one claims.” When assailed 
by Gbtze (q.v.) as attacking the faith of the Church by 
his publication of the Fragments , he replied that, even if 
the Fragment ists were right, Christianity was not there- 
by endangered. Lessing rejected the letter, but reserve d 
the spirit of the Scriptures. With him the letter is not 
the spirit, and the Bible is not religion. “Consequent- 
ly, objections against the letter, as well as against the 
Bible, are not precisely objections against the spirit and 
religion. For the Bible evidently contains more than 
belongs to religion, and it is a mere supposition that, in 
this additional matter which it contains, it must be 
equally infallible. Moreover, religion existed before 
there was a Bible. Christianity existed before evan- 
! gelists and apostles had written. However much, therc- 
j lore, may depend upon those Scriptures, it is not possi- 
ble that the whole truth of the Christian religion should 
depend upon them. Since there existed a period in 
which it was so far spread, in which it had already 
taken hold of so many souls, and in which, neverthc- 
' less, not one letter was written of that which has come 
down to us, it must be possible also that everything 
which evangelists and prophets have written might be 
lost again, and yet the religion taught by them stand. 
The Christian religion is not true because the evange- 
lists and apostles taught it, but they taught it because 
it is true. It is from their internal truth that all writ- 
ten documents cannot give it internal truth when it has 
none” (Lessing’s 1 Verke, ed. by Laehmann, x, 10, as cited 
i by Kalniis, Nisi, of German Protestantism, p. 152, 153). 
Lessing also distinguished between the Christian relig- 
ion and the religion of Christ; “the latter, being a life 
immediately implanted and maintained in our heart, 
manifests itself in love, and can neither stand nor fall 
with the [facts of the] Gospel. The truths of religion 
have nothing to do with the facts of history” (Hurst, 
Rationalism, p. 154). “Although I may not have the 
least objection to the facts of the Gospel, this is not of 
the sliglicst consequence for my religions convictions. 
Although, historically, I may have nothing to object to 
Christ’s having even risen from the dead, must I for 
that reason accept; it as true that this very risen Christ 
was the Son of God?” Scripture stands in the same 
relation to the Church as the plan of a large building to 
the building itself. It would be ridiculous if, at a con- 
flagration, people were first of all to save the plan; but 


LESSING 


383 


LESSING 


just as ridiculous is it to fear any danger to Christianity 
from an attack upon Scripture. In his Duplix Lessing 
maintained, in reference to the history of the resurrec- 
tion, that it contains irreconcilable contradictions ; but 
he held also that it does not follow from this circumstance 
that the resurrection is unhistorical. “Who has ever 
ventured to draw the same inference in profane history? 
If Livy, Folybius, Dionysius, and Tacitus relate the very 
same event, it may be the very same battle, the very 
same siege, each one differing so much in the details 
that those of the one completely give the lie to those of 
the other, has any one, for that reason, ever denied the 
event itself in which they agree?” 

Such are the thoughts which Lessing advanced in 
his theological polemical writings, particularly in the 
controversy with pastor Gcitze after the publication of 
the so-called “ Wolfenbiittel Fragments,” but to present 
from them a connected theological system strictly de- 
fining Lessing’s stand-point has not yet been made pos- 
sible. Indeed, we would say with Ifagenbach ( Church 
Hist, of 18th and 19 th Cent, i, 288) that “he had none.” 
Hut just as much difficulty we would find in assigning 
Lessing a place anywhere in any theological system of 
thought already in vogue. Really, we think all that 
can be done for Lessing is to consider in how far his 
writings justify the disposition that has been made of 
him as a theological writer. There are at present three 
different classes of theologians Mho claim him as their 
ally and support. By some he has been judged to have 
held the position of a rather positive, though not exact- 
ly orthodox character. This judgment is based upon 
his views on the doctrine of the Trinity in his Erziehung 
des Menscliengeschlechtes. (lie there says: “ What if this 
doctrine [of the Trinity] should lead human reason to 
acknowledge that God cannot possibly be understood to 
be one , in that sense in which all finite things are one? 
that his unity must be a transcendental unity, which 
does not exclude a kind of plurality,” evidently explain- 
ing the Trinity as referring to the essence of the Deity.) 
By others, either in praise or condemnation, he has been 
adjudged a “freethinker;” while still others have pro- 
nounced him guilty not only of a change of opinion — of 
a change from the camp of orthodoxy to heterodoxy — 
but have also given him up in despair, as incapable of 
having cherished any positive opinion, because he was 
so many-sided in his polemics; indeed, he had himself 
explicitly declared that he preferred the search for the 
possession of the truth. The first to break away from 
one and all of these classifications has been Dr. J. A. 

' Dorner ( Gesch . der protest. Tlieol. [Munich, 1867, 8vo], 
p. 722 sep), who assigns Lessing a position similar to 
that generally credited to Jacobi, the so-called “philos- 
opher of faith” (see Jacobi), and for this there is cer- 
tainly much in favor in Lessing’s own declarations ; for, 
like Jacobi, he held that reason and faith have nothing- 
in conflict M'ith each other, but are one. He held fast, 
likev'ise, to a self-conscious personal God of providence, 
to a living relation of the divine spirit to the world, to 
whom a place belongs in the inner revelation, notwith- 
standing that he assails the outer revelation in its his- 
torical credibility, and assigns it simply a place in the 
faith of authority (Autoritiitsglauben). “It is true,” 
says Dorner (p. 737), “ Lessing has particularly aimed 
to secure for the purely human and moral a place right 
by the side of that generally assigned only to Christi- 
anity. But he is far from asserting that the understand- 
ing (Vernuuft) of humanity was from the beginning per- 
fect, or even in a normal development, but rather holds 
it to be developing in character, and in need of educa- 
tion by the divine Spirit, whom also he refuses to regard 
as a passive beholder of the acting universe.” ( We have 
here a number of premises, which later writers, partic- 
ularly Schleiermacher, have taken to secure for histor- 
ical religion a more worthy position.) Indeed, right 
here, in the attempt to make humanity progressive, and 
this progress dependent upon revelation, centred the 
whole of Lessing’s theological views. “To the reason,” 


he said, “it must be much rather a proof of the truth 
of revelation than an objection to it when it meets with 
things that surpass its own conceptions, for what is a 
revelation winch reveals nothing?” (Comp. Hegel on 
this point as viewed by llagenbach, Ch. Hist, of 18th 
and 19/4 Cent. Vi] 364 sq.) Thus he acknowledged the 
truth of revelation, though he would not regard the idea 
of a revelation as settled for all time, but rather as God’s 
gradual act of training; and to elucidate this thought 
lie wrote, in 1780, Hie Erziehung des Menscliengeschlechtes 
(the authorship of which has sometimes been denied 
him : comp. Zeitschr.f. d. hist, tlieol. 1839, No. 3 ; Guh- 
r auer, Erziehung des Menscliengeschlechtes kritisch und 
philosophisch erdrtert [Berlin, 1841 ]), a work in which, 
concentrated in a hundred short paragraphs, is a system 
I of religion and philosophy — the germ of Herder’s and 
all later works on the education of the human race. 
“Something there is of it,” says a writer in the IFesf- 
minster Her. (Oct. 1871, p. 222, 223), “that reminds the 
reader of I’lato. It has his tender melancholy and his 
undertone of inspired conviction, and a grandeur which 
recalls that moving of great figures and shifting of vast 
scenes which we behold in the myth of Er. There 
speaks in it a voice of one crying M'ords not his own to 
times that are not yet come.” 

The English Deists, as Bolingbroke and Hobbes, had 
regarded religion only from the stand-point of politics. 
“Man,” they held, “can know nothing except what his 
senses teach him, and to this the intelligent confine 
themselves; a revelation, or, rather, what pretends to 
! be one, might be a good tiling for the populace.” Sec 
Deism. Lessing came forward, and, while seeking to 
make morality synonymous with religion, aye, with 
Christianity, taught that in revelation only lies man’s 
strength for development. “ Revelation,” says Lessing, 
“is to the whole human race M’hat education is to the 
individual man. Education is revelation which is im- 
parted to the individual man. and revelation is educa- 
tion which has been and still is imparted to the human 

race Education no more presents everything to 

man at once than revelation docs, but makes its com- 
munications in gradual development.” First Judaism, 
then Christianity; first unity, then trinity; first hap- 
piness for this life, then immortality and never-ending 
bliss. (See the detailed review on these points in 
Hurst’s Hagenbach, Ch. Hist, of 1 8th and 1 9th Cent, i, 
291 sq.) The elementary work of education was the 
O. T. The progress to a more advanced book is marked 
by the timely coming of Christ, “the reliable and prac- 
tical teacher of immortality; .... reliable through the 
prophecies which appeared to be fulfilled in him, through 
the miracles which he performed, and through his own 
return to life after the death by which he had sealed his 
doctrine;” whose disciples collected and transmitted in 
M'riting his doctrines, “ the second and better elementary 
book for the human race,” expecting (according to Bit- 
ter [ Lessing's philosophische u. religiose Griindsatze , p. 
56 sq.]) the complete treatise itself in the fulfilment of 
the promises of Christianity. Some have interpreted 
Lessing, because Christianity is spoken of as the sec- 
ond elementarj/ work, as anticipating another religion, 
to be universally enjoyed, to supersede Christianity, but 
for this we can see no reason, and side with Bitter. 

The position of Lessing has sometimes become equiv- 
ocal by the peculiar interpretation of his Xathan the 
DT/tc. In his Education of Humanity , Christianity un- 
questionably is the highest religion in the scale; in his 
“Nathan” it is not so. Hence it has been asserted by 
many, Christian writers especially, that in his later 
years Lessing had become a most decided Rationalist, 
and Jacobi even asserted that he had died a Spinozist. 
(Compare the article Jacobi, and the literature at the 
end of this article.) The former interpretation is due, 
however, to wrong premises. Lessing wrote Nathan the 
Wise simply for one object: not to aggrandize and en- 
noble his associate and friend Mendelssohn the Jeu\ not 
to deprive Christianity of the best of her beauty, but only 


LESSING 


384 


LESSING 


to teach humanity — ay, to the followers of the Christ’ 
of the Gospel in the 18th century, the great lesson 
of toleration. The great French infidel - philosopher 1 
Voltaire had sought to do this, hut he had failed— had 
failed utterly— and only because his idea of tolerance 
was really intolerance. lie meant entirely too much by 
tolerance*, for he demanded of the party tolerating not 
only to esteem all religions alike, to be content with any 
ami every belief, to have no rights in conflict with an- 
other in religious matters, but to be obliged to conform ' 
to the notions and inclinations of others out of mere I 
politeness; and we do not wonder when Jlagenbaeh (i, 
29) says that ‘-this is the toleration of shallowness, of 
cowardice, of religious indecision, of religious indiffer- 
ence — a toleration that finally and easily degenerates into 
intolerance, which is the hatred of everyone who wish- 
es to hold and to profess a firm and positive religion. 
Such persons must come at last to regard the tolerating 
party as unyielding and stiff-necked. Such was the 
toleration of the llomans, which was so much praised | 
by Voltaire. It soon came to an end with the Chris- 
tians, because they neither could nor would submit to a 
strange worship. Nothing, however, is more foolish or 
more opposed to true toleration than precisely this ef- 
fort to force such toleration upon those who do not agree 
with us in opinion, for toleration no more admits of 
force than religion does.” Lessing believed that this 
grand lesson was yet to be taught, lie would teach it 
especially to the Christian, who stood higher in the 
scale, and could easily influence those below him ; nay, 
lie believed that lie should teach it, and that most ef- 
fectually, by practicing it upon his inferiors in belief. 
He therefore would shrfme the Christian by examples 
most noble from religions generally regarded as inferior, 
and its followers as more fanatical. Yet it must not be 
forgotten that Lessing never went so far as to ignore 
his own religion, for these grand specimens of Judaism 
and Mohammedanism reveal their Christian painter 
after all, when once the lay brother is made to say, 
“ Nathan, you are a Christian. Never was a better” 
(act i v, scene vii, line 2). He would teach us that Chris- 
tianity is the most perfect of all religions, but that the 
others also have in them many parts which go to make 
it op; that as they shall modify in course of time, so 
shall also Christianity grow on to perfection (see above, 
Hitter’s view), llis principal fault was this, that his 
peculiar view of revelation led him to believe that no 
religion is as yet absolutely perfect, and that therefore 
none of the positive religions could justly claim the char- 
acter of universality, and of exclusive privileges and 
rights; and hence he regarded all religions as an indi- 
vidualization of reason, according to time and place, and 
a product, on the one hand, of the culture of a people, 
and, on the other, of divine education and communica- 
tion. thus making Christianity capable also of an objec- 
tive perfectibility. (This is a view which has been ad- 
vanced of late by many Christian writers of Moham- 
medanism; comp. Freeman, The Saracens [Oxford and 
London, 1870. 12mo], lect. i.) Hcgarding the charge of 
liis Spinozaism, we would say with Mendelssohn, who 
defended Lessing from this charge after his death: “ If 
Lessing was able absolutely and without all further lim- 
itation to declare for the system of any man, he was at 
that time no more with himself, or lie was in a strange 
humor to make a paradoxical assertion which, in a seri- 
ous hour, lie himself again rejected” (Jacobi, 1 !>?•£<?, vol. 
iv, pt. i, p.44 : comp. Kahilis, derm. Prat. p. 1(54 sq.; Hor- 
ner, desch. protest. Then/, p. 723). See M kndklssoiin. 
All that Jacobi had for his assertion that Lessing died a 
Pantheist was a conversation with him a few years before 
Lessing’s death. l T pon this fact 1’rof. Nichol justly ob- 
serves: ‘*The reporting of such conversation must ever 
he protested against .as breach of confidence, and it is 
almost as certainly a source of misrepresentation. What 
thinker docs not, in the frankness and confidence of in- 
tercourse, give utterance at times to momentary impres- 
sions, as if tliev were his abiding ones? This much is 


unquestionable: Lessing has not written one solitary 
word inconsistent with a firmest persuasion in the per- 
sonality of man. This great writer, indeed, belongs to 
a class of minds very easily misapprehended — minds 
which none but others in so far akin to them can rigid- 
ly understand. Oftenest in ’antagonism, or in a critical 
attitude, thinkers like Lessing do not generally express 
their whole thought; they dwell only on the part of the 
common thought from which they dissent. So far, 
however, from being ruled bv mere negations, it is cer- 
tainly more probable that their dissent arises from a 
completer view and possession of truth; and that their 
effort is confined to the desire to separate truth from er- 
ror, or, at all events, from non-essentials.” Not even the 
modest charge that Lessing in his latest years, by reason 
of his affiliation with Nicolai and Mendelssohn, inclined 
towards nationalism, can, upon examination, he sub- 
stantiated. His own words from Vienna, whither lie 
had gone on a call from .Joseph II, who in 17G9 invited 
all the great and learned men of the times to his capital 
I for a general assemblage, addressed to Nicolai, who had 
taken this occasion to ridicule Vienna, and praise his 
own Berlin by contrast, go far to disprove any such as- 
i sertion : “8av nothing. 1 pray you. about your Berlin 
freedom of thinking and writing. It is reduced simply 
and solely to the freedom of bringing to market as many 
gibes and jeers against religion as you choose, and a 
decent man must speedily be ashamed to avail himself 
of this freedom.” If Lessing is to he classed at all with 
nationalists, we should first distinguish between the 
higher nationalism of humanity and its double-sighted 
compeer, trivial and vulgar Rationalism, and then assign 
Lessing a place in that of the former, for to it alone can 
he lie claimed to have rendered intentional aid. 

Of his service to German literature generally, it may be 
truly said “lie found Germany without a national litera- 
ture; when he died it had one. He pointed out the ways 
in poetry, philosophy, and religion by which the nation- 
al mind should go, and it has gone in them” (jresfrn.ifcT. 
Oct, 1871 , p. 223). “ Honor,” says Menzel (German Lit. 
[trail si. by C. C. Felton, Host. 1840, 3 vols. 12mo]. ii. 405), 

| “ was the principle of Lessing’s whole life. He composed 
in the same spirit that he lived. He had to contend 
with obstacles his whole life long. but lie never bowed 
down his head. He struggled not for posts of honor, 
! but for his own independence. He might, with his ex- 
traordinary ability, have rioted in the favor of the great, 
like Goethe, but he scorned and hated this favor as un- 
worthy a free man. 1 1 is long con tin nance in private 
life, his services as secretary of the brave general Tait- 
enzien during the Seven Years’ War, and afterwards as 
librarian at AVolfenblittel, proved that he did not aspire 

to high places He ridiculed Gellcrt, Klopstoek, 

and all who bowed their laurel-crowned heads to heads 
encircled with golden crowns; and he himself shunned 
all contact with the great, animated by that stainless 
spirit of pride which acts instinctively upon the motto 
Xoli me tangere .” 

Literature. — The complete works of Lessing were 
first published at Berlin (1771, 32 vols. 12mo), then with 
annotations bv Lachmann (1839, 12 vols.). and by A on 
Maltzahn (18*55, 12 vols). See Karl Gotthelf Lessing, 
Lessing's Liiographie (Herb 1793,2 vols.); Danzcl. Less- 
ing, sein Lthen nnd seine 1 Verkc (1850), continued by 
Guhraucr ( 1 853-54 ) : 8 tahr, G. E. Lessing, sein I a hen ?/. s. 
Werke ((5th ed. Berl. 1859, 2 vols. 12mo, transl. by E. 1\ 
Evans, late professor at Mich. Univ., Boston, 18(57, 2 vols. 
12nu>); 11. Hitter, in the Gottingen Studien (184/); Hit- 
ter, Gesch. d. rhrisfl. Philos, ii. 480 sq. ; Bohtz, Lessing's 
Profesfanfismns mnl Xath. cler lime; Lang, Religiose 
Chnraltcrc, i, 215 sq.; Hope, Lessing vnel Gotze • Rohr, 
Kleine theologische Schrifien (Schleusingen, 1841, vol. i); 
Schwarz. Lessing als Theologe (1854) ; Gcrvinus. A at ton- 
al -Liter. ii. Dentschen , iv, 318 sq.; Molmike, Lessingiana 
(Lpz. 1 843, 8vo) ; Schiosser. desch. d.\W en Jahrhuwl. iii, 2; 
Schmidt, Gesch. d.geist. Lchcns in Deutschld. ron Leibnitz 
, bis avf Lessing's Tod ; Hurst’s llagenbaeh, Ch. Ilistoi'y 


LESSONS 


385 


LEU COPETRI AN S 


iSih and 19 th Cent. vol. i, lect. xiii ; For. Quart. Review , 
xxv, 233 sq.; Westmmst. Rev. 1871, Oct., art. viii ; Her- 
zog, Real-Encylclop. viii, 336 sq. : Kalmis, Hist, of Ger- 
man Protestantism , p. 145 sq. (J. II. W.) 

Lessons. See Lectionarium. 

Lestines. See Liptines. 

Letaah. See Lizard. 

Lethe oblivion ), in the Grecian mythology, 

the stream of forgetfulness in the lower world, to which 
the departed spirits go, before passing into the Elvsian 
fields, to be cleansed from all recollection of earthly sor- 
rows. See Hades. 

Le'thech ( le'thek, Septuag. ve(3e\), a Hebrew" 
word which occurs in the margin ofHos. iii, 2; it signi- 
fies a measure for grain, so called from empty ing or pour- 
ing out. It is rendered “ a half homer ” in the A. Y. (af- 
ter the Yulg.), which is probably correct. See Homer. 

Leti, Gregorv, a historian, born at Milan in 1630, 
who travelled in various countries, became Protestant 
at Lausanne, was for a time well received at the court 
of Charles II in England, and died at Amsterdam in 
1701. He wrote, among other things, Life of Sixtus 
1 — Life of Philip II : — Monarchy of Louis XIV : — 
Life of Cromwell: — Life of Queen Elizabeth : — Life of 
Charles l r . 

Letter stands in only two passages of the Bible 
in its namnv sense of an alphabetical character (ypdp- 
pa, in the plural, Luke xxiii, 38; and prob. Gal. vi, 11, 
TnjXiKoig ypdppam; A. Y. “how large a letter,” rather 
in what a bold hand) ; elsewhere it is used (for *130, a 
book; ypappa, either sing, or plur. ; but more definitely 
for the later lleb. [Chald. [Chald. 

id. also Ears] ; i7rt<jTo\))) in the sense of an epistle (q. 
v.). See Alphabet; Writing. 

LETTEB, the, a term used especially by the apostle 
Paul in opposition to the spirit; a way of speaking very 
common in the ecclesiastical style (Bom. ii, 27, 29; vii, 
6; 2 Cor. iii, G, 7). In general, the word letter (• ypctp - 
pa) is used to denote the Mosaic law r . The law r , con- 
sidered as a simple collection of precepts, is but a dead 
form, which can indeed command obedience, but cannot 
awaken love. This distinction is shown with great skill 
in Schleiermacher’s Sermon: Christ us, d. Befreier v. d. 
Siinde u. d. Gesetz (in his Sammt. Werke, ii, 25 sq.). The 
law cannot but be something outward, which, as the 
expression of another’s ivill, appeals more to our com- 
prehension than to our will or to our feelings. This is 
the reason why the law is the source of the knowledge 
of sin, and does not impart the life-giving power. But 
that the Mosaic law was called the letter ( ypctppa ) re- 
sults from the fact of its being the written law. So Bom. 
ii, 27, 29: “And shall not uncircnmcision, which is by 
nature, if it fulfil the law, judge thee, who by the letter 
and circumcision dost transgress the law? For he is 
not a Jew which is one outwardly, neither is that cir- 
cumcision which is outward in the flesh ; but he is a 
Jew which is one inwardly, and circumcision is that of 
the heart, in the spirit, and not in the letter, -whose 
praise is not of men, but of God.” The meaning of 
this passage is, When the heathen does by nature that 
which the law requires, he puts to shame the Jew who 
in Scripture and bv circumcision transgresses the law. 
For he is not a true Israelite who is so outwardly only, 
and merely through physical circumcision (as the sign 
of the covenant) ; but he only who is inwardly a Jew, 
his heart also being circumcised, and consequently after 
the spirit, and not merely after the letter (or outward 
form). Such a one is not merely praised by men, but 
loved by God. Again, Bom. vii, G: “But now we are 
delivered from the law, that being dead wherein we 
were held; that we should serve in newness of spirit, 
and not in the oldness of the letter.” Being now Chris- 
tians, we ought to carrj r the law in our heart, and not 
merely fulfil it outivardly as a mere letter. 2 Cor. iii, G, 
Y.— B b 


for the letter (i. e. the Mosaic law) killetli (brings about 
death inasmuch as it discovers sin, Bom. vii, 9 ; vi, 23; 

1 Cor. xv, 5G), but the Spirit (the holy Spirit imparted 
through faith) givetli life (i. e. eternal life, Bom. viii, 10). 
Once more, 2 Cor. iii, 7 : “ But if the ministration of 
death (of the letter), writteu and engraven in stones, 
was glorious . . . how shall not the ministration of the 
Spirit be rather glorious?” The law of Moses is inca- 
pable of giving life to the soul, and justifying before 
God those who are most servilely addicted to the literal 
observance of it. These things can be effected only by 
means of the Gospel of Christ, and of that Spirit of truth 
and holiness -which attends it, and makes it effectual to 
the salvation of the soul. — Kreld, Neu-Test. Handwbr- 
terbuch. See Law of Moses. 

Letters, Encyclical. See Liters Encyclics. 

Letters of Orders, a docitment usually of parch- 
ment, and signed by the bishop, with his seal appended, 
in ivhich he certifies that at the specified time and place 
he ordained to the office of deacon or priest the clergy- 
man whose name is therein mentioned. 

Lettice, JoiiN,D.D.,an English clergyman and poet, 
was born in Northamptonshire in 1737, and was edu- 
cated at Cambridge, where he took his first degree in 
1761. He soon obtained eminence as a pulpit orator. 
In 1785 he was presented to the living of Peasemarsh, 
and later with a prebend in the cathedral of Chichester. 
He died in 1832. Among his works are The Conversion 
of St. Paul, a poet ical essay, which secured him a prize 
from his alma mater in 17G4: — The Antiquities of Her- 
culaneum, a translation from the Italian (1773): — The 
Immortality of the Soul , translated from the French 
(1795). See Biog. Diet, of Living A uthors (Loud. 181(1) ; 
Allibone, Diet, of Authors, vol. ii, s. v.; Thomas, Biogr. 
Diet. s. v. 

Let'tus (Aarrovg v. r. ’Attovq; Yulg. Acckus ), a 
“son of Sechenias,” one of the Levites who returned 
from Babylon (1 Esd. viii, 29), evidently the Hattusii 
(q. v.) of the Heb. text (Ezra viii, 2). 

Letu'shim (Heb. Let u shim', hammered , 

plur. ; Sept. Aarouoitip), the second named of the three 
sons of Dedan (grandson of Abraham by Iveturah), and 
head of an Arabian tribe descended from him (Gen. 
xxx, 3 ; and Yulg. at 1 Chron. i, 32). B.C. considera- 
bly post 2024. See Arabia. “Fresnel (Journ. Asiat. 
iii e serie, vi, 217) identifies it with Tasm , one of the an- 
cient and extinct tribes of Arabia, just as he compares- 
Leummim with ITmeivim. The names may perhaps be 
regarded as commencing with the article. Neverthe- 
less, the identification in each case seems to be quite un- 
tenable. It is noteworthy that the three sons of the 
Iveturahite Dedan are named in the plural form, evi- 
dently as tribes descended from him” (Smith). “Fors- 
ter supposes ( Geogr . of Arabia, i, 334) that the Letushim 
were absorbed in the generic appellation of Dedauim 
(Jer. xxv, 23; Ezek. xxv, 13; Isa. xxi, 13). and that 
they- dwelt in the desert eastward of Edom” (Kitto). 
See Leummim. 

Leucippus, the founder of the atomistic school of 
Grecian philosophy, and forerunner of Democritus (q. 
v.). Nothing is known concerning him, neither the 
time nor the place of his birth, nor the circumstances 
of his life. 

Leucopetrians, the name of a fanatical sect which 
sprung up in the Greek and Eastern churches towards 
the close of the 12th century; they professed to believe 
in a double trinity, rejected wedlock, abstained from 
flesh, treated with the utmost contempt the sacraments 
of baptism and the Lord’s Supper, and all the various 
branches of external worship; placed the essence of re- 
ligion in internal prayer alone; and maintained, as it is 
said, that an evil being or genius dwelt in the breast of 
every mortal, and could be expelled from thence by no 
other method than by perpetual supplication to the Su- 
preme Being. The founder of this sect is said to have 


386 


LEVELLERS 


LEUMMIM 


been a person called Lcucopetrus, and bis chief diseiple 
Tychicus, who corrupted by fanatical interpretations 
several bonks of Scripture, and particularly the Gospel 
of Matthew. This account is not undoubted. — Hender- 
son’s Buck, s. v. 

Leum'mim (lleb. Leiimmind, peoples, as 

often ; Sept, Aaiopdp), the last named of the three sons 
of Dedan (grandson of Abraham by Keturah), and head 
of an Arabian tribe descended from him (Gen. xxv, 3; 
and Vulgate at 1 Chron. i, 32). B.C. considerably post 
2024. See Arabia. They are supposed to be the same 
with the AllumeeoUe (’ AAAovfiatutrai ), named by Ptol- 
emy (vi,7, 24) as near the Gerrhiei, which appears to be 
a corruption of the Hebrew word with the art. prefixed. 

“ He also enumerates Luma among the towns of Arabia 
Deserta (v, 19), and Forster (Geogr. of Arabia , i, 335) 
suggests that this may have been an ancient settlement 
of the same tribe” (Kitto). “They are identified by 
Fresnel (in the Jonrn . Asiai. iii e serie, vi,217) with an 
Arab tribe called Umeiyim, one of the very ancient tribes 
of Arabia of which no genealogy is given by the Arabs, 
and who appear to have been ante-Abrahamic, and pos- 
sibly aboriginal inhabitants of the country” (Smith). 
See Letusiiim. 

Levin, Johann Georg Friedrich, a German theo- 
logian, was born Aug. 9, 1757, at Giessen. In 1774 he 
entered the university of his native place; in 1797 he 
became deacon at Butzbach, near Giessen, and there he 
remained until his death, March 15, 1823. He possessed 
an extensive knowledge of the Oriental languages, and 
was a profound theologian. Among his works deserve 
special notice, ) r on der besten Met bode, die hebraische 
Sprache zu erlernen (Giessen, 1787-8) : — Ilandbuch zur 
cursorisehen Lecture der Bibel fur A ?f anger, etc. (Leg- 
mo, 1788-91,4 th. 8 ): — Ilandbuch znr cursorisehen Lec- 
ture der Bibel des X. T. etc. (ibid. 1795-9G, 3 th. 8). — 
Doring, Gelehrte Tkeol. Dcutschlands , ii, 292. 

Leusden, Joiianx, a very celebrated Dutch Orien- 
talist and theologian, was born at Utrecht in 1624, and 
was educated at the then recently founded university of 
his native place and at Amsterdam, paying particular 
regard to the Oriental languages, especially the He- 
brew. In 1649 he was appointed professor of Hebrew 
at Utrecht, and for nearly fifty years he most creditably 
discharged the duties of this office, for which he had fit- 
ted himself, not simply at the universities already men- 
tioned, but also by private study with several learned 
Jewish rabbis, lie died in 1699, regarded by all as one 
of the best Hebrew scholars of his day, the Buxtorfs 
only taking precedence in rank. Of his works we may 
say that the writings of but few Biblical scholars of that 
day have descended to us which can be said to be of 
more solid utility than Leusden’s. “ If they are defec- 
tive in originality of genius (the amount of which qual- 
ity, however, it is impossible rightly to determine in 
works like our author’s), they undoubtedly afford evi- 
dence of their author’s varied resources of learning, 
adorned by clearness of method and an easy style, char- 
acteristics which made Leusden one of the most re- 
nowned and successful teachers of his age.” 1 1 is nu- 
merous works, which were all Biblical , may be classed 
as follows: (1) Critical, (2) Introductory, and (3) Exe- 
getical. Under the first head we have his valuable 
Biblia flebraa uccnratissima not is I/ebraicis et leimnati- 
btis if lust rata: ty pis Joseph i At bias (Amstel. 1617 [2d 
ed. 1667], the first critical edition by a Christian editor 
[‘LEstirnatissima primum numeratis versibus, primaque 
a Christiano adhibitis 31 SS. facta.” Steinsehneider, Ca- 
tal. Bodl . ] ) In 1694 he joined Eisemnenger in publish- 
ing a Hebrew Bible without points. The Greek Scrip- 
tures also received his careful attention, as is proved by 
his editions of the Greek Test, in 1675, 1688, 1693, 1698, 
1701, and by his edition of fhe Soptuagint (Amsterdam, 
1683). After his death, Schaaf completed a valuable 
edition of the Syriac New Test, (with Tremcllius’s ver- 
sion) which Leusden had begun. Under this first head 


we may also place his Hebrew Lexicon (1688); Ele- 
mentary Heb. Gram., which was translated into English, 
French, and German (1668); his Compendia of the O. T. 
and the N. Test, (comprising selections of the originals, 
with translations and grammatical notes in Latin), fre- 
quently reprinted; his Onomasticon Baer. 1665, 1684), 
and his still useful Claris Ilebr.Yet. Test, (containing 
the Masoretic notes, etc., besides much grammatical and 
philological information), first published in 1683, and 
his Claris Grcec.X. T. (1672). His contributions to the 
second head of Introduction ( Kinhitung ) and sacred 
archaeology were not less valuable than the works we 
have already commended. Of these we mention three 
(sometimes to be met with in one volume) as very use- 
ful to the Biblical student: rhilologus Ilebr. eontinens 
Quasi io?ies Ilebr. qnce circa V. Test. Ilebr. fere morcri so- 
lent (Utrecht, 1656, 1672, 1695, Amst. 1686, are the best 
editions, and contain his edition and translation of Mai- 
monides’s Precepts of Moses, p. 56) ; rhilologus Htbreco- 
mixtus, una cum. Bpicileg. Philol. (Utr. 1663, etc., con- 
tains treatises on several interesting points of Hebrew 
antiquities and Talmudical science); Philologus Hebrceo- 
Grcccus generalis (Utr. 1670, etc.) treats questions relat- 
ing to the sacred Greek of the Christian Scriptures, its 
Hebraisms, the Syriac and other translations, its in- 
spired authors, etc., well and succinctly handled (with 
tliis work occurs Leusden’s translation into Ilebmo of all 
the Chaldee portions of the O.T.). Under the last, or 
Exegetical head, we have less to record. In 1656 (re- 
printed in 1692) Leusden published in a Latin transla- 
tion David Kimclii’s Commentary on the prophet Jo- 
nah ( Jonas illu stratus), and in the following year a 
similar work (again after David Kimchi) on Joel and 
Obadiah ( Joel explieatus, adjunct us Obadjas Must rains'). 
Well worthy of mention are also his editions (prepared 
with the help of Villemandy and Morinns) of Bochart’s 
works, and the works of Lightfoot. (which he published 
in Latin, in 3 vols. folio, in the last year of his life) and 
Poole (whose Synopsis occurs in its very best form in 
Leusden’s edition, 1684, 5 vols. folio). See Burmann, 
Trajectam ernditorum ; De Vries, Oratio in Obitum J. 
Lensdenii (1699); Fabricius, Hist. Billiot h. Grcec . i, 244; 
Waleh, Bibliotk. Theol. Selecta, vols. iii, iv; Biographic 
universelle anc. et mod. (1819) xxiv, 357 ; Elogia Philo - 
gorum qnornndam Ihbrccorum (Lub. 1708, 8vo); Meyer, 
Gesch. d. Bch rifterkldrung, p. 1 1 1 , 174 sq. ; Hoefer, Xouv. 
Biog. Generate, xxxi, 11 sq. ; Kalisch, lleb. Gram. pt. ii 
(Historical Introd.), p.37 ; and in Herzog, Peal-Kncykhp. 
viii, 345, 346; Kitto, Cyclop. Bibliced Literature, vol. ii, 
s. v. 

Leutard or Leuthard, a French fanatic, flourished 
among the peasants of Chalons-sur-Marne about A.D. 
1000. He claimed the enjoyment of spiritual visions, 
and authority from on high for separation from his fam- 
ily and his iconoclastic idiosyncracies. He also, by like 
inspirations, became the opponent of many practices of 
the Church which had their authority in the sacred 
Scriptures of both the O. and N.T., and supported his 
position likewise by the inspired word of God. The 
bishop of the diocese in which Leuthard flourished — 
Gebuin by name— treated him with perfect contempt, 
believing him insane, and, for want of opposition, few 
followers were found by Leuthard, who in despair de- 
stroyed himself by drowning. 

Levellers or Badtcals, a political and religious 
sect of fanatics, which arose in the array of Cromwell at 
the time of the difficulty between the Independents and 
the Long Parliament (1647), advocating entire civil and 
religious liberty. They were not only treated as trai- 
tors by the king, but persecuted also by Cromwell as 
dangerous to the state. From one of their own works, 
The Leveller , or the Principles and Maxims concerning 
Government and Religion of those commonly called Lev- 
ellers (Loud. 1658), we see that their fundamental prin- 
ciples included, in politics, 1, the impartial, sovereign 
authority of the law ; 2, the legislative power of Parlia- 


LEVER 


387 


LEVI 


ment ; 3, absolute equality before the law ; and, 4, the 
arming of the people in order to enable all to secure the 
enforcement of the laws, and also to protect their liber- 
ties. In religion they claimed, 1, absolute liberty of con- 
science, as true religion, with them, consisted in inward 
concurrence with revealed religion ; 2, freedom for every 
one to act according to the best of his knowledge, even 
if this knowl- dge should be false — the government act- 
ing on the knowledge and conscience of the people 
through the ministers it appoints; S, religion to be con- 
sidered under two aspects: one as the correct under- 
standing of revelation, and this is quite a private affair, 
in regard to which every one must stand or fall by him- 
self; the other is its effects as manifested in actions, 
and these are subject to the judgment of others, and es- 
pecially of the authorities; 4, they condemned all strife 
on makers of faith and forms of worship, considering 
these as only outward signs of different degrees of spir- 
itual enlightening. This sect, like many others, disap- 
peared at the time of the Restoration. See Weingarten, 
Revolutions Kirehen Enylands (Lpz. 1808) ; Neale, Jiist. 
of the Puritans (see Index, vol. ii, Harper’s edition). 

Lever, Thomas, an eminent English divine, was 
born in Lancashire in the early part of the lGth century. 
He was ordained a Protestant minister in 1550. On 
the accession of Mary (1553) he retired to the Conti- 
nent. He afterwards dissented from the Anglican 
Church from a partiality to Calvinism. lie died in 
1577. No man was more vehement in his sermons 
against the waste of Church revenues, and other pre- 
vailing corruptions of the court, which occasioned bish- 
op Ridley to rank him with Latimer and Knox. Be- 
sides a number of sermons, he published a Meditation on 
the Lonle's Prayer (1551) : — Ccrtayne Godly Exercises : 
— and a Treatise on the Danger from Synne , etc. (1571- 
1575). See Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and A mer. Authors, 
vol. ii, s. v.; Thomas, Biog. Dictionary , s. v. 

Le'vi (Heb. Levi', ^1?, wreathed [see below], being 
the same Ileb. word also signifying “ Levitc Sept, and 
N. T. Atu'i or Atuct), the name of several men. 

1, The third son of Jacob by his wife Leah. This, 
like most other names in the patriarchal history, was 
connected with the thoughts and feelings that gathered 
round the child’s birth. As derived from ITlb, to twine , 
and hence to adhere , it gave utterance to the hope of 
the mother that the affections of her husband, which 
had hitherto rested on the favored Rachel, would at 
last be drawn to her. “This time will my husband be 
joined (nib?) unto me, because I have borne him three 
sons” (Hen. xxix, 34). B.C. 1917. The new-born child 
was to be a Koivioviag l3t(3ans)Tt)r (Josephus, Anf. i, 19, 
8), a new link binding the parents to each other more 
closely than before. The same etymology is recognised, 
though with a higher significance, in Numb, xviii, 2 
(112?). 0 ,ie fact only is recorded in which he appears 
prominent. The sons of Jacob had come from Padan- 
Aram to Canaan with their father, and were with him 
“at Shalem, a city of Shechem.” Their sister Dinah 
went out “ to see the daughters of the land” (Gen. xxxiv, 
1 ), i. e. as the words probably indicate, and as Josephus 
distinctly states (A nt. i, 21), to be present at one of their 
great annual gatherings for some festival of nature-wor- 
ship, analogous to that which we meet with afterwards 
among the Midianites (Numb, xxv, 2). The license of 
the time or the absence of her natural guardians ex- 
posed her, though yet in earliest youth, to lust and out- 
rage. A stain was left, not only on her, but on the hon- 
or of her kindred, which, according to the rough justice 
of the time, nothing but blood could wash out. The 
duty of extorting that revenge fell, as in the case of Am- 
non and lamar (2 Sam. xiii. 22), and in most other 
states of society in which polygamy has prevailed (com- 
pare, for the customs of modern Arabs, J. I). Michaelis, 
quoted by Kurtz, Hist, of Old Covenant , i, § 82, p. 340), 
on the brothers rather than the father, just as, in the 


case of Rebekah, it belonged to the brother to conduct 
the negotiations for the marriage. We are left to con- 
jecture why Reuben, as the first-born, was not foremost 
in the work, but the sin of which he was afterwards 
guilty makes it possible that his zeal for his sister’s 
purity was not so sensitive as theirs. The same ex- 
planation may perhaps apply to the non-appearance of 
Judah in the history. Simeon and Levi, as the next in 
succession to the first-born, take the task upon them- 
selves. Though not named in the Hebrew text of the 
O. T. till xxxiv, 25, there can be little doubt that they 
were “the sons of Jacob” who heard from their father 
the wrong over which he had brooded in silence, and 
who planned their revenge accordingly. The Sept, does 
introduce their names in ver. 14. The history that fol- 
lows is that of a cowardly and repulsive crime. The two 
brothers exhibit, in its broadest contrasts, that union of 
the noble and the base, of characteristics above and be- 
low the level of the heathen tribes around them, which 
marks much of the history of Israel. They have learned 
to loathe and .scorn the impurity in the midst of which 
they lived, to regard themselves as a peculiar people, to 
glory in the sign of the covenant. They have learned 
only too well from Jacob and from Laban the lessons of 
treachery and falsehood. They lie to the men of She- 
chem as the Druses and the Maronites lie to each other 
in the prosecution of their blood-feuds. For the offence 
of one man they destroy and plunder a whole city. 
They cover their murderous schemes with fair words 
and professions of friendship. They make the very 
token of their religion the instrument of their perfidy 
and revenge. (Josephus [Ant. 1. c.] characteristically 
glosses over all that connects the attack with the cir- 
cumcision of the Shechemites. and represents it as made 
in a time of feasting and rejoicing.) Their father, timid 
and anxious as ever, utters a feeble lamentation (Blunt, 
Script. Coincidences , pt. i, § 8), “ Ye have made me a 
stench among the inhabitants of the land ... I being 
few in number, they shall gather themselves against 
me.” With a zeal that, though mixed with baser ele- 
ments, foreshadows the zeal of Phinelias, they glory in 
their deed, and meet all remonstrance with the question, 
“ Should he deal with our sister as with a harlot?” Of 
other facts in the life of Levi, there are none in which 
he takes, as in this, a prominent and distinct part. He 
shares in the hatred which his brothers bear to Joseph, 
and joins in the plots against him (Gen. xxxvii. 4). 
Reuben and Judah interfere severally to prevent the 
consummation of the crime (Gen. xxxvii. 21, 20). Sim- 
eon appears, as being made afterwards the subject of a 
sharper discipline than the others, to have been fore- 
most — as his po’sition among the sons of Leah made it 
likely that he would be — in this attack on the favored 
son of Rachel; and it is at least probable that in this, as 
in their former guilt, Simeon and Levi were brethren. 
The rivalry of the mothers was perpetuated in the jeal- 
ousies of their children; and the two who had shown 
themselves so keenly sensitive when their sister had 
been wronged, make themselves the instruments and 
accomplices of the hatred which originated, we are told, 
with the baser-born sons of the concubines (Gen. xxxvii, 
2). Then comes for him, as for the others, the disci- 
pline of suffering and danger, the special education by 
which the brother whom they had wronged leads them 
back to faithfulness and natural affection. The deten- 
tion of Simeon in Egypt may have been designed at 
once to be the punishment for the large share which he 
had taken in the common crime, and to separate the 
two brothers who had hitherto been such close compan- 
ions in evil. The discipline did its work. Those who 
had been relentless to Joseph became self-sacrificing for 
Benjamin. 

After this we trace Levi as joining in the migration 
of the tribe that owned Jacob as its patriarch. He. with 
his three sons, Gershon, Kohath, Merari, went down into 
Egypt (Gen. xlvi, 11). As one of the four eldest sons 
we may think of him as among the five (Gen. xlvii, 2) 


LEVIATHAN' 


3S8 


LEVIATHAN 


that were specially presented before Pharaoh. (The 
Jewish tradition [Targ. Pseudojon.~\ states the five to 
have been Zebulun, Dan, Naphtali, Gad, and Asher.) 
Then comes the last scene in which his name appears. 
When his fathers death draws near, and the sons are 
gathered round him, he hears the old crime brought up 
again to receive its sentence from the lips that are no 
longer feeble and hesitating. They, no less than the 
incestuous first-born, had forfeited the privileges of their 
birthright. *• In their anger they slew men, and in their 
wantonness they maimed oxen” (raarg. reading of the A. 
V. ; Sept. irtvooKowyoav ravpov). Therefore the sen- 
tence on those who had been united for evil was, that 
they were to be ‘‘divided in Jacob and scattered in Is- 
rael.” How that condemnation was at once fulfilled and 
turned into a benediction, how the zeal of the patriarch 
reappeared purified and strengthened in his descend- 
ants, how the very name came to have a new signifi- 
cance, will be found elsewhere. See Levite. 

The history of Levi has been dealt with here in what 
seems the only true and natural way of treating it, as a 
history of an individual person. Of the theory that 
sees in the sons of Jacob the mythical Eponymi of the 
tribes that claimed descent from them — which finds in 
the crimes and chances of their lives the outlines of a 
national or tribal chronicle — which refuses to recognise 
that Jacob had twelve sons, and insists.that the history 
of Dinah records an attempt on the part of the Canaan- 
ites to enslave and degrade a Hebrew tribe (Ewald, Ge- 
schichte, i, 466-496) — of this one may be content to say. 
as the author says of other hypotheses hardly more ex- 
travagant, “ Die Wissenschaft versehcucht allc solehe 
Gcspenster” (ibid. i,466). The book of Genesis tells us 
of the lives of men and women, not of ethnological phan- 
toms. A yet wilder conjecture has been hazarded by 
another German critic. P. Tiedslob (Die alttesfamentl. 
jXameti , I lamb. 1846, p. 24,25), recognising the meaning 
of the name of Levi as given above, finds in it evidence 
of the existence of a confederacy or synod of the priests 
that had been connected with the several local worships 
of Canaan, and who, in the time of Samuel and David, 
were gathered together./omer/, “round the Central Pan- 
theon in Jerusalem.” Here, also, we may borrow the 
terms of our judgment from the language of the writer 
himself. If there are “ abgeschmackten etymologischen 
JNIahrchen” (Kedslob, p. 82) connected with the name of 
Levi, they are hardly those we meet with in the narra- 
tive of Genesis. — Smith. See Jacob. 

2. The father of Matthat and son of Simeon (Maase- 
iah), of the ancestors of Christ, in the private maternal 
line between David and Zerubbabel (Luke iii,29). P.C. 
post 876. Lord llervey thinks that the name of Levi 
reappears in his descendant Lebba*us (Geneal. of Christ, 
p. 132). See Genealogy of Jesus Christ. 

3. Father of another Matthat and son of Melehi. 
third preceding Mary, among Christ’s ancestors (Luke 
iii, 24 ). H.C. considerably ante 22. 

4. (.Di'iV.) One of the apostles, the son of Alphams 
(Mark ii, 14; Luke v, 27, 29), elsewhere called Mat- 
thew (Matt, ix, 9). 

Levi'athan (Heb. livynthan ', “}r< n )3, usually de- 
rived from 17PH3, a wreath, with adject, ending *j ; but 
perhaps compounded of “A?, wreathed, and a sea- 
monster ; occurs Job iii. S ; xli, 1 [ Hebrew xl, 25] ; Psa. 
Ixxiv. 14; civ, 26; Isa. xxvii, 1 ; Sept. fyinciov, but to 
ptya Kijrog in Job iii. 8; Yulg. Leviathan, but draco in 
Psa.; Ant h. Vers. “ Leviathan,” but “their mourning” 
in Job iii, 8) probably has different significations, e. g. : 
(1.) A serpent, especially a large one (Job iii, 8), hence 
as the symbol of the hostile kingdom of liabylon (Isa. 
xxvii, 1). (2.) Specially, the crocodile (Job xli..O. (3.) 
A sea-monster (Psa. civ. 26); tropically, for a cruel ene- 
my (Psa. Ixxiv, 14; compare Isa. li, 9; Ezbk. xxix, 3). 
This Heb; word, which denotes any twisted animal, is 
especially applicable to every great tenant of the waters, 
such as the great marine serpents and crocodiles, and, it 


may be added, the colossal serpents and great monitors 
of the desert. Sec Behemoth; Dragon. In general 
it points to the crocodile, and Job xli is unequivocally 
descriptive of that saurian. Hut in Isaiah and the 
Psalms foreign kings arc evidently apostrophized under 
the name of Leviathan, though other texts more natu- 
rally apply to the whale, notwithstanding the objections 
that have been made to that interpretation of the term. 
“ It is quite an error to assert, as Dr. Harris (Diet. A ’at. 
llist. J Jib.'), Mason Good (Hook of Job translated ), Mi- 
I chaelis (Hupp. 1297), and Iiosenrmiller (quoting Micha- 
| elis in not . ad Bochart llieroz. iii, 738) have done, that 
the whale is not found in the Mediterranean. The Orca 
gladiator (Gray) — the grampus mentioned by Lee — the 
Physalus antiquorum (Gray), or the Rorqual de la Medi- 
ter ranee (Cuvier), are not uncommon in the Mediter- 
ranean (Fischer, Synops. Mamin, p. 525, and Laccpede, 
II. A", des Cetac. p. 115), and in ancient times the species 
may have been more numerous” (Smith). See Whale. 

The word crocodile does not occur in the Auth.Vcrs., 
although its Greek form KpoKoctiXog is found in the 
I Sept. (Lev. xi, 29, where for the “tortoise,” US, it has 
| KpoKoctiXog xtpaaloc, Yulg. crocodilus) ; but there is no 
, specific word in the Hebrew of which it is the acknowl- 
, edged representative. “Bochart (iii, 769, edit. Hosen- 
miiller) says that the Talmudists use the word livyathdn 
to denote the crocodile; this, however, is denied by 
Lewysohn ( Zool . des Talm. p. 155, 355), who says that 
in the Talmud it always denotes a whale, and never a 
crocodile. For the Talmudical fables about the levia- 
than, see Lewysohn (Zool. des Talm.'), in passages re- 
ferred to above, and Buxtorf, Lexicon Chald. Talm. s. v. 
“jrPlV’ (Smith). Some of these seem to be alluded to 
in 2 Esdr. vi,49, 52. The Egyptians called it tsmok (see 
Bunsen’s AJgyptens Stellung , i, 581), the Arabs name it 
tamse (compare Herod, ii, 69); but Strabo says 

that the Egyptian crocodile was known by the name su- 
chus , <Tof'\'of, probably referring to the sacred species). 
It is not only denoted by the leviathan of Job xli, I, but 
probably also by the tannin of Ezek. xxix, 3; xxxii, 2 
(compare Isa. xxvii, 1 ; li, 9) ; and perhaps by the retd- 
beast (i“I2p rv?n, “ spearmen”) of Psa. lxviii, 30. Others 
confound the leviathan with the orca of Pliny (ix, 5), i. 
e. probably the Physter macrocephalus of Linn, (see Th. 
Ilase, De Leviathan Job}, Brem. 1723); Schultens under- 
stands the fabulous dragon (Comment, in Job. p. 1174 
sq. ; compare Oedmann, SammL iii, I sq.) ; not to dwell 
upon the supposed identification with fossil species of 
lizards (Koch, in Liidde’s Ztitschrift f. rtrgleich Krdl:. 
Magdeb. 1814). In the detailed description of Job (eh. 
xli), probably “ the Egyptian crocodile is depicted in all 
its magnitude, ferocity, and indolence, sueli as it was in 
early days, when as yet unconscious of t lie power of 
man, anil only individually tamed for the purposes of an 
imposture, which had sufficient authority to intimidate 
the public and protect the species, under the sanctified 
pretext that it was a type of pure water, and an emblem 
of the importance of irrigation; though the people in 
general seem ever to have been disposed to consider it a 
personification of the destructive principle. At a later 
period the Egyptians, probably of such places as Tcn- 
tyris, where crocodiles were not held in veneration, not 
only hunted and slew them, but it appears from a statue 
that a sort of Bestiarii could tame them sufficiently to 
perform certain exhibitions mounted on their backs. 
The intense musky odor of its flesh must have rendered 
the crocodile at all times very unpalatable food, but 
breast-armor was made of the horny and ridged parts 
of its hack. Yiewed as the crocodile of the Thebnid, it 
is not clear that the leviathan symbolized the Pharaoh, 
or was a type of Egypt, any more than of several Ro- 
man colonies (even where it was not indigenous, as at 
Nismes, in Gaul, on the ancient coins of which the fig- 
ure of one chained occurs), and of cities in Phoenicia, 
Egypt, and other parts of the coast of Africa. During 
the Roman sway in Egypt, crocodiles had not disap- 


LEVI BEX-GERSOX 


389 


LEVIRATE 


pearcd in the Lower Nile, for Seneca and others allude 
to a great battle fought by them and a school of dolphins 
in the Heracleotic branch of the Delta. During the 
decline of the state even the hippopotamus reappeared 
about Pelusium, and was shot at in the 17th century 
(Badzivil). In the time of the Crusades crocodiles were 
found in the Crocodilon river of early writers, and in 
the Crocodilorum laeus, still called Moiat el-Temsah, 
which appear to be the Kerseos river and marsh, three 
miles south of Caesarea, though the nature of the local- 
ity is most appropriate at Nahr-cl Arsuf or el-Haddar” 
(Kitto). (For a full account of the treatment of the 
crocodile and its worship in Egypt, see Wilkinson’s Anc. 
Eji/pt. i, 243 sq.). See Bahab. 

Most of the popular accounts of the crocodile have 
been taken from the American alligator , a smaller ani- 
mal, but very similar in its habits to t lie true crocodile. 
See generally Herod, ii, G8 sq. ; Diod. Sie. i, 35; iElian, 
1 list. Anim.v , 23; xvii, (5; xii, 15; Aramianus Marcell, 
xxii, 15; llasselquist, True. p. 344 sq. , Pococke, East, 
i, 301 sq. ; Okcn, Naturgcschichte, 111, ii, 320 sq. ; Cuvier, 
A nim. Kingd. ii, 21 ; Thom, in the Halle Encgklop. xxi, 
456 sq. , Bochart, Ilieroz. iii, 737 sq.; Oedmann, iii, l 
sq. ; vi, 53 sq.; Annales du Museum d'histoire natur . vol. 
ix, x; Minutoli, Trai\ p. 246 ; llosetim idler, Alterthumsh 
IV, ii, 244 sq. ; Denon, Trav. p. 201 ; Norden, Reise, p. 
302. Comp. Crocodile. 

Levi ben-Gerson. See Kalbag. 

Levi, David, a noted English Jewish writer, was 
born at London in 1740. He was a hatter by profession, 
but ardently devoted himself to the study of Jewish lit- 
erature, and gained great reputation by several learned 
publications, of which the principal is his Lingua Sacra, 
a dictionary and grammar of the Hebrew, Chaldee, and 
Talmudic dialects (London, 1785-80, 3 vols. 8vo). He 
wrote also Dissertations on the Prophecies of the Old 
Testament (1703, 2 vols. 8vo) : — Defence of the Old Tes- 
tament, in Letters, in answer to Thomas Paine’s Age of 
Reason (1707, 8vo). Levi died in 1700. See Lyson's 
Environs, sup. vol. European Magazine (1700) ; London 
Gent . Mag. (1801) ; Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and Amer. 
. i nthors, vol. ii, s. v. 

Levings, Noah, D.D., an eminent Methodist Epis- 
copal minister, was born in Cheshire County, N. IT., 
Sept. 20, 1706, and early removed to Troy, N. Y. ; was 
converted about 1812; entered the New York Conference 
in 1818; was stationed at New York in 1827-8; at 
Brooklyn in 1820-30; at New Haven in 1831-2; at Al- 
bany in 1833 ; on Troy District in 1838 , in 1843 at Ves- 
try Street, New York ; in 1844 was finally elected finan- 
cial secretary of the American Bible Society, lie died 
at Cincinnati Jan. 0, 1840. In early life his advantages 
for education were limited, but the vigor of his mind 
and untiring effort bore him above all obstacles, and he 
became one of the most popular and useful ministers of 
his time. During his eighteen pastoral appointments, 
Dr. Levings is said to have “ preached nearly 4000 ser- 
mons, delivered 65 addresses and orations, and to have 
travelled over no less than 36,500 miles. He also de- 
livered 275 addresses for the American Bible Society.” 
He was an earnest and accomplished minister ; many 
souls were converted under his labors ; and as a platform 
speaker he had few equals amongst the ministry of his 
age — Conf Min. iv, 327 ; Meth. Qu. Rev. 1849, p. 515. 

Levirate (from the law-Latin term levir, a hus- 
band's brothc7'), the name applied to an ancient usage 
of the Hebrews (Gen. xxxviii, 8 sq.), reordain cil by Mo- 
ses (Deut. xxv, 5-10; eomp. Josephus, Ant. iv, 8, 23; 
Matt, xxii, 24 sq.), that when an Israelite died without 
leaving male issue, his brother (E2^, yabam ', which was 
the specific term applied to this relation), resident with 
him, was compelled to marry the widow, and continue 
his deceased brother’s family through the first-bom son 
issuing from such union as the heir of the former hus- 
hand (comp. Jul. Afric. in Eusebius, Hist. Ev. i, 7). If 
he was unwilling to do so, he could only be released 


from the obligation by undergoing a species of insult 
(Deut. xxv, 9). This is illustrated in the case of Ruth 
(ch. iii, iv), where, however, as an estate was involved, 
Boaz is styled by a different term (bx*, an avenger). 
The Talmud contains a very subtile exposition of this 
statute (see Mislma, Jebamoth, iii, 1 ; comp. Eduj. iv, 8, 
on Deut. xxv, 9; see also Jebam. xii, 6; comp. Selden, 
Uxor Ilebr . i, 12 ; Gans, Eherecht, i, 167 sq.). The high- 
priest appears to have been free from this law (Lev. xxi, 
13), and there must doubtless have been other excep- 
tions, especially in the case of aged persons and pros- 
elytes (Mislma, Jebam. xi, 2). A similar law prevails 
among the natives of Central Asia (Bernary, p. 34 sq. ; 
Niebuhr, Beschr. p. 70; Bergeron, Voyages, i, 28) and 
Abyssinia (Bruce, Trav. ii, 223), and traces of it existed 
among the ancient Italians (Diod. Sic. xii, 18). This 
law no doubt originated in the love of offspring, prover- 
bially strong in the Eastern bosom, which sought this 
method at once of perpetuating a deceased person’s 
name and of procuring progeny for the widow (J aim’s 
Archceol. § 157). See Kinsman. The law, however, 
was unquestionably attended with great inconveniences, 
for a man cannot hut think it the most unpleasant of all 
necessities if he must marry a woman whom he has not 
chosen himself. Thus wc find that the brother in some 
instances had no inclination for any such marriage (Gen. 
xxxviii; Ruth iv), and stumbled at this, that the first 
son produced from it could not belong to him. Whether 
a second son might follow and continue in life was very 
uncertain; and among a people who so highly prized 
genealogical immortality of name, it was a great hard- 
ship for a man to be obliged to procure it for a person 
already dead, and to run the risk meanwhile of losing it 
himself. Nor was this law very much in favor of the 
morals of the other sex ; for, not to speak of Tamar, 
who, in reference to it, conceived herself justified in hav- 
ing recourse to most improper conduct, it may be ob- 
served that what Ruth did (iii, G-9), in order to obtain 
for a husband the person whom she accounted as the 
nearest kinsman of her deceased husband, is, to say the 
least by no means conformable to that modesty and del- 
icacy which wc look for in the other sex. A wise and 
good legislator coidd scarcely have been inclined to pat- 
ronize any such law; but then it is not advisable direct- 
ly to attack an inveterate point of honor, because, in 
such a case, for the most part nothing is gained; and in 
the present instance, as the point of honor placed im- 
mortality of name entirely in a mail’s leaving descend- 
ants behind him, it was so favorable to the increase of 
population that it merited some degree of forbearance 
and tenderness. Moses therefore left the Israelites still 
in possession of their established right, but, at the same 
time, he studied as much as possible to guard against 
its rigor and evil effects by limiting and moderating its 
operation in various respects. In the first place, he ex- 
pressly prohibited the marriage of a brother’s widow if 
there were children of his own alive. Before this time, 
brothers were probably in the practice of considering a 
brother’s widow as part of the inheritance, and of ap- 
propriating her to themselves, if unable to buy a wife, 
as the Mongols do, so that this was a very necessary 
prohibition. For a successor prccsumptivits in thoro , whom 
a wife can regard as her future husband, is rather a dan- 
gerous neighbor for her present one’s honor, and if she 
happen to conceive any predilection for the younger 
brother, her husband, particularly in a southern climate, 
will hardly be secure from the risk of poison. In the 
second place, Moses allowed, and, indeed, enjoined the 
brother to marry the widow of his childless brother; 
but if he was not disposed to do so, he did not absolutely 
compel him, but left him an easy means of riddance, for 
he had only to declare in court that he had no inclina- 
tion to marry her, and then he was at liberty. This, it 
is true, subjected him to a punishment, which at first ap- 
pears sufficiently severe — the slighted widow had a right 
to revile him in eourt as much as she pleased; and from 
his pulling off his shoe and delivering it to the widow, 


LEMS 


390 


LEVITE 


he received the appellation of Baresole. which anybody 
might apply to him without being liable to a prosecu- 
tion. IJut this infliction was, after all, merely nominal, 
and we find that it did not prevent the rejection of the 
widow when there was a decided aversion to it on the 
part of the surviving relative (liutli iv, 8). The law, 
however, only extended to a brother living in the same 
city or country, not to one residing at a greater dis- 
tance. Nor did it affect a brother having already a 
wife of his own. At least, if it had its origin in this, 
that by reason of the price required for a wife, often 
only one brother could marry, and the others also wished 
to do the same, it could only affect such as were unmar- 
ried ; and in the two instances that occur in Genesis (ch. 
xxxviii) and Uuth (ch. iv), we find the brother-in-law, 
whose duty it was to marry, apprehensive of its proving 
hurtful to himself and his inheritance, which could 
hardly have been the case if he had previously had an- 
other wife, or (but that was at least expensive) could 
have taken one of his own choice. When there was 
no brother alive, or when he declined the duty, the 
leviratc law, as we see from the case of Iluth, extended 
to the nearest relation of the deceased husband, as, 
for instance, to his paternal uncle or nephew; so that 
at last even quite remote kinsmen, in default of nearer 
ones, might be obliged to undertake it. Boaz does not 
appear to have been very nearly related to Until, as lie 
did not so much as know who she was when he met her 
gleaning in the fields. Nor did she know that he was 
any relation to her until apprised of it by her mother- 
in-law. Among the Jews of the present day levirate 
marriages have entirely ceased, so much so that in the 
marriage contracts of the very poorest people among 
them it is generally stipulated that the bridegroom’s 
brother shall abandon all those rights to the bride to 
which he could lay claim by the law in question (Mi- 
chaelis, Mos. Recht . ii, 197 sq.). See Verizon. De consii- 
tutione dir. super defuncti fr atria vxore dvcertda (Hal. 
1742); F. Bern ary, De Hebrceor. leviratu (Berlin, 1835) ; 
.J. M. Jiedslob, Die Leri rat sche bei den Ifebrdern (Leip- 
sic, 183l>) ; C. W. F. Walch, De lege lerir. ad f rat res non 
germ, sed tributes referenda (dotting. 17G3) ; Ilullman, 
Staatsverf d. Israel , p. 190 sq. ; Kauschenbusch, De lege 
leviratus (dotting. 17C5). See Marriage* 

Le'vis (A tvit;). given (1 Esdr. ix, 14) as a proper 
name, but meaning simply a Lerite. as correctly ren- 
dered in the parallel Hebrew passage (Ezra x, 15). 

Levison, Mordecat Gu.’upeu, a learned Jewish phy- 
sician and commentator, was born and educated at Ber- 
lin, where he was fellow-student of the celebrated phi- 
losopher Moses Mendelssohn. He afterwards removed 
to London, and was physician in one of the hospitals 
(1790); was then nominated bv Gustavus 111, of Swe- 
den, to a professorial chair in Upsala. In 1781 he re- 
turned to his native place, but left again three years 
later for Hamburg, where he died February 10. 1797. 
II is works illustrative of the Bible are J Commentary on 
Ecclesiastes , called rHZT. dedicated to Gusta- 

vns III (Hamburg, 1784). This elaborate work is pre- 
ceded by five introductions, which respectively treat on 
the import of the book, the appropriateness of its name, 
Hebrew synonymes, roots, the verb and its inflexions, 
the names of the Deity, on the design of the Bible, etc. ; 
whereupon follows the Hebrew text with a double com- 
mentary : one explains the words and their connection, 
and the other gives an exposition of the argument of the 
book : — A Treatise on Holy Scripture , published at the 
request of the king of Sweden (Loud. 1770) : — .1 Treatise 
on the Pentateuch, the Prophets, and the 7'almnd, entitled 
fib "3 3 nn:- rbo (Hamb. 1797): — A Hebrew Lexicon, 
called n^'Trn: — A Ifor/i on Hebrew Synonymes , en- 
titled *“,£0 : — amfa If threw Crhmmar, called 

nr inn "pi. The last three works have not 

as yet been published. See Fiirst, Dibliothecti Judaica, 
ii, 238 sq. ; Kitto, Cyclop. Dibl. Lit. vol. ii, s. v. 


Le'vite son of I^evi, or simply Levi, 

for 3, Deut. xii, 18; Judg. xvii,9, 1 1 , xviii, 3; usu- 
ally in the plur. and with the art. D^bil; Sept. Atu- 
Trot), a patronymic title which, besides denoting all the 
descendants of the tribe of Levi (Exod. vi, 25 , Lev. xxv, 
32, etc.; Numb, xxxv, 2; Josh. xxi. 3, 41), is the dis- 
tinctive title of that portion of it which was set apart 
for the subordinate offices of the sanctuary, to assist the 
other and smaller portion of their own tribe, invested 
with the superior functions of the hierarchy (1 Kings 
viii, 4; Ezra ii, 70, John i, 19, etc.), and this is the mean- 
ing which has perpetuated itself. Sometimes, again, it 
is added as an epithet of the smaller portion of the tribe, 
and we read of “the priests the Levites”. (Josh, iii, 3; 
Ezek. xliv, 1 5). See Priest. In describing the insti- 
tution and development of the Levitical order, we shall 
treat of it in chronological order, availing ourselves 
largely of the articles in Kitto’s and Smith's Dictionaries . 

I. From the Exode till the Monarchy. — This is the 
most interesting and important period in the history of 
the Levitical order, and m describing it we must first of 
all trace the cause which called it into existence. 

1. Origin and Institution of the Levitical Order . The 
absence of all reference to the consecrated character 
of the Levites in the book of Genesis is noticeable 
enough. The prophecy ascribed to Jacob (Gen. xlix, 
5-7) was indeed fulfilled with singular precision, but the 
terms of the prophecy are hardly such as would have 
been framed by a later writer, after the tribe had gained 
its subsequent pre-eminence. The only occasion on 
which the patriarch of the tribe appears — the massacre 
of the Sheclicmites — may indeed have contributed to 
influence the history of his descendants, by fostering in 
them the same fierce, wild zeal against all that threat- 
ened to violate the purity of their race, but generally 
what strikes ns is the absence of all recognition of the 
later character. In the genealogy of Gen. xlvi, 1 1, in 
like manner, the list does not go lower down than the 
three sons of Levi, and they are given in the order of 
their birth, not in that which would have corresponded 
to the official superiority of the Kohathites. There are 
no signs, again, that the tribe of Levi had any special 
pre-eminence over the others during the Egyptian bond- 
age. As tracing its descent from Leah, it would take 
its place among the six chief tribes sprung from the 
wives of Jacob, and share with them a recognised supe- 
riority over those that bore the names of the sons of 
Bilhali and Zilpah. Within the tribe itself there are 
some slight tokens that the Kohathites were gaining the 
first place. The classification of Exod. vi, 10-25 gives 
to that section of the tribe four elans or houses, while 
those of Gershon and Merari have hut two each. To it 
belonged the house of Am ram, and “Aaron the Levite” 
(Exod. iv, 14) is spoken of as one to whom the people 
would he sure to listen. He married the daughte r of the 
chief of the tribe of Judah (Exod. vi, 23). The work ac- 
complished by him, and by his yet greater brother, would 
naturally tend to give prominence to the family and the 
tribe to which they belonged, but as yet there are no 
traces of a caste-character, no signs of any intention to 
establish a hereditary priesthood. Up to this time the 
Israelites had worshipped the God of their fathers after 
their fathers’ manner. The first-born of the people were 
the priests of the people. The eldest son of each house 
inherited the priestly office. IBs youth made him, m 
his father’s lifetime, the representative of the purity 
which was connected from the beginning with the 
thought of worship (Ewald, .1 Iterthiim. p. 273. and comp. 
Priest). It was apparently with this as their ances- 
tral worship that the Israelites came up out of Egypt. 
The “young nion’’ of the sons of Israel offer sacrifices 
(Exod. xxiv, 5). They, we may infer, arc the priests 
who remain with the people while Moses ascends the 
heights of Sinai (xix, 22-24). They represented the 
truth that the whole people were “a kingdom of priests” 
(xix, 0). Neither they, nor the “officers and judges” 


LEYITE 


391 


LEYITE 


appointed to assist Moses in administering justice (xviii, | 
25), are connected in any special manner with the tribe 
of Levi. The first step towards a change was made in 
the institution of a hereditary priesthood in the family 
of Aaron during the first withdrawal of Moses to the 
solitude of Sinai (xxviii, 1). This, however, was one 
thing; it was quite another to set apart a whole tribe 
of Israel as a priestly caste. The directions given for 
the construction of the tabernacle imply no pre-emi- 
nence of the Levites. The chief workers in it are from 
the tribes of Judah and Dan (Exod. xxxi, 2-6). The 
next extension of the idea of the priesthood grew out 
of the terrible crisis of Exod. xxxii. If the Levites had 
been sharers in the sin of the golden calf, they were, at 
any rate, the foremost to rally round their leader when 
lie called on them to help him in stemming the progress 
of the evil. Then came that terrible consecration of 
themselves, when every man was against his son and 
against his brother, and the offering with which they 
filled their hands (D^ Exod. xxxii, 29 ; eoinp. 

Exod. xxviii, 41) was the blood of their nearest of kin. 
The tribe stood forth separate and apart, recognising 
even in this stern work the spiritual as higher than the 
natural, and therefore counted worthy to be the repre- 
sentative of the ideal life of the people, “an Israel with- 
in an Israel’’ (Ewald, Alterthiim. p. 279), chosen in its 
higher representatives to offer incense and burnt-sacri- 
fice before the Lord (Deut. xxxiii, 9, 10), not without a 
share in the glory of the Urim and Thumniim that were 
worn by the prince and chieftain of the tribe. From 
this time, accordingly, they occupied a distinct position. 
Experience had shown how easily the people might fall 
back into idolatry — how necessary it was that there 
should be a body of men, an order, numerically large, 
and, when the people were in their promised home, 
equally diffused throughout the country, as attestators 
and guardians of the truth. Without this the individ- 
ualism of the older worship would have been fruitful in 
an ever-multiplying idolatry. The tribe of Levi was 
therefore to take the place of that earlier priesthood of 
the first-born as represen tatives of the holiness of the 
people. 

The tabernacle, with its extensive and regular sacri- 
ficial service, which required a special priestly order reg- 
ularly to perform the higher functions of the sanctuary, 
was the special occasion which also called into being the 
Levitieal staff to aid the priests in their arduous task, 
inasmuch as the primitive and patriarchal mode of wor- 
ship which obtained till the erection of the tabernacle, 
and according to which the first-born of all Israelites 
performed the priestly offices (eomp. Exod. xxiv, 5 w ith 
xix, 24, and see First-bokn), could not be perpetuated 
under the newly-organized congregational service with- 
out interfering with the domestic relations of the people. 
It was for this reason, as well as to secure greater effi- 
ciency in the sacred offices, that the religions primogen- 
iture was conferred upon the tribe of Levi, w r hicli were 
henceforth to give their undivided attention to the re- 
quirements of the sanctuary (Numb, iii, 11-13). The 
tribe of Levi were selected because they had manifested 
a very extraordinary zeal for the glory of God (Exod. 
xxxii, 26, etc.), had already obtained a part of this re- 
ligious primogeniture by the institution of the hered- 
itary priesthood in the family of Aaron (Exod. xxviii, 
1), and because, as the tribe to which Moses and Aaron 
belonged, they would most naturally support and pro- 
mote the institutions of the lawgiver. To effect this 
transfer of office, the first-born males of all the other 
tribes and all the Levites were ordered to be numbered, 
from the age of one month and upwards; and when it 
was found that the former were 22,273, and the latter 
22,000 (see below), it was arranged that 22,000 of the 
first-born should be replaced by the 22,000 Levites, that 
the 273 first-born who were in excess of the Levites 
should be redeemed at the rate of five shekels each, be- 
ing the legal sum for the redemption of the first-born 
child (Numb, xviii, 16), and that the 13G5 shekels be 


given to Aaron and his sons as a compensation for the 
odd persons who, as first-born, belonged to Jehovah. As 
to the difficulty how to decide which of the first-born 
should be redeemed by paying this money, and which 
should be exchanged for the Levites, since it was natu- 
ral for every one to wish to escape this expense, the 
Midrash (On Xu mb. iii, 17) and the Talmud relate that 
“Moses wrote on 22,000 tickets Levite ("’‘lb in), and on 
273 Flee Shekels 'C'.n), mixed them all up, 

put them into a vessel, and then bid every Israelite to 
draw one. He who took out one with Levite on it wao 
redeemed by a Levite, and he who drew one with Five 
Shekels on it had to he redeemed by payment of this 
sum” (Sanhedrin, 17, a). There is no reason to doubt 
this ancient tradition. It was further ordained that the 
cattle which the Levites then happened to possess should 
be considered as equivalent to all the first-born cattle 
which all the Israelites had, without their being num- 
bered and exchanged one for one, as in the case of the 
human beings (Numb, iii, 41-51), so that the firstlings 
should not now be given to the priest, or be redeemed, 
which the Israelites were hereafter required to do 
(Numb, xviii, 15). In this way the Levites obtained a 
saerificial as well as a priestly character. They for the 
first-born of men, and their cattle for the firstlings of 
beasts, fulfilled the idea that had been asserted at the 
time of the destruction of the first-born of Egypt (Exod. 
xiii, 12, 13). 

There is a discrepancy between the total number of 
the Levites, which is given in Numb, iii, 39 as 22,000, 
and the separate number of the three divisions which 
is given in verses 22, 28, and 34, as follows : Gershon- 
ites, 7500 + Kohathites, 8600 + Merarites, 6200 = 22,300. 
Compare also verse 46, where it is said that the 22,273 
first-born exceeded the total number of Levites by 273. 
The Talmud ( Bechoroth , 5, a) and the Jewish commen- 
tators, who are followed bv most Christian expositors, 
submit that the 300 surplus Levites were the first-born 
of this tribe, who, as such, could not be substituted for 
the first-born of the other tribes, and therefore were 
omitted from the total. To this, however, it is objected 
that if such an exemption of first-born had been intend- 
ed, the text would have contained some intimation of it, 
whereas there is nothing whatever in the context to indi- 
cate it. Iloubigant therefore suggests that a ? has drop- 
ped out of the word in verse 28, making it ITT, and 
that by retaining the former word we obtain 8300 instead 
of 8600, which removes all the difficulty, rhilippson, 
Keil, and others adopt this explanation. The number of 
the first-born appears disproportionately small as com- 
pared with the population. It must be remembered, 
however, that the conditions to be fulfilled were that 
they should be at once (l) the first child of the father, 
(2) the first child of the mother, and (3) males. (Com- 
pare on this question, and on that of the difference of 
numbers, Kurtz, History of. the Old Covenant , iii, 201.) 

2. Division of the Tribe of Levi.— As different functions 
were assigned to the separate houses of the Levitieal 
branch of the tribe, to which frequent references are 
made, we subjoin t He following table from Exod. vi, 16- 
25, italicizing the Aaronic or priestly branch in order to 
facilitate these references. 




( . f Eleazar. 

fAmraxn -M aron \lthamar. 


LEVI Ivoiiatu 


Izhar 


iMoses. 

{ Korah. 
Nepheg. 
Zithri. 


Hebron. 

(Mishael. 

lUzzicl -<Elzaphan. 


Merari 


(Zithri. 

jMahali. 
qMushi. 

N.B.— Those mentioned in the above list are by no 
neaus the only descendants of Levi in their respective 
jeuerations, as is evident from the fact that, though no 


LEVITE 


392 


LEVITE 


sons of Libui, Shimei, Ilebron, etc., are here given, yet 
mention is made in Numb, iii, 21, of “the family of the 
Libuites and the family of t tie Sbimeites in Numb, xxvi, 
•28, of “ the family of the Libnites and in Numb, iii, 27 ; 
xxvi, 5$, of “the family of the Uebronites;” whilst in 1 
Chron. xxiii, several sons of these men are mentioned by 
name. Again, no sous ofMahali and Mushi are given, 
and yet they appear in Numb, iii as fathers of families of 
the Levites. The design of the genealogy in question is 
simply to give the pedigrees of Moses and Aaron, and 
some other principal heads of the family of Levi, as is ex- 
pressly stated in Exod. vi, 25: “These are the heads of the 
father’s of the Levites according to their families.” In 
these heads all the other members of their families were 
included, according to the principle laid down in 1 Chron. 
xxiii, 11 : “Therefore they were in one reckoning, accord- 
ing to their father’s house.” Some names are also men- 
tioned for a special purpose, e. g. the sons of Izhar, on ac- 
count of Korah, who was the leader of the rebellion against 
Moses. These observations afford an answer to a consid- 
erable extent to tbe conclusions of bishop Colenso upon 
the number of the Levites (The Pentateuch and the Book 
of Joshua critically examined , i, 107-112). 

It will thus be seen that the Levitical order comprises 
the whole of the descendants of Gershon and Merari, 
and those of Kohath through Izhar and Uzzicl, as well 
as through Am ram’s second son, Moses, whilst Aaron, 
Amram’s first son. and his issue, constitute the priestly 
order. It must here be remarked that, though Kohath 
is the second in point of age and order, yet his family 
will be found to occupy the first position, because they 
are the nearest of kin to the priests. 

3. Age and Qualifications for Levitical Service. — The 
only qualification for active service specified in the Mo- 
saic law is mature age, which in Numb, iv, 3, 23, 30, 39, 
43,47 is said to be from thirty to fifty, whilst in Numb, 
viii, 21, 25 it is said to commence at ticentg-five. Vari- 
ous attempts have been made to reconcile these two ap- 
parently contradictory injunctions. The. Talmud (Choi. 
24, a), IJaslii ( Comment . ad loc.), and Mainionides ( Jod 
Jla-Chezaka, iii, 7, 3), who are followed by some Chris- 
tian commentators, affirm that from twenty-five to thirty 
the Levites attended in order to he instructed in their 
duties, but did uot enter upon actual duties until they 
were full thirty years of age. But this explanation, as 
Abrabanel rightly remarks, “is at variance with the 
plain declaration of the text, that the Levites were called 
at twenty-five years of age to wait upon the service of 
the tabernacle , which clearly denotes not instruction for 
their ministry, but the ministry itself” ( Commentar . on 
Numb, viii, 24). Besides, the text itself does not give 
the slightest intimation that any period of the Levitical 
life was devoted to instruction. Hence IJashbanqAben- 
Ezra. and Abrabanel, who are followed by most modern 
expositors, submit that the twenty-five years of age re- 
fers to the Levites’ entering npon the lighter part of 
their service, such as keeping watch and performing the 
lighter duties in the tabernacle, whilst the thirty years 
of age refers to their entering upon the more onerous 
duties, such as carrying heavy weights, when the taber- 
nacle was moved about from place to place, which re- 
quired the full strength of a man, maintaining that this 
distinction is indicated in the text by the words TDSrb 
labor and burdens, when the thirty years’ 
work is spoken of (Numb, iv, 30,31), and by tbe omission 
of the word burden, when the twenty-five years’ 

work is spoken of (Numb, viii, 24, etc.). But it may 
fairly be questioned whether man is more fitted for ar- 
duous work from thirty to thirty-five than from twenty- 
live to thirty. Besides, the Gerslionites and the Mera- 
rites, who had the charge of the heavier burdens, did not 
carry them at all (comp. Numb, vii, 3-9, ami sec. 4 be- 
low). According to another ancient Jewish interpreta- 
tion adopted by Biihr (Symbol, ii, 41) and others, Numb, 
iv treats of the necessary age of the Levites for the im- 
mediate requirements in the wilderness, whilst Numb, viii 
gives their age for the promised land, when they shall 
be divided among the tribes ami a larger number shall 
be wanted ( Siphri on Numb, riii ). Somewhat similar 
is Philippson’s explanation, who affirms that at the first 
election of the Levitical order the required age for ser- 


vice was from thirty to fifty, but that all future Levites 
bad to commence service at twenty-five. The Sept, 
solves the difficulty by uniformly reading twenty-five 
instead of thirty. 

4. Duties ami Classification of the Levites. — The com- 
mencement of the march from Sinai gave a prominence 
to their new character. As the tabernacle was the sign 
of the presence among the people of their unseen King, 
so the Levites were, among the other tribes of Israel, as 
the royal guard that waited exclusively on him. The 
warlike title of “host” is specially applied to them 
(comp, use of in Numb, iv, 3, 30 ; and of ii:np, in 
1 Chron. i, 19). As such they were not included in the 
number of the armies of Israel (Numb, i, 47 ; ii, 33 ; 
xxvi, 02), but were reckoned separately by themselves. 
When the people were at rest they encamped as guar- 
dians around the sacred tent; no one else might come 
near it under pain of death (Numb, i, 51 ; xviii, 22). 
The different families pitched their tents around it in 
the following manner: the Gerslionites behind it on the 
west (Numb, iii, 23). tbe Kohathites on the south (iii, 
29), the Meraritcs on the north (iii. 35), and the priests 
on the east (iii, 38). See Camp. They were to occupy 
a middle position in that ascending scale of consecration 
which, starting from the idea of the whole nation as a 
priestly people, readied its culminating point in the 
high-priest, who alone of all the people might enter 
“within the veil.” The Levites might come nearer 
than the other tribes, but they might not sacrifice, nor 
bum incense, nor see the “ holy things” of the sanctuary 
till they were covered (Numb. iv. 15). When on the 
march, no hands but theirs might strike the tent at 
the commencement of the day’s journey, or carry the 
parts of its structure during it, or pitch the tent again 
when they halted (Numb, i, 51). It was obviously es- 
sential fur such a work that there should he a fixed as- 
signment of duties, and now, accordingly, we meet with 
the first outlines of the organization which afterwards 
became permanent. The division of the tribe into the 
three sections that traced their descent from the sons of 
Levi formed the groundwork of it. The Levites were 
given as a gift (? Nethinim) to Aaron and his 

sons, the priests, to wait upon them, and to do the sub- 
ordinate work for them at the service of the sanctuary 
(Numb, viii, 19; xvii, 2-0). They had also to guard 
the tabernacle and take charge of certain vessels, whilst 
the priests had to watch the altars and the interior of 
the sanctuary (i, 50-53; viii, 19; xviii, 1-7). To carry 
this out effectually, the charge of certain vessels and 
portions of the tabernacle, as well as the guarding of its 
several sides, was assigned to each of the three sections 
into which the tribe was divided by their respective de- 
scent from the three sons of Levi, i. e. Gershon, Kohath, 
and Merari, as follows: 

(1.) The Kohathites, who out of 8000 persons yielded 
2750 qualified for active service according to the pre- 
scribed age, and who were under the leadership of Eliz- 
aplian, had to occupy the south side of the tabernacle, 
and, as the family to whom Aaron the higli-priest and 
his sons belonged, had to take charge of the holy things 
(UnpM r“*2w -), viz., the ark, the table of si lew-bread, 
the candlestick, the two altars of incense and burnt-offer- 
ing, as well as of the sacred vessels used at tbe service 
of these holy things, and the curtains of the holy of ho- 
lies. All these tilings they had to carry on their own 
shoulders when the camp was broken up (Numb. iii. 
27-32; iv,5-15; vii, 9; Dent, xxxi, 25), after the priests 
bad covered them with the dark blue cloth which was 
to bide them from all profane gaze; and thus they be- 
came also the guardians of all the sacred treasures which 
the people had so freely offered. Eleazar, the head of 
the priests, who belonged to the Kohathites, and was 
the chief commander of the three Levitical divisions, 
had the charge of the oil for the candlestick, the incense, 
the daily meat-offering, and the anointing oil (Numb, 
iii, 32; iv, 16). 


LEVITE 


393 


LEYITE 


(2.) The Gershonites, who out of 7500 men yielded 
2G30 for active service, and who were under the leader- 
ship of Eliasaph, had to occupy the west side of the tab- 
ernacle, and to take charge of the tapestry of the taber- 
nacle, all its curtains, hangings, and coverings, the pil- 
lars of the tapestry hangings, the implements used in 
connection therewith, and to perform all the work con- 
nected with the taking down and putting up of the arti- 
cles over which they had the charge (Numb, iii, 21-20; 
iv, 22-28). 

(3.) The Merarites, who out of 6*200 yielded 3200 ac- 
tive men. and who were under the leadership of Zurich 
had to occupy the north side of the tabernacle, and take 
charge of the boards, bars, pillars, sockets, tent-pins, etc. 
(Numb, iii, 33-37 ; iv, 39, 40). The two latter compa- 
nies, however, were allowed to use the six covered wag- 
ons and the twelve oxen which were offered as an obla- 
tion to Jehovah ; the Gershonites, having the less heavy 
portion, got two of the wagons and four of the oxen; 
whilst the Merarites, who had the heavier portions, got 
four of the wagons and eight of the oxen (Numb, vii, 
3-9). 

Thus the total number of active men which the three 
divisions of the Levites yielded was 8580. When en- 
camped around the tabernacle, they formed, as it were, 
a partition between the people and the sanctuary ; they 
had so to guard it that the children of Israel should not 
come near it, since those who ventured to do so incurred 
the penalty of death (Numb, i, 51 ; iii, 38; xviii, 22); 
nor were they themselves allowed to come near the ves- 
sels of the sanctuary and the altar, lest they die, as 
well as the priests (Numb, xviii, 3-G). Israelites of any 
other tribe were strictly forbidden to perform the Levit- 
ical office, in order ‘-that there might be no plague when 
the children of Israel approach the sanctuary” (Numb, 
iii, 10; viii, 19; xviii, 5) ; and, according to the ancient 
Hebrew canons, even a priest was not allowed to do the 
work assigned to the Levites, nor was one Levite per- 
mitted to perform the duties which were incumbent 
upon his fellow Levite under penalty of death (Maimon- 
ides, Ililchoth Kele Ila-Mikdash , iii, 10). 

The book of Deuteronomy is interesting as indicating 
more clearly than had been done before the other func- 
tions, over and above their ministrations in the taber- 
nacle, which were to be allotted to the tribe of Levi. 
Through the whole land they were to take the place of 
the old household priests (subject, of course, to the special 
rights of the Aaronic priesthood), sharing in all festivals 
and rejoicings (Dent, xii, 19; xiv, 2G, 27; xxvi, II). 
Every third year they were to have an additional share 
in the produce of the land (Dent, xiv, 28 ; xxvi, 12). 
The people were charged never to forsake them. To 
“ the priests the Levites” was to belong the office of pre- 
serving, transcribing, and interpreting the law (Dent, 
xvii, 9-12; xxxi,2G). They were solemnly to read it 
every seventh year at the Feast of Tabernacles (Deut. 
xxxi, 9-13). They were to pronounce the curses from 
Mount Ebal (Dent, xxvii, 14). 

Such, if one may so speak, was the ideal of the relig- 
ious organization which was present to the mind of the 
lawgiver. Details were left to be developed as the al- 
tered circumstances of the people might require. The 
great principle was, that the warrior -caste who had 
guarded the tent of the captain of the hosts of Israel 
should be throughout the land as witnesses that the 
people still owed allegiance to him. It deserves notice 
that, as yet, with the exception of the few passages that 
refer to the priests, no traces appear of their character 
as a learned caste, and of the work which afterwards be- 
longed to them as hymn-writers and musicians. The 
hymns of this period were probably occasional, not re- 
curring (comp. Exod. xv ; Numb, xxi, 17; Deut. xxxii). 
Women bore a large share in singing them (Exod. xv, 
20 ; Psa. Ixviii, 25). It is not unlikely that the wives 
Olid daughters of the Levites, who must have been with 
them in all their encampments, as afterwards in their 
cities, took the foremost part among the “ damsels play- 


ing with their timbrels,” or among the “wise-hearted,” 
who wove hangings for the decoration of the tabernacle. 
There are, at any rate, signs of their presence there in 
the mention of the “women that assembled” at its door 
(Exod. xxxviii, 8, and comp. Ewald, Alterthum. p. 297). 

5. Consecration of the Levites . — The first act in the 
consecration of the Levites was to sprinkle them with 
the water of purifying (PX-n T£), which, according to 
tradition, was the same used for the purification of per- 
sons who became defiled by dead bodies, and in which 
were mingled cedar- wood, hyssop, scarlet, and ashes of 
the red heifer (Numb, xix, G, 9, 13), and was designed to 
cleanse them from the same defilement (comp. Ilaslii, 
On JV umb. viii. 7). They had, in the next place, as ail 
emblem of further purification, to shave off all the hair 
from their body, “ to teach thereby.” as Ralbag says, 
“that they must renounce, as much as was in their 
power, all worldly things, and devote themselves to the 
service of the most high God,” and then wash their gar- 
ments. After this triple form of purification, they were 
brought before the door of the tabernacle, along with 
two bullocks and fine flour mingled with oil, when the 
whole congregation, through the elders who represented 
them, laid their hands upon the heads of the Levites, 
and set them apart for the service of the sanctuary, to 
occupy the place of the first-born of the whole congre- 
gation ; whereupon the priests waved them before the 
Lord (Numb, viii, 5-14), which in all probability was 
done, as Abrabanel says, by leading them forward and 
backward, up and down, as if saying. Heboid, these are 
henceforth the servants of the Lord, instead of the first- 
born of the children of Israel. 1 The part which the 
whole congregation took in this consecration is a very 
important feature in the Hebrew constitution, inasmuch 
as it most distinctly shows that the Levitical order pro- 
ceeded/ro/n the midst of the people (Exod. xxviii, 1), was 
to be regarded as essentially identical with it, and not 
as a sacred caste standing in proud eminence above the 
rest of the nation. This principle of equality, which, 
according to the Mosaic law, was not to be infringed by 
the introduction of a priesthood or monarchy (Deut. 
xvii, 14-20), was recognised throughout the existence 
of the Hebrew commonwealth, as is evident from the 
fact that the representatives of the people took part in 
the coronation of kings and the instalment of high- 
priests (1 Kings ii, 35 ; with 1 Chron. xxix, 32), and even 
in the days of the Maccabees we see that it is the people 
who installed Simon as high-priest (1 Maccab. xiv. 35). 

G. Revenues of the Levites . — Thus consecrated to the 
service of the Lord, it was necessary that the tribe of 
Levi should be relieved from the temporal pursuits of 
the rest of the people, to enable them to give themselves 
wholly to their spiritual functions, and to the cultivation 
of the arts and sciences, as well as to preserve them from 
contracting a desire to amass earthly possessions. For 
this reason they were to have no territorial possessions, 
but Jehovah was to be their inheritance (Numb, xviii, 
20; xxvi, 62; Deut. x, 9; xviii, I, 2; Josh, xviii, 7). 
To reward their labor, which they had henceforth to 
perform instead of the first-born of the whole people, as 
well as to compensate the loss of their share in the ma- 
terial wealth of the nation, it was ordained that they 
should receive from the other tribes the tithes of the 
produce of the land, from which the non-priestlv portion 
of the Levites in their turn had to offer a tithe to the 
priests as a recognition of their higher consecration 
(Numb, xviii. 21-24, 26-32; Neb. x, 37). If they had 
had, like other tribes, a distinct territory assigned to 
them, their influence over the people at large would 
be diminished, and they themselves would be likely to 
forget, in labors common to them with others, their own 
peculiar calling (Nell, x, 37). As if to provide for the 
contingency of failing crops or the like, and the conse- 
quent inadequacy of the tithes thus assigned to them, 
the Levite, not less than the widow and the orphan, 
was commended to the special kindness ot the people 
(Deut. xii, 19 ; xiv, 27, 29). 


LEVITE 


394 


LEVITE 


But, though they were to have no territorial posses- 
sions, still they required a place of abode. To secure 
this, and at the same time to enable the Levites to dis- 
seminate a knowledge of the law and exercise a refined 
and intellectual influence among the people at large, 
upon whose conscientious payment of the tithes they 
were dependent for subsistence, forty-eight cities were 
assigned to them, six of which were to be cities of ref- 
uge lbr those who had inadvertently killed any one 
(Numb, xxxv, 1-8). From these forty-eight cities, 
which they obtained immediately after the conquest of 
Canaan, and which were made up by taking four cities 
from the district of every tribe, thirteen were allotted to 
the priestly portion of the Levitical tribe. Which cit- 
ies belonged to the priestly portion of the tribe, and 
which to the non-priestly portion, and how they were 
distributed among the other tribes, as recorded in Josh, 
xxi, will be seen from the following table: 


i. Kouatuites : 

a Priests 

b Not Priests.. 

ii. Geesuoxites. . . 

iii. Merarites 


(Judah and Simeon..., 

(Benjamin 

(Ephraim 

-< Dan 

(Half Muuasseh (west) 
f Half Manasseh (east) 

J Issachar 

) Asher 

(Naphtali 

(Zebulnu 

Reuben 

(Gad 


Total 


9 
4 
4 
, 4 
2 
2 
, 4 
, 4 
, 3 
. 4 
. 4 
,_4 
,4S 



it is not said tliat the 2000 cubits are to be measured in 
all directions, but only in the east, south, etc., direction, 
or, as the Hebrew has it, east, south, etc., comer (!"!X£). 
2. It means that a circle of 1000 cubits radius was to be 
measured from the centre of the city, and then a square 
circumscribed about that circle, each of whose sides was 
2000 cubits long, as exhibited in diagram II. But the 


Each of these cities was required to have an outlying 
suburb Trpoavma) of meadow land for the pas- 

ture of the flocks and herds belonging to the Levites, 
the dimensions of which are thus described in Numb, 
xxxv, 4, 5: ‘‘And the suburbs [or pasture-ground j of 
the cities which ye shall give unto the Levites aTe from 
the wall of the city to the outside a thousand cubits 
round about; and ye shall measure from without the 
city the east comer two thousand cubits, and the south 
corner two thousand cubits, and the west corner two 
thousand cubits, and the north corner two thousand cu- 
bits, and the city in the centre.” These dimensions 
have occasioned great difficulty, because of the apparent 
contradiction in the two verses, as specifying first 1000 
cubits and then 2000. The Sept., Josephus (Ant. iv, 4. 
3), and Philo ( De sacerd. honoribus ) get over the diffi- 
culty by reading 2000 in both verses, as exhibited in 
diagram I, a, while ancient and modern commentators, 



Levitical City. — Diagram I, a. 


who rightly adhere to the text, have endeavored to rec- 
oncile the two verses by advancing different theories, 
of which the following are the most noticeable: 1. Ac- 
cording to the Talmud ( Ernbin , 51, a), the space “ meas- 
ured from the wall 1000 cubits round about” was used 
as a common or suburb, and the space measured “ from 
without the city on the east side,” etc., was a further 
tract of land of 2000 cubits, used for fields and vine- 
yards, the former being •• the suburbs" properly called, 
and the latter “ the fields of the suburbs,” as represented 
in diagram 1, b. Against this view, however, which is 
the most simple and rational, and which is adopted by 
jMaimonides ( Hilchoth SUemlta Ye-Jobil. xiii, 2), bishop 
Patrick, and most English expositors, it is urged that 



Diagram II. Diagram III. 

Levitical City. 

objection to this is that the 1000 cubits were to be 
measured “ from the wall of the city,” and not from the 
centre. 3.'The 1000 cubits were measured perpendicu- 
larly to the wall of t lie city, and then perpendicular to 
these distances, i. e. parallel to the walls of the city, the 
2000 cubits were measured on the north, south, east, and 
west sides, as shown in diagram III. This, however, is 
obviously incorrect, because the sides would not be 2000 
cubits long if the city were of finite dimensions, but 
plainly longer. 4. It is assumed that the city was built 
in a circular form, with a radius of 1500 cubits, that a 
circle was then described with a radius of 2500 cubits 
from the centre of the city, i. e. at a distance of 1000 
cubits from the walls of the city, and that the suburbs 
were inclosed between the circumferences of the two 
circles, and that the corner of the circumscribed square 
was 1000 cubits from the circumference of the outer cir- 
cle. Compare diagram IV. But the objection to this 



is that by Euclid, i, 47, the square of the diagonal equals 
the sum of the square of the sides, whereas in this figure 
3500 2 does nut equal 25U0 2 +2500 2 . The assigned length 



LEVITE 


395 


LEVITE 


of the diagonal varies about 35 cubits from its actual ! 
value. 5. The city is supposed to be of a circular form ; 
round it a circle is described at a distance of 1000 cubits 
from its Avails; then from the Avails 2000 cubits are 
measured to the north, south, east, and Avest corners — 
the Avhole forming a starlike figure, as exhibited in dia- 
gram V. This vieAV, Avhich is someAvhat fanciful, strict- 



ly meets the requirements of the HebreAv text. 6. The 
1000 cubits are measured from the centre in four direc- 
tions at right angles to one another, and perpendicular 
to each of these a side of 2000 cubits long is draAvn. the 
Avhole forming a square. Ihit in this case the condition 
of “ 1000 cubits round about” is not fulfilled, the distance 
of the centre from the corners of the square being plain- 
ly more than 1000 cubits. 7. The “1000 cubits round 
about” is equivalent to 1000 cubits square, or 805 Eng- 
lish acres. 8. The city is supposed to be square, each 
side measuring 1000 or 500 cubits, and then, at a dis- 
tance of 1000 cubits in all directions from the square, 
another square is described, as represented in diagrams 
VI, a, and YT, b. But this incurs the objection urged 


2000 cubits 2000 cubits 

N 


W E 


S_ 


Levitical City— Diagram VI, a. 


1000 CUV3 


IWOcub’s 





500 

r 


against (>, that the 1000 cubits can- 
not be said to be measured “ round 
about,” the distance from the corner 
of the city to the corner of the pre- 
cincts being plainly more than 1000 
cubits. Upon a revieAV of all these 
theories, we incline to the ancient 
Jewish view, Avhich is stated first, 
Levitical city. — Di- and against Avhich nothing can be 
agram \ f, b. said, p- we take “on the south, east,” 
etc., simply to mean, as it often does, in all directions , 
instead of four distinct points. It presupposes that the 
cities Avere built in a circular form, Avliich Avas usual in 
the cities of antiquity, both because the circle of all fig- 
ures comprises the largest area within the smallest per- 
iphery, and because the inhabitants could reach every 
part of the Avails in the shortest time from all directions, 
if necessary, for purposes of de fence. 

These revenues have been thought exorbitant beyond 


all bounds; for, discarding the unjustifiable conclusion 
of bishop ColensOjthat “ forty-four people [Levites], Avith 
the two priests, and their families, had forty-eight cit- 
ies assigned to them” ( The Pentateuch , etc., i, 1 1*2), and 
adhering to the scriptural numbers, Ave still have a tribe 
which, at the second census, numbered 23,000 males, 
Avitli no more than 12,000 arrived at man’s estate, re- 
ceiving the tithes of 000,000 people; “consequently,” it 
is thought “ that each individual Levite, Avithout having 
to deduct seed and the charges of husbandry, had as 
much as five Israelites reaped from their fields or gain- 
ed on their cattle” (Micliaelis, Laics of Moses, i, 252). 
Add to this that, though so small in number, the Le- 
vites received forty-eight cities, Avhile other tribes Avhich 
consisted of more than double the number of men re- 
ceived less cities, and some did not get more than tAvclve 
cities. But in all these calculations the folloAving facts 
are ignored : I. The tithes Avere not a regular tax, but a 
religious duty, Avhich was greatly neglected by the peo- 
ple ; 2. Even from these irregular tithes the Levites had 
to give a tithe to the priests; 3. The tithes never in- 
creased, Avhereas the Levites did increase. 4. Thirteen 
of the forty-eight cities were assigned to the priests, and 
six Avere cities of refuge ; and, 5. Of the remaining tAven- 
ty-nine cities, the Levites Avere by no means the sole 
occupants or proprietors; they Avere simply to have in 
them those houses Avhich they required as d\A'ellings, 
and the fields necessary for the pasture of their cattle. 
This is eA’ident from the fact that the Levites Avere al- 
loAved to sell their houses, and that a special clause bear- 
ing on this subject Avas inserted in the Jubilee law [see 
Jubilee]; inasmuch as Lev. xxa\ 32-34, Avould have 
no meaning unless it is presumed that other Israelites 
lived together Avith the Levites. 

These provisions for abode, of course, did not apply 
to the Levites in the time of Moses. While Avamlering 
in the wilderness, they Avere supported like the other 
Israelites, Avith but slight emoluments or perquisites, 
and at first Avith comparatively little honor, amid their 
considerable burdens in caring for the religious eultus. 
But how rapidly the fet ling of reverence gained strength 
Ave may judge from the share assigned to them out of 
the flocks, and herds, and Avomen of the conquered Mid- 
ianites (Numb, xxxi, 27, etc.). The same victory led to 
the dedication of gold and sil\*er A’essels of great value, 
and thus increased the importance of the tribe as guar- 
dians of the national treasures (Numb, xxxi, 50-54). 

7. Modifications under Joshua and the Judges. — The 
submission of the Gibeonites, after they had obtained a 
promise that their lives should be spared, enabled Joshua 
to relieve the tribe-divisions of Gerslion and Merari of 
the most burdensome of their duties. The conquered 
Ilivites became “hewers of tvood and draAvers of Avater” 
for the house of Jehovah and for the congregation (Josh, 
ix, 27). The Nethinim (Deo dati ) of 1 Chron. ix, 2; 

| Ezra ii. 43, Avere probably sprung from capti\*es taken by 
David in later wars, Avho Avere assigned to the sendee 
of the tabernacle, replacing possibly the Gibeonites avIio 
had been slain by Saul (2 Sam.xxi, 1). See Netiiisim. 

The scanty memorials that are left us in the book of 
Judges are rather unfavorable to the inference that for 
any length of time the reality ansAvered to the Mosaic 
idea of the Levitical institution. The ravages of inva- 
sion, and the pressure of an alien rule, marred the Avork- 
ing of the organization Avhich seemed so perfect. Le- 
vitical cities, such as Aijalon (Josh. xxi,24 ; Judg. i,35) 
and Gezer (Josh, xxi, 21 ; 1 Chron. vi, G7), fell into the 
hands of their enemies. Sometimes, as in the case of 
Nob, others apparently took their place. The Avandcr- 
ing, unsettled habits of such Levites as are mentioned 
in the later chapters of Judges are probably to be traced 
to this loss of a fixed abode, and the consequent neces- 
sity of taking refuge in other cities, even though their 
tribe as such had no portion in them. The tendency 
of the people, to fall into the idolatry of the neighboring 
nations shoAved either that the Le\*ites failed to bear 
their Avitness to the truth or had no poAver to enforce it. 


LEVITE 


30G 


LEVITE 


Even in the lifetime of Phinehas, when the high-priest 
was still consulted as an oracle, the very reverence which 
the people felt for the tribe of Levi becomes the occasion 
of a rival worship (Judg. xvii). The old household 
priesthood revives (see Kalisch, On Genesis xlix, 7), and 
there is the risk of the national worship breaking up into I 
individualism. Mieah first consecrates one of his own 
sons, and then tempts a homeless Levite to dwell with 
him as “a father and a priest” for little more than his 
food and raiment. The Levite, though probably the 
grandson of Moses himself, repeats the sin of Korah. 
See Jonathan. First in the house of Mieah, and then 
for the emigrants of Dan, he exercises the office of a 
priest with “an epliod, and a teraphim, and a graven 
image.” With this exception the whole tribe appears 
to have fallen into a condition analogous to that of the 
clergy in the darkest period and in the most outlying 
districts of the mediaeval Church, going through a ritual 
routine, but exercising no influence for good, at once 
corrupted and corrupting. The shameless license of the 
sons of Eli may be looked upon as the result of a long 
period of decay, affecting the whole order. When the 
priests were such as Hophni and Phinehas, we may fairly 
assume that the Levites were not doing much to sustain 
the moral life of the people. 

The work of Samuel was the starting-point of a bet- 
ter time. Himself a Levite, and, though not a priest, 
belonging to that section of the Levites which was near- 
est to the priesthood (I Chron.vi, 28), adopted, as it were, 
by a special dedication into the priestly line and trained 
for its offices (1 Sam. ii, 18), he appears as infusing a 
fresh life, the author of a new organization. There is 
no reason to think, indeed, that the companies or schools 
of the sons of the prophets which appear in his time (1 
Sam. x,5), and are traditionally said to have been found- 
ed by him, consisted exclusively of Levites; but there 
are many signs that the members of that tribe formed 
a large clement in the new order, and received new 
strength from it. It exhibited, indeed, the ideal of the 
Levitical life as one of praise, devotion, teaching; stand- 
ing in the same relation to the priests and Levites gener- 
ally as the monastic institutions of the 5th century, or 
the mendicant orders of the 13th did to the secular cler- 
gy of Western Europe. The fact that the Levites were 
thus brought under the influence of a system which ad- 
dressed itself to the mind and heart in a greater degree 
than the sacrificial functions of the priesthood, may pos- 
sibly have led them on to apprehend the higher truths 
as to the nature of worship which begin to be asserted 
from this period, and which are nowhere proclaimed 
more clearly than in the great hymn that bears the 
name of Asaph (Psa. 1,7-15). The man who raises the 
name of prophet to a new significance is himself a Levite 
(1 Sam. ix, 9). It is among the prophets that we find 
the first signs of the musical skill which is afterwards so 
conspicuous in the Levites (1 Sam.x, 5). The order in 
which the Temple sendees were arranged is ascribed to 
two of the prophets, Nathan and Gad (2 Chron. xxix, 
25), who must have grown up under Samuel’s superin- 
tendence. and in part to Samuel himself (1 Chron. ix, 22). 
Asaph and Ileman. the psalmists, bear the same title as 
Samuel the Seer (1 Chron. xxv, 5; 2 Chron. xxix, 30). 
The very word “ prophesying” is applied not only to 
sudden hursts of song, but to the organized psalmody of 
the Temple (1 Chron. xxv, 2, 3). Even of those who 
bore the name of a prophet in a higher sense a large 
number are traceably of this tribe. 

The capture of the ark by the Philistines did not en- 
tirely interrupt the worship of the Israelites, and the 
ministrations of the Levites went on, first at Shiloh (1 
Sam. xiv, 3), then for a time at Nob (1 Sam. xxii, 11), 
afterwards at Gibeon (l Kings iii, 2; 1 Chron. x-vi, 39). 
The history of the return of the ark to Beth-shemesh 
after its capture by the Philistines, and its subsequent 
removal to Kirjath-jearim, points apparently to some 
strange complications rising out of the anomalies of this 
period, and affecting, in some measure, the position of 


1 the tribe of Levi. Beth-shemesh was, by the original 
assignment of the conquered country, one of the cities 
of the priests (Josh, xxi, 16). They, however, do not 
appear in the narrative, unless we assume, against all 
probability, that the men of Beth-shemesh who were 
guilty of the act of profanation were themselves of the 
priestly order. Levites, indeed, are mentioned as doing 
their appointed work (1 Sam. vi, 15), but the sacrifices 
and burnt-offerings are offered by the men of the city, 
as though the special function of the priesthood had 
been usurped by others, and on this supposition it is 
easier to understand how those who had set aside the 
! law of Moses by one offenee should defy it also by an- 
other. The singular reading of the Sept, in 1 Sam. vi, 
19 (jeal ovk gcfiivia civ ot uiot ’\t\oviov iv toiq dvfipa<ri 
BaiOaapvg on eidov ki(3(x)tov Kvpiov') indicates, if we 
assume that it rests upon some corresponding Hebrew 
text, a struggle between two opposed parties, one guilty 
of the profanation, the other — possibly the Levites who 
| had been before mentioned — zealous in their remon- 
! strances against it. Then comes, either as the result 
! of this collision, or by direct supernatural infliction, the 
j great slaughter of the Beth-shemites, and they shrink 
I from retaining the ark any longer among them. The 
! great Ebon (stone) becomes, by a slight paronomastic 
change in its form, the “great Abel” (lamentation), and 
the name remains as a memorial of the sin and of its 
punishment. See Beth-shemesh. We are left en- 
tirely in the dark as to the reasons which led them, 
after this, to send t lie ark of Jehovah, not to Hebron or 
some other priestly city, but to Kirjath-jearim, round 
which, so far as we know, there gathered legitimately 
no sacred associations. It has been commonly assumed, 
indeed, that Abinadab, under whose guardianship it re- 
mained for twenty years, must necessarily have been of 
the tribe of Levi. See Abinadab. Of this, however, 
there is not the slightest direct evidence, and against it 
there is the language of David in 1 Chron. xv, 2, “None 
ought to carry the ark of God but the Levites, for them 
hath Jehovah chosen,” which would lose half its force 
if it were not meant as a protest against a recent inno- 
vation, and the ground of a return to the more ancient 
order. So far as one can see one’s way through these 
perplexities of a dark period, the most probable explana- 
tion — already suggested under Kirjath-jearim — seems 
to be the following : The old names of Baaleh (Josh, xv, 
9) and Kitjath-baal (Josh, xv, CO) suggest there had been 
| of old some special sanctity attached to the place as the 
centre of a Canaanilish local worship. The fact that the 
ark was taken to the house of Abinadab in the hill (I 
Sam. vii, 1), the Gibeah of 2 Sam. vi, 3, connects itself 
with that old Canaanitish reverence for high places 
which, through the whole history of the Israelites, con- 
' tinned to have such strong attractions for them. These 
may have seemed to the panic-stricken inhabitants of 
that district, mingling old things and new, the worship 
of Jehovah with the lingering superstitions of the con- 
quered people, sufficient grounds to determine their 
choice of a locality. The consecration (the word used 
is the special sacerdotal term) of Eleazar as the guar- 
dian of the ark is, on this hypothesis, analogous in its 
way to the other irregular assumptions which charac- 
terize this period, though here the offence was less fla- 
grant, and did not involve, apparently, the performance 
of any sacrificial acts. While, however, this aspect of 
the religious condition of the people brings the Levit- 
ieal anil priestly orders before us as having lost the po- 
sition they had previously occupied, there were other 
influences at work tending to reinstate them. 

II. During the Monarch ]/. — The deplorably disorgan- 
ized condition of the Levitical order was not much 
improved in the reign of the first Hebrew monarch. 
The rule of Samuel and his sons, and the prophetical 
character now connected with the tribe, tended to give 
them the position of a ruling caste. In the strong de- 
sire of the people for a king we may perhaps trace a 
protest against the assumption by the Levites of a higher 


LEYITE 


397 


LEYITE 


position than that originally assigned them. The reign 
of Saul, in its later period, was at any rate the assertion 
of a self-willed power against the priestly order. The 
assumption of the sacrilicial office, the massacre of the 
priests at Nob, the slaughter of the Gibeonit.es who were 
attached to their service, were parts of the same policy, 
and the narrative of the condemnation of Said for the 
two former sins, no less than of the expiation required 
for the latter (2 Sam. xxi), shows by what strong meas- 
ures the truth, of which that policy was a subversion, 
had to be impressed on the minds of the Israelites. The 
reign of David, however, brought the change from per- 
secution to honor. The Levites were ready to welcome 
a king who, though not of their tribe, had been brought 
up under their training, was skilled in their arts, ‘pre- 
pared to share even in some of their ministrations, and 
to array himself in their apparel (2 Sam. vi, 14) ; and 
4000 of their number, with 3700 priests, waited upon Da- 
vid at Hebron — itself, it should be remembered, one of 
the priestly cities — to tender their allegiance (1 Chron. 
xii, 20). When his kingdom was established, there came 
a fuller organization of the whole tribe. Its position in 
relation to the priesthood was once again definitely rec- 
ognised. When the. ark was carried up to its new rest- 
ing-place in Jerusalem, tlieir claim to be the bearers of 
it was publicly acknowledged (1 Chron. xv, 2). When 
the sin of Uzza stopped the procession, it was placed 
for a time under the care of Obed-edom of Gath — prob- 
ably Gath-rimmon — as one of the chiefs of the Koliath- 
ites (1 Chron. xiii, 13; Josh, xxi, 24; 1 Chron. xv, 18). 
In the procession which attended the ultimate convey- 
ance of the ark to its new resting-place the Levites were 
conspicuous, wearing their linen ephods, and appearing 
in their new character as minstrels (1 Chron. xv, 27,28). 
The Levites engaged m conveying the ark to Jerusalem 
were divided into six father’s houses, headed by six 
chiefs, four belonging to Kohatli, one to Gcrshon, and 
one to Merari (1 Chron. xv, 5, etc.). The most remark- 
able feature in the Levitical duties of this period is their 
being employed for the first time in choral service (1 
Chron. xv, 16-24; xvi, 4-36); others, again, were ap- 
pointed as door-keepers (xv, 23,24). Still the thorough 
reorganization of the whole tribe was effected by the 
shepherd-king in the last days of his eventful life, that 
t he Levites might be able at the erection of the Tem- 
ple “to wait on the sons of Aaron for the service of t lie 
house of Jehovah, in the courts and the chambers, and 
the purifying of all holy things, and the work of the 
service iff the house of God” (I Chron. xxiii, 28). This 
icurganization may be described as follows: 

1. X amber of Levites and Age for Service. — The Le- 
vite.s from thirty years of age and upwards were first of 
all numbered, when it was found that they were 38,000 
(l Chron. xxiii, 2, 3); this being about 29,500 more than 
at the first Mosaic census. It will be seen that, accord- 
ing to this statement, the Levites wore to commence 
service at thirty years of age, in harmony with the Mo- 
saic institution (Numb, iv, 3, 23, 30) ; while in ver. 27 
of the same chapter (i. e. I Chron. xxiii, 27) it is said 
that they were to take their share of duty at twenty 
years of age. Kimchi, who is followed by bishop Pat- 
rick, Michaelis, and others, tries to reconcile this appar- 
ent contradiction by submitting that the former refers 
to a census which David made at an earlier period, 
which was according to the Mosaic law (Numb, iv, 3); 
while the latter speaks of a second census which he 
made at the close of his life, when he found that the du- 
ties of the fixed sanctuary were much lighter and more 
numerous, and could easily be performed at the age of 
twenty, but at the same time required a larger staff of 
men. Against this, however, Ilerthcau rightly urges 
that, 1. The 38,000 Levites of thirty years of age given 
in the census of ver, 3 are the oniy persons appointed 
for the different Levitical offices, and that it is nowhere 
stated that this number was insufficient, or that the ar- 
rangements based thereupon, as recorded in vers. 4 and 
5, were not carried out; and, 2. The chronicler plainly 


indicates, in ver. 25, etc., that he is about to impart a 
different statement from that communicated in ver. 3; 
for he mentions therein the reason which induced David 
not to abide by the Mosaic institution, which prescribes 
the age of service to commence at thirty, and in ver. 27 
expressly points out the source from which he derived 
this deviating account. The two accounts are, there- 
fore, entirely different; the one records that the Le- 
vites, in David’s time, were numbered from their thir- 
tieth year; while the other, which appears to the chron- 
icler more trustworthy, states that David introduced the 
practice which afterwards obtained (2 Chron. xxxi, 17 ; 
Ezra iii,8) of appointing Levites to office at the age of 


twenty. 

2. Division of the Levites acco?'ding to the three great 
Families. — Having ascertained their number, David, fol- 
lowing the example of the Mosaic institution, divided 
the Levitical lathers’ houses, according to their descent 
from the three sons of Levi, when it was ascertained 
that these three sons, Gcrshon, Kohatli, and Merari, were 
represented by twenty-four beads of fathers’ houses (1 
Chron. xxiii, 6-23; xxiv, 20-31), as follows: 
fJehiel. 

Zetham. 


Gershox 


Koiiatu 


Merari 


Laadan or Shelomoth. 

Ilaziel. 

(Karan. 

I Jahath. 

Shimei <Zina or Ziza. 

( Jeush and Bcriah, counted as one. 
(Shnbael. 

Ami am "(x^ehahhih. 

Izhar . . . ,8helomith or Shelomoth. 

i Jeriah. 

Jekameam. 

(Michah. 

(Isshiah. 
fShoham. 
fJaaziali ffZaccur. 

(Ibri. 

Mahli Kish-Jeremeel. 

j Eder. 

1 Jeremoth. 


Uzziel 


J 

i; 


Mushi 


3. Classification and Duties of the Levites. — These 
twenty-four fathers’ houses, numbering 38,000 men qual- 
ified for active service, were then divided into four class- 
es, to each of which different duties were assigned. 

(1.) The first class consisted of 24,000 Levites. These 
were appointed to assist the priests in the work of.the 
sanctuary (Asiroi/joyoi/i'rtc)- They had the custody of 
the official garments and sacred vessels, had to deliver 
them when wanted, and collect and lock them up again 
after they had been used ; to replenish the sacrificial 
storehouse with cattle, Hour, wine, oil, incense, and other 
articles used as sacrifices, and mete out each time the 
required quantity; to provide the different spices from 
which the priests compounded the incense (1 Chron. 
ix, 30); to prepare the shewbread and the other baked 
things used at sacrifices; to assist the priests in slaugh- 
tering the victims, and to attend to the cleaning of the 
Temple, etc. (1 Chron. xxiii, 28-32; ix, 29). They had 
most probably, also, the charge of the sacred treasury 
(1 Chron. xxvi, 20-28). Like the priests, they wore 
subdivided into twenty-four courses or companies, ac- 
cording to the above-named twenty-four Levitical fa- 
thers’ houses, and were headed respectively by one of 
the twenty-four representatives of these houses. Eacli 
of these courses was a week on duty, and was relieved 
on the Sabbath (2 Kings xi) by the company whose 
turn it was to serve next, so that there were always a 
thousand men of this class on duty, and each man had 
to serve two weeks during the year. The menial work 
was done by the Nethinim , who were appointed to assist 
the Levites in these matters. See Nethinim. 

(2.) The second class consisted of 4000, who were the 
musicians (E^TVCJ’S, vjxvoidoi). They too were sub- 
divided into twenty-four courses or choirs, each headed 
by a chief (1 Chron. xxv), and arc to be traced back to 
the three great families of Levi, inasmuch as lour of the 


LEVITE 


98 


LEVITE 


chiefs were sons of Asaph, a descendant of Gershon (1 
Chron. vi, 24-28) ; six were sons of Jeduthun, also called 
Ethan (l Chron. xv, 17), a descendant of Merari (1 
Chron. vi, 28) ; and fourteen were sons of Ilaman, a de- 
scendant of Kohath (1 Chron. vi, 18). Each of these 
chiefs had eleven assistant masters from his own sons 
and brothers, thus making together 288 (1 Chron. xxv. 


liturgy, and for this a special study would be required. 
The education which the Levites received for their pe- 
culiar duties, no less than their connection, more or less 
intimate, with the schools of the prophets (see above), 
would tend to make them, so far as there was any edu- 
cation at all, the teachers of the others (there is, how- 
ever, a curious Jewish tradition that the schoolmasters 


Jill UlUlllVICj 11*110 »**i*.x*.*^ - V ~ 7 7 # 

). Hence, when these are deducted from the 4000, of Israel were of the tribe of Simeon [Solorn. Jarchi on 


there remain for each band consisting of twelve chief 
musicians, 154 or 155 subordinate musicians. As twelve 
musicians were required to be present at the daily morn- 
ing and evening service, thus demanding 1G8 to be on 
duty every week, the twentv-fonr courses which re- 
lieved each other in hebdomadal rotation must have 


Gen. xlix, 7, in Godwyn’s Moses and Aaroii\) y the tran- 
scribers and interpreters of the law, the chroniclers of 
the times in which they lived. We have some striking 
instances of their appearance in this new character. 
One of them, Ethan the Ezrahite, takes his place among 
the old Hebrew sages who were worthy to be compared 


consisted of 4032, and 4000 given by the chronicler is with Solomon, and (Psa. lxxxix, title) his name ap- 


simplv to be regarded as a round number. Of this class, 
therefore, as of the former, each individual had to serve 
two weeks during the year. 

(3.) The third class also consisted of 4000. They were 
the gate-keepers (3" 1- 7r vXwpoi, 1 Chron. xxvi, 1- 
19), and, as such, bore arms (ix. 19, 2 Chron. xxxi, 2). 
They had to open and shut the gates, to keep strangers 
and excommunicated or unclean persons from entering 
the courts, and to guard the storehouse, the Temple, and 
its courts at night. They, too, were subdivided into 
twenty-four courses, and were headed by twenty-four 
chiefs from the three great families of Levi : seven were 
sons of Meshelmiah, a descendant of Kohath; thirteen 
were from Obed-edom, a descendant of Gershon ; and 
four were sons of Ilosah, a descendant of Merari. These 
three families, including the twenty-four chiefs, consist- 


pears as the writer of the 39th Psalm (1 Kings iv. 31 ; 
1 Chron. xv, 17). One of the first to bear the title of 
•‘scribe” is a Levite (1 Chron. xxiv, 6), and this is men- 
tioned as one of their special offices under Josiah (2 
Chron. xxxiv, 13). They are described as “ officers and 
judges” under David (l Chron. xxvi, 29), and, as such, 
are employed ‘-in all the business of Jehovah, and in 
the service of t lie king.” They are t he agents of Je- 
hoshaphat and Hezekiah in their work of reformation, 
and are sent forth to proclaim and enforce t lie law (2 
Chron. xvii, 8; xxx, 22). Under Josiah the function 
has passed into a title, and they are “the Levites that 
taught all Israel” (2 Chron. xxxv, 3). The two books 
of Chronicles bear unmistakable marks of having been 
written by men whose interests were all gathered round 
the services of the Temple, and who were familiar with 
its records. The materials from which they compiled 


ed of ninety-three members, who, together vith the t j ie j r narra ti ves, and to which they refer as the works 

j . \ T 1 . i 1 il i* IK ..... T I A^hAlmin h I thod_onnm * 


three heads of the families, viz. Mcshelmiah, Obed-edom, 
and Ilosah, made ninety-six, thus yielding four chiefs 
for each course. We thus obtain a watch-course every 
week of 162 or 1(33 persons, under the command of four 
superior watches, one of whom was the eommander- 
in-chief. As 24 sentinel posts are assigned to these 
guards, thus making 168 a week, it appears that each 
person only served one day in the week (1 Chron. xxvi). 

(4.) The fourth class consisted of 6000. who were ap- 
pointed for outward affairs (fi; M JTin {"izxb -H), as 
scribes and judges (1 Chron. xxvi, 29-32), in contradis- 
tinction to the work connected with the service of the 
sanctuary. It appears that this class was subdivided 
into three branches; Chenaniah and his sons were for the 
outward business of Israel (1 Chron. xxvi, 29); Ilasha- 
biah of Ilebron and his brethren, numbering 1700, were 
officers west of Jordan, “in all t He business of the Lord 
and in the service of the king” (ver. 30) ; whilst Jerijah, 
also of Hebron, and bis brethren, numbering 2700 active 
men, were rulers east of Jordan “for every matter per- 
taining to God and affairs of the king” (vers. 31.32). It 
will thus be seen that this class consisted of Kohathites, 
being descendants of Izhar and Ilebron. 

The Levites lived for the greater part of the year in 
their own cities, and came up at fixed periods to take 
their turn of work (L Chron. xxv, xxvi). The predom- 
inance of the number twelve as the basis of classifica- 
tion might seem to indicate monthly periods, and the 
festivals of the new moon would naturally suggest such 
an arrangement. The analogous order in the civil 
and military administration (l Chron. xxvii, 1) would 
tend to the same conclusion. It appears, indeed, that 
there was a change of some kind every week (1 Chron. 
ix, 25; 2 Chron. xxiii, 4, 8) ; but this is, of course, oom- 


of seers and prophets, were written by men who were 
probably Levites themselves, or, if not, were associated 
with them. 

This reorganization effected by David, we are told, 

| was adopted by his son Solomon when the Temple was 
I completed (2 Chron. viii, 14, ete.). The revolt of the 
ton tribes, and the policy pursued by Jeroboam, led to a 
great change m the position of the Levites, They were 
the witnesses of an appointed order and of a central wor- 
ship. Jeroboam wished to make the priests the creatures 
and instruments of the king, and to establish a provin- 
| cial and divided worship. The natural result was that 
they left the cities assigned to them in the territory of 
Israel and gathered round the metropolis of Judah (2 
Chron. xi, 13, 14). Their intiuence over the people at 
large was thus diminished, and the design of the Mosaic 
polity so far frustrated; but their power as a religious 
order was probably increased by this concentration with- 
in narrower limits. In the kingdom of Judah they were 
from this time forward a powerful body, politically as 
well as ecclesiastically. They brought with them the 
prophetic element of influence, in the wider as well as 
in the higher meaning of the word. We accordingly 
find them prominent, in the war of Abi jah against Jero- 
boam (2 Chron. xiii, 10-12). They are, as before no- 
ticed, sent out by Jehoshaphat to instruct and judge 
the people (2 Chron. xix, 8-10). [Prophets of their or- 
der encourage the king in his war against Moab and 
Antmon, and go before his army with their loud halle- 
lujahs (2 Chron. xx, 21), and join afterwards in the tri- 
umph of his return. The apostasy that followed on the 
marriage of Jchoram and Athaliah exposed them for a 
time to the dominance of a hostile system ; hut the serv- 
ices of the Temple appear to have gone on. and the Lc- 


patible with a system of rotation, which would give to i rites were again conspicuous in the counter-revolution 
>r period of residence, or with the perma- effected by Jehoiada (2 Chron. xxiii), and in restoring 


each a longer 
neut residence of the leader of each division within the 
precincts of the sanctuary. Whatever may have been 
the system, we must hear in mind that, the duties now 
imposed upon the Levites were such as to require al- 
most continuous practice. They would' need, when 
their turn came, to he able to hear their parts in the 
great choral hymns of the Temple, and to take each his 
appointed share in the complex structure of a sacrificial | 


the Temple to its former stateliness under Jehoash (2 
Chron. xxiv, 5). They shared in t lie disasters of the 
reign of Amaziah (2 Chron. xxv, 24) and in the pros- 
perity of Uzziahj and were ready, we may believe, to 
support t He priests, who. as representing their order, op- 
posed the sacrilegious usurpation of the latter king (2 
Chron. xxvi, 17). The closing of the Temple under 
Ahaz involved the cessation at onee of their work and 


LEVITE 


399 


LEYITE 


of their privileges (2 Chron. xxviii, 24). Under Heze- 
kiah they again became prominent, as consecrating 
themselves to the special work of cleansing and repair- 
ing the Temple (2 Chron. xxix, 12-15) ; and the hymns 
of David and of Asaph were again renewed. In this 
instance it was thought worthy of special record that 
those who were simply Levites were more “upright in 
heart” and zealous than the priests themselves (2 Chron. 
xxix, 34); and thus, in that great Passover, they took 
the place of the unwilling or unprepared members of 
the priesthood. Their old privileges were restored, they 
were put forward as' teachers (2 Chron. xxx, 22), and 
the payment of tithes, which had probably been discon- 
tinued under Ahaz, was renewed (2 Chron. xxxi, 4). 
The genealogies of the tribe were revised (ver. 17), and 
the old classification kept its ground. The reign of 
Manasseh was for them, during the greater part of it, a 
period of depression. That of Josiah wituessed a fresh 
revival and reorganization (2 Chron. xxxiv, 8-13). In 
the great Passover of his eighteenth year they took 
their place as teachers of the people, as well as leaders 
of their worship (2 Chron. xxxv, 3, 15). Then came 
the Egyptian and Chaldiean invasions, and the rule of 
cowardly and apostate kings. The sacred tribe likewise 
showed itself unfaithful. The repeated protests of the 
priest Ezekiel indicate that they had shared in the idol- 
atry of the people. The prominence into which they 
had been brought in the reigns of the two reforming 
kings had apparently tempted them to think that they 
might encroach permanently on the special functions of 
the priesthood, and the sin of Korah was renewed (Ezek. 
xliv, 10-14; xlviii, II). They had, as the penalty of 
their sin, to witness the destruction of the Temple and 
to taste the bitterness of exile. 

III. After the Captivity . — The position taken by the 
Levites in the first movements of the return from Bab- 
ylon indicates that they had cherished the traditions 
and maintained the practices of their tribe. They, we 
may believe, were those who were specially called on to 
sing to their conquerors one of the songs of Zion (De 
Wette on Psa. cxxxvii). It is noticeable, however, that 
in the first body of returning exiles they were present 
in a disproportionately small number (Ezra ii, 36-42). 
Those who did come took their old parts at the founda- 
tion and dedication of the second Temple (Ezra iii, 10; 
vi, 18). In the next movement under Ezra their re- 
luctance (whatever may have been its origin) was even 
more strongly marked. None of them presented them- 
selves at the first great gathering (Ezra viii, 15). The 
special efforts of Ezra did not succeed in bringing to- 
gether more than 38, and their plaee had to be filled by 
220 of the Nethinim (ib. 20). There is a Jewish tra- 
dition (Surenhusius, Mishna, Sota, ix, 10) to the effect 
that, as a punishment for this backwardness, Ezra de- 
prived them of their tithes, and transferred the right to 
the priests. Those who returned with him resumed 
their functions at the Feast of Tabernacles as teachers 
and interpreters (Neb. viii, 7), and those who were most 
active in that work were foremost also in chanting the 
hymn-like prayer which appears in Neh. ix as the last 
great effort of Jewish psalmody. They were reeoguised 
in the great national covenant, and the offerings and 
tithes which were their due were once more solemnly 
secured to them (Neh. x, 37-39), They took their old 
places in the Temple and in the villages near Jerusalem 
(Neh. xii, 29), and are present in full array at the great 
least of the Dedication of the Wall. The two prophets 
who were active at the time of the return, Ilaggai and 
Zcehariah, if they did not belong to the tribe, helped 
it forward in the work of restoration. The strongest 
measures were adopted by Nchemiah, as before by Ezra, 
to guard the purity of their blood from the contamina- 
tion of mixed marriages (Ezra x, 23), and they were 
made the special guardians of the holiness of the Sab- 
bath (Neh. xiii, 22). The last prophet of the O. T. sees, 
as part of his vision of the latter days, the time when 
the Lord “ shall purify the sons of Levi” (Mai. iii, 3), 


The guidance of the O. T. fails us at this point, and 
the history of the Levites in relation to the national 
life becomes consequently a matter of inference and con- 
jecture. The synagogue worship, then originated, or 
receiving a new development, was organized irrespect- 
ively of them [see Synagogue], and thus throughout 
the whole of Palestine there were means of instruction 
in the law with which they were not connected. This 
would tend materially to diminish their peculiar claim 
on the reverence of the people : but where priests or Le- 
vites were present in the synagogue they were still en- 
titled to some kind of precedence, and special sections 
in the lessons fur the day were assigned to them (Light- 
foot, I lor. IIS. on Matt, iv, 23). During the period 
that followed the captivity they contributed to the for' 
mation of the so-called Great Synagogue, The Levites, 
with the priests, theoretically constituted and practically 
formed the majority of the permanent Sanhedrim (Mai- 
monides in Lightfoot, Ilor. IIS. on Matt, xxvi, 3), and 
as such had a large share in the administration of jus- 
tice even in capital cases. In the characteristic feature 
of this period, as an age of scribes succeeding to an age 
of prophets, they, too, were likely to be sharers. The 
training and previous history of the tribe would predis- 
pose them to attach themselves to the new system as 
they had done to the old. They accordingly may have 
been among the scribes and elders who accumulated 
traditions. They may have attached themselves to the 
sects of Pharisees and Saddueees. But in proportion as 
they thus acquired fame and reputation individually, 
their functions as Levites became subordinate, and they 
were known simply as the inferior ministers of the Tem- 
ple. They take no prominent part in the Maccabiean 
struggles, though they must have been present at the 
great purification of the Temple. 

How strictly during this post-exilian period the Le- 
vitical duties were enforced, and how severely any neg- 
lect in performing them was punished, may be gathered 
from the following description in the Mishna: “The 
Levites had to guard twenty-four places: five were sta- 
tioned at the five gates of the Mountain of the House 
(r^-n "in ‘m,*’;;), four at the four corners inside, five 
at the five gates of the outer court, four at its four cor- 
ners inside, one at the sacrificial storehouse, one at the 
curtain depository, and one behind the holy of holies. 
The inspector of the Mountain of the House went round 
through all the guards [every night] with burning 
torches before him. If the guard did not immediately 
stand up, the inspector of the Mountain of the House 
called out to him, ‘Peace be with thee!’ and if he per- 
ceived that he was asleep, he struck him with his stick, 
and even had the liberty of setting his garments on fire; 
and when it was asked, ‘What is that noise in the 
court T they were told, ‘ It is the noise of a Levite who is 
beaten, or whose clothes have been burnt, because he 
slept when on duty’ ” ( Midcloth , i, l, 2). It is thought 
that allusion is made to the fact in the Apocalypse 
when it is said “Blessed is he that wateheth and keep- 
eth his garments” (Rev. xvi, 15). As for the Levites 
who were the singers, they were summoned by the blast 
of the trumpet after the incense was kindled upon the 
altar, when they assembled from all parts of the spacious 
Temple at the orchestra which was joined to the fifteen 
steps at the entrance from the women's outer court to 
lhe men’s outer court. They sung psalms in antipho- 
nies, accompanied by three musical instruments — the 
harp, the cithern, and cymbals — while the priests were 
pouring out on the altar the libation of wine. On Sun- 
day they sung Psa. xxiv, on Monday Psa. xlviii, on 
Tuesday Psa. lxxxii, on Wednesday Psa. xeiv, on Thurs- 
day Psa. Ixxxi, on Friday Psa. xciii, and on the Sab- 
bath Psa. xcii. Each of these psalms was sung in nine 
sections, with eight pauses (3 n p“i£), and at each pause 
the priests blew trombones, when the whole congrega- 
tion fell down every time worshipping on their faces 
( Tamid , vii, 3, 4). 


LEVITE 


400 


LEVITICUS 


The Levites had no prescribed canonical dress like 
the priests, as may be seen from t lie fact which Jose- 
phus narrates, that the singers requested Agrippa “to 
assemble the Sanhedrim in order to obtain leave for 
them to wear linen garments like the priests . . . con- 
trary to the laws” (Am/, xx, 9. (1). Ilut, though they 
wore no official garments at the service, yet the Talmud 
says that they ordinarily wore a linen outer-garment 
with sleeves, and a head-dress; and on journeys were 
provided with a staff, a pocket, and a copy of the Pen- 
tateuch ( Joma , 122. a). Some modilications were at 
this period introduced in what was considered the nec- 
essary qualification for service. The Mosaic law, it will 
be remembered, regarded age as the only qualification, 
and freed the Levite from his duties when he was fifty 
years old; now that singing constituted so essential a 
part of the Levitieal duties, any Levite who had not a 
good voice was regarded as disqualified, and if it con- 
tinued good and melodious, he was retained in service 
all his lifetime, irrespective of age, but if it failed he 
was removed from that class which constituted the 
choristers to the gate-keepers (Maimonides, llilchoth 
Kelc lla-Kodesh , iii, 8). During the period of mourn- 
ing a Levite was exempt from his duties in the Temple. 

The Levites appear but seldom in the history of the 
X. T. Where we meet with their names it is as the 
type of a formal, heartless worship, without sympathy 
and without love (Luke x, 32). The same parable in- 
dicates Jericho as having become — what it had not been 
originally (sec Josh, xxi 1 Chron. vi) — one of the great 
stations at which they and the priests resided (Liglit- 
foot, Cent. Chorograph. c. 47). I n John i, 1 9 they appear 
as delegates of the Jews — that is, of the Sanhedrim — 
coining to inquire into the credentials of the Baptist, and 
giving utterance to their own Messianic expectations. 
The mention of a Levite of Cyprus in Acts iv, 3G, shows 
that the changes of the previous century had carried 
that tribe also into “ the dispersed among the Gentiles.” 
The conversion of Barnabas and Mark was probably no 
solitary instance of the reception by them of the new 
faith, which was the fulfilment of the old. If “a great 
company of the priests were obedient to the faith” (Acts 
vi, 7), it is not too bold to believe that their influence 
may have led Levites to follow their example; and thus 
the old psalms, and possibly also the old chants of the 
Temple service, might be transmitted through the agen- 
cy of those who had been specially trained in them to 
be the inheritance of the Christian Church. Later on 
in the history of the first century, when the Temple had 
received its final completion under the younger Agrippa, 
we find one section of the tribe engaged in a new move- 
ment. With that strange unconsciousness of a coming 
doom which so often marks the last stage of a decaying 
system, the singers of the Temple thought it a fitting 
time to apply for the right of wearing the same linen 
garment as the priests, and persuaded the king that the 
concession of this privilege would be the glory of bis 
reign (Joseph. Ant. xx, 8, G). The other Levites at the 
same time asked for and obtained the privilege of join- 
ing in the Temple choruses, from which hitherto they 
had been excluded. The destruction of the Temple so 
soon after they bad attained the object of their desires 
came as with a grim irony to sweep away their occupa- 
tion, and so to deprive them of every vestige of that 
which had distinguished them from other Israelites. 
They were merged in the crowd of captives that were 
scattered over the Roman world, and disappear from the 
stage of history. The rabbinic schools, that rose out of 
the ruins of the Jewish polity, fostered a studied and 
habitual depreciation of the Levitieal order as compared 
with their own teachers (M'Caul, Old Paths , p. 435). 
Individual families, it may be, cherished the tradition 
that their fathers, as priests or Levites. had taken part 
in the services of the Temple. 'If their claims were rec- 
ognised, they received the old marks of reverence in the 
worship of the synagogue (comp, the Regulations of the 
Great Synagogue of London, in Margoliouth 's llist. of 


the Jeii-s in Great Britain , iii, 270), took precedence in 
reading the lessons of the day (Lightfoot, 7/or. 11 eh. on 
Matt, iv, 23), and pronounced the blessing at the close 
(Basnage, Hist, des Juifs , vi,790). Their existence was 
acknowledged in some of the laws of the Christian em- 
perors (Basnage, l. c.). The tenacity with which the 
exiled race clung to these recollections is shown in the 
prevalence of the names (Cohen, and Levita or Levy) 
which imply that those who hear them are of the sons 
of Aaron or the tribe of Levi, and in the custom which 
exempts the lirst-born of priestly or Levitieal families 
from the payments which are still offered, in the ease of 
others, as the redemption of the first-born (Leo of Mo- 
dena, in Ricart’s Ceremonies Beligieuses , i, 2G; Allen’s 
Modern Judaism , p. 297). In the mean time, the old 
name had acquired a new signification. The early writ- 
ers of the Christian Church applied to the later hierar- 
chy the language of the earlier, and gave to the bishops 
and presbyters the title (tepelg) that had belonged to 
the sons of Aaron, while the deacons were habitually 
spoken of as Levites (Suicer, Thes. s. v. A tvtnjc). 

Though the destruction of the Temple and the dis- 
persion of the Jews have necessarily done away with 
the Levitieal duties which were strictly local, yet the 
Levites, like the priests, still exist, have to this day cer- 
tain functions to perform, and continue to enjoy certain 
privileges and immunities. On those festivals whereon 
the priests pronounce the benediction on the congrega- 
tion of Israel during the morning service, as prescribed 
in Numb, vi, 22-27, the Levites have “ to wait on the 
priests,” and wash their hands prior to the giving of the 
said blessing. At the reading of the law in the syna- 
gogue, the Levite is called to the second section, the 
first being assigned to the priest. See IIaiuitaraii. 
Moreover, like the priests, the Levites are exempt from 
redeeming their first-born, and this exemption even ex- 
tends to women of the tribe of Levi who marry Israel- 
ites, i. e. Jews of any other tribe. 

IV. Literature. — Mishna. Era eh In. ii. 3-6 ; Tamid , vii, 
3.4; /S’wmi.vA; Bikkuritn, iii. 4 ; Maimonides, Jod 11a- 
Chezaka , llilchoth Kele lla-Mikdash, iii, 1-1 1 ; Miehael- 
is, Commentaries on the Laws of Moses, see. 52 (English 
translation, i. 252 sq.) ; Biihr, Sgmbolik des Mosaischen 
Cultus , ii, 3, 39, 1G5, 342, 428 ; Herzfeld, Geschichtc des 
Volkes Israel von dtr r stoning des ersten Tempels, p. 
12G, 204, 387-424 (Bruns. 1847) : the same, Geschichtc des 
Volkes Israel von der I 'alien dung des zweiten Tempels , i, 
55-58, G3-GG, 141 (Nordhausen, 1855); Saalsehiitz, Das 
M osaische Becht, i, 89-IOG (Berl. 1853) ; the same, Arch- 
dnlogie der Ihhriier , vol.ii, eh. lxxviii, p. 312 (Konigsb. 
1856); Kcil, Handbuch der bihlischen Archaologie, i, 1G0 
(Frankfort-on-tlie-Main, 1858) ; Kalisch, Historical and 
Critical Commaitarg on Genesis , p. 735-744 (Loud. 1848) ; 
Brown, - 1 ntirjuities. i, 301-347 ; Godwvn, Moses and A a- 
ron, i, 5; AVitsius, Dissert. 11. de Theocrat. Jsraelitar. ; 
Jennings, Antiquities, p. 184-20G; Carpzov, Appurat . 
Crit. (see Index): Sauhert. Comm.de Sacerdot.et sacris 
Habr. personis, in Opp. p. 283 sq. ; Gram berg, Krit. Ge~ 
schichte d. Beligionsideen des A Iten Test . vol. i, c. iii ; Re- 
land, Antiq. Baer, ii, G ; Ugolino, Sacei'dot. Hebr. eh. xii, 
in his Thcsaur. vol. xiii; Schacht, A reimadvers. ad I ken. 
p. 525 sq. ; Bauer, Gottesd.Verfassung. ii, 377 sq.; Otho, 
Lex. Bab. p. 3G8 sq. ; Williseh, De fliis Lecitarum (Lips. 
1708). 

Levites, Military, a name given to such ministers 
in the time of the Commonwealth as filled the olliee of 
chaplain in the regiments of the Parliamentary army. — 
Buck, Theol. Diet. s. v. 

Levit'icus, so called in the Vulgate from treating 
chiefly of the Levitieal service ; in the Ileb. and 

he called, being the word with which it begins; in the 
Sept. Af virtKuv; the third book of the Pentateuch, call- 
ed also hv the later Jews Pjir., “law of the 

priests,” and “law of offerings.” In our 

treatment of it we largely avail ourselves of the articles 
on the subject in Smith’s and Kitto’s Dictiona?‘ies. 


LEVITICUS 


401 


LEVITICUS 


1 . Contents. — Leviticus contains the further statement 
and development of the Sinaitic legislation, the begin- 
nings of which are described in Exodus. It exhibits 
the historical progress of this legislation; consequently, 
we must not expect to tind the laws detailed in it in a 
systematic form. There is, nevertheless, a certain order 
observed, which arose from the nature of the subject, 
and of which the plan may easily be perceived. The 
whole is intimately connected with the contents of Ex- 
odus, at the conclusion of which book that sanctuary is 
described with which all external worship was connect- 
ed (Exod. xxxv-xl). 

Leviticus begins by describing the worship itself (ch. 
i-xvii), and concludes with personal distinctions and ex- 
hortations as to the worshippers (ch.xviii-xxvii). More 
specifically the book may be divided into seven leading 
sections. 

(I.) The Laics directly relating to Sacrifices (ch. i-vii). 
— At first God spoke to the people out of the thunder 
and lightning of Sinai, and gave them his holy com- 
mandments by the hand of a mediator; but henceforth 
liis presence is to dwell not on the secret top of Sinai, 
but in the midst of his people, both in their wanderings 
through the wilderness and afterwards in the Land of 
Promise. Hence the first directions which Moses re- 
ceives after the work is finished have reference to the 
offerings which were to be brought to the door of the 
tabernacle. As Jehovah draws near to the people in 
the tabernacle, so the people draw near to Jehovah in 
the ottering. Without offerings none may approach 
him. The regulations respecting the sacrifices fall into 
three groups, and each of these groups again consists of 
a decalogue of instructions. Bertheau has observed that 
this principle runs through all the laws of Moses. They 
are all modelled after the pattern of the ten command- 
ments, so that each distinct subject of legislation is al- 
ways treated of under ten several enactments or provi- 
sions. 

1. The first group of regulations (ch. i-iii) deals with 
three kinds of offerings: the burnt-offering (nVl!?). the 
meat-offering (!in3*£), and the thank-offering (rDf 

a. The burnt-offering (chap, i) in three sections. It 
might be either (1) a male without blemish from the 
herds (“i£2n "j^) (ver.3-9), or (2) a male without blem- 
ish from the fiocks, or lesser cattle (‘jkEn) (ver. 10-18), 
or (3) it might be fowls, an offering of turtle-doves or 
young pigeons (ver. 14-17). The subdivisions are here 
marked clearly enough, not only by the three hinds of 
sacrifice, but also by the form in which the enactment 
is put. Each begins with, “If his offering,” etc., and 
each ends with, “An ottering made by fire, of a sweet 
savor unto Jehovah.” 

b. The next group (ch. ii) presents many more diffi- 

culties. Its parts are not so clearly marked, either by 
prominent features in the subject-matter, or by the more 
technical boundaries of certain initial and final phrases. 
Y e have here the meat-offering, or bloodless offering, in 
four sections : ( l) in its uncooked form, consisting of fine 
flour with oil and frankincense (ver. 1-3); (2) in its 
cooked form, of which three different kinds are speci- 
fied — baked in the oven, fried, or boiled (verses 4-10) ; 
(3) the prohibition of leaven, and the direction to use 
salt in all the meat-offerings (ver. 11-13) ; (1) the obla- 
tion of first-fruits (ver. 14-16). , 

c. The Shelamim, “peace-offering” (A.Y.), or “thank- 
offering” (Ewald) (chap, iii), in three sections. Strictly 
speaking, this falls under two heads: first, when it is of 
the herd; and, secondly, when it is of the fiock. But 
this last has again its subdivision ; for the offering, when 
of the dock, may be either a lamb or a goat. Accord- 
ing^, the three sections are, verses 1-5; 7-11; 12-16. 
\ er. 6 is merely introductory to the second class of sac- 
rifices, and ver. 17 a general conclusion, as in the case 
of other laws. This concludes the first decalogue of the 
book. 

V. — C c 


2. The laws concerning the sin-offering and the tres- 
pass- (or guilt-) offering (chap, iv, v). The sin-offering 
(chap, iv) is treated of under four specified cases, after a 
short introduction to the whole in ver. 1, 2 : (1) the sin- 
offering lor the priest, 3-12; (2) for the whole congre- 
gation, 13-21 ; (3) for a ruler, 22-26; (4) for one of the 
common people, 27-35. 

After these four cases, in which the offering is to be 
made for four different classes, there follow provisions 
respecting three several kinds of transgression for which 
atonement must be made. It is not quite clear whether 
these should be ranked under the head of the sin-offering 
or of the trespass-offering. See Offering. We may, 
however, follow Bertheau, Baumgarten, and Knobel in 
regarding them as special instances in which a s/w-offer- 
ing was to be brought. The three cases are : first, when 
any one hears a curse, and conceals what he hears (ver. 
1); secondly, when any one touches, without knowing 
or intending it, any unclean thing (ver. 2, 3); lastly, 
when any one takes an oath inconsiderately (verse 4). 
For each of these cases the same trespass-offering, “a 
female from the flock, a lamb or kid of the goats,” is ap- 
pointed; but, with that mercifulness which character- 
izes the Mosaic law, express provision is made for a less 
costly offering where the offerer is poor. 

This decalogue is then completed by the three regu- 
lations respecting the guilt-offering (or trespass-otter- 
ing) : first, when any one sins “through ignorance in 
the holy things of Jehovah” (ver. 14, 16) ; next, when a 
person, without knowing it, “commits any of these things 
which are forbidden to be done by the commandments 
of Jehovah” (17-19) ; lastly, when a man lies and swears 
falsely concerning that which was intrusted to him, etc. 
(verses 20-26). This decalogue, like the preceding one, 
has its characteristic words and expressions. The prom- 
inent word which introduces so many of the enactments 
is 1TS3, “soul” (see iv, 2, 27 ; v, 1, 2, 4, 15, 17 ; vi, 2), and 
the phrase, “ If a soul shall sin” (iv, 2), is, with occasional 
variations having an equivalent meaning, the distinctive 
phrase of the section. As in the former decalogue the 
nature of the offerings, so in this the person and the na- 
ture of the offence are the chief features in the several 
statutes. 

3. Naturally upon the law of sacrifices follows the 
law of the priests’ duties when they offer the sacrifices 
(ch. vi, vii). Hence we find Moses directed to address 
himself immediately to Aaron and his sons (vi, 2, 18 = 
vi, 9, 25, A.V.). In this group the different kinds of 
offerings are named in nearly the same order as in the 
two preceding decalogues, except that the offering at 
the consecration of a priest follows, instead of the thank- 
offering, immediately after the meat-offering, which it 
resembles, and the thank-offering now appears after the 
trespass-offering. There are, therefore, in all, six kinds 
of offering, and in the case of each of these the priest has 
his distinct duties. Bertheau has very ingeniously so 
distributed the enactments in which these duties are 
prescribed as to arrange them all in five decalogues. 
We will briefly indicate his arrangement. 

(1.) The first decalogue, (a.) “This is the law of the 
burnt -offering” (vi, 9, A.Y.), in five enactments, each 
verse (ver. 9-13) containing a separate enactment. ( b .) 
“And this is the law of the meat-offering” (verse 14), 
again in five enactments, each of which is, as before, 
contained in a single verse (ver. 14-18). 

(2.) The next decalogue is contained in verses 19-30. 
(<7.) Yer. 19 is merely introductory; then follow, in five 
verses, five distinct directions with regard to the offer- 
ing at the time of the consecration of the priests, the first 
in ver. 20, the next two in ver. 21, the fourth in the for- 
mer part of ver. 22, and the last in the latter part of ver. 
22 and ver. 23. (b.) “ This is the law of the sin-offer- 

ing” (ver. 25). Then the five enactments, each in one 
verse, except that two verses (27, 28) are given to the 
third. 

(3.) The third decalogue is contained in ch. vii, 1-10, 
the laws of the trespass-offering. But it is impossible 


402 


LEVITICUS 


LEVITICUS 


to avoid a misgiving as to the soundness of Bertheau’s 
svstein when we find him making the words “ It is most 
holy ” in verse 1, the first of the ten enactments. This 
lie ’is obliged to do, as verses 3 and 4 evidently form but 
one. 

(4.) The fourth decalogue, after an introductory verse 
(verse 11), is contained in ten verses (verses 12-21). 

(5.) The last decalogue consists of certain general 
laws about the fat, the blood, the wave-breast, etc., and 
is comprised again in ten verses (ver. 23-33), the verses, 
as before, marking the divisions. 

The chapter closes with a brief historical notice of 
the fact that these several commands were given to Mo- 
ses on Mount Sinai (verse 35-38). 

(II.) A n entirely historical section (chap, viii-x), in 
three parts.— 1. In ch. viii we have the account of the 
consecration of Aaron and his sons by Moses before the 
whole congregation. They are washed ; he is arrayed 
in the priestly vestments and anointed with the holy 
oil ; his sons also are arrayed in their garments, and the 
various offerings appointed are offered. 2. In chap, ix 
Aaron oilers, eight days after his consecration, his first of- 
fering for himself and the people : this comprises for him- 
self a sin- and burnt- offering, and a peace- (or thank-) 
offering. He blesses the people, and fire comes down 
from heaven and consumes the burnt-offering. 3. Ch. 
x tells how Nadab and Abihu, the sons of Aaron, eager 
to enjoy the privileges of their new office, and perhaps 
too much elated by its dignity, forgot or despised the 
restrictions by which it was fenced round (Exod. xxx, 
7, etc.), and, daring to “offer strange fire before Jeho- 
vah,” perished because of their presumption. 

With the house of Aaron began this wickedness in 
the sanctuary; with them, therefore, began also the di- 
vine punishment. Very touching is the story which 
follows. Aaron, though forbidden to mourn his loss 
(ver. 6, 7), will not eat the sin-offering in the holy place ; 
and when rebuked by Moses, pleads in his defence, 
“Such things have befallen me: and if I had eaten the 
sin-offering to-day, should it have been accepted in the 
sight of Jehovah ?” Moses, the lawgiver and the judge, 
admits the plea, and honors the natural feelings of the 
father’s heart, even when it leads to a violation of the 
letter of the divine commandment. 

(ITT.) The laws concerning purify and impurity , and 
the appropriate sacrifices and ordinances for putting 
away impurity (chap, xi-xvi). The first seven deca- 
logues had reference to the putting away of guilt. By 
the appointed sacrifices the separation between man and 
God was healed. The next seven concern themselves 
with the putting away of impurity. That chap, xi-xv 
hang together so as to form one series of laws there 
can be no doubt. Besides that they treat of kindred 
subjects, they have their characteristic words, 

“ unclean,” “uncleanness,” “ clean,” 

which occur in almost every verse. The only question 
is about ch. xvi, which by its opening is connected im- 
mediately with the occurrence related in ch. x. His- 
torically it would seem, therefore, that eh. xvi ought to 
have followed ch. x. As this order is neglected, it would 
lead ns to suspect that some other principle of arrange- 
ment than that of historical sequence has been adopted. 
This we find in the solemn significance of the great day 
of atonement. The high-priest on lhat day made atone- 
ment “because of the uncleanness of the children of Is- 
rael, and because of their transgressions in all their sins” 
(xvi, 10), and he “reconciled the holy place and the 
tabernacle of the congregation, and the altar” (ver. 20). 
Delivered from their guilt and cleansed from their pol- 
lutions, from that day forward the children of Israel en- 
tered upon a new and holy life. This was typified both 
by the ordinance that the bullock and the goat for the 
sin-offering were burnt without the camp '(ver. 27), and 
also by the sending away of the goat laden with the 
iniquities of the people into the wilderness. Ilence eh. 
xvi seems to stand most fitly at the end of this second 


group of seven decalogues. It has reference, v T e be- 
lieve, not only (as Bertheau supposes) to the putting 
away, as by one solemn act, of all those uneleannesscs 
mentioned in- ch. xi-xv, and for which the various ex- 
piations and cleansings there appointed were temporary 
and insufficient, but also to the making of atonement, in 
the sense of hiding sin or putting away its guilt. For 
not only do we find the idea of cleansing as from defile- 
ment, but far more prominently the idea of reconcilia- 
tion. The often-repeated word "IS-, “to cover, to 
atone,” is the great word of the section. 

1. The first decalogue in this group refers to clean 
and unclean flesh (ch. xi). Five classes of animals are 
pronounced unclean. The first four enactments declare 
what animals may or may not be eaten, whether (1) 
beasts of the earth (ver. 2-8), or (2) fishes (ver. 9-12), 
or (3) birds (verse 13-20), or (4) creeping tilings with 
wings. The next four are intended to guard against 
pollution by contact with the carcase of any of these 
animals: (5) ver. 24-26 ; (6) ver. 27, 28 ; (7) ver. 29-38 ; 
(8) verse 39-40. The ninth and tenth specify the last 
class of animals which are unclean for food, (9) ver. 41, 
42, and forbid any other kind of pollution by means of 
them, (10) verse *43-45. Verse 46 and 47 are merely a 
concluding summary. 

2. ( a .) Women’s purification in childbed (chap. xii). 

The whole of this chapter, according to Bertheau, con- 
stitutes (1) the first law of this decalogue, (h.) The re- 
maining nine are to be found in the next chapter (xiii), 
which treats of the signs of leprosy in man and in gar- 
ments: (2) ver. 1-8; (3) ver. 9-17 ; (4) ver. 18-23; (5) 
ver. 24-28; (6) ver. 29-37; (7) ver. 38, 39; (8) ver. 40, 
41; (9) ver. 42-46; (10) ver. 47-59. This arrangement 
of the several sections is not altogether free from objec- 
tion, but it is certainly supported by the characteristic 
mode in which each section opens. Thus, for instance, 
ch. xii, 2 begins with ; eh. xiii, 2 with 

rnrr ^3 mx, ver. 9 with rvnn nrns raj, and 
so on, the same order being always observed, the sub- 
stantive being placed first, then ^3, and then the verb, 
except only in ver. 42, where the substantive is placed 
after the verb. 

3. “ The law of the leper in the day of his cleansing,” 
i. e. the law which the priest is to observe in purifying 
the leper (xiv, 1-32). The priest is mentioned in ten 
verses, each of which begins one of the ten sections of 
this law : ver. 3, 4, 5, 1 1, 12, 14, 15, 16, 19, 20. In each 
instance the word “jlnsri is preceded by 1 consecut. with 
the perf. It is true that in verse 3, and also in verse 14, 
the word p"3n occurs twice; but in both verses there 
is MS. authority, as well as that of the Vulg. and Aral), 
versions, for the absence of the second. Verses 21-32 
may be regarded as a supplemental provision in cases 
where the leper is too poor to bring the required offering. 

4. The leprosy in a house (xiv, 33-57). It is not so 
easy here to trace the arrangement noticed in so many 
other laws. There are no characteristic words or phrases 
to guide us. Bertheau’s division is as follows: (1) ver. 
34,35; (2) ver. 36, 37; (3) ver. 38; (4)vir.39; (5) ver. 
40 ; (6) ver. 41, 42 ; (7) ver. 43-45. Then, as usual, fol- 
lows a short summary which closes the statute concern- 
ing leprosy, ver. 51-57. 

5. 6. The law of uncleanness bv issue, ete., in two 
decalogues (xv, 1-15; xv, 16-31). The division is 
clearly marked, as Bertheau observes, by the form of 
cleansing, which is so exactly similar in the two princi- 
pal cases, and which closes each series: (1) ver. 13-15; 
(2) ver. 28-30. We again give his arrangement, though 
we do not profess to regard it as in all respects satisfac- 
tory. 

(«.) (1) Ver. 2, 3; (2) ver. 4; (3) ver. 5; (4) ver. 6; 
(5) ver. 7; (6) ver. 8; (7) ver. 9; (8) ver. 10; (9) ver. 
11, 12 [these Bertheau considers as one enactment, be- 
cause it is another way of saying that either the man 
or thing which the unclean person touches is imelean; 


LEVITICUS 


LEVITICUS 


403 


but, on the same principle, verses 4 and 5 might just as 
well form one enactment] ; (10) ver. 13-15. 

(5.) (1) Ver. 16; (2) ver. 17; (S) ver. 18; (4) ver. 19; 
(5) ver. 20; (6) ver. 21; (7) ver. 22; (8) ver. 23; (9) 
ver. 24; (10) ver. 28-30. In order to complete this ar- 
rangement, he considers ver. 25-27 as a kind of supple- 
mentary enactment provided lor an irregular unclean- 
ness, leaving it as quite uncertain, however, whether 
this was a later addition or not. A erses 32 and oo form 
merely the same general conclusion which we have had 
before in xiv, 54-57. 

7. The last decalogue of the second group of seven dec- 
alogues is to be found in chap, xvi, which treats of the 
great dav of atonement. The law itsell is contained in 
verses 1-28. The remaining verses, 29-34, consist of an 
exhortation to its careful observance. In the .act of 
atonement three persons are concerned : the high-priest, 
in this instance Aaron; the man who leads away the goat 
for Azazel into the wilderness; and he who burns the 
skin, flesh, and dung of the bullock and goat of the sin- 
offering without the camp. The last two have special 
purifications assigned them — the second because he has 
touched the goat laden with the guilt of Israel, the third ( 
because he has come in contact with the sin-offering. | 
The ninth and tenth enactments prescribe what these i 
purifications are, each of them concluding with the same ! 
formula, n2IT2n and hence distin- 

guished from each other. The duties ef Aaron, conse- 
quently, ought, if the division into decades is correct, to 
be comprised in eight enactments. Now the name of | 
Aaron is repeated eight times, and in six of these it is 
preceded by the perf. with 1 consecut., as we observed 
was the case before when “the priest” was the prominent 
figure. According to this, then, the decalogue will stand 
thus : (1) Verse 2, Aaron not to enter the holy place at all 
times; (2) verses 3-5, with what sacrifices and in what 
dress Aaron is to enter the holy place; (3) verses 6, 7, 
Aaron to offer the bullock for himself, and to set the two 
goats before Jehovah ; (4) Aaron to cast lots on the two 
goats; (5) verses 9, 10, Aaron to offer the goat on which 
the lot falls for Jehovah, and to send away the goat for 
Azazel into the wilderness; (6) verses 11-19, Aaron to i 
sprinkle the blood both of the bullock and of the goat 
to make atonement for himself, for his house, and for the 
whole congregation, as also to purify the altar of incense 
with the blood ; (7) verses 20-22, Aaron to lay his hands 
on the living goat, and confess over it all the sins of the 
children of Israel ; (8) verses 23-25, Aaron after tins to 
take off his linen garments, bathe himself, and put on 
his priestly garments, and then offer his burnt-offering 
and that of the congregation ; (9) verse 26, the man by 
whom the goat is sent into the wilderness to purify him- I 
self; (10) verses 27-28, what is to be done by him who ! 
burns the sin-offering without the camp, 

(IV.) Laws chiefly intended to mark the Separation he- j 
tween Israel and the Heathen Nations (chap, xvii-xx). — 1 
We here reach the great central point of the book. All 
going before was but a preparation for this. Two great 
truths have been established: first, that God can only 
be approached by means of appointed sacrifices ; next, 
that man in nature and life is full of pollution, which 
must be cleansed. Now a third is taught, viz., that not 
by several cleansings for several sins and pollutions can 
guilt be put away. The several acts of sin are but so 
many manifestations of the sinful nature. For this, 
therefore, also must atonement be made by one solemn 
act, which shall cover all transgressions, and turn away 
God’s righteous displeasure from Israel. Israel is now 
reminded that it is the holy nation. The great atone- 
ment offered, it is to enter upon a new life. It is a sep- 
arate nation, sanctified and set apart for the service of 
God. It may not, therefore, do after the abominations 
of the heathen by whom it is surrounded. Here, conse- 
quently, we find those laws and ordinances which espe- 
cially distinguish the nation of Israel from all other na- 
tions of the earth. 


Here again we may trace, as before, a group e f seven 
decalogues ; but the several decalogues are not so clearly 
marked, nor are the characteristic phrases and the intro- 
ductions and conclusions so common. In ch. xviii there 
are twenty enactments, and in ch. xix thirty. In ch. 
xvii, on the other hand, there are only six, and in ch. xx 
there are fourteen. As it is quite manifest that the en- 
actments in ch. xviii are entirely separated by a fresh 
introduction from those in ch. xvii, Berthean, in order 
to preserve the usual arrangement of the laws in deca- 
logues, would transpose this chapter, and place it after 
ch. xix. He observes that the laws in ch. xvii, and those 
in chap, xx, 1-9, are akin to one another, and may very 
well constitute a single decalogue, and, what is of more 
importance, that the words in xviii, 1-5 form the natu- 
ral introduction to this whole group of laws: “And Je- 
hovah spake unto Moses, saying, Speak unto the chil- 
dren of Israel, and say unto them, I am Jehovah your 
God. After the doings of the land of Egypt, wherein 
ye dwelt, shall ye not do; and after the doings of the 
land of Canaan, whither I bring you, shall ye not do; 
neither shall ye walk in their ordinances,” etc. There 
is, however, a point of connection between chapters xvii 
and xviii which must not be overlooked, and which 
seems to indicate that their position in our present text 
is the right one. All the six enactments in chap, xvii 
(ver. 3-5, ver. 6, 7, ver. 8, 9, ver. 10-12, ver. 13, 14, ver. 15) 
bear upon the nature and meaning of the sacrifice to Je- 
hovah as compared with the sacrifices offered to false 
gods. It would seem, too, that it was necessary to guard 
against any license to idolatrous practices which might 
possibly be drawn from the sending of the goat for Aza- 
zel into the wilderness [see Atonement, Day of], es- 
pecially, perhaps, against the Egyptian custom of ap- 
peasing the evil spirit of the wilderness and averting 
his malice (Ilengstenberg, Mose n . sEgypten, p. 179 ; Mo- 
vers, Phonicier , i, 369). To this there may be an allu- 
sion in ver. 7. Perhaps, however, it is better and more 
simple to regard the enactments in these two chapters 
(with Bunsen, Bibehcerk, 11, i, 245) as directed against 
two prevalent heathen practices, the eating of blood and 
fornication. It is remarkable, as showing how inti- 
mately moral and ritual observances were blended to- 
gether in the Jewish mind, that abstinence “ from blood 
and things strangled, and fornication,” was laid down by 
the apostles as the only condition of communion to be 
required of Gentile converts to Christianity. Before we 
quit this chapter one observation may be made. The 
rendering of the A.Y. in ver. 11,“ lor it is the blood that 
maketh an atonement for the soul,” should be, “for it is 
the blood that maketh an atonement by means of the 
life." This is important. It is not blood merely as 
such, but blood as having in it the principle of life that 
God accepts in sacrifice ; for, hv thus giving vicariously 
the life of the dumb animal, the sinner confesses that his 
own life is forfeit. 

In ch. xviii, after the introduction to which we have 
already alluded, ver. 1-5 — and in which God claims obe- 
1 dience oil the double ground that he is Israel’s God, and 
that to keep his commandments is life (ver. 5) — there 
| follow twenty enactments concerning unlawful mar- 
riages and unnatural lusts. The first ten are contained 
one in each verse (verses 6-15). The next ten range 
themselves in like manner with the verses, except that 
verses 17 and 23 contain each two. Of the twenty the 
first fourteen are alike in form, as well as in the repeated 

n 5 an xb rn-ir. 

In chap, xix are three decalogues, introduced by the 
words, “ Ye shall be holy, for I Jehovah your God am 
holy,” and ending with, “Ye shall observe all my stat- 
utes, and all my judgments, and do them. I am Jeho- 
vah.” The laws here are of a very mixed character, 
and many of them a repetition merely of previous laws. 
Of the three decalogues, the first is comprised in verses 
3-13. and may be thus distributed: (1) verse 3, to honor 
father and mother; (2) ver. 3. to keep the Sabbath; (o) 
ver. 4, not to turn to idols : (4) ver. 4, not to make mol- 


LEVITICUS 


404 


LEVITICUS 


ten gods (these two enactments being separated on the 
same principle as the tirst and second commandments 
in the Great Decalogue or Two Tables) ; (5) verses 5-8, 
of thank-offerings; (0) ver. 0, 10, of gleaning; (7) verse 
1 1. not to steal or lie; (8) verse 12, not to swear falsely; 
(9 1 verse 13, not to defraud one’s neighbor; (10) verse 
13. the wages of him that is hired, etc. 

The next decalogue, verses 14-25, Bertheau arranges 
thus: ver. 14, ver. 15, ver. 16a, ver. 106, ver. 17, ver. 18, 
ver. 1 9c/, ver. 196, ver. 20-22 t ver. 23-25. We object, 
however, to making the words in 19o, “ Ye shall keep 
my statutes,” a separate enactment. There is no reason 
for this. A much better plan would be to consider ver. 
17 as consisting of two enactments, which is manifestly 
the case. 

The third decalogue may be thus distributed : verse 
2G(/, ver. 206, ver. 27, ver. 28, ver. 29, ver. 30, ver. 31, ver. 
32. ver. 33, 34, ver. 35, 30. 

W c have thus found five decalogues in this group. 
Bertheau completes the number seven by transposing, 
as we have seen, chap, xvii, and placing it immediately 
before ch. xx. lie also transfers ver. 27 of ch. xx to 
what he considers its proper place, viz., after ver. 0. It 
must be confessed that the enactment in ver. 27 stands 
very awkwardly at the end of the chapter, completely 
isolated as it is from all other enactments; for ver. 22- 
20 are the natural conclusion to this whole section. But, 
admitting this, another difficulty remains, that, accord- 
ing to him, the seventh decalogue begins at ver. 10, and 
another transposition is necessary, so that ver. 7, 8 may 
stand after verse 9, and so conclude the preceding series 
ol ten enactments, it is better, perhaps, to abandon 
the search for complete symmetry than to adopt a meth- 
od so violent in order to obtain it. 

It should be observed that ch. xviii, 6-23, and ch. xx, 
10-21, stand in such a relation to one another that the 
latter declares the penalties attached to the transgres- 
sion of many of the commandments given in the former. 
But, though we may not be able to trace in chap, xvii 
-xx seven decalogues, in accordance with the theory of 
which we have been speaking, there can be no doubt 
that they form a distinct section of themselves, of which 
xx, 22-26 is the proper conclusion. 

Like the other sections, it has some characteristic 
expressions: (a) * k Ye shall keep my judgments and my 
statutes” ("Tpn, *^3'lj*2) occurs xviii, 4, 5, 26; xix, 
37 ; xx. 8, 22, but is not met with either in the preced- 
ing or the following chapters. (6) The constantly re- 
curring phrases, •* I am Jehovah,” *■ I am Jehovah your 
God,” ‘*Bc ye holy, for I am holy,” d am Jehovah 
which hallow you.” In the earlier sections this phrase- 
ology is only found in Lev. xi, 44, 45. and Exod. xxxi, 
13. In the section which follows (chap, xxi-xxv) it is 
much more common, this section being in a great meas- 
ure a continuation of the preceding. 

(V.) We conic now to the last group of decalogues — 
that contained in ch. xxi-xxvi, 2. The subjects com- 
prised in those enactments are — 1. The personal purity 
of the priests. They may not detile themselves for the 
dead; their wives and daughters must be pure, and 
they themselves must be free from all personal blemish 
(ch. xxi). 2. fhe eating of the. holy things is permit- 
ted only to priests who are free from all uncleanness: 
they and their household only may eat them (ch. xxii. 1- 
16 ). 3. The offerings of Israel are to be pure and with- 
out blemish (eh. xxii, 17 33 ). 4. The last series provides 
for the due celebration of the great festivals when priests 
and people were to be gathered together before Jehovah 
in holy convocation (ch. xxiii. xxv), with an episode 
(ch. xxiv). 

Up to this point wc trace system and purpose in the 
order of the legislation. Thus, for instance, eh. xi-xvi 
treats of external purity; ch. xvii-xx of moral purity; 
chap, xxi-xxiii of the holiness of the priests^ and their 
duties with regard to holy things: the whole concluding 
with provisions for the solemn leasts on which all Israel 
appeared before Jehovah. We will again briefly indi- 


cate Bortheau’s groups, and then append some general 
observations on this whole section. 

а. Chapter xxi, ten laws, as follows: (1) ver. 1-3; (2) 
ver. 4 ; (3) ver. 5, 6 ; (4) ver. 7, 8 ; (5) ver. 9 ; (6) ver. 10, 
11 ; (7) ver. 12 ; (8) ver. 13, 14 ; (9) ver. 17-21 : (10) ver. 
22, 23. The lirst live laws concern all the priests ; the 
sixth to the eighth, the liigh-priest ; the ninth and tenth, 
the effects of bodily blemish in particular cases. 

б. Chap, xxii, 1-16. (1) ver. 2 ; (2) ver. 3 ; (3) ver. 4 ; 
(4) ver. 4-7 ; (5) ver. 8, 9; (6) ver. 10 ; (7) ver. 11 ; (8) 
ver. 12; (9) ver. 13; (10) ver. 14-16. 

c. Chap, xxii, 17-33. (1) ver. 18-20 ; (2) ver. 21 ; (3) 

ver. 22 ; (4) ver. 23 ; (5) ver. 24 ; (6) ver. 25 ; (7) ver. 
27 ; (8) ver. 28; (9) ver. 29; (10) ver. 30; and a general 
conclusion in verse 31-33. 

d. Chap, xxiii. (1) ver. 3 ; (2) ver. 5-7 ; (3) ver. 8 ; 
(4) ver. 9-14; (5) ver. 15-21; (6) ver. 22; (7) ver. 24, 
25 ; (8) ver. 27-32 ; (9) ver. 34, 35 ; (10) ver. 36 ; verses 
37, 38 contain the conclusion, or general summing up of 
the Decalogue. On the remainder of the chapter, as 
well as chapter xxiv, see below. 

e. Chap, xxv, 1-22. (1) ver. 2 ; (2 ) ver. 3, 4 ; (3) ver. 

5 ; (4) ver. 6 ; (5) ver. 8-10 ; (6) ver. 11,12; (7) ver. 13 ; 
(8) ver. 14; (9) ver. 15; (10) ver. 16; with a concluding 
formula in verse 18-22. 

f. Chap, xxv, 23-38. (1) ver. 23, 24 ; (2 ) ver. 25 ; (3) 

ver. 26. 27 ; (4) ver. 28 ; (5) ver. 29 ; (0) ver. 30 ; (7) ver. 
31 ; (8) ver. 32, 33; (9) ver. 34; (10) ver. 35-37 ; the 
conclusion to the whole in verse 38. 

g. Chap. xxv. 39-xxvi,2, (1) ver. 39 ; (2) ver. 40-42; 
(3) ver. 43 ; (4) ver. 44, 45 ; (5) ver. 46 : (6 ) ver. 47-49 ; 
(7) ver. 50; (8) ver. 51,52; (9) ver. 53; (10) ver. 54. 

It will 1)0 observed that the above arrangement is only 
completed by omitting the latter part of ch. xxiii and the 
whole of ch. xxiv. But it is clear that ch. xxiii, 39-44 
is an addition, containing further instructions respect- 
ing the Feast of Tabernacles. Verse 39, as compared 
with verse 34. shows that the same feast is rclerred to; 
while ver. 37, 38 are no less manifestly the original con- 
clusion of the laws respecting the feasts which are enu- 
merated in the previous part of the chapter. Ch. xxiv, 
again, lias a peculiar character of its own. First, we 
have a command concerning the oil to be used in the 
lamps belonging to the tabernacle, but this is only a 
repetition of an enactment already given in Exod. xxvii, 
20, 21, which seems to be its natural place. Then fol- 
low' directions about the shew bread. These do not oc- 
cur previously. In Exodus the shewbroad is spoken 
of always as a matter of course, concerning which no 
regulations are necessary (comp. Exod. xxv. 30; xxxv, 
13; xxxix, 36). Lastly come certain enactments .aris- 
ing out of a historical occurrence. The son of an Egyp- 
tian father bv an Israelitisli woman blasphemes the 
name of Jehovah, and Closes is commanded to stone 
him in consequence: and this circumstance is the occa- 
sion of the following laws being given : (1) That a blas- 
phemer. whether Israelite or stranger, is to be stoned 
(comp. Exod. xxii, 28) : (2) That he that kills any man 
shall surely be put to death (comp. Exod. xxi. 12-27); 
(3) That he that kills a beast shall make it good (not 
found where we might have expected it, in the scries 
of laws Exod. xxi, 28 -xxii, 16) : (4) That if a man cause 
a blemish in his neighbor be shall be requited in like 
manner (comp. Exod. xxi, 22-25). (5) We have then 

a repetition in an inverse order of verses 17, 18; and (6) 
the injunction that there shall be one law for the stran- 
ger and the Israelite; (7) finally, a brief notice *>f tlio 
infliction of the punishment in the case of the son of 
Shelotnith. who blasphemed. Not another instance is 
to be found in the whole collection in which any histor- 
ical circumstance is made the occasion of enacting a law'. 
Then, again, the laws (2), (3), (4), (5), are mostly rep- 
etitions of existing laws, and seem here to have no con- 
nection with the event to which tliev arc referred. 
Either, therefore, some other circumstances took place 
at the same time with which we are not acquainted, or 
these isolated law's, detached from their proper conuec- 


LEVITICUS 


405 


LEVITICUS 


tion, were grouped together here, in obedience perhaps 
to some traditional association. 

(VI.) These decalogues are now fitly closed by words 
of promise and threat — promise of largest, richest bless- 
ing to those that hearken unto and do these command- 
ments; threats of utter destruction to those that break 
the covenant of their God. Thus the second great di- 
vision of the law closes like the first, except that the 
first part, or Hook of the Covenant, ends (Exod. xxiii, 
20-33) with promises of blessing only. There nothing 
is said of the judgments which are to follow transgres- 
sion. because as yet the covenant had not been made, 
llut when once the nation had freely entered into that 
covenant, they bound themselves to accept its sanctions, 
t its penalties, as well as its rewards. Nor can we won- 
der if in these sanctions the punishment of transgression 
holds a larger place than the rewards of obedience; for 
already was it but too plain that “Israel would not 
obey,” From the first they were a stiff-necked and re- 
bellious race, and from the first the doom of disobedience 
hung like a fiery sword above their heads. 

(VII.) On Vows . — The legislation is evidently com- 
pleted in the last words of the preceding chapter: 
“ These are the statutes, and judgments, and laws which 
Jehovah made between him and the children of Israel 
in Mount Sinai by the hand of Moses.” Chap, xxvii is 
an appendix , again closed, however, by a similar formu- 
la, which at least shows that the transcriber considered 
it to be an integral part of the original Mosaic legisla- 
tion, though he might be at a loss to assign it its place. 
Bertheau classes it with the other less regularly grouped 
laws at the beginning of the book of Numbers. He 
treats the section Lev. xxvii-Nnmb. x, 10 as a series of 
supplements to the Sinaitic legislation. 

II. Integrity. — This is very generally admitted. 
Those critics even who are in favor of different docu- 
ments in the Pentateuch assign nearly the whole of this 
book to one -writer, the. Elohist, or author of the original 
document. According to Knobel, the only portions 
which are not to be referred to the Elohist are — Moses’s 
rebuke of Aaron because the goat of the sin-offering 
had been burnt (x, 16-20); the group of laws in chap, 
xvii-xx; certain additional enactments respecting the 
Sabbath and the feasts of Weeks and of Tabernacles 
(xxiii, part of ver. 2, from rfilTH and ver. 3, ver. 

18, 10, 22, 30-44); the punishments ordained for blas- 
phemy, murder, etc, (xxiv, 10-23); the directions re- 
specting the sabbatical year (xxv, 18-22), and the prom- 
ises and warnings contained in eh. xxvi. 

With regard to the section eh. xvii-xx, Knobel does 
not consider the whole of it to have been borrowed from 
the same sources. Ch. xvii he believes was introduced 
here by the Jehovist from some ancient document, while 
he admits, nevertheless, that it contains certain Elohis- 
tic forms of expression, as “lbs hh, “all flesh,” ver. 14; 
1J23, “soul” (in the sense of “person”), ver. 10-12, 15 
“beast,” ver. 13, jS'HJ?, “offering,” ver. 4; 
nirP3, “a sweet savor,” verse 6; “a statute forever,” 
and “after your generations,” ver. 7. But it cannot be 
from the Elohist, he argues, because (a) he would have 
placed it after ch. vii, or at least after ch. xv; ( b ) he 
would not have repeated the prohibition of blood, etc., 
which he had already given; (c) he would have taken 
a more favorable view of his nation than that implied 
in ver. 7 ; and, lastly, ( d) the phraseology has something 
of the coloring of ch. xviii-xx and xxvi, which are cer- 
tainly not Elohistic. Such reasons are too transparent- 
ly unsatisfactory to need serious discussion. He ob- 
serves further that the chapter is not altogether Mosaic. 
r lhe first enactment (ver. 1-7) does indeed apply only to 
Israelites, and holds good, therefore, for the time of Mo- 
ses. But the remaining three contemplate the case of 
strangers living among the people, and have a reference 
to all time. 

Ch. xviii-xx, though they have a Jehovistic coloring, 


cannot have been originally from the Jehovist. The 
following peculiarities of language, which are worthy 
of notice, according to Ivnobel (Exod. und Leviticus er- 
k/art, in the “ Kurzg . Exeg. Jfdbuch .” 1857), forbid such 
a supposition, the more so as they occur nowhere else iii 
the O. T. ; ”2*1, “ lie down to” and “ gender,” xviii, 23 ; 
xix, 10, xx, 16, bin, “confusion,” xviii, 23; xx, 12, 
“gather,” xix, 0 ; xxiii, 22; L^D, “grape,” xix, 
10; tTIN'r, “near kinswomen,” xviii, 17; P'npa, 
“scourged,” xix, 20; JYw'En, “free,” ibid. ; 
rz*ri3, “print marks,” xix, 28; “vomit,” in the 

metaphorical sense, xviii, 25, 28; xx, 22; PPPP, “un- 
circumcised,” as applied to fruit-trees, xix, 23; and 
1*2, “born,” xviii, 9,11; as well as the Egyptian 
word (for such it probably is) TSpP'j, “garment of di- 
vers sorts,” which, however, does occur once beside in 
Dent, xxii, 11. 

According to Bunsen, chap, xix is a genuine part of 
the Mosaic legislation, given, however, in its original 
form, not on Sinai, but on the east side of the Jordan ; 
while the general arrangement of the Mosaic laws may 
perhaps be as late as the time of the judges. He re- 
gards it as a very ancient document, based on the Two 
Tables, of which, and especially of the first, it is, in fact, 
an extension, consisting of two decalogues and one pen- 
tad of laws. Certain expressions in it he considers as im- 
plying that the people were already settled in the land 
(ver. 0, 10, 13, 15), while, on the other hand, ver. 23 sup- 
poses a future occupation of the land. Hence he con- 
cludes that the revision of this document by the tran- 
scribers was incomplete ; whereas all the passages may 
fairly be interpreted as looking forward to a future set- 
tlement in Canaan, The great simplicity and lofty 
moral character of this section compel us, says Bunsen, 
to refer it at least to the earlier time of the judges, if 
not to that of Joshua himself. 

III. Authenticity , etc . — Some critics, however, such as 
De Wette, Gramberg, Yatke, and others, have strenu- 
ously endeavored to prove that the laws contained in 
Leviticus originated in a period much later than is usu- 
ally supposed; but the following observations sufficient- 
ly support their Mosaical origin, and show that the 
whole of Leviticus is historically genuine. The laws in 
chap, i— vii contain manifest vestiges of the Mosaical pe- 
riod. Here, as well as in Exodus, when the priests are 
mentioned, Aaron and his sons are named; as, for in- 
stance, in chap, i, 4, 7, 8, 1 1, etc. The tabernacle is the 
sanctuary, and no other place of worship is mentioned 
anywhere (i, 3 ; iii, 8, 13, etc.). The Israelites .are al- 
ways described as a congregation (iv, 13 sq.), under the 
command of the elder's of the congregation (iv, 16), or of 
a rider (iv, 22). Everything has reference to life in 
a camp, and that camp commanded by Moses (iv, 12, 
21; vi, 11; xiv, 8; xvi, 26, 28). A later writer could 
scarcely have placed himself so entirely in the times, 
and so completely adopted the modes of thinking of the 
age of Moses; especially if, as has been asserted, these 
laws gradually sprung from the usages of the people, 
and were written down at a later period with the object 
of sanctioning them by the authority of Moses. They 
so entirely befit the Mosaical age that, in order to adapt 
them to the requirements of any later period, they must 
have undergone some modification, accommodation, and 
a peculiar mode of interpretation. This inconvenience 
would have been avoided by a person who intended to 
forge laws in favor of the later modes of Levitical wor- 
ship. A forger would have endeavored to identify the 
past as much as possible with the present. 

The section in chap, viii-x is said to have a mythical 
coloring. This assertion is grounded on the miracle 
narrated in ch. ix, 24. But what could have been the 
inducement to forge this section? It is said that the 
priests invented it in order to support the authority of 
the sacerdotal caste by the solemn ceremony of Aaron's 
consecration. But to such au intention the narration 


LEVITICUS 


406 


LEVY 


of the crime committed by Nadab and Abihu is striking- 
ly opposed. Even Aaron himself here appears to be 
rather remiss in the observance of the law (comp, x, 1G 
sq., with iv, 22 sq.). lienee it would seem that the for- 
gery arose from an opposite or anti-hierarchical tenden- 
cy. The fiction would thus appear to have been con- 
trived without any motive which could account for its 
origin. 

In ch. xvii occurs the law which forbids the slaugh- 
ter of any beast except at the sanctuary. This law 
could not* be strictly kept in Palestine, and had there- 
fore to undergo some modification (Deut. xii). Our 
opponents cannot show any rational inducement for con- 
triving such a fiction. The law (xvii, G, 7) is adapted 
to the nation only while emigrating from Egypt. It 
was the object of this law to guard the Israelites from 
falling into the temptation to imitate the Egyptian rites 
and sacrifices offered to he-goats se'irim, 

“ devils,” Sept. parala, Yulg. diemones), which word 
signifies also diemons represented under the form of he- 
goats, and which were supposed to inhabit the desert 
(comp. Jablonsky, Pantheon xEgyptiacum, i, 272 sq.). 

The laws concerning food and purifications appear 
especially important if we remember that the people 
emigrated from Egypt. The fundamental principle of 
these laws is undoubtedly Mosaical, but in the individ- 
ual application of them there is much that strongly re- 
minds us of Egypt. This is also the case in Lev. xviii 
sq., where the lawgiver has manifestly in view the two 
opposites, Canaan and Egypt. That the lawgiver was 
intimately acquainted with Egypt is proved by such 
remarks as hint at the Egyptian marriages with sisters 
(xviii, 3); a custom which stands as an exception among 
the prevailing habits of antiquity (Diod. Siculus, i, 27 ; 
Pausanias, A tfica, i, 7). 

The book of Leviticus has a prophetical character. 
This is especially manifest in eh. xxv, xxvi, where the 
law appears in a truly sublime and divine attitude, and 
when its predictions refer to the whole futurity of the 
nation. It is impossible to say that these were raticinia 
ex ere nil/, unless we would assert that this book was 
written at the close of Israelitish history. We must 
rather grant that passages like this are the real basis 
on which the authority of later prophets is chiefly built. 
Such passages prove also in a striking manner that the 
lawgiver had not merely an external aim, but that his 
law had a deeper purpose, which was clearly understood 
by Moses bimself. That purpose was to regidate the 
national life in all its bearings, and to consecrate the 
whole nation to God. See, especially, chap, xxv, 18 sep 
Although this section has a general bearing, it is never- 
theless manifest that it originated in the times of Moses. 
At a later period, for instance, it would have been im- 
practicable to promulgate the law concerning the Sab- 
bath and the year of jubilee; for it was soon sufficiently 
proved bow far the nation in reality remained behind 
the ideal Israel of the law. The sabbatical law bears 
the impress of a time when the whole legislation, in its 
fulness and glory, was directly communicated to the 
people in such a maimer as to attract, penetrate, and 
command. 

IV. We must not quit this book without a word on 
what may be called its spiritual meaning. That so elab- 
orate a ritual looked beyond itself we cannot, doubt. It 
was a prophecy of things to come; a shadow whereof 
the substance was Christ and his kingdom. We may 
not always be able to say what the exact relation is be- 
tween the type and the antitype. Of many things we 
may he sure that they belonged only to the nation to 
whom they were given, containing no prophetic signifi- 
cance, but serving as witnesses and signs to them of 
God’s covenant of grace. We may hesitate to pro- 
noiiuce with Jerome that ‘‘every sacrifice, nay. almost 
every syllable — the garments of Aaron and the whole 
Levitical system — breathe of heavenly mysteries;” but 
we cannot read the Epistle to the Hebrews and not ac- 
knowledge that the Levitical priests “ served the pat- 


tern and type of heavenly things” — that the sacrifices 
of the law pointed to and found their interpretation in 
the Lamb of God — that the ordinances of outward puri- 
fication signified the truer inward cleansing of the heart 
and conscience from dead works to serve the living God. 
One idea, moreover, penetrates the whole of this vast 
and burdensome ceremonial, and gives it a real glory, 
even apart from any prophetic significance. Holiness 
is its end. Holiness is its character. The tabernacle is 
holy — the vessels are holy — the offerings are most holy 
unto Jehovah — the garments of the priests are holy. 
All who approach him whose name is ** Holy,” whether 
priests who minister to him or people who worship be- 
fore him, must themselves be holy. It would seem as 
if, amid the camp and dwellings of Israel, was ever to 
be heard an echo of that solemn strain which fills the 
courts above, where the seraphim cry one to another, 
Holy, Holy, Holy. 

Y. Commentaries. — The following are the special ex- 
egetieal helps on the whole or major part of this book, 
to the most important of which we prefix an asterisk; 
Origen, & ’electa (in Opp. ii, 170); also Jfomilice (ibid, iv, 
184); Ephrem Syrus . Explanatio (in Syriac, in Opp. ii, 
230): Theodoret, Qiuestiones (in Greek, in Opp. i) ; Isi- 
dortis II ispalensis, Commentariu (in Opp. i) ; Bode, Quees- 
tiones (in Opp. viii) ; also In Levit: {ibid, iv); Ilesychi- 
us, In Levit. (in Greek, Laris, 1581, 4to; also in the Bib- 
Ha Max. Patr. xii) ; Claudius Taurinensis, Prcefatio (in 
Mabillon, Veter. A na led. p. 00); Hugo a St.Yictor, An- 
notatianes (in Opp. i); Itupertus Tuitiensis, In Levit. (in 
Opp A, 220') ; Eadulphus Flaviacensis, Commentaria (Col. 
1530, folio ; also in the Biblia Max. Patr. xvii, 47) ; Pe- 
siktha-Minns, Commentarius (inelnd. Numb, and Deut.] 
(from the Ileb. in Ugolino, Thesaitr. xv, 007 ; xvi sq.); 
Phrygio, Explanatio [together with 1 Tim.] (Basil. 
1543. 4to; 159G, 8vo); Brcntius, Commentarii (in Opp. 
i); Chytrreus, Enarrationes (Yitemb. 1500, 1575, 8vo) ; 
Serranus, Comment anus ( Ant wp. 1572, 1000, fob); Bro- 
cardus. interpretatio (L. B. 1580, Svo) ; Babington, Notes 
(in lEo ?■/.>', p. 340) ; Pelargus. Comment an’ us (Lips. 1G04, 
4to): Lorinus, Commentarii (Ludgun. 1010, 1G22; Duac. 
1020; Antwerp, 1020, fob); Willet, Sixfold Comment a vie 
(Loud. 1031, fob) ; Franzius, Commentarius (Lips. 1G0C, 
4to); Spanlieim, Observationes (in Opp. iii, 017); Coc- 
ceius, Observationes (in Opp. i, 158): ^Patrick, Commen- 
tary (Lond. 1008, 4to; also in Patrick. Lowth. and Whit- 
by's Commentary)', Dassovius, /Scholia (Kilom. 1707, 
4to); Hagcmann, Betrachtungen (Brunswick, 17 11, 4to) ; 
*Boscumuller, Scholia (Lips. 1824. 8vo) ; Horsley. Notes 
(in Bibl.Crit. i); *Bcrtlieau, JJieSieben Grvppen Mos.Ge- 
setze (Lpz. 1840, Svo) ; James. Sermons (Lond. 1847, Svo) ; 
*I>onar, Commentary (Lond. 1851 [3d e<b], 1801 : N.Y. 
1851, Svo) ; *Bush. Notes (N.Y. 1852, 12mo) ; Camming, 
Readings (Lond. 1854, 12mo) ; *K nobel, ErlUirung [in- 
clud. Exod.] (vol. ii of the Kvrtzgef. Exeg. Ildbch. Lpz. 
1857, Svo) ; Newton. Thoughts (Loud. 1857, 12mo); *l\a- 
liscli, Commentanj ( London. 1857 sq., 2 vols. Svo) ; Seiss, 
Gospel in Levit. (Pliila. 1800. 12mo); *Kcil, Commcutar 
(in vol. ii of his Pentateuch, Leipsie, 18G2, Ediub. 1800, 
Svo); Siphra, Commentar (in lIcb.Yienna, 1802, folio); 
Wogne, Lev ii i«] ue (vol. iii of his Pcnlateuquc, Par. 1804, 
Svo); *Murphv, Commentary (Lond. and Andover, 1872, 
8vo). See Pentateuch. 

Levity is a term used to designate a certain light*, 
ness of spirit in opposition to gravity. Nothing can he 
more proper than for a Christian to wear an air of cheer- 
fulness, and to watch against a morose and gloomy dis- 
position. But. though it be liis privilege to rejoice, yet 
he must be cant ions -of that volatility of spirit which 
characterizes the unthinking, and marks the vain pro- 
fessor. To be cheerful without levity, and grave with- 
out austerity, forms both a happy and dignified charac- 
ter.— Buck. Theol. Diet. s. v. Sec Idle Woitns. 

Levy (C r, tribute , as usually rendered), a tax 

or requirement of service imposed by Eastern kings for 
public works, hence a gang or company of men impressed 
into such service (l Kings v, 13, 14; ix, 15). In two 


LEW CHEW 


407 


LEYDECKEIi 


passages other terras (S1J3, 1 Kings ix, 21 ; t3*H, Numb, 
xxxi, 28) are employed in connection with this, to de- 
note the exaction oi' tribute. See Tribute. 

Lew Chew. See Loo Cuoo. 

Lewd (7rovt]f)6g, bad , Acts xvii, 5), Lewdness 
(pabtov()yiipa, mischief, Acts xviii, 14), are used else- 
where in their proper sense of licentiousness (P133T, etc., 
Judg. xx, G; Ezek. often; Jer.xi,15; xiii,27; Hos.vi,9; 
once for rvibsp, the/>arte of shame, Hos. ii, 10). 

Lewin, IliRSCiiEL, a Jewish rabbi wiio was born in 
1721 in Poland, and died at Berlin in 1800, is noted for 
his attitude towards Closes Mendelssohn. Lewin was 
chief rabbi of Prussia in the days of the great Jewish phi- 
losopher, and severely censured Mendelssohn for ration- 
alistic views expressed in his correspondence with La- 
vater [see Mendelssohn], and in his translation of the 
Pentateuch into German. To the credit of Lewin, how- 
ever, it must be stated that he by no means condemned, 
or permitted the condemnation of Mendelssohn as a her- 
etic, as Landau and other Polish rabbis were inclined to 
do. See Grlitz. Gesch . tier Juilen , xi, 45 sq. 

Lewis, Isaac, D.D., a Congregational minister, was 
born Jan. 21. 1746 (O. S.), in Stratford (now Huntington), 
Conn.; graduated at Vale College in 1705; entered the 
ministry in March, 1708; and was ordained pastor at 
Wilton, Conn., Oct. 26, 1708. He resigned his charge in 
June, 1780, and was installed October 18, 1786, pastor in 
Greenwich, and there he labored until Dec. 1, 1818, when 
he gave up the work on account of the infirmities of age. 
lie died Aug. 27, 1840. In 1810 he was made a member 
of Yale College Corporation, but resigned in 1818. lie 
published a few occasional sermons. — Sprague, Annals 
of the American Pulpit, i, 602, 

Lewis, John Nitchie, a Presbyterian minister, 
was born in Westchester Co., N. Y., in 1808. lie grad- 
uated at Yale College in 1828, and studied theology both 
at Andover and Princeton, and was licensed at Goshen, 
N. Y., in 1832. He preached for a number of years, 
principally in the State of New York, and was then 
chosen secretary of the Central American Education So- 
ciety in New York. He was for some time editor of the 
Seaman's Magazine, and wrote a Manual for the Pres- 
byterian Church. He died in 1801. — Wilson, Presby- 
terian Historical A Imanac , 1803. 

Lewis, Moses, a Methodist minister, was born in 
Roxbury, Vt., May 19, 1797, and early decided upon the 
ministry as his work of life. He entered the travelling 
connection in 1831 in the New Hampshire Conference. 
After five years of faithful and successful labors as an 
itinerant, failing health compelled him to retire from 
the effective ranks, with the hope of resuming his place 
as a pastor at no distant day with recuperated physical 
strength, which, however, he never realized. During 
thirty-four years he sustained either a supernumerary or 
superannuated relation to his Conference. In 1844 the 
New Hampshire Conference was divided, and the Ver- 
mont Conference constituted, and of it Lewis, living 
within the limits of the new Conference, became a mem- 
ber. lie died Sept. 20, 1869. “ In the domestic circle 

brother Lewis was beloved and honored; in the com- 
munity, active and reliable; and in the Church, a pillar 
of strength, a safe counsellor, and a liberal contributor to 
all the interests of the Church of his choice.” — Minutes 
of Conf 1870 (see Index). 

Lewis, Thomas, an Independent minister, was born 
in 1 i < 7. lie was pastor of an Independent congregation 
at Islington, England, from 1804 till 1852, the year of his 
death. II is published works are, 1. Christian Duties in 
the. various Delations of Life (1839) : — 2. Religious State 
oj Islington for the last Forty Years (1842) : — 3. Chris- 
tian Privileges (1847) — A Hi bone, Dictionary of British 
and A merican A uthors , vol. ii, s. v. 

Lewis, Zecliariah, a Presbyterian minister, stud- 
ied theology at Philadelphia, and was licensed by the 


Fairfield West Association in 1796. In the autumn of 
that year he became tutor in Yale College, and held that 
office until 1799. He was elected a trustee of Princeton 
Seminary in 1 8 1 2. For six years he acted as correspond- 
ing secretary of the Religious Tract Society, afterwards 
the American Tract Society. Having resigned that po- 
sition in 1820, he was elected one of the secretaries of the 
United Foreign Missionary Society. He died in 1802. — 
Wilson, Fresh. Ilist . Almanac, 1803, s. v. 

Leyczon Nobla is the name of a poem which was 
extensively circulated among the Waldenses in the 15th 
century. It exhorts to repentance and to Christian life, 
and treats of the temptations to which the wicked sub- 
ject the pious and the good, and of the punishments for 
sin. Some, among them Dickhoff, contend that the 
poem originated with the Bohemian Brethren, but 
Ebrard and Herzog incline to the general opinion that the 
“Leyczon” belongs to the Waldensian literature. The 
name it bears is derived from the first words of the poem, 
which are “ Leyczon nobla ” {lectio, sermon). See Zeit- 
schrift f hist, theol. 1804, 1865 ; Herzog, Die romanischen 
W aide user, etc. (Halle, 1853). 

Leydecker, Melchior, a Calvinistic theologian, 
was born at Middelbtirg in 1042. lie became pastor in 
the province of Zealand in 1002, was appointed professor 
at Utrecht in 1078. and died in 1721. lie was an ardent 
exponent of the doctrines of the Reformed Church, and 
violently opposed the systems of Cocceius and Descartes, 
the works of Drusius, Spencer’s book De Legibus Ilebrce- 
orum, and the Lutheran tendencies of Witsius. Very 
learned in theological, rabbinical, and ecclesiastical lit- 
erature, he distinguished himself by wielding a strong 
pen in favor of the Reformed theological system. Among 
his apologetical works are I)e veritate Jidei Reformats 
ejusdemque sanctitate. s. Commentarius ad Catech. Pala- 
tin. (Ultrajecti, 1094, 4to) : — De ceemomia trium pei-so- 
narum in negotio saint is hum. libri iv, quibus uni vers a 
Reformata Jules certis principiis congruo nexu explicatur 
(Traj. ad lthen. 1082, l2mo) : — Veritas evangelic irium- 
pkans de erroribus quorumvis seculorum — opus, quo 
principia jidei Reformates demonstrantur (Traj. 1088, 
4to) : — also, Ilistoria ecclesice A Jricanee illustrata pro 
ecclesiee Rejbrmatee veritate et libertate (Ultraj. 1690, 4to). 
llis controversial works against Cocceius met with great 
success, because they discussed the question with great 
clearness. Among them we notice his Synopsis contro- 
versiarum de feeder e et testamento Dei, quie hodie in Bel- 
gio moventur (Traj. 1690, 8vo) : — 17s veritatis s. disqni- 
sitionum ad nonnullas controversias, quee hodie in Bel- 
gio moventur de ceconomia Jcederum Dei, libri v (Traj. 
1679, 4to) : — Fax veritatis (Leida?, 1677, 4to). When 
yet a youthful student at the university Leydecker had 
paid special attention to Biblical studies, and, guided 
by a learned rabbi, made rapid strides in the explora- 
tion of Biblical lore. In after life, when, tired of polemi- 
cal and clerical pursuits, he looked about for a field on 
which he might profitably venture, this department of 
theological study allured him anew. Attempting to fit 
the works of Godwin ( Moses and A aron ) and Cunceus 
(De Republica Hebrceor.) to his academical purposes, he 
soon discovered their insufficiency, and set about to pre- 
pare himself a more copious treatise, which is every- 
where marked by a vigorous and independent judgment. 
While he conceals not his aversion to the “futilities” of 
the Talmud, he quotes the great rabbins with respect. 
He, moreover, keeps a sharp eye on the extravagancies 
of Christian writers, and his work censures with even- 
handed justice the well-known rabbinism of the Bux- 
torfs and the Egyptism of Spencer (De Legibus Ilebr.'). 
It is only characteristic of this unsparing criticism of the 
orthodox author that he adds an appendix of severe an- 
imadversion against the cosmogony of Thomas Burnet, 
to whose Theoria telluris he prefixes the predicate pro- 
fana . The six dissertations of this appendix, what- 
ever maybe thought of the author’s views, are valuable 
for their learning, and interesting as closely bearing on 
the questions now raised on the Mosaic cosmogony. 


LEYDEN 


408 


LEYDEN. SCHOOL OF 


Especial mention among his Biblical works is clue to his 
archaeological treatise entitled l)e llepublica Ilebricorum 
(Amst. 1701, thick fol. vol.), which is one of the largest 
repertories ever written on the wide subject of Hebrew 
antiquities, and exhibits in an eminent degree vast 
stores of scriptural, rabbinical, and historical learning. 
Added to the interest of the subject arc dissertations on 
the Hebrew laws and customs, both political and relig- 
ious, interwoven in a historical narrative, in which the 
sacred history is developed, by epochs, from the earliest 
period to the latest. The author, in his progress, learn- 
edly investigates the history, pari passu, of the leading 
Gentile nations, very much after the manner of Shuck- 
lbrd and Russell in their Connections . This valuable 
work, on which Leydeckcr’s fame deserves mainly to 
depend, is singularly enough ignored in Schweizer’s 
sketch of the author in llerzog (see below). A com- 
plete list of his works is to be found in the Unpartkei- 
ische Kirchen-JIist. A. u. N. Test., etc., ii, 623. — llerzog, 
Real- Ency klop. viii, 360 ; Gass, Doymenyeschichte, vol. i- 
iii ; Kitto, Cyclop. Bill. Lit. vol. ii, s. v. 

Leyden, John of. See Bockiiold. 

Leyden, Lucas van, one of the most celebrated 
painters of the early Dutch school, noted for his success 
in sacred art, was born in Leyden in 1494. His talents 
were early developed in the school of Cornelius Engel- 
brcchsten, an artist of repute in his day. He commenced 
engraving when scarcely nine years of age. His pic- 
ture of St. Hubert, painted when he was only twelve, 
brought him very high commendation; and the cele- 
brated print, so well known to collectors by the name 
of “Mohammed and the Monk Sergius,” v*as published 
in 150.3, when he was only fourteen. He practiced suc- 
cessfully almost every branch of painting, was one of 
the ablest of those early painters who engraved their 
own works, and he succeeded, like Albert Dlirer, in im- 
parting certain qualities of delicacy and finish to his 
engravings that no mere engraver ever attained. His 
pictures are noted for clearness and delicacy in color, 
variety of character, and expression ; but his drawing is 
hard and Gothic in form. His range of subjects was 
very wide, and embraced events in sacred history, inci- 
dents illustrative of the manners of his own period, and 
portraits, lie died in 1533. — Chambers, Cyclop, s. v. 

Leyden, School of, Theologians ok the, is the 
name given to that class of Dutch theologians who fol- 
low in the wake of the rationalistic professors of the 
University of Leyden (founded in 1575). and of whom 
J. II. Scliolten (in 1840 professor in Franeker, since 1843 
in Leyden) and his pupils are at present the main inter- 
preters. The Leyden school is in reality nothing more 
nor less than a Dutch Tubingen school. In his younger 
days Sc hoi ten belonged to the orthodox school, and at 
one time (1856) even went forth to battle against the 
negative criticism of Baur and his Tubingen confreres; 
but in 1864 he came out boldly in defence of the very 
man and principles he had previously warred against, 
and in a short time became the principal leader in the 
movement of modern Dutch theologians “to establish a 
connection between the faith of the Reformers and our 
own . . . to unite the old traditions with the new opin- 
ions” (the nationalism of the Tubingen theologians). 
“ Man,” the Leyden school reaches, “arrives at a knowl- 
edge of the truth by the holy Scriptures, but they must 
not be understood as containing the only revelation from 
God; he also reveals himself to the world through the 
hearts of all believers. The llible is the source of the 
original religion. There is a difference between the 
Scriptures and the word of God. The latter is what 
God reveals in the human spirit concerning his will and 
himself. The writing down of the communication is 
purely human ; therefore the Bible cannot be called a 
revelation. . . . To prove the certainty of the facts of 
revelation historical criticism must be called in.” Un- 
fortunately, however, with them “historical criticism” 
means nothing else than the application of that nega- 


tive criticism of the German nationalists De Wette, 
Ewald, and Ilitzig, and they dispose of the “historical” 
by asserting (e. g. Ivuenen) that we cannot go further 
back than the middle of the 8tli century before Christ, 
or the time of llosea and Amos; that “all the preced- 
ing times are enveloped in hopeless myth. Abraham, 
Isaac, and .Jacob, the founders of Israel, are not persons, 
but personifications. They are purely ideal figures, for 
modern ‘historical’ inquiry teaches us that races are 
not derived from one progenitor, but many. The devel- 
opment and preservation of Israel — its whole history — 
were the result of purely national causes.” Christianity 
itself, they came naturally enough, from such grounds, 
to regard as “ neither superhuman nor supernatural. It 
is the highest point of the development of human nature 
itself, and in this sense it is natural and human in the 
highest acceptation of those terms. It is the mission 
of science to put man in a condition to comprehend the 
divine volume presented by Christianity.” But what 
the idea of the modern theologians of Holland is on the 
relation of science to faith we may well learn from Prof. 
Opzoomer, of Utrecht University ( The Truth and its 
Bounces of Knowledye, p. 43) : “ Science is not to appear 
before the bar of faith, but faith before that of science; 
for it is not the credibility of knowledge, but of faith, 
that is to be proved. . . . Science needs no justification. 

. . . The believer, on the contrary, must justify his faith, 
and that before the bar of science. Thus, as a matter 
of course, the final decision and the supreme power rest 
with science.” Great indeed is the science of Opzoo- 
mer, and in like ratio is the insignificance of the thing 
he calls faith. II is manner of rejecting miracles is 
the old threadbare argument of Hume. “Modern sci- 
ence is established on the experience acquired by the 
observance of nature. 'What experience teaches is the 
touchstone for testing the historical value of the ac- 
counts that reach ns from past ages.” Again, and more 
positively: “It is the duty of the historian to reject 
every narrative which is in manifest contradiction with 
everything known to him concerning the time of its al- 
leged occurrence. . . . Nothing in all nature gives prob- 
ability to the supposition that moral and religious 
greatness can be established by dominion over natural 
phenomena” ( The Nature of K?towledye, p.S) ,33). “ We 
know nothing of the supernatural; to us there is not a 
single miracle” ( The Spirit of the new Tendency , p. 28). 
“Experience — it, and it alone! What is beyond it is 
from an evil source. For our knowledge there is but 
one way — the way of observation” {Free /Science, p. 26). 
Perhaps we can do no better than insert here a resume 
by Dr. Hurst of the object of the Dutch modern theo- 
logians, as follows: “ 1. History must be reconstructed ; 
for every miracle must disappear from the Biblical nar- 
rative, since philosophy teaches that there can be no 
miracles. 2. Philosophy must be liberated from the so- 
called divine revelation, because the history of the pres- 
ent time, or experience, teaches that there can be noth- 
ing supernatural; hence there never was. Thus the 
argument whirls in a hopeless circle; history demon- 
strates from (untrue) philosophy, and philosophy from 
(untrue) history, that there is no such thing as miracle, 
nor even anything supernatural! Can we wonder at 
the sorry plight of the modern theologians which Tier- 
son (formerly pastor of the Walloon Church in Potter- 
darn, now professor at Heidelberg University) divulges 
on t lie very first page of his Mirror of the Times : We 
do not conceal the fact that our theology is involved in 
ceaseless vacillation ?” Besides Scholten we have Kne- 
nen, the great exegetical scholar, and Iiavenhoff, the 
ecclesiastical historian, both professors at Leyden, ac- 
tively engaged in promoting the interests of these Ra- 
tionalistic opinions, and, unfortunately enough for Chris- 
tianity in Holland, -it must be confessed that at present 
no Dutch theologians exert more influence over the 
voting theologians of that country than professor Schol- 
ten and his associates just mentioned. See Dr. Hurst 
in the Meth. Quart. Her. 1871 (April), p. 250 sq. ; and 


LEYDT 


409 


LIBATION 


bis Hist. of nationalism , p. 3GS sq. ; Scholten, De Leer 
dev Uervormde Kerb in hare gromlbeginselen nit de Iron - 
nen voorgesteld eu beorcleeld. (1848; 2d cd. 1850; 4th cd. 
3 801) ; and his article on “Modern Materialism and its 
Causes” in Progress of Religious Thought in the Protest. 
Ch. of France (Lond. 18G1), p. 10 sq. See Reformed 
(Dutch) Church. (J. IMV.) 

Leydt, Johannes, a prominent minister of the Re- 
formed Dutch Church, was born in Holland in 1718, and 
came early to America. He studied theology under the 
Rev. John Frelinghuysen and J. II. Goctscliius, was li- 
censed in 1748, and became pastor of the united church- 
es of New Brunswick and Six-mile Run, New Jersey. 
In the great Coetus and Conferentic conflict lie was ac- 
tively identified with the former, which insisted upon 
the education of ministers in this country, and upon an 
independent Church organization separate from the Re- 
formed Church of the mother country. In this “liberal 
and progressive” movement Mr. Revdt was a powerful 
leader. He published several pamphlets in its favor, 
and veas one of the most prominent men in the estab- 
lishment of Queen’s College (now Rutgers) in 1770. He 
was one of its first trustees. He was president of the 
General Synod in 1778. An ardent patriot of the Rev- 
olutionary War, he preached boldly on the great ques- 
tions of the time, arousing much enthusiasm among the 
people, “and counselling the young men to join the 
army of freedom.” llis active and useful ministry closed 
only with his life in 1783. lie is represented to have 
been an instructive, laborious, and faithful minister, an 
impressive preacher, a favorite at installations of pastors, 
organization of churches, and other public services. lie 
was a healer of the breaches of Zion, as well as an in- 
trepid leader in an important crisis of the Church and of 
the country. — Historical Sermon by R. H. Steele, D.D. ; 
Convin, Manual of the Reformed Church , s. v. (W. J. 
R. T.) 

Leyser. See Lyser. 

L’Hopital. SeelloriTAL. 

Liar. See Lie. 

Libanius, a celebrated sophist of the 4th century, 
noted as a friend of the emperor Julian, was bom about 
A.I). 314 at Antioch, wdiere he studied in early youth, 
devoting his attention to the purest classic models. Af- 
ter a stay of four years at Athens, w here lie attracted 
much attention, he pursued his studies at Constantino- 
ple, and here entered upon a brilliant career as teacher, 
which excited the envy of others, especially of the soph- 
ist Bcmarehius, his former instructor. The latter falsely 
charged him with the practice of sorcery anti many 
vices, so that the prefect was persuaded to expel him 
from the city, A.D. 34G. He went to Nice, and shortly 
after to Nicoraedia, and there pleasantly passed five 
years with great success as an instructor, and returned, 
by invitation of emperor Julian, u r ho had frequently at- 
tended his lectures, to Constantinople, only to leave it. 
however, shortly after, on account of the opposition still 
existing. He retired, by permission of Ciesar Callus, to 
his native city. Here he continued to reside till hisdeath. 
which is supposed to have occurred after the accession of 
Arcadius, A.D. 395. In the death of Julian. Libanius lost 
much of liis hope for the restoration of paganism. He 
complains to the gods that they had granted so long a 
life to Constantins, and only so brief a career to Julian, 
lie interchanged many letters with Julian. Under Va- 
lens he defended himself successfully against a charge 
of treason, and seems to have obtained the emperor’s 
favor. He besought from him a law', in wdiich Libanius 
himself, on account of his own natural offspring by a 
mistress, w T as personally interested, granting to natural 
children a share in their father’s property at his death. 
Libanius was the preceptor of Basil and Chrysostom; 
and, although himself a pagan to the end, nhvavs main- 
tained friendly relations with these Christian fathers. 
He w r as a warm advocate for tolerance, and sought to 
defend the Manichieans of the East from the violent 


measures directed against them. He addressed Theo- 
dosius in one of his Discourses in defence of the heathen 
temples, 'which the monks were eager to despoil. He 
lived long enough to see Christianity everywhere tri- 
umphant, and his personal efforts no longer applauded. 
Separate works of Libanius have from time to time been 
discovered and edited, but many yet lie in MS. only in 
different libraries. His style is rhetorically correct, but, 
in accordance with the spirit of his times, highly artifi- 
cial. Gibbon’s criticism may be considered too severe 
( Decline and Fall , ch. xxiv). Among the waitings of 
Libanius are his Proggmnasmata , or Examples of Rhe- 
torical Exercises, divided into thirteen sections; and 
Discourses , many of which were never pronounced, nor 
designed for that purpose. Some of the latter are moral 
dissertations, after the fashion of the times, on such sub- 
jects as Friendship, Riches, Poverty. Qne is entitled 
Moravia, a lament on the death of Julian. Another, 
the most interesting of all his writings, is his autobiog- 
raphy, w hich he first wrote at the age of sixty years, 
entitled B<or; 7/ \6yoc ir (pi ri/c iavrov rvxiji A frag- 
ment of his Discourses, addressed to Theodosius in de- 
fense of the heathen temples, w’as discovered by Alai in 
1823 in the Vatican. The Declamations , exceeding 
forty in number, arc exercises on imaginary subjects. 
There are not less than 2000 Letters addressed to over 
500 persons, among whom are Athanasius. Basil, Greg- 
ory of Nvssa, and Chrysostom. He wrote also a Life 
of Demosthenes, and A rgiunents to the Orations of De- 
mosthenes. There is no complete edition of Libanius. 
His Discourses and Declamations w T cre edited by Beiske 
(Lips. 1791-97,4 vols. 8vo). The most eopious edition 
of his Letters (1G05 in the Greek, and 522 translated into 
Latin) is that by J. C.Wolf (Amsterd. 1738, fob). See 
Herzog, Real- Ency klop. vol. viii, s. v.; Wetzer u.Welte, 
Kirch en-Lexikon, vol. vi, s. v. ; Smith, Diet, of Or. and 
Rom. Blog. vol. ii, s. v. ; Gibbon, Decline and Fall of the 
Roman Empire , ch. xxiii, xxiv ; Sievers, Leben des Li- 
banius (Berl. 1868). (E. B. O.) 

Lib 'anus (A ifiavoc), the Grajcized form of the 
name of Mount Lebanon (q.v.), used in the Apocrypha 
(1 Esdr. iv, 48; v, 55; 2 Esdr. xv, 20; Judith i, 7 ; Ec- 
clus. xxiv, 13; 1, 12) and by classical writers. See also 
Anti li ban us. 

Libation (Lat. libatio. from libare, “ to pour out ;” lit- 
erally any thing poured out) is used, in the sacrificial lan- 
guage of the ancients, to express an affusion of liquors 
poured upon victims to be sacrificed to a deity. The 
quantity of wine for a libation among the Hebrew's w'as 
the fourth part of a bin, rather more than tw'o pints. Li- 
bations were poured on the victim after it w r as killed, and 
the several pieces of it w r ere laid on the altar, ready to be 
consumed by the flames (Lev. vi, 20 ; viii, 25, 2G ; ix, 4 ; 
xvi, 12, 20). These libations usually consisted of uu- 
mixed wine (ti>G 7 rovi)oe, merum ), but sometimes also of 
milk, honey, and other fluids, either pure or diluted with 
water. The libations offered to the Furies were always 
without wine. The Greeks and Latins offered libations 
with the sacrifices, but they w'crc poured on the victim’s 
head while it was living. So Sinon, relating the man- 
ner in which he w r as to be sacrificed, says, he was in the 
priest’s hands ready to be slain, was loaded with bands 
and garlands; that they w T crc preparing to pour upon 
him the libations of grain and salted meal {/En. ii, 130, 
131). Likew ise Dido, beginning to sacrifice, pours w ine 
between the horns of the victim (yFn. iv). The wine 
was usually poured out in three separate streams. Li- 
bations always accompanied a sacrifice which was of- 
fered in concluding a treaty with a foreign nation, and 
that here they formed a prominent part of the solemni- 
ty is clear from the fact that the treaty itself wras called 
<ttto real. But libations w r erc also made independent 
of any other sacrifice, as in solemn prayers, and on many 
other occasions of public and private life, as before drink- 
ing at meals, and tlie like. St. Paul describes himself, 
as it were, a victim about to be sacrificed, and that the 
accustomed libations of meal and wine were already, in 


LIBEL 


410 


LIBERALITY 


a measure, poured upon him : “For I am ready to be of- 
fered, and the time of my departure is at hand” (*2 Tim. 
iv, 6). The same expressive sacrificial term occurs in 
Phil, ii, 17, where the apostle represents the faith of the 
Philippians as a sacrifice, and his own blood as a liba- 
tion poured forth to hallow and consecrate it : “ Yea, and 
if 1 be offered, < TTrU’topai , upon the sacrifice and service 
of your faith, tTri ry Gvaiq. icai Xttrovpyta ,1 joy and 
rejoice with you all.” The word libation was frequent- 
ly extended in its signification, however, to the whole 
offering of unbloody sacrifices of which this formed a 
part, and which consisted not only in the pouring of a 
little wine upon the altar, but were accompanied by the 
presentation of fruit and cakes. Cakes in particular 
were peculiar to the worship of certain deities, as to that 
of Apollo. They were either simple cakes of Hour, some- 
times also of wax, or they were made in the shape of 
some animal, and were then offered as symbolical sac- 
rifices in the place of real animals, either because they 
could not easily be procured, or were too expensive for 
the sacrifices This custom prevailed even in the houses 
of the Homans, who at their meals made an offeriug to 
the Lares in the fire which burned upon the hearth. 
The libation w r as thus a sort of heathen “grace before 
meat.” See 'Watson, Bill, and Theol , Bid, s. v. ; Cham- 
bers, Cyclop, s. v. 

Libel is the technical name of the document which 
contains the accusation framed against a minister be- 
fore ecclesiastical courts. See Fajia Clamosa. In 
England, libel, in the ecclesiastical courts, is the name 
given to the formal w’ritten statement of the complain- 
ant’s ground of complaint against the defendant. It is 
the first stage in the pleadings after the defendant has 
been cited to appear. The defendant is entitled to a 
copy of it, and must answer the allegations contained 
in it upon oath. In Scotland, the libel is a document 
draw'll up, as usual, in the form of a syllogism, the major 
proposition stating the name and nature of the crime, 
as condemned by the Word of God and the laws of the 
Church ; the minor proposition averring that the party 
accused is guilty, specifying facts, dates, and places; and 
then follows the conclusion deducing the justice of the 
sentence, if the accusation should be proven. By the 
term relevancy is meant whether the charge is one real- 
ly deserving censure, or whether the facts alleged, if 
proved, would afford sufficient evidence of the charge. 
A list, of witnesses is appended to the copy of the libel 
served in due time and form on the person accused. 
One of the forms is as follow's : “Unto the Rev. the 
Moderator and Remanent Members of the Pres- 

bytery of the United Presbyterian Church, The Com- 
plaint of A and B, a committee appointed to prosecute 
the matter after-mentioned (or of Mr. A. B., merchant 

in , a member of said Church); Shew'eth, That 

tin* Rev. C. 1)., minister of the Congregation of 

, has been guilty of the sin of (here state the de- 
nomination of the o fence, such as “ drunkenness” “forni- 
cation” or such lilce). In so far as, upon the day 

of , 1800, or about that time, and within the house 

of , situated in street, , he, the said 

C. I). (here the circumstances attending the offence charged 
are described , as, for example, “ did drink whiskey or some 
other spirituous liquor to excess, whereby he became in- 
toxicated”), to the great scandal of religion and disgrace 
of his sacred profession; may it therefore please your 
reverend court to appoint service of this libel to be 
made on the said Rev. C. 1)., and him to appear before 
you to answer to the same; and on his admitting the 
charge, or on the same being proved against him, to 
visit him with such censure as the Word of God and 
the rules and discipline of the Church in such cases pre- 
scribe, in order tliat he and all others mav be. deterred 
from committing the like offences in all time coming, 
or to do otherwise in the premises as to yod may appear 
expedient and proper. According to justice, etc. List 
of witnesses.” — Eadie, Kccles, Bid. s. v. 

Libellatici is the name of that class of the lapsed 


w ? ho received from the heathen magistrate a written 
certificate ( libellum ) as a warrant for their security; 
either testifying that they were not Christians, or con- 
taining a dispensation from the necessity of sacrificing 
to the gods in confirmation of their adherence to hea- 
thenism. Another class of the lapsed were the sacri- 
fcati—that is, those who had offered sacrifice to the 
heathen gods in testimony of their renunciation of the 
faith; another the traditores , because they had deliv- 
ered up into the hands of the heathen cither copies of 
the sacred writings, baptismal registers, or any other 
property of the Church. See Farrar, Eccles. Diet. s. v. ; 
Seliaff, Ch. Hist, i (see Index); Mosheim, Commentary 
(sec Index). See Lapsed. 

Libelli Pads, or Letters of Peace. In Egypt 
and Africa many of those w ho had fallen aw'av in time 
of persecution, in order the more readily to obtain par- 
don for their offences, resorted to the intercession of 
persons destined to sillier martyrdom by securing from 
them libelli pads, letters of peace ; papers in which these 
returning apostates were commended as worthy of com- 
munion and Church membership. In this way they 
were again taken into communion sooner than the rules 
of the Church otherwise allowed. From this practice 
the pope claims a precedent for the exercise of his pre- 
tended power to grant spiritual indulgences, which seem 
to have been used first about the middle of the second 
century. See Farrar, Eccles. Bid. s. v. ; Mosheim. Com- 
mentary (see Index). See Indulgences; Lapsed. 

Liberalism. See Rationalism. 

Liberality is a term denoting a generous disposi- 
tion of mind, exerting itself in giving largely. It is 
thus distinguished from its synouymes generosity and 
bounty. Liberality implies acts of mere giving or 
spending; generosity, acts of greatness; bounty, acts of 
kindness. Liberality is a natural disposition; generos- 
ity proceeds from elevation of sentiment; bounty from 
religious motives. Liberality denotes freedom of spirit ; 
generosity, greatness of soul ; bounty, openness of heart. 
— Buck, Theol. Bid. s. v. 

LIBERALITY OF SENTIMENT, a generous dis- 
position a man feels towards another who is of a differ- 
ent opinion from himself; or, as one defines it, “that 
generous expansion of mind which enables it to look 
beyond all petty distinctions of party and system, and, 
in the estimate of men and things, to rise superior to 
narrow' prejudices.” Unfortunately, liberality of senti- 
ment is often a cover for error and scepticism on the 
one hand, and is most generally too little attended to 
by the ignorant and bigoted on the other. “A man 
of liberal sentiments,” says an eminent English writer, 
“must be distinguished from him who has no relig- 
ious sentiments at all. lie is one who lias seriously and 
effectually investigated, both in his Bible and on his 
knees, in public assemblies and in private conversations, 
the important articles of religion. lie lias laid down 
principles, lie has inferred consequences; in a word, he 
has adopted sentiments of bis own. lie must be dis- 
tinguished also from that tame, imdiscerning domestic 
among good people, who, though lie lias sentiments of 
his own, yet has not judgment to estimate the worth 
and value of one sentiment beyond another. Now a 
generous believer of the Christian religion is one who 
will not allow' himself to try to propagate his sentiments 
by the commission of sin. No collusion, no bitterness, 
no wrath, no undue influence of any kind, will he apply 
to make bis sentiments receivable; and no living tiling 
will be less happy for his being a Christian. lie will ex- 
ercise bis liberality by allowing to those who differ from 
him as much virtue and integrity as be possibly can.” 

There are. among' a multitude of arguments to en- 
force such a disposition, the follow ing worthy of our at- 
tention : “ 1. We should exercise liberality in union with 
sentiment because of the different capacities, advanta- 
ges, and tasks of mankind. Religion employs the ca- 
pacities of mankind just as the air employs their lungs 


LIBERALITY 


411 


LIBER DIURNUS 


anil their organs of speech. The fancy of one is lively, 
of another dull. The judgment of one is elastic, of an- 
other feeble, a damaged spring. The memory of one is 
retentive, that^of another is treacherous as the wind. 
The passions of this man arc lofty, vigorous, rapid; 
those of that man crawl, and hum, and buzz, and, when 
on wing, sail only round the circumference of a tulip. 
Is it conceivable that capability, so different in every- 
thing else, should be all alike in religion? The advan- 
tages of mankind differ. How should he, who has no 
parents, no books, no tutor, no companions, equal him 
whom Providence has gratified with them all; who, 
when he looks over the treasures of his own knowledge, 
can say, this 1 had of a Greek, that I learned ot a lio- 
man; this information I acquired of my tutor, that was 
a present of my father; a friend gave me this branch 
of knowledge, an acquaintance bequeathed me that? 
The tasks of mankind differ; so I call the employments 
and exercises of life. In my opinion, circumstances 
make great men; and if we have not Ciesars in the 
State, and Pauls in the Church, it is because neither 
Church nor State are in the circumstances in which 
they were in the days of those great men. Push a dull 
man into a river, and endanger his life, and suddenly he 
will discover invention, and make efforts beyond him- 
self. The world is a fine school of instruction. Pov- 
erty. sickness, pain, loss of children, treachery of friends, 
malice of enemies, and a thousand other things, drive 
the man of sentiment to his llible, and, so to speak, 
bring him home to a repast with his benefactor, God. 
Is it conceivable that he whose young and tender heart 
is yet unpracticed in trials of this kind can have ascer- 
tained and tasted so many religious truths as the suf- 
ferer has ? 2. We should believe the Christian religion 

with liberality, because every part of the Christian re- 
ligion inculcates generosity. Christianity gives us a 
character of God; but what a character does it give! 
God is Love. Christianity teaches the doctrine of 
Providence; but what a providence! Upon whom 
doth not its light arise? Is there an animalcule so lit- 
tle, or a wretch so forlorn, as to be forsaken and forgot- 
ten of his God? Christianity teaches the doctrine of 
redemption; but the redemption of whom? — of all 
tongues, kindred, nations, and people ; of the infant of a 
span, and the sinner of a hundred years old : a redemp- 
tion generous in its principle, generous in its price, gen- 
erous in its effects; fixed sentiments of divine munifi- 
cence, and revealed with a liberality for which we have 
no name. In a word, the illiberal Christian always acts 
contrary to the spirit of his religion : the liberal man 
alone thoroughly understands it. 3. We should be lib- 
eral, because no other spirit is exemplified in the infalli- 
ble guides whom we profess to follow. 1 set one Paul 
against a whole army of uninspired men : ‘ Some preach 
Christ of good-will, and some of 'envy and strife. What 
then ? Christ is preached ; and l therein do rejoice, yea, 
and will rejoice. One eatetli all things, another eateth 
herbs; but why dost thou judge thy brother? We 
shall all stand before the judgment seat of Christ.’ We 
often inquire, What was the doctrine of Christ, and what 
was the practice of Christ? Suppose we were to insti- 
tute a third question, Of what temper was Christ? 4. 
We should be liberal as well as orthodox, because truths, 
especially the truths of Christianity, do not want any 
support from our illiberal] ty. Let the little bee guard 
its little honey with its little sting; perhaps its little life 
may depend a little while on that little nourishment. 
Let the fierce bull shake his head, and noil his horn, 
and threaten his enemy, who seeks to eat his llesh, and 
wear his coat, and live by his death : poor fellow ! his 
life is in danger; 1 forgive his bellowing and his rage. 
Hut the Christian religion — is that in danger? And 
what human efforts can render that false which is true, 
that odious which is lovely? Christianity is in no 
danger, and therefore it gives its professors life and 
breath, and all things except a power of injuring others. 
5. Liberality in the profession of religion is a wise and 


innocent policy. The bigot lives at home; a reptile he 
crawled into existence, and there in his hole he lurks a 
reptile still. A generous Christian goes out of his own 
party, associates with others, and gains improvement 
by all. It is a Persian proverb, ‘A liberal hand is bet- 
ter than a strong arm.’ The dignity of Christianity is 
better supported by acts of liberality than by accuracy 
of reasoning; but when both go together, when a man 
of sentiment can clearly state and ably defend his relig- 
ious principles, and when his heart is as generous as his 
principles are indexible, he possesses strength and beau- 
ty in an eminent degree.” See Thool. Miscellany, i, 39 ; 
Draper, On Bigotry ; Newton, Cecil, and Fuller’s \\ r o?'ks ; 
Wayland. Discourses ; liuek, Theol. Diet. s. v. 

Liberatus, a deacon of the Church of Carthage, 
flourished in the Gth century, lie was in Home A.D. 
533, when pope John 11 received the bishops sent by 
the emperor Justinian I to consult him on the heresies 
broached by the monks, designated Accemetie (or, as 
Liberatus terms them, Acumici), who had imbibed Nes- 
torian opinions, lie was again at Home in 535, having 
been sent the previous year, together with the bishops 
Cains and Petrus, by the synod held at Carthage under 
Keparatus, bishop of that see, to consult pope John II 
on the reception into the Church of those Arians who 
recanted their heresies. John was dead before the ar- 
rival of the African delegates; but they were received 
by pope Agapetus, his successor. When, in 552. Repara- 
tus was banished by Justinian to Euchaida, or Eucayda, 
Liberatus accompanied him. and probably remained with 
him till the bishop’s death in 5G3. Nothing further is 
known of him. Liberatus is the author of a valuable 
; contribution to ecclesiastical history, entitled Brevia- 
rium Caussce Nestoriunorum et Eutychianornm (from 
the ordination of Nestorius, A.D. 428, to the time of the 
fifth oecumenical [or second Coustantinopolitan] coun- 
cil, A.D. 553). In this work he is charged with par- 
tiality to the Nestorians, or with following the Nesto- 
rians too implicitly. It is contained in most editions 
of the Concilia (vol. v, edit. Labbe ; vol. vi, edit. Co- 
leti ; vol. ix, edit. Mansi). In those of Crabbe (vol. 
ii, fol., Cologn., 1538 and 1551) are some subjoined pas- 
sages derived from various extant sources illustrative 
of the history, which are omitted by subsequent editors. 
Hardouin omitted the Breviarium. It was separately 
published, with a revised text, and a learned preface 
and notes, and a dissertation, in the Bibliotheca Patrum 
of Galland, vol. xii (Venice, 1778, fob). — Smith, Diet, of 
Greek and Roman Bioyraphy , ii, 777. 

Liber Dmrnus Komasokum PontifTcum is the 
name given by the see of Home to a collection of formu- 
las used in its correspondence and other business trans- 
actions. These formulas are very like those written for 
secular affairs by the monk Marculph (about GGO) and 
others, and received from the compiler the name of Li- 
ber Diurnus because they relate to negotia diurna (see 
Marino Marini, Diplomaticu pontificia , ed. nov. Pom. 1 852 
sq., p. G4). They are interesting as scientific and his- 
torical monuments as well as for their practical use; 
and this is specially the case with the Liber Diurnus 
Pontifcalis , which contains copies of the letters ad- 
dressed by the Homan bishops to the emperor, the em- 
press, consuls, kings, patriarchs, bishops, and other mem- 
bers of the clergy, and in general to all who were in any 
way concerned in the nomination of the Homan bish- 
ops; the professio pontificia, the exemptions granted on 
the occasion of nominating neighboring bishops, on be- 
stowing the pallium (q. v.), conferring privileges and 
immunities, etc. On all these points, and the manner 
in which these things were practiced from the Gth to 
the 8th century, the Liber Diurnus contains more or loss 
complete information, particularly on the relations ex- 
isting between the see of Rome and the emperor, the 
mode of election of the Homan bishops, the ritual, etc. 
To judge from its contents, this collection was probably 
written before the year 752, for it speaks of the relation 
between the see of Home and the cparchs, who were 


LIBER DIURNUS 


41 

abolished in that year; but, on the other hand, it must 
be posterior to 085, for in caput ii, tit. ix, the emperor 
Constantine (Pogonatus) is spoken of as being already 
dead. It must also have been written under some suc- 
cessor of Agatho (f 08*2), as this Homan bishop is also 
mentioned as dead. Garnerius supposed it to have been 
composed in the time of Gregory II, somewhat after 
714, on the ground that in the second projessio Jidei 
jwntijicis, given in the Liber Din nuts, there are expres- 
sions and views which correspond exactly to those we 
find in t lie letters of that pope to the emperor Leo. It 
is likely, though, that the Liber Diurnus existed orig- 
inally in a more elementary form before it assumed that 
under which it is known at present, for the different 
MS. copies of it differ somewhat from each other. The 
Liber JJiurnus was frequently consulted by all writers 
on canon law, such as Ino of Chartres, Anselm of Lucca, 
Densdedit, Gratian (c. 8, dist. xvi). As the ritual and 
various points of law underwent modifications in the 
course of time, it was less used, and its existence even 
came to be concealed by the popes for fear lest it might 
recall their former dependence upon the emperors and 
eparchs. Still there were copies of it in existence, and 
a codex contained in the library of the Vatican was 
published in 1G00 by the care of Lucas Ilolstenius; it 
was, however, at once suppressed by the Homan sec. 
Hoffmann (Xova culhctin scriptorum ac monumentorum , 
Lipsiie, 1733. 4to, i, 389) attributes to Haluze (in the re- 
marks on Petrus de Marca, De concordat sacerdotii ac 
imperii , lib. i, cap. ix, No. viii) the statement that at 
the time of Ilolstenius the Vatican library possessed no 
codex of the Liber Diurnus , and that his publication was 
based upon a VIS. intrusted to him by the Cistercian 
monk 1 1 ilarins Hancatus. Hut as both editions of the 
works of P. de INI area, published at Paris l>y Haluze, 
state only (lib. ii, cap. xvi, No. viii) that Ilolstenins’s 
publication of the Liber Diurnus was suppressed, and 
Haluze again, in his notes appended to Anton. Augus- 
tinus, De ememlatione Gratiani , lib. i, dialogus xx, § 13 
(ed. Par. 17G0, p. 433), says that there were various cop- 
ies of the Liber Diurnus in existence, from one of which, 
that in the Vatican library, Ilolstenius published his 
edition, it seems reasonable to suppose that Hoffmann’s 
statement lacks support. As for Hancatus, Mabillon 
names Leo Allatius, and not Ilolstenius, as the party to 
whom lie imparted the MS. (see also Cave, Scriptorum 
eccl. hist. Hteraria, Basic, 1741, i, 621). The IMS. of the 
Vatican has actually been described by Pertz ( Italien - 
ische Iieise, in A rchir.f alter e deutsche Geschichtshmele , 
v, 27). lie says that it is an 8vo vol. of parchment, 
and that, according to the statement found on its first 
pages, it dates from the 8th century. The Jesuit Jo- 
annes Garnerius, with the aid of a similar codex and a 
MS. found in Paris, published in 1G80 another edition 
of the Liber Diurmts, “ cum privilegio regis Christianis- 
simi.” Mabillon, in the Museum Itedicum (folio II, ii, 
32 sq.), published additions to it by means of the IMS. 
which had been used by Leo Allatius. With the aid 1 
of all these works, Hoffmann published a new edition 
of it in the Xova collectio tit. (vol. ii), which was sub- 
sequently done also by Hiegger (Vienna, 17G2, 8vo). AJ1 
this gave rise afterwards to collections of formulas to 
replace the obsolete Liber JJiurnus. There are several 
such collections still extant in IMS. Among them the 
Formularium et stylus scriptorum cur ice. Romance , from 
John XX 1 1 to Gregory XII and John XXIII, in Sum- 
ma cancellaria Joannis XXII. We may also consider 
as belonging to this class of works the Ilitnnm ecclesi- 
asticontm sire ceremoniarnni libri tres of bishop Augus- 
tinus Patricias Picoolomini. printed by Hoffmann (ii, 
2G9 sq.), and containing a description of the rites accom- 
panying the election of the popes in the 14th century. 
Collections of formulas similar to the Liber Diurnus 
were also made for the use of bishops, abbot's, etc. See 
Hockinger. Xachwtisnnejen iiber Formelbiicher v. xiii-xvi 
Jahrhnnd. (Munich, 1855, p. 04, 12G, 173, 183, etc.) ; Pa- 
lackv, Ueber Formelbiicher (Prague, 1812) ; Herzog, Real- 


2 LIBERIA 

Fncyllop, viii, 3GG; Wetzer u.Welte, Kirclten-Lex. voL 
v, s. v. 

Liberia, or the United States of* Liberia, a negro 
republic in Western Africa, on the upper^coast of Upper 
Guinea. The boundaries are not definitely fixed, but 
provisionally the Hiver Thebarhas been adopted as the 
north-western, and the San Pedro as the eastern frontier. 
The republic has a coast-line of GOO miles, and extends 
back 100 miles, on an average, but with the probability 
of a vast extension into the interior as the tribes near 
the frontier desire to conclude treaties providing for the 
incorporation of their territories with Liberia. The 
present area is estimated at 9700 square miles. The 
republic owes its origin to the “American Colonization 
Society,” which was established in December, 181G, for 
the purpose of removing the negroes of the United 
States from the cramping influences of American slav- 
ery, and placing them in their own fatherland. There, 
it was hoped, they would be able to refute, by practical 
demonstration, the views of those American politicians 
who contended that the institution of American slavery 
was essentially righteous and signally beneficent. The 
society, in November. 1817, sent two agents to Western 
Africa, the Kev. Dr. Ebenezer Burgess and Samuel J. 
INI ills, to select a favorable location for a colony of 
American negroes. After visiting Gambia, Sierra Le- 
one, and Sherbro, they fixed upon the last-named place. 
The first expedition of emigrants, 8G in number, was 
sent out in February, 1820. After various disappoint- 
ments, the emigrants succeeded in obtaining a foothold 
on Cape Mesurado, in lat. 6° 19' N., long. 10° 49' W., 
where now stands Monrovia, the capital of the republic 
of Liberia. The purchase of the Mesurado territory, 
including Cape Mesurado and the lands, forming near- 
ly a peninsula, between the Mesurado and the Junk 
rivers, about 3G miles along the coast, with an average 
breadth of about two miles, was effected in December, 
1821. For a hundred years the principal powers of Eu- 
rope, in particular France and England, had repeatedly 
tried to gain possession of this territory', but the native 
chiefs had invariably refused to part with even one acre, 
and were known to be extremely hostile to the whites. 
On January 7, 1822, the smaller of the two islands lying 
near the mouth of the Mesurado Hiver was occupied by 
the colonists, who called it Perseverance Island. They 
remained here until April 25, when they removed to 
Mesurado Heights, and raised the American flag. The 
colony henceforth grew, and expanded in territory and 
influence, taking under its jurisdiction* from time to 
time the large tribes contiguous. In 184G the board of 
directors of the American Colonization Society invited 
the colony to proclaim their independent sovereignty, 
as a means of protection against the oppressive inter- 
ference of foreigners, and a special fund of $15,000 was 
raised to buy up the national title to all the coast from 
Sherbro to Cape Palmas, in order to secure to the new 
nationality continuity of coast. In July, 1847, the dec- 
laration of independence, prepared by Hilary Tcoge, 
was published. Hcpresentatives of the people met in 
convention, and promulgated a constitution similar to 
that of the United States. Soon after the new republic 
was recognised bv England and France; in 1852 it was 
in treaty stipulations with England, France, Belgium, 
Prussia, Italy, the United States, Denmark, Holland, 
I lay ti, Portugal, and Austria. 

The constitution of Liberia, like that of the United 
States, establishes an entire separation of the Church 
from the State, and places all religious denominations on 
an equal footing, but all citizens of the republic must be- 
long to the negro race. In 1872 the total population of 
Liberia was estimated to number 720,000, of which num- 
ber about 19,000 were Americo-Liberians, and the re- 
maining 701,000 aboriginal inhabitants. The most im- 
portant tribes within and near the limits of the republic 
are the following: 1. The Veys, extending from Gallinas, 
their northern boundary, southward to Little Cape Mount : 
they stretch inland about two days’ journey. They in- 


LIBERIA 


413 


LIBERIA 


vented, some 20 years ago, an alphabet for writing their 
own language, and, next to the Mandingoes, they are re- 
garded as the most intelligent of the aboriginal tribes. 
As they hold constant intercourse with the Mandingoes 
and other Mohammedan tribes in the far interior, Mo- 
hammedanism is making rapid progress among them. 
The Anglican missionary, bishop Payne, has recently 
suggested a plan of occupying the country of the Ycys 
with an extensive and vigorous mission, and the mission- 
school opened by the Episcopalians at Totocorch, which 
is nearer to Cape Mount than to Monrovia, is regarded 
as the first outpost towards the vast interior. 2. The 
Pessehs, who are located about seventy miles from the 
coast, and extend about one hundred miles from north 
to south, are entirely pagan. They may be called the 
peasants of West Africa, and supply most of the domes- 
tic slaves for the Yeys, Bassas, Mandingoes, and Kroos. 
A missionary effort was attempted among them about 
fifteen years ago by the Presbyterian Board of Foreign 
Missions, but it was abandoned in consequence of the 
death of the first missionary, George L. Seymour. 3. 
The Barline tribe, living about eight days’ journey 
north-east from Monrovia, and next interior to the Pes- 
sehs, has recently been brought into treaty relations 
with Liberia. According to a report of 1858, half the 
population of their capital, Palaka, consisted of Moham- 
medans who had come from the Manni country, but the 
latest explorer, W. Spencer Anderson, states that there 
are at present no Mohammedans in the Barline country. 
4. The Bassas occupy a coast-line of over sixty miles, 
and extend about the same distance inland. They are 
the great producers of palm-oil and canewood, which 
are sold to foreigners by thousands of tons annually. In 
1835 a mission was begun among these people by the 
American Baptist Missionary Union, whose missionaries 
studied the language, organized three schools, embra- 
cing in all nearly a hundred pupils, maintained preach- 
ing statedly at three places, and occasionally at a great 
many more, and translated large portions of the New 
Testament into the IJassa language. Notwithstanding 
this promising commencement, the mission has been 
now (1872) for several years suspended. But the South- 
ern Baptist Convention has lately resumed missionary 
operations among the Bassas. Great results for the 
spreading of Christianity are expected from the mis- 
sionary labors of Mr. Jacob W.Yonbrunn, a son of a 
subordinate king of the Grand Bassa people. 5. The 
Kroo, who occupy the region south of the Bassa, extend 
about seventy miles along the coast, and only a few 
miles inland. They are the sailors of West Africa, and 
never enslave or sell each other. About thirty years 
ago a mission was established among them by the Pres- 
byterian Board of F oreign Missions at Settra Kroo, but 
it has long since ceased operations. G. The Greboes, 
who border upon the south-eastern boundaries of the 
Kroos, extend from Grand Sesters to the Cavalla River, 
a distance of about seventy miles. In 1834 a mission 
was established among them by the American Board of 
Commissioners for Foreign Missions, which continued 
in operation for seven years. A Church was organized, 
the language reduced to writing, and parts of the New 
Testament and other religious books translated into it ; 
but in 1842 the mission was transferred to Gabun. A 
mission established by the Protestant Episcopal Church 
of the United States among the same tribe a few years 
previously still continues in operation, and has recently 
established at Bolden a missionary station, about sev- 
enty miles from the coast. 7. The Mandingoes, who are 
found on the whole eastern frontier of the republic, and 
extend back to the heart of Soudan, are the most intel- 
ligent tribe within the limits of Liberia. They have 
schools and mosques in every large town, and, by their 
great influence upon the neighboring tribes, they have 
contributed in no little degree to abate the ignorance 
and soften the manners of the native population of Li- 
beria. One of the greatest obstacles to the progress of 
Christian missions among the aboriginal tribes is the 


climate, and the difficulty of acclimatization. Tims the 
Basle Missionary Society, which in 1827 established a 
promising mission, was in 1831 compelled to abandon it 
when four of the eight missionaries had succumbed to 
the climate. 

At the close of the year 1871 the churches among the 
Americo-Liberians and the missions among the natives 
were all more or less connected with the Protestant 
churches of the United States. The Methodist Episco- 
pal Church, which sent her first missionary to Liberia 
in 1832, has subsequently organized the Liberia Mission 
into an Annual Conference, with a missionary bishop 
(in 1872 John Wright Roberts) at its head. In 1872 
the mission had 24 missionaries (embracing 8 supplies 
— supernumeraries and assistant preachers on native 
stations), 15 assistant missionaries (including 5 school- 
teachers among the natives), 87 local preachers, 20G5 
members, 174 probationers, 15 day-schools, with over 
400 scholars, 1425 Sunday-school scholars, 2G churches, 
of an aggregate value of $22,907, and 7 parsonages, 
valued at $3991. The Protestant Episcopal Church 
of the United States likewise supports at the head 
of its mission a missionary bishop. The mission, in 
1871, contained 10 Liberian and 14 native stations, 
13 clergymen (2 foreign, including the bishop, 8 Libe- 
rian, and 3 native), G candidates for holy orders (3 Li- 
berian and 3 native), 9 churches and 1 chapel, 64 other 
preaching-placcs, 231 Christian families and 595 persons 
attending church, 93 infant and 22 adult baptisms, 453 
communicants, 102 Sunday-school teachers and 1104 
scholars, and 22 teachers and 301 pupils of vernacular 
schools. The number of marriages was 31, and of bur- 
ials 38. The missionary bishop, John Payne, after 
having labored upon the coast of Africa for thirty-three 
years, resigned his jurisdiction at the meeting of the 
Board of Missions held in October, 1871. At the same 
meeting a special committee of the Board on the Organ- 
ization of the Church in Africa, which had been ap- 
pointed in 1870, recommended as a suitable plan, which 
the Church should put into operation at the earliest 
practical moment, the appointment of three missionary 
episcopates, one whose centre shall be Cape Palmas, to 
carry on important operations already begun in that 
neighborhood and near the Cavalla River; one whose 
centre shall be Cape Mount., to enter into the remarkable 
openings for Christian missions among the interesting 
tribes to the north and north-east ; and one whose centre 
shall be Monrovia, and whose jurisdiction shall com- 
prise t lie countries of Mesurado, Bassa, and Sinoe. The 
Baptist churches in Liberia have mostly been organized 
by the Southern Board of American Baptists. Their 
work was suspended during the war, and the American 
Baptist Missionary Union commenced their work in 
Liberia with the understanding that the Southern Board 
would not resume the work; but in 1870 the Southern 
Baptists sent an agent to Africa with a view of renew- 
ing their labors there. The Missionary Lhiion contin- 
ued, however, to give a partial support to several pas- 
tors. In March, 1868, the Baptist churches of Liberia 
organized the “Liberian Baptist Missionary Union” for 
“the evangelization of the heathen” within the borders 
of the Republic of Liberia, “and contiguous thereto.” 
At this first meeting of the union ten Baptist churches 
were represented, and twelve fields of missionary labor 
were designated and commended to the care of the 
nearest churches. The Baptist churches have a train- 
ing-school for preachers and teachers at Yirginia. The 
Presbyterian Church of the United States has congre- 
gations at Monrovia, Kentucky, Harrisburg, Greenville 
or Sinou, Marshall, Robertsport, and a few other places, 
with an aggregate membership of about 250. The Li- 
berian churches in union with those of Gaboon and Co- 
risco form the presbytery of Western Africa. The 
Alexander High-scliool is intended to be an academy 
of high grade, conducted under the supervision of the 
Presbytery, and designed especially to aid young men 
preparing for the ministry. It is situated on a farm of 


LIBEPJ17S 


414 


LIBER PONTIFICALIS 


about twenty acres, eighteen miles from Monrovia, near 
the St. Paul’s Biver. The American Lutherans have 
one station in Liberia. See Newcomb, Cyclopaedia of 
Missions ; A nnual Reports of the Board of Foreign Mis- 
sions of the Presbyterian Church; Baptist Missionary 
Magazine. July, 1872 ; Proceedings of the Board of Mis- 
sions of the Protestant Fpiscopal Church, October. 1871 ; 
Annual Reports of the Missionary Society of the Meth- 
odist Episcopal Church ; Grumlemann, Missionsatlas ; 
Stockwell, The Republic of Liberia (New York, 1868) ; 
Myden (professor in Fourah Bay College, Sierra Leone, 
W. A.), The Republic of Liberia, its Status and its Field 
(Meth. Quart. Rev. July, 1872, art. vi). (A. J. S.) 

Liberius, St., pope of Borne, was a native of the 
Eternal City. He succeeded Julius 1 May 22, 353. The 
Semi-Arians, countenanced by the emperor Constantius, 
had then the ascendency, and both the Council of Arles 
(353) and that of Milan (355) condemned Athanasius, 
bishop of Alexandria. As Liberius, together with some 
other Western bishops, refused to subscribe to this con- 
demnation, he was arrested by order of the emperor, and 
taken to Milan, where he held a conference with Con- 
stantius, which terminated in a sentence from the em- 
peror deposing Liberius from his office, and banishing 
him to Bcrcea, in Thrace. Felix, a deacon at Borne, was 
consecrated bishop. A petition was presented to the em- 
peror by the principal ladies of Borne in favor of Liberius, 
but it was not till 358 that Liberius was restored to his 
see. The assertion that Liberius, during his confinement 
at Beroea, approved in several letters of the deposition 
of Athanasius, and subscribed to the confession of faith 
drawn up by the court party at the Council of Sirmium, 
is a matter of great improbability, and depends chiefly 
upon the genuineness of his correspondence with Atha- 
nasius. The dependence of Liberius on the emperor 
had a mischievous influence upon many of the Italian 
bishops, and wc need not wonder that at the Council of 
Bimini Arianism was openly countenanced. It is not 
true, as asserted by some, that Liberius subscribed the 
Bimini confession of faith. He ended his career in or- 
thodoxy, and died in 366. He was succeeded by Da- 
masus I. Liberius is said to have built the Basilica on 
the Esquiline Mount, which has been called Liberiana, 
from his name, and is now known by the name of Santa 
Maria Maggiore. He is commemorated in the Bomish 
Church Aug. 27, and in the Greek Church Sept. 23. See 
( If’rbrer, Kirchengesch. II, i, 254-285 ; 1 lefele, P. Liberius, 
in the Tub. theol. Quartalschr. (1853), ii, 261 sq. ; and 
Conciliengesch. i, 626-714; Herzog, Real-Encylclop. viii, 
372. 


Liber Pontificalis cle vitis Romunorum Pontif - 
cum, Gksta Bomanorum Pontificum, Liber gesto- 
liUM pontifical I I’M, arc the names of a history of the 
bishops of Borne from the apostle Peter down to Nicolas 
] (f 8(57), to which those of Adrian II and of Stephen 
VI (f 801) were subsequently added. On the author- 
ity of Ouuphrio Pavini, the first editors of this Liber 
Pont if ca Us considered as its author Anastasius, abbot of 
a convent at Borne, and librarian of the church under 
Nicolas 1 ; hut more thorough researches have proved 
this liber to vary greatly in style, and even in views 
manifested in the different biographies, and therefore 
led to the supposition that the work is not all by the 
' same author. This belief is further strengthened by 
the fact that already Anastasius, on some occasions, 
made use of passages from the Liber Pont if cults, and 
that there are MSS. extant which can with certainty be 
ascribed to the close of the 7th or the beginning of the 
8th century, and which contain extracts from the Liber 
Pontif calis. In the early part of the 17th century, 
several writers put forth arguments in favor of the last- 
mentioned views. Among them are FmanneJ of Sehel- 
strate, librarian of t lie Vatican ( Jtissertatio de antiquis 
Romunorum Pont if cum catalogis , ex qnibus Liber Pont if - i 
calls concinnatus sit, et de Libri Pontificalis uuctore ac 
pnestantia [Bonne, 1602, fob; reprinted in Muratori, 
Rerum Italicarum scriptures, iii, 1 sq.]), Joannes Ciam- 


pini (magister brevium gratia? : Examen Libri Pontif ca- 
lls sive vita rum Romunorum Pontif cum, quee sub nomine 
A nastasii bibliotkecarii circumferuntur [Bom. 1688, 4to; 
reprinted in M uratori, p. 33 sq.]), and others. The sup- 
position that the codex was compiled by pope Damasus, 
the successor of Liberius, as maintained bv the authors 
of the Origines , is untenable. The correspondence be- 
tween Damasus and Jerome which is adduced in support 
of this view is evidently spurious (see Schelstrate, Bis- 
1 sertatio, etc.). The author or authors arc unknown, but 
the information it contains is valuable. It is now gen- 
erally thought to have been written about the 4th cen- 
tury. 

The oldest source known at present of the liber is 
generally considered to have been a list of the popes 
down to Liberius, and probably written during his life 
(352-366), as it makes no mention of his death (see 
Schelstrate, JHssertatio, etc., ch. ii, iii ; I lefele, Ttibinger 
theolog. Quartalschrift , 1845, p. 312 sq.). The original 
MS. of this so-called Codex IAberii is now lost. In 1634 
a copy was made of it from an Antwerp MS. liy Bucher, 
the Bollandists give one in the Acta Sanctorum, April, 
vol. i, 1675, and Schelstrate another from a Vienna co- 
dex. These three texts are given side by side in the 
Origines de I'eglise Romaine, par les membres de la com- 
munaute de Solermes (Baris, 1826), vol. i. 

Another list of the popes extends down to Felix IV 
(f 530). It was first published in a codex of the Vati- 
can Library by Christine of Sweden, afterwards by Syl- 
vester of Henschen and Bapebrocb, and is also found in 
the introduction of the first volume of the Acta Sancto- 
rum for April, in Schelstrate, and in the above-mention- 
ed Origines , p. 212. There are transcripts of French 
origin, and the original MS. of this so-called Catalogus 
Felicis IV is lost, but the two at present in existence 
are evidently copies of the same original, as results from 
a careful comparison of them by Schelstrate. That the 
; author of it must have consulted the Catalogus Liberii 
j is evident from the fact that its errors arc ripeated in 
it. They both omit the names of the consuls and em- 
perors between Liberius and John I (523), and com- 
mence again at the reign of the latter, and of his suc- 
cessor, Felix IV (al. III). Schelstrate already correctly 
surmised from this fact that the author lived in the 
time of these two popes, which view is also supported 
by the completeness and thoroughness with which their 
history, in particular, is treated. Still,. as to the author, 
there is no definite information. The numerous refer- 
ences to the archives of the Koman Church, in which, 
moreover, the first MS. was discovered, would make it 
probable that the author was himself a librarian of the 
archives, if the confusion and even incorrectness of 
some parts did not militate against this view. Aside 
from the similarity of this collection with the Catalogus 
Liberii, which extends so far that whole passages are 
copied literally, or nearly so, from the one into the other, 
the Catalogus Felicis 1 1 r differs from the Liberii prin- 
cipally by its full particulars on the ordination, by its 
mention of the birthplace of the popes, and their fune- 
rals, which the author may have derived from tradition 
and other similar sources, pseudo-dccretals and canons, 
martvrologics, etc. The only parts which have hereto- 
fore been considered worthy of full confidence are those 
which coincide with the Catalogus Liberii , and those 
which refer to the times of John and Felix, when the 
author would be bettor acquainted with the facts than 
with those of preceding periods. 

Both lists were subsequently continued, and this is 
what produced the Liber Pontificalis. This filiation, 
however, can only be traced by the aid of MSS. The 
oldest copy known belongs to the close of the 7th or the 
beginning of the 8th century. It ends at the death of 
Conon (686-687). A rather incomplete Codex rescrip- 
ts, discovered by Bcrtz (Archiv. p. 50 sq.) at Naples, 
gives the list of the popes down to Conon ; it must have 
been written, at the latest, in the early part of the 8th 
century. Another is found in a codex of the cathedral 


LIBER PONTIFICALIS 


415 


LIBER PONTIFICALIS 


chapter of Verona, ending also with Con on, but to it was 
added afterwards a list of the names of the popes down 
to Paul I (f 7G7). This INIS, was published in the fourth 
volume of Biancliini’s collection, but, unfortunately, we 
have no description of this codex; it was to have been 
given in the tifth volume, which never appeared (see 
Kostell, Beschreibung derStadt Rom. i, 209, 210), so that 
it is impossible clearly to establish its relation to the 
Neapolitan MS. A continuation of this first work goes 
down to Gregory II (from 714), and is to be found in 
the Coilex of the Vatican, No. 5269, which must be a 
copy of an older MS. (Schelstrato, eh. v, § 3). Then 
there is another continuation from the second part of 
the 8th century, contained in a codex of the Ambrosian 
Library of Milan (M. no. 77, 4to), which is of the same 
date. The biographies close with Stephen III (f 757), 
and at the end is simply remarked, “xcv Paulus sedit 
annis x, mensibus ii, diebus v” (Muratori, Rerum Jtal. 
Scrip to res, iii, 7). The variations on this MS. are given 
by Muratori under the letter A. It belonged originally 
to the convent of Bobbio. According to a very plausi- 
ble supposition of Niebuhr, the above-mentioned Nea- 
politan Codex came also from that convent. It will 
probably be possible, when the subject shall have been 
more thoroughly studied, to trace a connection between 
the two, and the Liber Pontificalis also. After the mid- 
dle of the 8th century there appeared several continua- 
tions, as is shown by the numerous 31 SS. of them in 
existence (see, in Muratori, 15, C, D; and Pertz, who 
gives notices of several MSS. of the kind). Some of 
these codices extend down to Nicolas I (f 867), others 
to Stephen VI (f 891), which is as far as the so-called 
Liber Pontificalis extends. 

If from what we have stated it is concluded that the 
work dates back as far as the 7 th century, it is clearly im- 
possible that the librarian Anastasius should have been 
its author. lie could at best only have continued it. 
Schelstrate thinks that the biography of Nicolas I can 
alone be ascribed to him (c. viii, § 10) ; while Ciampini 
is induced by some peculiarities of the style to consider 
him also as the author of the four preceding ones (/. c. 
sect, v, vi). In the present state of the question it is 
impossible to decide between the two opinions. But 
it is clearly a mistake to attribute the biographies of 
Adrian II and Stephen IV to a certain Bibliothecarius 
UuUelnius , as is generally done (Ciampini names the 
librarian Zachary, sect, iv, vii, viii). This error orig- 
inated in an inscription in the Vatican Codex (3762, fob 
90 b-96), which, however, states only that a certain Pe- 
ter Guillermus of Genoa, librarian of the convent of 
S. .Egidius, wrote this Vatican Codex in the year 1142 
(see Giesebreeht, in the Kieler Allgem. Monatsschrift, 
etc., April, 1852, p. 266, 267; Monumenta Germanics , xi, 
.318). 

The sources of the Liber Pontificalis, besides those 
above mentioned, consist, partly in traditions, partly in 
MS. documents, and remaining monuments, such as 
buildings, inscriptions, etc. The collection of canon 
law of the 7th or 8th century, published by Zachary 
from a codex of Modena, stands in close connection with 
the Liber Pontificalis (see Zaccaria, Dissertazioni varie 
Italiane a storia ecclesiastica appartenenti, Rom. 1780, 
vol. ii, diss. iv; reproduced by Gal land, De vetustis ca- 
nonmn collectionibus dissertationum sylloge.'h logunt. 1770, 
4to, ii, 679 scj.) ; yet it is not to be considered as one of 
its sources, but rather appears to have been based on 
the Liber Pontificalis. The Liber Pontificalis has be- 
come particularly valuable for the correctness of the in- 
formation since the latter part of the 7th century, when 
the Roman archives were regularly organized, and the 
continuation of the Liber Pontificalis could only he in- 
trusted to the librarians or other members of the clergy 
having free access to the archives. The Liber Pontiji- 
calis is especially useful for the history of particular 
churches, ecclesiastical institutions, the discipline, etc. 
Schelstrate names as its first edition Peter Crabbe’s 
Concilien (Cologne, 1538) ; but this is neither complete 


1 nor well connected. It only contains extracts on each 
: pope, like Baronius’s Annales and subsequent collec- 
tions of canons, and as the “editio prineeps,” the edi- 
tion of J. Busaits (Mayenee, 1602, 4to) is generally ac- 
cepted, which is based on a MS. of Marcus Welser, of 
Augsburg. It was followed by the edition of Hannibal 
Fabrotti (Par. 1649), for which several codices were con- 
sulted. Lucas Holstenius prepared another by collating 
Busuus’s with a number of MSS., and, although never 
published, it was greatly used by Schelstrate and others 
(see Schelstrate, cap. v, No. 3 sq.). From the hands 
of Schelstrate the MS. of Holstenius passed into the li- 
brary of the Vatican in 1734 (see Dudik, Iter Romanian , 
pt. i [Vienna, 1855, p. 169]). The next edition was 
published by Francis Bianchini (Bom. 1718, folio), and 
this served as a basis for Mura tori’s, contained in the 
3d volume of his Scriptores rerum Italicarum (1723); 
Bianehini’s work was continued by his nephew, Joseph 
Bianchini (vols. ii-iv, Rom. 1735 ; there was to have 
been a 5th volume, but it never appeared). There also 
appeared at Borne an edition by John and Peter Joseph 
Vignoli (1724, 1752, 1755,3 vols. 4to). Rdstell recently 
undertook another for the Monumenta Germanue , while 
Giesebreeht announced for the same work a continua- 
tion of the Liber Pontificalis (see Giesebreeht, Ueber die 
Qitellen d./rukeren Papstgescb ., art. ii in the Kieler AIL 
gem. Monatsschrift f Wissenschaft w. Literatur, April, 
*1852, p. 257-274). 

The investigations made on this subject permit us to 
distinguish three continuations of the Liber Pontifica- 
lis. 1 . From an unknown source have been composed 
three histories of the popes: («) one is contained in the 
Vatican Codex, 3764, extending from Laudo (912) to 
Gregory VII, and belonging to the end of the lltli cen- 
tury. It is reproduced in the first volume ofVignoli’s 
edition of the Liber Pontificalis. (b) The second, in 
the codex of the library of Este, vi, 5, and extending 
as far down, was written during Gregory’s lifetime, 
(e) The third, dating from the time of Paschal II, in the 
early part of the 12th century (in the library of Ma- 
ria sopra Minerva at Rome). 2. Another continuation 
of the Liber Pontificalis, composed in the 12th century, 
extends from Gregory VII to Honorius II (1124-1129). 
Onuphrius Panvini and Baronius name as its author 
either the subdeacon Pandulph of Pisa or a Roman li- 
brarian named Peter Constant. Gaetani published in 
1638 a biography of Gelasius II alone, and assert ed that 
the continuation of the Liber Pontificalis down to Inno- 
cent III was due to cardinal Pandulph Masca of Pisa, 
and was written in the time of Innocent III. But 
Papebroch brings forth very plausible arguments to 
prove that the subdeacon Peter of Pisa wrote only the 
biography of Paschal II, and that the subsequent ones 
are due to the subdoacon Peter of Alatri, still Muratori, 
in the 3d vol. of the Scriptores , gives this collection of 
biographies under the name of Pandulph of Pisa, and 
the question of authorship has not been further inquired 
into since. Giesebreeht (p. 262 sq.) maintains that the 
Codex Vaticanus 3762, of the 12tli century, is the orig- 
inal from which all the other MSS. were copied (also 
the codex No. 2017, of the 14th century, in the Barbe- 
rini Library at Rome; comp. Vignoli, Liber Pcmtif. vol. 
iii; Pertz, Archir. p. 54), and also that the author of 
the life of Paschal I was the cardinal-deaeon Peter. 
The life of Gelasius II and that of Calixtus II were writ- 
ten by Pandulph after 1130, as is shown by his own 
statement (Muratori, iii, 389, 419). The similarity of 
style shows that he wrote also the life of Honorius II. 
But it is highly probable that Pandulph is the same 
person afterwards designated as the cardinal-deaeon of 
the church of St.Cosmas and Damianus, a nephew of 
Hugo of Alatri, cardinal-priest and for a long time gov- 
ernor of Benevento. Peter and Pandulph were partisans 
of Anaclctus II, and were afterwards declared schismatics 
by the adherents of Innocent II; this put an end to 
their work. 3. Another continuation originated at the 
close of the 12th century, Baronius designates it as 


LIBER SEXTUS 


416 


LIBERTINE 


the Acta Yaticana, but Muratori published it under the 
name of the cardinal of Aragon. Nicolas Koselli (a 
Dominican, made cardinal in 1351, f in 1302) caused a 
collection of old historical documents to be prepared, 
which contained the lives of the popes from Leo IX to 
Alexander III (omitting Victor 111 and Urban II), and 
also the biography of Gregory IX. Pertz (Archie, p. 
97) says that these biographies are borrowed from the 
Liber censuum cumene apostolicm of Ceneius Camera- 
rius, who in 1216 became pope under the name of Hono- 
rius III. Put these also are not the work of Ceneius 
himself, but of some anterior writer. The life of Adrian 
IV was written by his relative, cardinal Boso, from ma- 
terials furnished by himself, during the reign of Alex- 
ander III. The life of Alexander III was written at 
the same time, and most likely also by Boso, who prob- 
ably 'wrote most of the whole collection. The introduc- 
tion is taken from Bonizo’s collection of eanons, the bi- 
ographies of John XII, and from Leo IX down to Greg- 
ory VII are adapted from the ad Amicum of the same 
writer; subsequent ones down to Eugenius III are based 
on the records, but after that they become more com- 
plete, resting on Boso’s own experience, as he then lived 
at Pome. For subsequent biographies the sources are ■ 
much more numerous. We might also mention, as a I 
compendium of the whole, the Actus Pontificum Ro- 
manorum of the Augustinian monk Amalrieus Angerii, 
written in 1365, and extending from St. Peter to John 
XII (1321), which is to be found in Eccard, Corpus 
hist, medii eevi, ii, 1641 sq., and in Muratori, vol. iii.pt. ii. 
— Herzog, Real-Encyklop. viii, 367 sq. See Baxmann, 
Politik der Pdpste (Elberfeld, 1868), vol. i (see Index) ; 
Watterich, Vita Romanorum Pontificum (Lpz. 1862) ; Pi- 
per, Einleit. in die monumentale Theologie (Gotha, 1867); 
De Hossi, Roma S otter unea (1857). 

Liber Sextus and Septimus. See Canons 
and Decretals, Collections or. 

Lib'ertine (At/3fprii'oc, for the Latin libertinus , a 
f reed-maii) occurs but once in the N.T., ‘‘Certain of the 
synagogue, which is called (the synagogue) of the Lib- 
ertines, and Cyrenians, and Alexandrians,” etc. (Acts vi, 
9b There has been much diversity in the interpreta- 
tion of this word. The structure of the passage leaves 
it doubtful how many synagogues are implied in it. 
Some (Calvin. Beza, Bengel) have taken it as if there 
were but one synagogue, including men from all the dif- 
ferent eities that are named. Winer (A r . T . Gramm, pc 
179), on grammatical grounds, takes the repetition of 
the article as indicating a fresh group, and finds accord- 
ingly two synagogues, one including Libertines, Cyre- 
nians, Alexandrians; the other those of Cilicia and Asia. 
Meyer ( Comment . ad loc.) thinks it unlikely that out of 
480 synagogues at Jerusalem (the number given by 
rabbinic writers, Megill. lxxiii, 4; Ketub. ev, 1) there 
should have been one, or even two only, for natives of 
cities and districts in which the Jewish population was 
so numerous (in Cyrene one fourth, in Alexandria two 
tilths of the whole [Josephus, Ant. xiv, 7, 2; xiv, 10, 1 ; 
xix, 5. 2; 117/ r, ii, 13, 7 ; Ap. 2, 4J), and on that ground 
assigns a separate synagogue to each of the proper 
names. Of the name itself there have been several ex- 
planations. 

1. The other names being local, this also has been re- 
ferred to a town called Libert um , in the proconsular 
province of Africa. This, it is said, would explain the 
close juxtaposition with Cyrene. Stiidas recognises 
Aifieprivoi as bvopa tSvovc, and in the Council of Car- 
thage in 411 (Mansi, iv, 265-271, quoted in Wiltsch, 
Hundbnch der Kirchlich. Geogr. § 96) we find an Epis- 
copus Libertinensis (Simon. Onomasticon X. Test. p. 99). 
Against this hypothesis it has been urged (1) that the 
existence of a town Libert um, in the 1st century, is not 
established; and (2) that if it existed, it can hardly 
have been important enough either to have a synagogue 
at Jerusalem for the Jews belonging to it, or to take 
precedence of Cyrene and Alexandria in a synagogue 
common to the three. 


2. Conjectural readings have been proposed, especially 
Libyans , either in the form Aifioarivuv (CEeumen., 
Beza, Clericus, Valckenaer), or A ifivwv (Selmltncss, I)e 
Char. Sp. X. p. 162, in Meyer, ad loc.) ; inasmuch as Lib- 
ertini here oceurs among the names of nations, and Jo- 
sephus (.1 nt. xii, 1, and Apion. ii, 4) has told us that 
many Jews were removed bv Ptolemy, and placed in 
the cities of Libya. The difficulty is thus removed, but 
every rule of textual criticism is against the reception 
of a reading unsupported by a single MS. or version. 

3. Taking the word in its received meaning as = 
freedmen , Lightfoot finds in it a description of natives 
of Palestine, who, having fallen into slavery, had been 
manumitted by Jewish masters (Exc. on A cts vi, 9). In 
this ease, however, it is hardly likely that a body of 
men so circumstanced would have received a Homan 
name. 

4. Grotius and Yitringa explain the ■word as describ- 
ing Italian freedmen who had become converts to Ju-‘ 
daism. In this case, however, the word “proselytes” 
would most probably have been used; and it is at least 
unlikely that a body of converts would have had a syn- 
agogue to themselves, or that proselytes from Italy 
would have been united with Jews from Cyrene and 
Alexandria. 

5. The earliest explanation of the word (Chrysostom) 
is also that which has been adopted by the most recent 
authorities. The Libertini are Jews who, having been 
taken prisoners by Pompev and other Homan generals 
in the Syrian wars, had been reduced to slavery, and 
had afterwards been emancipated, and returned, perma- 
nently or for a time, to the country of their fathers. Of 
the existence of a large body of Jews in this position at 
Borne we have abundant evidence. Under Tiberius, 
the Senatus-Consultum for the suppression of Egyptian 
and Jewish mysteries led to the banishment of 4000 
“libertini generis” to Sardinia, under the pretence of 
military or police duty, but really in the hope that the 
malaria of the island might be fatal to them. Others 
were to leave Italy unless they abandoned their religion 
(Tacitus, A nal. ii, 85; comp. Sueton. Tiber, c. 86). Jo- 
sephus (Ant. xviii,3, 5). narrating the same fact, speaks 
of the 4000 who were sent to Sardinia as Jews, and thus 
identifies them with the “libertinum genus” of Tacitus. 
Philo ( Legat . ad Cuium, p. 1014, C) in like manner says 
that the greater part of the Jews of Borne were in the 
position of freedmen (enrikt t&cptaj&rrer), and had been 
allowed by Augustus to settle in the Trans-Tiberine 
part of the city, and to follow their own religious cus- 
toms unmolested (comp. Horace, Sat. i, 4, 143; i, 9, 70). 
The expulsion from Borne took place A. D. 19; and it is 
an ingenious conjecture of Mr. Humphreys (Comm, on 
Acts , ad loc.) that those who were thus banished from 
Italy may have found their way to Jerusalem, and that, 
as having suffered for the sake of their religion, they 
w r ere likely to be foremost in the opposition to a teacher 
like Stephen, whom they looked on as impugning the 
sacredness of all that they most revered. The syna- 
gogue in question had doubtless been built at the ex- 
pense of these manumitted Jews, and was occupied by 
them. Libertini is thus to be regarded as a word of 
Homan origin, and to be explained with reference to 
Koman customs. Among the Homans this term was 
employed to denote those who had once been slaves, 
but had been set at liberty, or the children of such per- 
sons (see Adam’s Rom. A nt. p. 34, 41 sq. ; Smith’s Diet, 
of Class. Antiq. s. v. Ingenui, Libertus). This view is 
further confirmed by the fact that the word avvaymyiiq 
does not oeeur in the middle of the national names, but 
stands first, and is followed by ri]Q Ar ■yophtjc, whence 
it clearly appears that Ai(3eprivoi is at least not the 
name of a country or region. — Smith; Kitto. On t his 
subject, see further in Bloomfield, Kuinol,Wetstein, etc., 
oil Acts vi, 9; and comp. D. Gerdes, De Synag. Libeiii- 
norum (Grim. 1736) ; J. F. Scherer, De Synag. Libcrti'.u 
(Argent. 1754) ; Briim, De, Libertinis (Hafn. 1698) ; Ca- 
demauu, De schola Libertinorum (Lips. 1704); Loesner, 


LIBERTINES 


41 

Obs. in N. Test. p. 180 ; Deyling, Observ. ii, 437 sq. ; K. 
Doring, Ep. qua synagogam Libert, scholam Latinam 
fuisse conjicit (Laub;e, 1755). See Dispersed; Sla- 
very. 

Libertines, Tiie, or, as they called themselves, 
Spiritualists, were a Pantheistic and Antinomian sect of 
the Reformation days. They appeared first in the Neth- 
erlands as an ultra division of the “Brethren of the Free 
Spirit.” They spread into France, and, by the interest 
they manifested in political affairs, gained considerable 
influence also in Switzerland, especially in Geneva. The 
impulse given to thought by the Reformation gave rise 
also to many errors, wli ieh flourished by the side of evan- 
gelical truth. “ Lofty as onr ideas of the Reformation 
should be, we must not be blind to the fact that .... 
Protestantism [referring especially to the Continent] 
bears sad evidence of early mismanagement” (Hurst, 
Hist, of Rationalism, p. 37). Foremost among the her- 
etics of this period were the Brethren of the Free Spirit, 
who, although hotly persecuted, had never been entirely 
exterminated, and who were yet numerous in Germany 
and the Netherlands. They now suddenly emerged 
from the secrecy in which they had lately hidden them- 
selves, as soon as the power of the Church began to 
wane. Luther clearly saw, however, that not to Roman- 
ism, but to Protestantism as well, the influence of the 
Libertines must be baneful, and he took an early oppor- 
tunity to warn the Christians of those countries against 
them (Gieseler, Kirchengesch. iii [1], 557). Calvin also 
hail to contend against the influence of these Rational- 
ists, and, in speaking of them, mentions a certain Coppin, 
of Lille, as the first who attempted to introduce, as early 
as 1529, the doctrines of the Free Spirit in his native city. 
This Coppin was soon eclipsed by his disciple Quintin, 
of Ilennegau, who, with his companion Bertrand, be- 
came the leader of the sect in France in 1534, and with 
whom a priest called Pocquet (Poeques) connected him- 
self. These two, for Bertrand soon died, arc represent- 
ed as uneducated but shrewd men, who made religion a 
means of securing earthly goods, and who were very 
successful in the attempt. They openly professed to 
have found the principle of “ moral falsehood” (or men- 
tal reservation) inculcated in the Scriptures, and, in con- 
sequence, thought it but right to profess Roman Cathol- 
icism when among Roman Catholics, and Protestantism 
when with Protestants. They are said to have made 
4000 proselytes in France alone. They did not, more- 
over, confine their attempts at deceit to the lower class- 
es, but, on the contrary, endeavored to gain proselytes 
among the learned and in the higher walks of society; 
they succeeded even in gaining the ear of the queen 
Margaret of Navarre, sister of Francis I, who received 
them, as also a certain Lefevre d’Etaples and others, at 
her court, and daily consulted with them. They made 
great use of allegory, figures of speech, etc., taking their 
authority from the precept, “The letter killetli, but the 
spirit giveth life.” 

We have said above that the system of the Libertines 
was pantheistic ; it was, in fact, pure pantheism. They 
held that there is one universal spirit, which is found in 
every creature, and is the Spirit of ( lod. This one spirit 
and God is distinguished from itself according as it is 
considered in heaven or on earth. “ Dcum a se ipso di- 
version esse, quod alius omnino in hoc inundo sit quam 
in coelo” (Calvin, Tnstr. adv. Libert, c. 1 1 ). All creatures, 
angels, etc., are nothing in themselves, and have no real 
existence aside from God. Man is preserved only by 
the Spirit of God, which is in him, and exists only until 
that spirit again departs from him; instead of a soul, it 
is God himself who dwells in man, and all his actions, 
all that takes place in the world, is direct from him, is 
the immediate w’ork of God (“Quidquid in mundo fit, 
opus ipsius [Dei] directo censendum esse,”c. 13). Ev- 
erything else, the world, the flesh, the devil, souls, etc., 
are by this system considered as illusions, mere supposi- 
tions ( opinatio ). Even sin is not a mere negation of 
right, but, since God is the active agent of all actions, it 
Y.-D d 


7 LIBERTINES 

can be but an illusion also, and will disappear as soon a3 
this principle is recognised (“Peccatum — non solum 
aiunt boni privationem esse, sed est illis opinatio, quaa 
evaneseit et aboletur, cum nulla habetur ejus ratio,” c. 
12. Pocquet says, in regard to that, “ Et quia omnia 
qiue fiunt extra Deum, nihil sunt quam vanitas,” c. 23). 
There is, therefore, but one evil, and that evil is this 
very illusion, this imagination of evil, of a distinction 
between it and the right. Thus the original fall or sin 
was nothing else than a separation of man from God, or 
rather the result of man’s desire to be something by him- 
self, separating himself from union and identity with 
God. Thus unintentionally man subjected himself to 
the world and to Satan, and became himself an illusion, 
a smoke which passes away and leaves nothing behind. 
So Pocquet says, “ Ideo scriptum est (?), 4 Qui videt 
peccatum, peccatum ci manet et veritas in ipso non est’” 
(in Calvin, c. 23). From the Libertine point of view 
the nature of Christ did not materially differ from ours; 
he consisted, like other human beings, in divine spirit, 
such as dwells in us all, and in the sacrifice onl} r the illu- 
sionary, or worldly part, was lost. However considered, 
the whole history of Christ, and especially his crucifix- 
ion, death, and resurrection, had for them but a symbol- 
ical significance; his passion, etc., was, according to Cal- 
vin’s strong expression, only “ une farce ou moralite 
joueepour nous figurer le mystere de notre salut” — only 
a type of the idea that sin was effaced and atoned for, 
while in reality, and in God’s view, it was of no account 
in itself (“ Chr. solum velut typus fait, in quo contem- 
planmr ea, qiue ad salutem nostram requirit scriptura ; 
e. g. cum aiunt, Christum abolevisse peccatum, sensus 
eoruni est, Christum abolitionem illam in persona sna 
represent asse,” e. 17). But in so far as we are one in 
spirit with Christ, all that he underwent is as if we had 
undergone it; his exclamation, “It is finished,” is true 
as well for us as for himself ; sin has lost all significance 
so far as we are concerned, and the fight against sin, re- 
pentanee, mortification of the flesh, etc., are no longer 
necessary. Neither can nor should the spiritualist be 
any longer subject to suffering, since Christ has suffered 
all. Here the idea and the reality, however, are in con- 
flict (“Nam scriptum est: Factus sum tot ns homo. Cum 
factus sit totus homo font komtne , in a twofold sense], 
aceipiens naturam humanam, ac mortuus sit, potestne 
adhuc in his inferioribus locis mori? Magni esset er- 
roris hoe credere,” etc., ibidem , c. 23). Of course man 
should be born anew, but this new birth is secured when 
he regains the state of innocence of Adam before the 
fall ; when in absolute filial unity with God, he neither 
sees nor knows sin, or, in other words, when he is no 
longer able to distinguish it from righteousness (modo 
ne amplius opinemur), and when able to follow the dic- 
tates of God’s Spirit by virtue of natural impulse (“Sed 
si adhuc committamus delictum et ingrediamur hortum 
voluptatis, qui adhuc nobis prohibittis est, ne quid veli- 
mus facere, sed sinamus nos duei a voluntate Dei. Ali- 
oqui non essemus exuti veteri serpente, qui est primus 
parens noster Adam, et videremus peccatum, sicut ipse , 
et uxor ejus, etc. Nunc vivifieati sumus cum secundo- 
Adamo; qui est Christus, non cernendo amplius pccea- 
tum, quia est mortunm,” etc.: ibidem; compare c. 18). 
Such a twice-born one is Christ, is God himself, to whom 
the Libertine returns after death, to be absorbed in him' 
(“Hoc enim imaginantur, animam hominis, qme est 
Dens, ad seipsam redire, cum ad mortem venturn est, non 
ut tanquam anima humana, sed tanquam Deus ipse vi- 
vat, sicuti ab initio,” c. 3 and 22). 

The consequences of such principles are obvious : they 
lead naturally to sensuality, to the emancipation of the 
flesh and the laying aside of all restrictions; make men 
look upon propriety or ownership as a wrong, as opposed 
to the principles of love, and, in fact, a theft, though this 
principle was not carried into practice. Calvin called 
i ts principal advocates “ doctores passives caritatis.” Or- 
dinary or legal marriage comes to be looked upon as a 
mere carnal bond, and therefore dissoluble; true mar- 


418 


LIBERTY 


LIBERTY 


riage, such as satisfied both body and mind, being a 
union of each to each ; communion of saints extended 
not merely to the worldly possessions, but also to the 
very bodies of the saints. In short, spiritualism soon ' 
degenerated into open and avowed sensualism and ma- 
terialism. But this is the very feature which gave it its 1 
Influence with some classes in Geneva. The example of 
their bishops and of the cathedral canons had excited j 
their imagination by inclining them to self-indulgence 
and licentiousness, and political circumstances operated 
in ’favor of the same result. Soon, however, the real 
principles of the Libertines appeared in their full light, 
and created a reaction, some women having gone so far 
as to quote Scripture to authorize their excesses, in- 
sisting especially on the fact of God’s first command to 
our first parents having been “to increase and multiply” 
(“Crescite et multiplicamini super terram. En prima 
lex, quam ordinavit Dens, quae vocabatur lex naturae,” 
c. *23). See Communism; “Free Love” in the article 
Marriage. As Calvin had favored political libertin- 
ism^' those who considered themselves aggrieved by the 
practice of the spiritualists turned also against him, and 
this politico-religious reaction went as far as irreligion 
and atheism, as in the case of Jacob Gruet, whose ultra- 
radical principles in politics and rationalism in religion 
led to his trial before the courts of Geneva July *27, 1547. 
Yet no one really did more to counteract the principles 
of the Libertines than did Calvin himself. First, in 1544, 
he brought all their secret principles to light in one of 
his works (see Instit. iii, 3, § 14). Afterwards, in 1547, 
he warned the faithful of Rouen against an ex-Francis- 
can monk who was inculcating libertine doctrines, and 
who met with some success, especially among women of 
the higher classes. Under Calvin’s influence Farel also 
took up the pen against the Libertines {Le glaive de la 
parole veritable , tire contre le bouclier de defense , duquel 
un ’cordelier s'est voulu servir pour approuver sesfausses 
et damnubles opinions [Geneva, 1550; see Kirchhofer, 
Theot. Studien und Krit. 1831]). The queen of Navarre 
was highly offended at Calvin for denouncing the lead- 
ers of the Libertines who were then at her court; he 
therefore wrote to her a letter which is a remarkable 
specimen of respectful remonstrance (Aug. 28, 1545 ; in 
French, see J. Bonnet, Lett res de J. Calvin , i, 111 sq. ; 
Latin, Epist. et Resqn ed. Amst. p. 33). It is, in fact, 
due to his efforts that this sect, this baneful curse, left 
France to take refuge in its native country, Belgium, 
and that it finally disappeared altogether. Against the 
Libertines of Geneva the attacks were for a long time 
unavailing; they cannot be considered to have been 
successfully ended until after the insurrection of May 15, 
1555, when the principal leaders were either exiled or 
imprisoned. See Calvin, Aux ministres de Veglise del 
Neufehastel contre la seete f anatique et fnrieuse des Lib- \ 
ertins qui se nomment Spirituels (Gen. 1544, 8 vo; 1545, 
and other editions) ; Contre nn Franeiscain , sectateur des 
erven vs des Libert ins, adresse a Veglise de Rouen (‘20 
Aoiit, 1547 [both these have been published together in 
1547, in the Opuscules, p. 817 sq., and by I*. Jacob, p. 293 
sq. ; Lat. by Des Gallars, in Opusc. omn. Gen. 1552 ; Opp. 
ed. Amst. viii, 374 sq.]); Picot, Hist. de Geneve ,* Gicseler, 
Kirchengesch. iii, 1, p. 385; Ilundeshagen, in the Theol. 
Stud. u?id Krit. (1815) ; Ilerzog, Real-Encyklop. viii, 374- 
380. (J. II. \V.) 

Liberty. “The idea of liberty,” says Locke, “is 
the idea of a power in any agent to do or forbear any 
particular action, according to the determination or 
thought of the mind, whereby either of them is preferred 
to the other. When either of them is not in the power 
of the agent, to be produced by him according to his 
volition, then he is not at liberty, but under necessity.” 
From this, and the extract which follows, it will be seen 
that Locke’s ideas of libertg and of power are very nearly 
the same. “Every one,” he observes, “finds in himself 
a power to begin or forbear, continue or put an end to, 
several actions in himself. From the consideration of 
the extent of this power of the mind over the actions 


of the man, which every one finds in himself, arise the 
ideas of liberty and necessity.” These definitions, how- 
ever, merely extend to the ability of the individual to 
execute his own purposes without obstruction ; where- 
as Locke, in order to do justice to his own decided 
opinion on the subject, ought to have included also in 
his idea of liberty a power over the determinations of 
the will. “By the liberty of a moral agent,” says Dr. 
llcid, “ I understand a power over the determinations 
of his own will. If, in any action, he had power to will 
what lie did, or not to will it, in that action he is free. 
But if, in every voluntary action, the determination of 
his will be the necessary consequence of something in- 
voluntary in the state of his mind, or of something in 
his external circumstances, he is not free; he has not 
what I call the liberty of a moral agent, but is subject to 
necessity.” On the other hand, some affirm that neces- 
sity is perfectly consistent with human liberty; that is, 
that the most strict and inviolable connection of cause 
and effect does not prevent the full, free, and unrestrain- 
ed development of certain powers in the agent, or take 
away the distinction between the nature of virtue and 
vice, praise and blame, reward and punishment, but is 
the foundation of all moral reasoning. “I conceive,” 
says Hobbes, “that nothing taketh beginning from it- 
self, but from the action of some other immediate agent 
without itself; and that therefore, when first a man 
hath an appetite or will to do something to which im- 
mediately before he had no appetite nor will, the cause 
of his will is not the will itself, hut something else not 
in his own disposing; so that whereas it is out of con- 
troversy that of voluntary action the will is the neces- 
sary cause, and by this which is said the will is also 
caused by other things whereof it disposeth not, it fol- 
loweth that voluntary actions have all of them neces- 
sary causes, and therefore are necessitated. I hold that, 
to be a sufficient cause to which nothing is wanting that 
is needful to the producing of the effect. The same is 
also a necessary cause. For if it be possible that a suf- 
ficient cause shall not bring forth the effect, then there 
wanteth somewhat which was needful to the producing 
of it, and so the cause was not sufficient; but if it be 
impossible that a sufficient cause should not produce the 
effect, then is a sufficient cause a necessary cause (for 
that is said to produce an effect necessarily that cannot 
but produce it). Hence it is manifest that whatsoever 
is produced hath had a sufficient cause to produce it, or 
else it had not been, and therefore also voluntary actions 
are necessitated.” “I conceive liberty,” he observes, 
“to be rightly defined in this manner: Liberty is the 
absence of all impediments to action that are not con- 
tained in the nature and intrinsical quality of the agent: 
as, for example, the water is said to descend freely, or 
to have liberty to descend by the channel of the river, 
because there is no impediment that way, but not across, 
because the banks are impediments; and, though the 
water cannot ascend, yet men never say it wants the 
liberty to ascend, but the faculty or power, because the 
impediment is in the nature of the water, and intrinsi- 
cal. So also we say, he that is tied wants the liberty 
to go, because the impediment is not in him, but in his 
bands ; whereas we say not so of him that is sick or 
lame, because the impediment is in himself. I hold 
that the ordinary definition of a free agent — namely, 
that a free agent is that which, when all things are 
present that are needful to produce the effect, can nev- 
ertheless not produce it — implies a contradiction, and is 
nonsense; being as much as to say the cause may be 
sufficient, that is to say, necessary, and yet the effect 
shall not follow.” He afterwards defines a moral agent 
to be one that acts from deliberation, choice, or will, not 
from indifference; and, speaking of the supposed incon- 
sistency between choice and necessity, he adds: “ Com- 
monly, when we see and know the strength that moves 
us, we acknowledge necessity; but when we do not, or 
mark not the force that moves us, we then think there 
is none, and thus conclude that it is not cause, but lib- 


LIBERTY 


419 


LIBERTY 


erty, that prodnceth the action. Hence it is that we 
are apt to think that one doth not choose this or that 
who of necessity chooses it; but we might as well say 
tire doth not burn because it burns of necessity.” The 
general question is thus stated by Hobbes in the begin- 
ning of his treatise : the point is not, he says, ‘‘ whether 
a man can be a free agent ; that is to say, whether he 
can write or forbear, speak or be silent, according to his 
will, but whether the will to write or the will to for- 
bear come upon him according to his will, or according 
to anything else in his power. 1 acknowledge this lib- 
erty, that I can do if I will; but to say I can will if I 
will, I take to be an absurd speech. In tine, that free- 
dom which men commonly find in books, that which 
the poets chant in the theatres and the shepherds on 
the mountains, that which the pastors teach in the pul- 
pits and the doctors in the universities, and that which 
the common people in the markets, and all mankind in 
the whole world, do assent unto, is the same that I as- 
sent unto, namely, that a man hath freedom to do if he 
will ; but whether he hath freedom to will is a question 
neither the bishop nor they ever thought on.” Thus it 
will readily be perceived that Hobbes entirely denies 
the main point at issue, namely, the freedom of the 
iL'ill itself, and confines the subject — as liis definition — 
purely to liberty of action. This latter is simply a phys- 
ical question, and applies to all agents, whether human, 
animal, or even material; that liberty which concerns, 
and indeed constitutes, a being as a moral agent, is quite 
a different thing. Hobbes as a materialist, and there- 
fore a necessitarian, of course finds no room for this 
kind of moral or self-determining power. 

It is unquestionable that the source of most of the 
confusion on the subject is in the ambiguity lurking un- 
der the terra necessity , which includes both kinds of ne- 
cessity, moral and physical. The double meaning of 
the word has been the chief reason why persons who 
were guided more by their own feelings and the custom- 
ary associations of language than by formal definitions 
have altogether rejected the doctrine, while persons of a 
more logical turn, who could not deny the truth of the 
abstract principle, have yet, in their explanation of it 
and inference from it, fallen into the same error as their 
opponents. The partisans of necessity have given up 
their common sense, as they supposed, to their reason, 
while the advocates of liberty rejected a demonstrable 
truth from a dread of its consequences, and both have 
been the dupes of a word. The obnoxiousness of the 
name unquestionably has been the cause of nearly all 
the difficulty and repugnance which many who really 
hold the doctrine find in admitting it. It was to remove 
this prejudice that Dr. Jonathan Edwards was induced 
to write his celebrated treatise on the Will. In a letter 
written expressly to vindicate himself from the charge 
of having, in his great work, confounded moral with 
physical necessity, he says : “ On the contrary, I have 
largely declared that the connection between antecedent 
things and consequent ones, which take place with re- 
gard to the acts of men’s wills, which is called moral ne- 
cessity, is called by the name of necessity improperly, 
and that all such terms as must, cannot , impossible, un- 
able, irresistible, unavoidable, invincible , etc., when applied 
here, are not employed in their proper signification, and 
are either used nonsensically and with perfect insignifi- 
cance, or in a sense quite diverse from their original and 
proper meaning and their use in common speech, and 
that such a necessity as attends the acts of men’s wills 
is more properly called certainty than necessity .'’ 1 The 
well-known definition of Edwards on this subject is in 
the following words; “The plain and obvious meaning 
of the words freedom and liberty, in common speech, is 
potrer, opportunity, or advantaye that any one has to do 
as he pleases, or, in other words, his being free from liin- 
derance or impediment in the way of doing or conduct- 
ing in any respect as he wills. I say not only doing, but 
conducting, because a voluntary forbearing to do, sitting 
still, keeping silence, etc., are instances of persons’ con- 


I duct about which liberty is exercised, though they are 
' not so properly called doing. And the contrary to lib- 
! ert v, whatever name w r c call that by, is a person’s being 
hindered or unable to conduct as he will, or being neces- 
sitated to do otherwise.” The radical defect in this defi- 
nition as to the question in hand is that liberty, as thus 
defined, relates solely to action (or non-action, as the 
case may be), and not to the will at all. Thus, by a 
singular method of petitio principii, the very possibility 
of all freedom of will is excluded. The real point at is- 
sue is but casually named, and arbitrarily dismissed as 
a contradiction. That point is not whether a man may 
act as he wills (this, again, is mere physical liberty), but 
whether the will has a self-determining power; wheth- 
er, in other words, a man may will in opposition to ex- 
ternal influences, usually called motives. This question 
the universal experience of mankind has determined in 
the affirmative. On these two grounds, 1, the essential 
fallacy as to the point in dispute, and, 2. the unanimous 
testimony of consciousness as to the spontaneity of voli- 
tion, the fundamental position of Edwards has been so 
successfully attacked, as, for instance (to name only Cal- 
vinistic writers), bv Tappan and Bledsoe, that it may 
now be regarded as failing to meet the present theolog- 
ical status of the question. See Will. 

True liberty evidently consists simply in freedom 
from external constraint. That God is free in this 
sense, at least in his acts, all must admit, inasmuch as 
there is no conceivable power that could coerce him. It 
is likewise obvious that he is equally free in his voli- 
tions, unless we suppose a system of arbitrary laws or 
absolute line of policy which shuts him up to a certain 
fine of conduct. So far as these may be the resultant 
or expression of his own nature, they might perhaps be 
admitted without essentially impairing our notions of 
his freedom. So, again, of man ; if the motives, by 
which alone, if at all, it is claimed that his volitions are 
governed, are self-originated, or derive their governing 
weight from the influence which his own mind imparts 
to them, he may still be said to be free in at least the 
strict sense of the definition. If, however, these prepon- 
derating elements consist in his own desires , and if, fur- 
ther, these desires are beyond his own control (whether 
by reason of natural predisposition, inveterate habit, or 
the divine or Satanic interposition), then it must still re- 
main dubious if his liberty amounts to the measure of a 
rational, moral, and accountable agent. In the human 
sphere this is precisely the point of difficulty, but its de- 
termination as a matter of fact, if indeed possible, be- 
longs properly under another head. See Motive. In 
the divine sphere, on the other hand, the difficulty arises 
from the so-called system of fore-ordination, which is 
tenaciously held by Calvinistic divines, being either as- 
sumed as a metaphysical dogma, or inferred from certain 
scriptural statements, and as strenuously denied by oth- 
ers. See Predestination. 

The ground assumed on this vexed question by Sir 
William Hamilton and Mansell is that liberty and ne- 
cessity are both incomprehensible, both being beyond 
the limits of legitimate thought; that they are among 
those questions which admit of no certain answer, the 
very inability to answer them proving that dogmatic 
decisions on either side are the decisions of ignorance, 
not of knowledge. “ How the will can possibly be 
free,” says Hamilton, “must remain to us, under the 
present limitation of our faculties, wholly incomprehen- 
sible. We are unable to conceive an absolute com- 
mencement; we cannot, therefore, conceive a free voli- 
tion. A determination by motives cannot, to our under- 
standing, escape from necessitation — nay, were we even 
to admit as true what we cannot think as possible, still 
the doctrine of a motiveless volition would be only cas- 
ualistic, and the free acts of an indifferent are morally 
and rationally as worthless as the fore-ordained passions 
of a determined will. How, therefore, I repeat, moral 
liberty is possible in man or God we are utterly unable 
speculatively to understand. But practically the fact 


LIBERTY 


420 


LIBNAH 


that we are free is given to 11 s in the consciousness of 
our moral aeeountabilit}'; ami this fact of liberty cannot 
be reargued on the ground that it is incomprehensible, 
for the philosophy of the conditions proves, against the 
necessitarian, that things there are which may, nay, 
must be true, of which the understanding is wholly un- 
able to construe to itself the possibility. But this phi- 
losophy is not only competent to defend the fact of our 
moral liberty, possible, though inconceivable, against 
the assault of the fatalist; it retorts against himself the 
very objection of inconceivability by which the fatalist 
had thought to triumph over the libertarian. It shows 
that the scheme of freedom is not more inconceivable 
than the scheme of necessity; for, whilst fatalism is a 
recoil from the more obtrusive inconceivability of an 
absolute commencement, on the fact of which commence- 
ment the doctrine of liberty proceeds, the fatalist is 
shown to overlook the equal but less obtrusive incon- 
ceivability of an infinite non-commencement, on the as- 
sertion of which non-commencement his own doctrine 
of necessity must ultimately rest. As equally unthink- 
able, the two counter, the two one-sided schemes, are 
thus theoretically balanced.” Sir William, however, 
as it seems to us, in this extract does not closely 
adhere to the conditions of the problem. According 
to his own admission, it is not the,/hc£ of a self-de- 
termining power in the will that is “inconceivable,” 
but only the mode (the how) of its exercise. This, like 
many other well-known processes, is a mystery. Again, 
it is not claimed that the will acts without motive, but 
only that it is not controlled by external motive; that it 
has the power of itself choosing what motive shall be 
strongest with it, irrespective of the intrinsic force of 
that motive. It is this distinction that preserves — as 
no other can — the truly moral character of the agent. 

“The endless controversy concerning predestination 
and free-will,” says Mansell, “ whether viewed in its 
speculative or in its moral aspect, is but another exam- 
ple of the hardihood of human ignorance. The ques- 
tion has its philosophical as well as its theological as- 
pect : it has no difficulties peculiar to itself; it is but a 
special form of the fundamental mystery of the eo-ex- 
istence of the infinite and the finite.” “ The vexed 
question of liberty and necessity, whose counter argu- 
ments become a by-word for endless and unprofitable 
wrangling, is but one of a large class of problems, some 
of which meet 11 s at every turn of our daily life and 
conduct, whenever we attempt to justify in theory that 
which we are compelled to carry out in practice. Such 
problems arise inevitably whenever we attempt to pass 
from the sensible to the intelligible world, from the 
sphere of action to that of thought, from that which 
appears to us to that which is in itself. In religion, in 
morals, in our daily business, in the care of our lives, in 
the exercise of our senses, the rules which guide our 
practice cannot be reduced to principles which satisfv 
our reason.” Those theologians, on the other hand, 
who deny that the divine predestination extends to the 
individual acts of men in general, think that they thus 
more effectually obviate the whole difficulty. In the 
divine foreknowledge of all human actions they admit 
the certainty of their occurrence, but find no causative 
power, such as seems to enter essentially into the prede- 
terminations of an Almighty will. As to the argument 
that such foreknowledge rests upon, and therefore im- 
plies fore-ordination, they contend that tills is a reversal 
of the true order (comp. Horn, viii, 29). and that God's 
prescience is a simple knowing beforehand by bis pe- 
culiar power of intuition, not any conclusion or infer- 
ence from what he may or may not determine. See 
Prescience. 

See Hobbes’s treat ise Of Liberty and Xecessity ; also 
Ills Opinion about Liberty and Xecessity ; also Questions 
concerning Liberty, Xecessity, and Chance clearly stated 
and debated between Dr. liramhall and Thomas Hobbes ; 
Leibnitz’s Essais de Thcodicee , a collection of papers 
which passed between Air. Leibnitz and Dr. Clarke; 


Collins's Philosophical Inquiry concerning Human Lib- 
erty ; Clarke’s Remarks upon a Book entitled “A Philo- 
sophical Inquiry concerning Human Liberty Edwards’s 
Inquiry into the Freedom of the Will ; Essay on the Ge- 
nius and Writings of Edwards, prefixed to the London 
edition of his works, 1831, by H. Rogers; J. Taylor’s 
introduction to his edition of Edwards On the Will; 
Hartley’s Observations on Man; Bclsham’s Elements of 
the Philosophy of the Mind; Cousin’s Elements of Psy- 
chology (Prof. Henry’s translation); Sir William Ham- 
ilton’s Philosophy, and Lectures on Metaphysics ; Man- 
sell's Limits of Religious Thought; Herbert Spencer’s 
First Principles ; Stewart’s Philosophy of the Active and 
Moral Powet's of Man; Tappan’s Review of Edwards’s 
Inquiry into the Ft'eedom of the Will; Miff’s System of 
Loyic; Jouffrov’s Introduction to Ethics; Blakey’s His- 
tory of the Philosophy of Mind ; Hazard, On the Will; 
Bledsoe, On the Will ; Wliedon, On the Will . See Ne- 
cessitarians, (E.de P.) 

Lib'nall (II eb. Libnah transparency , as in 
Exod. xxiv, 10), the name of two places. See also 

SlIllIOR-LIBNATlI. 

1. (Sept. Aefimrci v. r. A epiordi) The twenty-first 
station of the Israelites in the desert, between Rimmon- 
pnrez and Rissah (Numb, xxxiii, 20. 21); probably 
identical with Laban (Deut. i, 1), and perhaps situated 
near wady el- A in, west of Kadesh-Barnea. See Exode. 

2. (Sept. Atfivd, sometimes A ofivet, occasionally 
Ao [h’dv, and even Atfio vd.~) One of the royal cities 
of the Canaanites (Josh, xii, 15), taken and destroyed 
by Joshua immediately after Makkedah and before La- 
eliish (Josh, x, 20-32, 39). It lay in the plain within 
the territory assigned to Judah (Josli. xv, 42), and be- 
came one of the Levitical towns in that tribe, as well as 
an asylum (Josh.xxi. 13; 1 Chron. vi, 57). In the reign 
of king Jehoram, Libnah is said to have revolted from 
him (2 Kings viii, 22; 2 Chron. xxi, 10). From the cir- 
cumstance of this revolt having happened at the same 
time with that of the Edomites, it has been supposed by 
some to have reference to another town of the same 
name situated in that country. But such a conjecture 
is unnecessary and improbable, for it appears that the 
Philistines and Arabians revolted at the same time (2 
Chron. xxi, 1C). Libnah of Judah rebelled because it 
refused to admit the idolatries of Jehoram; and it is not 
said in either of the passages in which this act is record- 
ed, as of Edom, that it continued in revolt “unto this 
day.” It may be inferred either that it was speedily 
reduced to obedience, or that, on the re-establish ment 
of the true worship, it spontaneously returned to its al- 
legiance, for we find it was the native place of the grand- 
father of two of the last kings of Judah (2 Kings xxiii, 
31 ; xxiv, 18; Jer. lii, 1). It appears to have been a 
strongly fortified place, for the Assyrian king Sennach- 
erib was detained some time before it when he invaded 
Jndiea in the time of Ilezekiah. See Hezekiaii. On 
completing or relinquishing the siege of Lachisli — which 
of the two is not quite certain — Sennacherib laid siege 
to Libnah (2 I\ingsxix,8; Isa.xxxvii.S). While there 
lie was joined by Rahshakeh and the part of the army 
which had visited Jerusalem (2 Kings xix, 8; Isa. 
xxxvii, 8), and received the intelligence of Tirhakah’s 
approach; and it would appear that at Libnah the de- 
struction of the Assyrian army took place, though the 
statements of Herodotus (ii, 141) and of Josephus (.4 at. 
x. 1,4) place it at Pelusium (see Rawlinson, Hi rod. i, 
480). Libnah was the native place of Ilamutal or 11a- 
mital. the queen of Josiali, and mother of Jehoahaz (2 
Kings xxiii, 31) and Zedekiah (xxiv, 18; Jer. lii, 1). It 
is in this connection that its name appears for the last 
time in the Bible. It existed as a village in the time 
of Eusebius and Jerome, and is placed by them in the 
district of Eleutheropolis ( Onomast. s. v. Ao(3ard ; com- 
pare Josephus. Ant. x, 5. 2). Dr. Robinson was unable 
to discover the least trace of its site (Bib. Res. ii, 389). 
Stanley inclines to find the site at Tell es-Sajieh (Sinai 


421 


LICE 


LIBNATII 

and Pah p. 207, 258) ; but this is probably Gath. Van 
de Vekle suggests A rak el-Menshiyeh, a hill about four 
miles west of Beit-jebrin (Memoir, p. 330), which seems 
to answer to the requirements of location. It stood 
near Lachish, west of Makkcdah, and probably also west 
of Eleutheropolis (Keil, Comment, on Josh, x, 29), and 
was situated in the district immediately west of the hill 
region, in the vicinity of Ether, Ash an, etc. (Josh, xv, 
42). 

Libnath. See Siiiiior-libnatii. 

Libneli. See Poplar. 

Lib'ni (Heb. Libni', “>325, white ; Sept. Ao(3evei , 
Ao(3evi), the first-named of the two sons of Gershon, 
the son of Levi (Exod.vi, 17; Numb, iii, 18,21 ; 1 Chron. 
vi, 17 ; comp. Numb, xxvi, 58); elsewhere called Laa- 
i>AN (1 Chron. xxiii, 7 ; xxvi, 21). B.C. post. 1856. His 
son is called Jahath (1 Chron. vi, 20, 43), and his de- 
scendants were named Libnites (Numb, iii, 21 ; xxvi, 
58). In 1 Chron. vi, 29, by some error he is called the 
son of Mahli and the father of Shimei. 

Lib'nite (Heb. Libni' , “025, being a patronymic of 
the same form from Libni; Sept. A ofiEri), a descendant 
of Libni the Levite (Numb, iii, 21 ; xxvi, 58). 

Liborius, St., fourth bishop of Mans, a disciple of 
St.Pavacius, flourished from the middle to the close of 
the 4th century. The existing documents on his life are 
quite untrustworthy, and relate only that he was a pious 
man, performed sundry miracles, and that he was a fast 
friend of St. Martin of Tours. Seethe Bollamlists for 
,1 uly 23 ; Tillemont, J femoires, x, 307 ; Mabillon, De Pon- 
tif. Cenomannensibus. His body was transferred in the 
9th century from Mans to Paderborn by order of Biso, 
bishop of the latter place. See Pertz, Script, iv (vi), 
149 sq. ; Herzog, Rea l-Encyklo p iidie, viii, 380. 

Librc^ (pound), the name sometimes given to the 
seventy suffragans of the bishop of Home, from the cir- 
cumstance that there were seventy solidi or parts in the 
Roman libra. 

Libraries. In the early Church, as soon as church- 
es began to be erected, it was customary to attach libra- 
ries to them. In these were included not only the litur- 
gical and other Church books, and MS. copies of the 
holy Scriptures in the original languages, but also hom- 
ilies and other theological works. That they were of 
some importance is evident from the manner in which 
they are referred to by Eusebius and Jerome, who men- 
tion having made use of the libraries at Jerusalem and 
Crcsarea. Eusebius says he found the principal part of 
the materials for his Ecclesiastical History in the library 
at Jerusalem. One of the most famous was that at- 
tached to the church of St. Sophia, which is supposed 
to have been commenced by Constantine, but was after- 
wards greatly augmented by Theodosius the Younger, 
in whose time there were not fewer than one hundred 
thousand books in it, and a hundred and twenty thou- 
sand in the time of Basilicas and Zeno. No doubt a 
particular reason for thus collecting books was their 
great expense and rarity before the art of printing en- 
abled men to possess themselves the works they needed 
for thorough research. In churches where the itinerant 
system prevailed libraries possessed by churches would 
even in our very day prove a source of pleasure, and 
timesaving as well. Indeed, in some of the larger cities 
here and there, congregations are already advocating 
this plan. — Farrar, Ecclesiastical Dictionary. 

Libri Carolini. See Caroline Books. 

Lib'ya (At/3 va or Ai(3mj), a name which, in its 
largest acceptation, was used by the Greeks to denote 
the whole of Africa (Strabo, ii, 131); but Libya Proper , 
which is the Libya of the New Testament (Acts ii, 10), 
and the country of the Lubim in the Old, was a large 
tract lying along the Mediterranean, to the west of 
Egypt (Strabo, xvii, 824). It is called Pentapolitana 
Reyio by Pliny (Hist. Nat. x, 5), from its five cities, Ber- 


enice, Arsinoe, Ptoleraais, Apollonia, and Cyrene ; and 
Libya Cyrenaica by Ptolemy (Geog. iv, 5), from Cy- 
rene, its capital. See Smith’s Did. of Class. Geogr. s.v. 
The name of Libya occurs in Acts ii, 10, where “the 
dwellers in the parts of Libya about Cyrene” are men- 
tioned among the stranger Jews who came up to Jeru- 
salem at the feast of Pentecost. This obviously means 
the Cyrenaica. Similar expressions are used by Dion 
Cassius (At/3u?/ ij 7 TEpi Kep/jviji', liii, 12) and Josephus 
(*/ 7rpoc Kvpijvrjv Aifiui], Ant. xvi, 6, 1). See Cyrene. 
In the Old Test, it is the rendering sometimes adopted 
of 2*13 (Jer. xlvi, 9; Ezek. xxx, 5; xxxviii, 5), else- 
where rendered Phut (Gen. x, 6; Ezek. xxvii, 10). 

Libya is supposed to have been first peopled by. and 
to have derived its name from, the Lehubim or Lubim 
(Gen. x, 13; Nall, iii, 9; see Gesenius, Monum. Phocn. p. 
211 ; comp. Michaelis, Spied, i, 262 sq. ; Vater, Comment. 
i, 132). These, its earliest inhabitants, appear, in the 
time of the Old Testament, to have consisted of wan- 
dering tribes, who were sometimes in alliance with 
Egypt (compare Herod, iv, 159), and at others with the 
Ethiopians, as they are said to have assisted both Shi- 
shak, king of Egypt, and Zerah the Ethiopian in their 
expeditions against Judaea (2 Chron. xii,4; xiv,8; xvi, 
9). In the time of Cambyses they appear to have 
formed part of the Persian empire (Herod, iii, 13), and 
Libyans formed part of the immense army of Xerxes 
(Herod, vii, 71, 86). They are mentioned by Daniel 
(xi, 43) in connection with the Ethiopians and Cushites. 
“They -were eventually subdued by the Carthaginians : 
and it was the policy of that people to bring the nomade 
tribes of Northern Africa which they mastered into the 
condition of cultivators, that by the produce of their in- 
dustry they might be able to raise and maintain the 
numerous armies with which they made their foreign 
conquests. But Herodotus assures ns that none of the 
Libyans beyond the Carthaginian territory were tillers 
of the ground (Herod, iv, 186, 187 ; compare Polybius, i, 
161, 167, 168, 177. ed. Sell weigh aeuser). Since the time 
of the Carthaginian supremacy, the country, with the 
rest of the East, has successively passed into the hands 
of the Greeks, Romans, Saracens, and Turks” (Kit to). 
See Africa. 

Lib'yan (only in the plur.), the rendering adopted 
in the A.Y. of two Heb. names, 2*25 (Lubbhn', Sept. 
Ai/3u££), Dan. xi,43 (elsewhere written E "l*?, "Lubim,'' 
2 Chron. xii, 3; xvi, 8; Nah. iii, 9; prob. i. q. 

“ Lcbabim ,” Gen. x, 13; 1 Chron. i, 11) and (Put, 
Jer. xlvi, 9; Sept. Ai(3veg; elsewhere rendered “Lib- 
ya,” Ezek. xxx, 5 ; xxxviii, 5 ; “ Ph ut,” or “ Put”). See 
Libya. 

Lice (‘|2, ken, perh. from “)23, to nip ; only once in the 
sing, used collectively, Isa. Ii, 6, and there donbtful, where 
the Sept.,Vulg., and Engl. Vers, confound with “|2, so, 
and render ravra, hcec, “ m like manner;” elsewhere 
plural, Exod. viii, 16, 17, 18; Psa. cv, 31 : Sept. 

< jKvtcpec , ver. 17 gkvi \p, v. r. otcri7re^ ; Yulg. sciniphes , in 
Psa. cinijes; also the cognate sing, collective C23, kin- 
nam, Exod. viii, 17, 18, Sept, and Yulg. okih^ec. scini- 
phes), the name of the creature employed in the third 
plague upon Egypt, miraculously produced from the dust 
of the land. Its exact nature has been much disputed. 
Dr. A. Clarke has inferred, from the words “ in man and 
in beast,” that it was the acarus sangnisugus , or “tick” 
(Comment, on Exod. viii, 1 6). Michaelis remarks (Suppl. 
ad Lex. 1174) that if it be a Hebrew word for lice it is 
strange that it should have disappeared from the cog- 
nate tongues, the Aramaic, Samaritan, and Ethiopic. 
The rendering of the Sept, seems highly valuable when 
it is considered that it was given by learned Jews resi- 
dent in Egypt, that it occurs in the most ancient and 
best executed portion of that version, and that it can be 
elucidated by the writings of ancient Greek naturalists, 
etc. Thus Aristotle, who was nearly contemporary with 


LICE 


422 


LICE 


the Sept, translators of Exodus, mentions the kj i7rtg 
(the <jKrl<f>£Q of the Sept.) among insects able to distin- 
guish the smell of honey {Hist. A nimal. iv,8), and refers 
to species of birds which he calls aKnirotpdya , that live 
by hunting oKinirtg (viii, G). 1 lis pupil Theophrastus 

says, “The KvixeQ are born in certain trees, as the oak, 
the fig-tree, and they seem to subsist upon the sweet 
moisture which is collected under the bark. They are 
also produced on some vegetables” {llisi. Plant, iv, 17, 
and ii, ult.). This description applies to aphides, or rath- 
er to the various species of “gall-flies” {Cynips, Linn.). 
Hesvchius, in the beginning of the third century, ex- 
plains (TKvi<\j as “a green four -winged creature,” and 
quotes Phrynichus as applying the name to a sordid 
wretch, and adds, “From the little creature among trees, 
which speedily devours them.” Philo (A.D. 40) and 
Origen,in the second century, who both lived in Egypt, 
describe it in terms suitable to the gnat or mosquito 
(Philo, Vita Mosis , i, 97, 2, ed. Mangey ; Origen, Jlomilia 
tertia in Ex oil.'), as does also Augustine in the third or 
fourth century {De Convenientia , etc.). But Theodoret, 
in the same age, distinguishes between CKvi~tQ and kio- 
viorrtQ {Vita Jacobi ). Suidas (A.D. 1100) says oKvttp. 
“resembling gnats,” and adds, “a little creature that 
eats wood.” These Christian fathers, however, give no 
authority for their explanations, and Bochavt remarks 
that they seem to be speaking of gnats under the name 
ckvIttec, which w'ord, he conjectures, biased them from 



CyrilU, MS. Brem.), “very small creatures like gnats.” 
From this concurrence of testimony it would appear that 
not lice, but some species of gnats, is the proper render- 
ing, though the ancients, no doubt, included other spe- 
cies of insects under the name. Mr. Bryant, however, 
gives a curious turn to the evidence derived from ancient 
naturalists, lie quotes Theophrastus, and admits that 
a Greek must be the best judge of the meaning of the 
Greek word, but urges that the Sept, translators con- 
cealed the meaning of the Hebrew word, which he la- 
bors to prove is lice, for fear of offending the Ptolemies, 
under whose inspection they translated, and the Egyp- 
tians in general, whose detestation of lice was as ancient 
as the time of Herodotus (ii, 37) (but who includes “any 
other fold creature”), ami whose disgust, he thinks, would 
have been too much excited by reading that their na- 
tion once swarmed with those creatures through the in- 
strumentality of the servants of the God of the Jews 
{Plagues of Egypt, Loml. 1794, p. 50, etc.). This suspi- 
cion, if admitted, upsets all the previous reasoning. But 
a plague of lice, upon Bryant’s own principles, could not 
have been more offensive to the Egyptians than the 
plague on the Biver Nile, the frogs, etc., which the Sept, 
translators have not mitigated. Might it not be sug- 
gested with equal probability that the Jews in later 
ages had been led to interpret the word lice as being 
peculiarly humiliating to the Egyptians (see Josephus, 
ii, 14, 3, who, however, makes the Egyptians to be afflict- 
ed with phthiriasis ). The rendering of the Vnlg. affords 
ns no assistance, being evidently formed from that of the 
Sept., and not being illustrated by any lloman natural- 
ist, but found only in Christian Latin writers (see Fac- 
ciolati, s. v.). The other ancient versions, etc., are of no 
value in this inquiry. They adopt the popular notion 
of the times, ami Bochart’s reasonings upon them in- 
volve, as Kosemnullcr (apud Bochart) justly complains, 
many unsafe permutations of letters, if, then, the Sept, 
be discarded, we are deprived of the highest source of 
information. Bochart’s reasoning upon the form of the 
word ( Jlieroz . iii, 518) is unsound, as, indeed, that of all 
others who have relied upon etymology to furnish a clew 
to the insect intended. It is strange that it did not oc- 
cur to Bochart that if the plague had been lice it would 
have been easily imitated by'the magicians, which was 
attempted by (hem, but in vain (Exod. viii, 18). Nor 
is the objection valid that if this plague were gnats, etc., 
the plague of flics would be anticipated, since the latter 


most likely consisted of one particular species having a 
different destination [see Fly], whereas this may have 
consisted not only of mosquitoes or gnats, but of some 
other species which also attack domestic cattle, as the 
oestrus, or tabanus, or zimb (Bruce, Travels, ii, 315, 8vo), 
on which supposition these two plagues would be suf- 
ficiently distinct. See Plagues of Egypt, But, 
since mosquitoes, gnats, etc., have ever been one of 
the evils of Egypt, there must have been some peculiar- 
ity attending them on this occasion which proved the 
plague to be “ the finger of God.” From the next chap- 
ter, ver. 31, it appears that the flax and the barley were 
smitten by the hail; that the former was beginning to 
grow, and that the latter was in the ear, which, accord- 
ing to Shaw, takes place in Egypt in March. Hence 
the linniin would be sent about February, i. e. before the 
increase of the Nile, which takes place at the end of 
May or beginning of June. Since, then, the innumer- 
able swarms of mosquitoes, gnats, etc., which every year 
affect the Egyptians, come, according to Hasselquist, at 
the increase of the Nile, the appearance of them in Feb- 
ruary would be as much a variation of the course of na- 
ture as the appearance of the oestrus in January would 
be in England. They were also probably numerous and 
fierce beyond example on this occasion, and, as the Egyp- 
tians would be utterly unprepared for them (for it seems 
that this plague was not announced), the effects would 
be signally distressing. Bochart adduces instances in 
which both mankind and cattle, and even wild beasts, 
have been driven by gnats from their localities. It may 
be added that the proper Greek name for the gnat is 
ifnric, and that probably the word Ktoiuoif/, which much 
resembles Ki-tip, is appropriate to the mosquito. Har- 
douin observes that the of Aristotle are not the 

ip-icec, which latter is by Pliny always rendered culiccs, 
a word which he employs with great latitude. See 
Gnat. For a description of the evils inflicte^l by these 
insects upon man, see Kirby and Spence, Introduction to 
Entomology, Loiul. 1828, i. 1 15, etc. ; and for the aunoy- 
anco they cause in Egypt, Maillet, Descript, de VEgypte 
par TAbbe Mascrier (Paris, 1755), xc, 37 ; Forskal. Descr. 
,1 nimal, p. 85. Michaelis proposed an inquiry into the 
meaning of the word oKidipt c to the Soeiete des Savants, 
with a lull description of the qualities ascribed to them 
by Philo, Origen, and Augustine (Jlecueil, etc. Amst. 1744). 
Niebuhr inquired after it of the Greek patriarch, and 
also of the metropolitan at Cairo, who thought it to be 
a species of gnat found in great quantities in the gar- 
dens there, and whose bite was extremely painful. A 
merchant who was present at the inquiry called it dubdb- 
el-keb , or the ilog-fy ( Description de VA rabie, Pref. p. 39, 
40). Besides the references already made, sec Hosen- 
miiller, Scholia in Exod. ; Micliaelis, Suppl. ad Lex. He- 
braic. 1203 sq. ; Oedmann, Venn. Summl. aus dir Xa- 
turlcunde , i, G, 74-91 ; Bakerus, A nnotat . in Et . J I. ii, 1090; 




LICENSE 


423 


LIE 


Harenbcrg, Observ. Crit. de Insect is yEgypt. infest antibits, 
in Miscell. Lips . Nov. ii, 4, G 17-20 ; Geddes, Crit. Lem. on 
Exod. viii, 17 ; Montanus, Critic. Sac. on Exod. viii, 12; 
Kit to, Daily Bible Must, ad loc.; Bochart, llieroz. ii, 572. 
— Kitto. See Gnat. 

“The advocates of the other theory, that lice are the 
animals meant by kinnim, and not gnats, base their ar- 
guments upon these facts : (1) because the kinnim sprang 
from the dust, whereas gnats come from the waters ; (2) 
because gnats, though they may greatly irritate men 
and- beasts, cannot properly be said to be ‘ in’ them ; (3) 
because their name is derived from a root (*j*13) which 
signifies to ‘establish,’ or to ‘fix,’ which cannot be said 
of gnats; (4) because, if gnats are intended, then the 
fourth plague of flies would be unduly anticipated ; (5) 
because the Talmudists use the word kinnah in the sin- 
gular number to mean a louse; as it is said (Shab. xiv, 
107. b), ‘As is the man who slays a camel on the Sab- 
bath, so is he who slays a louse on the Sabbath’” 
(Smith). “ The entomologists, Kirby and Spence, place 
these minute but disgusting insects in the very front 
rank of those which inflict direct injury upon man. A 
terrible list of examples they have collected of the rav- 
ages of this and closely allied parasitic pests. They 
remark that, ‘for the quelling of human pride, and to 
pull down the high conceits of mortal man, this most 
loathsome of all maladies, or one equally disgusting, has 
been the inheritance of the rich, the wise, the noble, and 
the mighty; and in the list of those that have fallen 
victims to it, you will find poets, philosophers, prelates, 
prinees, kings, and emperors. It seems more particu- 
larly to have been a judgment of God upon oppression 
and tyranny, whether civil or religious. Thus the in- 
human Pheretima mentioned by Herodotus, Antiochus 
Epiphanes, the dictator Sylla, the two Herods, the em- 
peror Maximin, and, not to mention more, the persecu- 
tor of the Protestants, Philip the Second, were carried 
off by it’ (Jntrod. to Entomol. vol. iv). The Egyptian 
plague may have been somewhat like that dreadful dis- 
ease common in Poland, and known as plica Polonica, 
in which the hair becomes matted together in the most 
disgusting manner, and is infested with swarms of ver- 
min. Each hair is highly sensitive, bleeds at the root 
on the least violence, and if but slightly pulled feels ex- 
quisite pain. Lafontaine, whom Hermann calls a very 
exact describer, affirms that millions office appear on 
the wretched patient on the third day of this disease 
(Mem. Apterol. p. 78). These insects form the order 
Anoplitra of Leach, and Parasita of Latreille. Most 
mammalia, if not all, and probably all birds, are infested 
by them ; each beast and bird, as is stated, having its 
own proper species of louse, and sometimes two or more. 
Three distinct species make the human body their 
abode” (Fairbairn). See Insect. 

License, the name given to the liberty and war- 
rant to preach. 

(1.) In the Presbyterian Church it is regularly con- 
ferred by the Presbyter}’’ on those who have passed sat- 
isfactorily through the prescribed curriculum of study. 
When a student has fully completed his course of study 
at the theological hall, lie is taken on trials for license by 
the Presbytery to which he belongs. These trials consist 
of an examination on the different subjects taught in the 
theological hall, his personal religion, and his motives 
for seeking to enter the ministerial office. He also de- 
livers a lecture on a passage of Scripture, a homily, an 
exercise and additions, a popular sermon, and an exe- 
gesis; and, lastly, he is examined on Church History, 
Hebrew and Greek, and on divinity generally. It is 
the duty of the presbytery to criticise each of these by 
itself, and sustain or reject it separately, as a part of 
the series of trials, and then, when the trials are com- 
pleted, to pass a judgment on the whole by a regular 
vote. If the trials are sustained, the candidate is re- 
quired to answer the questions in the formula, and, 
after prayer, is licensed and authorized to preach the 
Gospel of Christ, and exercise his gifts as a probationer 


for the holy ministry, of which license a regular certifi- 
cate is given if required. He is simply a layman or lay 
candidate for the clerical office, preaching, but not dis- 
pensing the sacraments. See Ordination. 

(2.) In the Methodist churches it is conferred on lay- 
men who are believed to be competent for this office, 
and it is from persons thus brought into the ministry 
[see Lay Preaching] that the Church is supplied with 
ministers. See Local Preachers; Licentiate. 

(3.) In the Church of England and the Protestant 
Episcopal Church of the United States the word license 
is used to designate the grant given by the bishop to a 
candidate for orders, authorizing him to read services 
and sermons in a church in the absence of a minister; 
also the liberty to preach, which the bishop may give 
to those who have been ordained deacons if he judge 
them to be qualified. See the Ordering of Deacons in 
the Prayer-book, where the bishop says to those he is 
ordaining, “Take thou the authority to read the Gospel 
in the Church of God, and to jtreach the same, if thou 
be thereto licensed by the bishop himself.” 

See Staunton’s Ecclesiastical Dictionary, s. v. ; Eadie, 
Ecclesiastical Dictionary, s. v. See Preaching. 

Licentiate (from Lat. licet, it is lawful), one of the 
four ancient university degrees. It is no longer in use 
in England, except at Cambridge as a degree of medi- 
cine. In France and Germany, however, where it is 
more general, a licentiate is a person who, having un- 
dergone the prescribed examination, has received per- 
mission to deliver lectures in the university. When the 
degree is given as an honor, it is intermediate between 
Bachelor of A rts and Doctor. 

LICENTIATE is a person authorized by the Church 
authorities to preach, and who thus becomes eligible to 
a pastoral charge. See License. 

Licinius. See Constantine the Great. 

Lichtenberg, Johann Conrad, a German theo- 
logian, was born at Darmstadt Dee. 3, 1G89. In 1707 he 
entered the University of Giessen, and then attended 
successively those of Jena, Leipsic, and Halle; in the 
latter he finished his academical course in 1711. Soon 
after he accepted a call as vicar to Neun-Ivirchen, in 
the grand-duchy of Hesse; in 171 G he became pastor 
of the same place; in 1719, pastor of Upper Bamstadt; 
in 1733, metropolitan of the diocese of the bailiwick 
Lichtenberg; in 1745, town pastor at Darmstadt, and 
examiner of teachers; and in 1749, superintendent. He 
died July 17, 1751. 1 1 is knowledge was extensive, em- 
bracing not only theology, but also mathematics and 
physics. Astronomical studies, especially, had a lasting 
interest for him ; the latter he knew skilfully how to 
weave into his sermons in a simple and popular manner, 
thus captivating the attention of the audience. He 
contributed largely to Church music. The various 
books which he composed are all of an ascetical charac- 
ter; we only mention Texte zur Kirchenmusik (Darmst. 
1719, 1720, 8vo) ; Ermunternde Stimmen aits Zion (ibid. 
1722, 8vo) ; Geistliche Betrachtungen iiber gewisse in dm 
Evangeliis enthaltene Materien (ibid. 1721, 8vo). — Dur- 
ing, Gelehrte Theol. Deutschlands , ii, 296 sq. 

Lidbir. See Lo-debar. 

Lie (pro]). -T3, \ptvcog'), an intentional violation of 
truth. In Scripture we find the word used to designate 
all the ways in which mankind denies or alters truth in 
word or deed, as also evil in general. In general the 
good is in it designated as the truth, evil as its opposite, 
or fie, and consequently the devil (being the contrary 
to God) as the father of lies, and liars or impious per- 
sons as children of the devil. Hence the Scriptures 
most expressly condemn lies (John viii, 44 ; 1 Tim. i, 9, 
10; Lev. xxi, 27 ; xxii, 15). When, in Bom. iii. 4, it is 
said that all men are liars, it is synonymous with say- 
ing that all are bad. The Bible nowhere admits of per- 
mitted, praiseworthy, or pious lies, yet it recommends 
not to proclaim the truth when its proclamation might 
prove injurious. Hence Christ commands (Matt, vii, 6) 


LIE 


424 


LIFE 


not to present the truth of the Gospel to those who are 1 
unworthy when lie recommends, “(Jive not that which 
is holy unto the dogs, neither cast ye your pearls before 
swine.” In John xvi, 12 we see that he could not tell 
his disciples all that he would have wished to tell them 
on account of their weakness, lie did not answer the 
inquiries of Pilate (John xix, 9), nor of Caiaphas (Matt, 
xxvi, 63). Hut we nowhere find that either in levity, 
or to do others good, or to glorify God, Christ ever spoke 
an untruth. Peter, on the contrary, denied both Christ 
by word in the moment of danger (Matt, xxvi, 09 sq. ; 
Mark xiv, 00 sq. ; Luke xxii, 50 sq. ; John xviii, 17 sq.) 
and the evangelical truth by his actions (Gal. ii, 12, 14). 
lint Paul, in Acts xxiii, 5, made use of an implication 
to dear himself, or, at any rate, concealed part of the 
truth in order to create dissension between the Phari- 
sees and the Sadducees, and thus save himself. Strict 
truthfulness requires that we should never alter the 
truth, either in words or actions, so as to deceive others, 
whether it be for pleasure, or to benefit others or our- 
selves, or even for the best cause. Yet, although there 
can, absolutely considered, be no injurious truth, it is 
not expedient to tell all truth to those who are not able 
to receive or comprehend it. Thus evil might result 
from telling everything to children, fools, mischief- 
makers, spies, etc. But this does not imply that we 
may tell them that which is not true, only that we are 
to remain silent when we perceive that the truth would 
be useless, or might result in inflicting injury on our- 
selves or others. This, of course, does not apply to per- 
jury, as this is positive lying, and indeed, by its calling 
on God, becomes diabolical lying, the Father of truth 
being invoked to confirm a lie, and the highest attribute 
of man, his consciousness of God, is made use of to de- 
ceive others, and to gain an advantage. See Oath. 
But there are varieties of untruthfulness which do not 
belong to the domain of ethics, but to {esthetics. Such 
are parables, jests in word or deed, tales and fables, the 
usual formulas of politeness, mimicry (v7ruxpuji(j), etc., 
which are not calculated to deceive. But the {esthetic 
untruthfulness or suppression of the truth can also be 
abused. In morals, however, all depends on the im- 
provement of conscience, and a correct, firm conscious- 
ness of God’s presence and knowledge. These cannot 
be obtained by mere commandments or moral formulas, 
but bv strengthening the moral sense, fortifying the 
will — in fact, by awakening and strengthening the 
moral power. Morality is an inner life; those only can 
be called liars who wilfully oppose the truth by word 
or deed, or by conscious untruthful ness seek to lead 
others into error or sin ; in short, to injure them pliysi- 
cally or spiritually. As regards so-called “ necessary” 
lies, they also are condemned by the God of all truth ; 
nor even in this world of imperfection, where there are 
so many ingenious illusions, is there any just occasion 
for their use. That truthfulness is a limited duty must 
necessarily he conceded, since the non-expression of the 
truth is in itself a limitation of it. The Bible men- 
tions instances of'lies in good men. but without approv- 
ing them, as that of Abraham (Gen. xii, 12; xx, 2), 
Isaac (Gen. xxvi), Jacob (Gen. xxvii), the Hebrew mid- 
wives (Fxod. i, 15-19), Michal (1 Sam. xix, 14 sq.), Da- 
vid (1 Sam. xx), etc. — Krehl, Xeutest. 1 Vurterbneh. 

There are various kinds of lies. 1. The pernicious 
lie, uttered for the hurt or disadvantage of our neighbor. 
2. The oilicious lie, uttered for our own or our neigh- 
bor’s advantage. 3. The ludicrous and jocose lie, utter- 
ed by way of jest, and only for mirth’s sake iu common 
converse. I. Pious frauds, as they are improperly call- 
ed, pretended inspirations, forged books, counterfeit mir- 
acles, are species of lies. 5. Lies of the conduct, for a 
lie may he told in gestures as well as in words; as 
when a tradesman shuts up his windows to induce his 
creditors to believe that lie is abroad. 0. Lies of omis- 
sion, as when an author wilfully omits what ought to be 
related ; and may we not add. 7. That all equivocation 
and mental reservation come under the guilt of lying? 


The evil and injustice of lying appear, 1. From its 
being a breach of the natural and universal right of 
mankind to truth in the intercourse of speech. 2. From 
its being a violation of God’s sacred law (Phil, iv, 8; 
Lev. xix, II ; Col. iii, 9). 3. The faculty of speech was 
bestowed as an instrument of knowledge, not of deceit; 
to communicate our thoughts, not to hide them. 4. It 
I is esteemed a reproach of so heinous and hateful a na~ 

| turc for a man to be called a liar that sometimes the life 
and blood of the slanderer have paid for it. 5. It lias a 
tendency to dissolve all society, and to indispose the 
mind to religious impressions, 0. The punishment of it 
I is very severe ; the loss of credit, the hatred of those 
| whom we have deceived, and an eternal separation from 
| God in the world to come (Rev. xxi, 8; xxii, 15; I’sa. 

' ci, 7). See Grove’s Moral Philos, vol. i, eh. xi ; Faley’s 
Moral Philos, vol. i, ch. xv; Doddridge’s I Act. leet. 08; 
Watts’s Sermons, vol. i, sorm. 22; Evans’s Serm. vol. ii, 
serm. 13; South’s Serm. vol. i, serm. 12; Dr. Lamont’s 
Serm. vol. i, serm. 11 and 12. — Buck, Theolog. Piet. s. v. 
See Truth. 

Liebknecht, Johann Georo, a German theolo- 
gian, was born at Wasungen April 23. 1079. In 1099 
he entered the University of Jena. Besides pursuing 
the common course, he was led by Dr. Danz into a thor- 
ough study of the Talmud and Rabbinical literature, 
lie also gave especial attention to the science of mathe- 
matics. On the latter he gave lectures after he was 
graduated A.M. in 1703. These were highly approved 
by many scholars, e. g. by the philosopher Leibnitz, 
with whom he corresponded. Ilis devotion to mathe- 
matics, however, did not cause him to neglect his theo- 
logical studies, for lie afterwards lectured with success 
on exegesis of the Old and New Testaments. In 1700 
he was called as professor of mathematics to the Uni- 
versity of Halle, but was obliged to decline this, as well 
as the call of tutor to two princes, iu 1707, because his 
health failed him. In the same year, however, he ac- 
cepted a call as professor of mathematics to the Univer- 
sity of Giessen. Jn 1715 he became a member of the 
Imperial Leopold Society, and in 1710 of the Royal 
Prussian Society of Sciences. In 1719 he became doc- 
tor of divinity, in 1721 professor extraordinary ol theol- 
ogy, and in 1725 was advanced to the ordinary or full 
professorship ; and was also made assessor of the consis- 
tory and superintendent at Giessen. He died Sept. 17, 
1749. Although many of his numerous productions are 
in the department of mathematics, yet his dissertations 
on exegesis, Church history, and dogmatical theology 
prove him to have been a profound, acute, and investi- 
gating theologian. Besides his contributions to the A c- 
ta Eruditorum, we mention Progr. pentt costale, effusce 
Spirit us S. caritatis immemorem haretificem, etc. (Gissre, 
1717, 4 to) : — Piss. hist, theol. tie er angelica reritatis ante 
reformationem in JJassia c onfessionibus (ibid. 1727, 4 to): 
— I \m tlem Tode it. dessen eingebildete Bitterhit (ibid. 
1733, 8vo) : — Piss, theol. tie Peo et cittributis tlirinis, in 
qua A rt. I A ug. Con/] etc. (ibid. 1736, 4to) : — Atlscensio 
Christi ante adscensionem in t alas nulla , Piss, theol. qua 
Socinittnorum commenta , etc. (ibid. 1737, 4to). — Dol ing, 
Gelehrte Theol. Peutschlands , vol. ii, s. v. 

Lieutenant (only in the plur. rc/j- 

ashclarpeninT , fcom the Sanscrit hsatrapa, whence the 
Greek tZaTpamig, and finally tTarpcnrijc, a satrap, see 
Gutting. Gel. Anz. 1839, p. 805; Lassen. Zeitschr. fur d. 
Morgenl. iii, 101 ; Bockb, Corpus I user. No. 2091, c) oc- 
curs in Esth, iii. 12; viii, 9; ix, 3; Ezra viii, 38; so in 
the Chald. form (rendered “princes,” Dan. iii, 2, 3, 27 ; 
vi, 1-7) a satrap, i. e. governor or viceroy of the large 
provinces among the ancient Persians, possessing both 
civil and military power, and being in the provinces the 
representatives of the sovereign, whose state and splen- 
dor they also rivalled (see Brisson, l)e regio Pers. prin~ 
cipatu , i, § 108 ; lleeren, Idem, i, 489 sip). See Satrap. 

Life (properly "n, usually in the plur. with a shig. 
meaning, ; Gr. £wj/), generally of physical life and 


LIFT 


425 


LIGHT 


existence, as opposed to death and non-existence (Gen. 

ii, 7 ; xxv, 7 ; Luke xvi, ‘25; Acts xvii, 25; 1 Cor. iii, 
22 ; xv, 19 ; lleb. vii, 3 ; James iv, 14 ; Rev. xi, 11 ; xvi, 
3). See Longevity. The ancients generally enter- 
tained the idea that the vital principle (which they ap- 
pear to have denoted by the term spirit, in distinction 
from the soul itself, comp. I Thess. v, 23) resided par- 
ticularly in the blood, which, on that account, the Jews 
were forbidden to use as food (Lev. xvii, 11). See 
Blood. Other terms occasionally rendered “life” in 
the Scriptures are 113 S3 ( ne'phesh , a living creature), CT 
(f fom, a dag, i. e. a lifetime), fiioQ (ti/etime), irvevga 
(breath, i. e. spirit), t/zoy/j (soul, or animating principle). 

The term life is ailso used more or less figuratively in 
the following acceptations in Seripture: (1.) For exist- 
ence, life, absolutely and without end. immortality (Hob. 
vii, IG). So also “ tree of life,” or of immortality, which 
preserves from deatli (Rev. ii, 7 ; xxii, 2, 14 ; Gen. ii, 9 ; 

iii, 22) ; “ bread of life” (John vi, 35, 51); “ way of life” 

(Rsa. xvi, 11; Aets ii, 23); “water of life,” i. e. living 
fountains of water, perennial (Rev. vii, 17); crown of 
life, the reward of eternal life (James i, 12; Rev. ii, 10). 
See Book; Bread; Crown; Fountain; Tree, etc. 
(2.) The manner of life, conduct, in a moral respect; 
“ newness of life” (Rom. vi, 4) ; “ the life of God,” i. e. 
the life which God requires, a godly life (Eph. iv, 18: 2 
l*et. i, 3). (3.) The term “life" is also used for spiritual 

life, or the holiness and happiness of salvation procured 
by the Saviour’s death. In this sense, life or eternal life 
is the antithesis of death or condemnation. Life is the 
image of all good, and is therefore employed to express 
it (L)eut. xxx, 15; John iii, 1G, 17, 18, 3G; v, 24. 39, 40; 
vi, 47 ; viii, 51 ; xi, 2G; Rom. v, 12, 18; 1 John v, 11) ; 
death is the consummation of evil, and so it is frequent- 
ly used as a strong expression in order to designate ev- 
ery kind of evil, whether temporal or spiritual (Jer. xxi, 
8; Ezek. xviii, 28; xxxiii, 11; Rom. i, 32; vi, 21; vii, 
5, 10, 13, 24; John vi, 50, viii, 21). (4.) Life is also 

used for eternal life, i. e. the life of bliss and glory in 
the kingdom of God which awaits the true disciples of 
Christ (Matt, xix, 1G, 17; John iii, 15; 1 Tim. iv, 8; 
Aets v, 20 ; Rom. v, 17 ; 1 Ret. iii, 7 ; 2 Tim. i, 1). (5.) 
The term life is also used of God and Christ or the 
Word, as the absolute source and cause of all life (John 
i, 4 ; v, 2G, 39 ; xi, 25 ; xii, 50 ; xiv, G ; xvii, 3 ; Col. iii, 
4; 1 John i, 1,2; v, 20). See Death. 

LIFE EVERLASTING. See Eternal Life; Fu- 
ture Life. 

Lift (prop. N233, aipoi), besides having the general 
sense of raising, is used in several peculiar phrases in 
Scripture. To lift up the Hands is, among the Ori- 
entals, a common part of the eeremony of taking an 
oath: “I have lift up mine hand unto the Lord,” says 
Abraham (Gen. xiv, 22); “I will bring you into the 
land concerning whieh 1 lift up my hand” (Exod. vi, 8), 
which I promised with an oath. To lift up one’s hand 
against any one is to attack him, to fight him (2 Sam. 
xviii, 28; 1 Kings xi, 2G). To lift up one's face in the 
presence of any one is to appear boldly in his presence 
(2 Sam. ii, 22; Ezra ix, G. (See also Job x, 15 ; xi, 15.) 
To lift up one's hands, eyes, soul, or heart unto the Lord 
are expressions describing the sentiments and emotion 
of one who prays earnestly or desires a thing with ar- 
dor. — Calmet, s. v. 

Lifters and ANTILIFTERS, a name given about 
the opening of the 18th century to the congregations at 
Killmarnoek, in the west of Scotland, who, according to 
Sir John Sinclair, differed on the paltry question wheth- 
er it was necessary for the minister to lift in his hand 
the plate of bread before its distribution in the Lord’s 
Supper, the Lifters holding this to be essential, the 
others regarding it as a matter of no moment. Thev 
were also called New Lights, and the others Old Lights , 
terms that have been applied in other eases somewhat 
similar. — Gregoire, /list, i, Gl ; quoted from Sinclair, 
B orks, ix, 375-G ; Williams, Religious Encyclop. s. v. 


Light (properly “11 X, or, 0ojc, from its shining) is 
represented in the Scriptures as the immediate result 
and offspring of a divine command (Gen. i, 3), where 
doubtless we are to understand a reappearance of the 
celestial luminaries, still partially obscured by the haze 
that settled as a pall over the grave of nature at some 
tremendous cataelysm which well-nigh reduced the 
globe to its pristine chaos, rather than their actual for- 
mation, although they are subsequently introduced (Gen. 
i, 14 sci.). I' 1 consequence of the intense brilliancy and 
beneficial intluenee of light in an Eastern climate, it 
easily and naturally became, with Orientals, a repre- 
sentative of the highest human good. From this idea 
the transition was an easy one, in corrupt anil supersti- 
tious minds, to deify the great sources of light. See 
Sun; Moon. When “Eastern nations beheld the sun 
shining in his strength, or the moon walking in her 
brightness, their hearts were secretly enticed, and their 
mouth kissed their hand in token of adoration (Job 
xxxi, 2G, 27). See Adoration. This ‘iniquity’ the 
Hebrews not only avoided, but when they considered 
the heavens they recognised the work of God’s fingers, 
and learnt a lesson of humility as well as of reverence 
(Psa. viii, 3 sq.). On the contrary, the entire residue 
of the East, with scarcely any exception, worshipped 
the sun and the light, primarily, perhaps, as symbols of 
divine power and goodness, but, in a more degenerate 
state, as themselves divine ; whence, in conjunction with 
darkness, the negation of light, arose the doctrine of 
dualism, two principles, the one of light, the good power, 
the other of darkness, the evil power, a corruption which 
rose and spread the more easily because the whole of 
human life, being a checkered scene, seems divided as 
between two conflicting agencies, the bright and the 
dark, the joyous and the sorrowful, what is called pros- 
perous and what is called adverse” (Kitto). But in the 
Scriptures the purer symbolism is everywhere main- 
tained (see Wemyss, Symbol. Did. s. v.). “All the more 
joyous emotions of the mind, all the pleasing sensations 
of the frame, all the happy hours of domestic intercourse, 
were habitually described among the Hebrews under 
imagery derived from light (1 Kings xi, 3G; Isa. lviii, 
8, Esth. viii, IG; Psa. xevii, 11). The transition was 
natural from earthly to heavenly, from corporeal to spir- 
itual things, and so light came to typify true religion 
and the felicity which it imparts. But as light not only 
came from God, but also makes man’s way dear before 
him, so it was employed to signify moral truth, and pre- 
eminently that divine system of truth which is set. forth 
in the Bible, from its earliest gleamings onward to the 
perfeet day of the great sun of righteousness. The ap- 
plication of the term to religious topics had the greater 
propriety because the light in the world, being accom- 
panied by heat, purifies, quickens, enriehes, which efforts 
it is the peculiar province of true religion to produce in 
the human soul (Isa. viii, 20, Matt, iv, IG; Psa. cxix, 
105; 2 Pet. i, 19; Eph. v, 8; 2 Tim. i, 10: 1 Ret. ii,9)” 
(Kitto). 

Besides its physical sense (Matt, xvii, 2 ; Acts ix, 3; 
xii, 7 ; 2 Cor. iv, G), the term light is used by metonymy 
for a fire giving light (Mark xiv, 54 ; Luke xxii, 5G) ; 
for a torch, candle, or lamp (Aets xvi, 29) ; for the ma- 
terial light of heaven, as the sun, moon, or stars (Rsa. 
exxxvi, 7 ; James i, 17). In figurative language it sig- 
nifies a manifest or open state of things (Matt, x, 27; 
Luke xii, 3), and in a higher sense the eternal source of 
truth, purity, and joy (l John i, 5). God is said to 
dwell in light inaccessible (1 Tim. vi, IG), which seems 
to contain a reference to the glory and splendor that 
shone in the holy of Holies, where Jehovah appeared in 
the luminous cloud above the mercy seat, and which 
none but the liigli-priest, and lie only once a year, was 
permitted to approach (Lev. xvi, 2; Ezek. i, 22, 2G. 28). 
This light was typical of the glory of the celestial world. 
See Siiekinah. Light itself is employed to signify the 
edicts, laws, rules, or directions that proceed from ruling 
powers for t lie good of their subjects. Thus of the great 


LIGHT 


426 


LIGHTFOOT 


king of all tlie earth the Psalmist says, “Thy word is a 
light unto mv path'’ (Psa. exix, 105), and “Thy judg- 
ments arc as the light” (Hos. vi, 5). Agreeably to the 
notion ofligbts being the symbols of good government, 
light also signifies protection, deliverance, and joy. 
Light also frequently signifies instruction both by doc- 
trine and example (Matt, v, 10; John v, 35), or persons 
considered as giving such light (Matt, v, 14 ; Rom. ii, 19). 
It is applied in the highest sense to Christ, the true 
light, the sun of righteousness, who is that in the spirit- 
ual which the material light is in the natural world, the 
great author not only of illumination and knowledge, 
but of spiritual life, health, and joy to the souls of men 
(Isa. lx, 1). “Among the personifications on this point 
which Scripture presents we may speeify, (1.) God. The 
apostle James (i, 17) declares that • every good and per- 
fect gift cometh down from the Father of lights, with 
whom is no variableness, neither shadow of turning,’ 
obviously referring to the faithfulness of God and the 
constancy of his goodness, which shine on undinnned 
and unshadowed. So Paul (1 Tim. vi, 1G), ‘God who 
dwelleth in the light which no man can approach unto.’ 
Here the idea intended by the imagery is the ineom- 
prehensi bleu ess of the self- existent and eternal God. 
(2.) Light is also applied to Christ: ‘The people who 
sat in darkness have seen a great light’ (Matt, iv, 1G; 
Luke ii, 32; John i, 4 sq.). ‘ lie was the true light;’ 

‘ I am the light of the world’ (John viii, 12 ; xii, 35, 3G). 
(3.) It is further used of angels, as in 2 Cor. xi, 14: 

‘ Satan himself is transformed into an angel of light.’ 
(4.) Light is moreover employed of men : John the Bap- 
tist ‘was a burning and a shining light’ (John v, 35); 
‘Ye are the light of the world’ (Matt, v, 14; see also 
Acts xiii, 47 ; Eph. v, 8)” (Kitto). See Lights. 

LIGHT, Divine. See Knowledge; Religion. 
LIGHT, Inward. See Quakers. 

LIGHT of Nature. See Nature. 

Light, Friends of. See Free Congregations. 

Light, George C., a Methodist Episcopal minister, 
was born in Westmoreland County, Va.. Feb. 28, 1785. 
In 1792 his father removed to Kentucky, and in 1799 
to Ohio, where in 1803 he joined the Methodist Episco- 
pal Church. In 1804 the son was converted at a camp- 
meeting; in 180G he entered the itinerant ministry in 
the Western Conference, and in 1807 lie was ordained 
deacon. Locating after his marriage in 1808, he was 
employed as a surveyor till 1822, when he entered the 
Kentucky Conference. From this time until 1859 he 
labored actively as an itinerant preacher, filling the 
most important stations in Kentucky, Missouri, and 
Mississippi. He died Feb. 27, 1859. Mr. Light was 
held to be one of the most eloquent and useful ministers 
in the West during many years. No man of his day, it 
is thought, had greater control over the popular mind. — 
Camp, Sketch of the Rev. G. C. Li fit (Nashville, 18G0). 

Light, Old and New. See United Presby- 
terians. 

Lightfoot, John (1), D.D., a noted English divine 
and Hebraist, was born at Stoke-upon-Trent in 1G02. 
He was educated first at a grammar-school at Morton 
Green, in Cheshire, and afterwards at Cambridge, lie 
was remarkable, at Cambridge and afterwards, for his 
eloquence and his proficiency in Latin and Greek. Quit- 
ting the university, he became assistant at the well- 
known school of Repton, in Derbyshire. A year or two 
after he entered into orders, and Settled at Norton-un- 
dcr-llales. in Shropshire, where he began the study of 
the Hebrew, which ripened into the most familiar and 
consummate knowledge of the whole range of Biblical 
and Rabbinical literature. In 1G27 he accepted the 
cure of Stone, in Staffordshire. Two years later he 
removed to Hornsey, in order to he near the library of 
Sion College, and later accepted the rectory of Ashford, 
in Staffordshire. Here he remained during the tur- 
bulent years which led to the death of Charles I, the 


establishment of the Commonwealth, and the tempo? 
rary subversion of the Church of England. During 
the civil war he was identified with the Presbyterians, 
and became a member of the Assembly of Divines at 
Westminster, where he displayed great courage and 
learning in opposing many of those tenets which the 
divines were endeavoring to establish. While in Lon- 
don he was minister of St. Bartholomew’s. In 1G53 
he was presented by Parliament with the living of 
Great Munden, in Hertfordshire. In 1G55 he entered 
upon the office of vice-chancellor of Cambridge, to which 
he was chosen that year, having takeit the degree of 
doctor in divinity in 1G52. The living of Great Mun- 
den was given to Dr. Lightfoot by Parliament, and upon 
the restoration of Charles II it was bestowed upon an- 
other person. Through the influence of Sheldon, then 
bishop of London, Lightfoot was, however, reinstated in 
his living, as well as confirmed in the mastership of 
Catharine Hall, which he had offered to resign, he hav- 
ing previously complied with the terms of the Aet of 
Uniformity. Through the influence of Sir Orlando 
Bridgeman he was appointed to a prebendal stall in the 
cathedral of Ely, where he died peaeeabty, Dec. G, 1G75. 
“Lightfoot was a very learned Hebraist for his time, 
but he was not free from the unscientific erotehets of 
the period, holding, for example, the inspiration of the 
vowel-points, etc. He has done good service to theol- 
ogy by pointing out and insisting upon the close con- 
nection between the Talmudieal and Midrashic writings 
and the New Testament, which, to a eertain extent, is 
only to be understood by illustrations from the anterior 
and contemporaneous religious literature’ 1 (Chambers). 
Ilis object at first was “to produce one great and per- 
fect work — a harmony of the four evangelists, with a 
commentary and prolegomena. But the little probabil- 
ity of his being able to publish at onee so vast a work 
as he saw it would beeome were he to carry out the idea 
in its completeness — in an age when brevity was essen- 
tial to everything which issued from the press — deter- 
mined him to give to the world from time to time the 
result of his labors in separate treatises. The subject- 
matter of these treatises may be classed under the gen- 
eral heads of chronology, chorography, investigation of 
original texts and versions, examination of Rabbinical 
comments and paraphrases” (Kitto). Lightfoot’s works 
are : Erubhin , or Miscellanies , Christian and Judaical 
(1G29) : — A few and new Observations upon the Book of 
Genesis (1G42): — A Handful of Gleanings out of the 
Book of Exodus ( 1 G4 3) : — The Harmony of the four 
Evangelists among themselves and with the O. T. (1G44): 
— A Commentary upon the Acts of the Apostles , 1st part 
(1G45) : — The Harmony, 2d part (no date): — The Tem- 
ple Sendee in the Days of our Saviour (1G49) : — The 
Harmony, 3d part (1G49) : — The Temple (1G50) : — Hone 
Ilebraicec et Talmudictr (1658): — Horae , etc., upon the 
Gospel of St. Mark (1GG1 ; new ed. by Rev. R. Gandcll, 
Oxf. 1859, 4 vols. 8vo) : — Jewish and Talmudieal Exer - 
citations upon St. Luke: — Jeu’ish, ete., upon St.John : — 
Hone Hebraieer, etc., Acts of the Apostles: — Horn, etc., 
upon the first Epistle to the Corinthians. During the 
latter years of his life he contributed the most valuable 
assistance to the authors of Walton’s Polyglot Bible, Cas- 
toffs Heptaglot Lexicon , and Bool’s Synopsis Criticorum. 
Ilis works were published entire, (1) with a preface by 
Dr. Bright and a life by the editor, John Strvpe, at Lon- 
don in 1G84 (2 vols. fob): (2) at Amsterdam in lG.sG (2 
vols. fob) ; (3) at Utrecht, by John Lensden, in 1G99 (3 
vols. fob) ; and (4) by Bit man, at London, in from 1822- 
25 (13 vols. 8vo), which is the best edition, and contains 
a very elaborate biography of Lightfoot. Dr. Adam 
Clarke says: “In Biblical criticism 1 consider Lightfoot 
the first of all English writers; and in this I include 
his learning, his judgment, and his usefulness.” See, be- 
sides the biographies connected with the various collec- 
tions of his works. Brevis Descriptio Yitce J. Lightfooti 
(1G99); Kitto, Cyclop. Bib. Lit. voh ii, s. v. ; Herzog, 
Beal-Encyklopddie, voh viii, s. v. (C. lb B.) 


LIGHTFOOT 


427 


LIGN-ALOE 


Lightfoot, John (2), an English divine and bota- 
nist, was born in Gloucestershire in 1735. lie was ed- 
ucated for the Church, became chaplain to the duchess 
of Portland, and obtained the livings of Sheldon and 
Gotham, lie also devoted himself specially to the study 
of botany, and, in company with Pennant, explored the 
Hebrides about 1772, and published in 1777 a valuable 
“ Flora of Scotland” ( Flora Scoticu , 2 vols.), with excel- 
lent figures. lie died in 1788. — Thomas, Biographical 
Dictionary , p. 1425. 

Lightning (properly bar ah', Dan. x, G ; collec- 

tively lightnings , Psa. cxliv, G; 2 Sara, xxii, 15; Ezra i, 13 ; 
plur.Job xxxviii, 35; Psa.xviii, 15; lxxvii,19, etc.;.trop. 
the brightness of a glittering sword, Ezek. xxi, 15, 33; 
Deut. xxxii, 41, etc. ; dm-pctm), Matt, xxiv, 27 ; xxviii, 
3; Luke x, 18; xi, 3G; xvii, 24; Rev.iv, 5; viii, 5; xi, 
19; xvi, 18; once pta, bazak', a flash of lightning, Ezek. 
i, 14 ; less properly “1*1 X, dr, light , Job xxxvii, 3, 1 1, 25 ; 

lappid ', a burning torch , Exod. xx, 18 ; tig. PTn, 
chuziz', an arrow, i. e. tlnmder-/?as//, Zeeli. x, 1 ; comp. 
Job xxviii, 2G; xxxviii, 25). Travellers state that in 
Syria lightnings are frequent in the autumnal months. 
Seldom a night passes without a great deal of lightning, 
which is sometimes accompanied by thunder and some- 
times not. A squall of wind and clouds of dust are the 
usual forerunners of the first rains. See Palestine. 
To these natural phenomena the sacred writers fre- 
quently allude. In directing their energies, “ the Lord 
hath his way in the whirlwind and in the storm, and 
the clouds are the dust of his feet ; the mountains quake 
at him, and the hills melt, and the earth is burned at 
his presence ; his fury is poured out like tire, and the 
rocks are thrown down by him” (Nali. i, 3-G). The 
terrors of the divine wrath are often represented by 
thunder and lightning; and thunder, on account of its 
awful impression on the minds of mortals, is also spoken 
of in Scripture as the “ voice of the Lord” (Psa. cxxxv, 
7; cxliv, G; 2 Sam. xxii, 15; Job xxviii, 2G; xxxvii, 4, 
5; xxxviii, 25; xl, 9; Zech. ix, 14; Rev. iv, 5; xvi, 18 
-21). On account of th ejlre attending their light, they 
are the symbols of edicts enforced with destruction to 
those who oppose them, or who hinder others from giving 
obedience to them (Psa. cxliv, G; Zech. ix, 14; Psa. 
xviii, 14; Rev. iv, 5; xvi, 18). Thunders and light- 
nings, when they proceed from the throne of God (as in 
Rev. iv, 5), are tit representations of God’s glorious and 
awful majesty; but when fre comes down from heaven 
upon the earth, it expresses some judgment of God on 
the world (as in Rev. xx, 9). The voices, thunders, 
lightnings, and great hail, in Rev. xvi, 18-21, are inter- 
preted expressly of an exceeding great plague, so that 
men blasphemed on account of it (see Wemyss, Symb. 
Diet. s. v.). See Thunder. 

Lights. 1. The use of artificial light in baptism was 
practiced in the Church at an early day, although it 
was opposed in this instance as in its use for communion 
service, etc. Ihit where it was used it was the practice, 
in addition to the ceremony of putting on white gar- 
ments at baptism, to place lighted tapers in the hands 
of the baptized. Gregory Naziauzen says : “ The station 
where, immediately after baptism, thou shalt be placed 
before the altar, is an emblem of the glory of the life to 
come; the psalmody with which thou shalt be received 
is a foretaste of those hymns and songs of a better life; 
and the lamps which thou shalt light are a figure of 
those lamps of faith wherewith bright and virgin souls 
shall go forth to meet the Rridegroom.” Others say 
that the lamp was designed to be a symbol of their own 
illumination, and to remind the candidates of the words 
of Christ, “ Let your light so shine before men that they 
may see your good works, and glorify your Father which 
is in heaven.” In some baptisms the attendants were 
clothed in white, and carried tapers. At the baptism 
of the younger Theodosius, the leaders of the people 
were all clothed in white, and all the senators and men 
of quality carried lamps. 


Lighted candles were, according to St. Jerome ( Epist . 
cont. Vigilant, cap. 3.; comp, also Cave, Prim. Christ, lib. 
i, c. 7, p. 203), sometimes used in the Eastern churches 
when the Gospel was read, and were designed to show 
the joy of those who received the glad tidings, and also 
to be a symbol of the light of truth. The lighting of 
candles on the communion table is observed only in the 
Romish Church. See Farrar, Dcclcs. Dictionary , s. v. ; 
Bingham, A ntiquities of the Christ. Church , bk. xii. ch. 
iv, sect. 4; Alt, Christlich. Cnltus (1851), p. 95; Herzog, 
Real-Encyklop. viii, 517 sq. ; Asclibach, Kirchen-Lexikon, 
iii, 7G9 (Iverzen). See Candles. 

II. Lights were employed by the Apostolic Church, 
but for no other purpose than to obviate the inconven- 
ience of assembling for worship in the dark. Their use 
as a matter of religion, or, rather, of superstition, is of 
far less ancient date, although it has been defended as a 
primitive custom, and might, of course, be traced even 
to Jewish antiquity, if such a precedent were esteemed 
of any value. In all probability, artificial light was used 
during the daytime, and for a symbolical purpose, about 
the 4th century, if we accept the statement of St. Pauli- 
nus, bishop of Sola (A. D. 353-431), who, speaking of the 
great numbers of wax-lights which burned about the 
altars, making the night more splendid than the day, 
adds that the light of the day itself was made move glo- 
rious by the same means: 

“Nocte dieqne micant. Sic nox splendore dici 
Fulget: et ipsa dies coelesti illustris houore 
Plus micat iiimimeris lucem geminata lueernis.” 

(Paulin. Nat. iii, S. Felicia.) 

(Compare also Isidore, Origin, vii, 12.) But this custom 
was severely condemned by many. Comp. Lamps. 

III. The practice of lighting candles on the altar, 
which prevailed, and still prevails, in the Romish Church, 
was abolished in England at the Reformation. 

Those candles which (according to one of the Injunc- 
tions of Edward VI, set forth in 1547) have been suf- 
fered to remain upon the Lord's table are sometimes 
designated as “lights on the communion table.” But 
it is to be noticed that no lights arc ever used in the 
English churches, only candles, which are never light- 
ed, the lighting of any such candles at an evening serv- 
ice being merely for a necessary purpose. See Eden, 
Theol. Diet, s, v. See Altar. 

Lights, Feast of. See Epiphany. 

Lign-aloe (only in the plur.D^llN;, a hoi hi', Numb. 
xxiv, G, Sept. OKijvai, Vulg. tabernaeula ; Prov. vii, 17. 
Sept. o7kop, Vulg. aloe, A. V. “aloes;” or fem. 
aha loth', Psa. xlv, 8, Sept, a-aicrt), Vulg. gutta, A. V. 
“aloes;” Cant, iv, 14, ciXioS, aloe, “aloes”), a kind of 
perfume which interpreters have by common consent 
regarded as derived from some Oriental tree, and com- 
pared with the agallochum (oydXXoyop) or aloe-wood 
(%v\a\6i}\ described by Dioscorides (i, 21) in the fol- 
lowing terms: “It is a wood brought from India and 
Arabia, resembling tliyine-wood, compact, fragrant, as- 
tringent to the taste, with great bitterness; having a 

skin-like bark It is burned for frankincense.” 

Pliny likewise speaks of it as being derived from the 
same region (Mat. Hist, xxvii, 5). Later writers, as 
Orobasius, TEtius, and P. JEgineta, mention it, but give 
no further description. Arabic authors, however, as 
Phases, Serapion, and others, were well acquainted with 
the substance, of which they describe several varieties; 
and the Latin translator of Avicenna (Iii, 132) gives 
“agallochum,” “xylaloe,” and “lignum aloes” as equiv- 
alent to the aghlajitn, aghaliikhi, and iid of the text, 
lioyle (lllustr. ofllimal. hot. p. 171) has traced the same 
substance in the aggnr , a famous aromatic wood obtain- 
ed in the bazaars of Northern India under three names: 
1, aod-i-hindi ; 2, a variety procured from Surat, but 
not differing essentially from 3, aod-i-kimari. said to 
come from China, doubtless the alcamerinm of Avicen- 
na. Garcias ah Ilosto (Clusius, Eccot. Hist.\ writing on 
this subject near Surat, says that “it is called in Ma- 
lacca garo, but the choicest sort calambac.” Paul a 


LIGX-ALOE 


428 


LIGN-ALOE 


Bartholin (in Vvacarana, p. 205) likewise distinguishes 
three sorts, “one common, very odorous, and of great 
price, called aghil ; the black, which is termed kdr-ayhhil 
or kal-agam ; the third, producing a dower, named mo- 
garim, properly mangalyam or malligandhiyal .” 

There is considerable confusion among naturalists in 
their attempts to identify the exact tree which yields 
the far-famed wood. “Dr. Roxburgh states that vgiiru 
is the Sanscrit name of the incense or aloe-wood, which 
in Hindostanee is called ugur, and in Persian aod-hindi , 
and that there is little doubt that the real calambac, or 
agallochum of the ancients, is yielded by an immense 
tree, a native of the mountainous tracts east of and 
southeast from Silhet, in about 24° of N. latitude. This 
plant, he says, cannot be distinguished from thriving 
plants, exactly of the same age, of the Garo de Malacca , 
received from that place, and growing in the garden of 
Calcutta. lie further states that small quantities of 
agallochum are sometimes imported into Calcutta by 
sea from the eastward, but that such is always deemed 
inferior to that of Silhet ( Flora Ind. ii,423). The Garo 
de Malacca was first described by Lamarck (Encyclopedic 
Methodique , i, 47 sq.), from a specimen presented- to him 
by Sonnerat as that of the tree which yielded the bois 
d'aigle of commerce. Lamarck named this tree Aqui - 
laria Malaccensis, which Cavanilles afterwards changed 
unnecessarily to Aquilaria ovata. As Dr. Roxburgh 
found that his plant belonged to the same genus, he 
named it Aqnilaria agallochum , but it is printed A gal- 
loch a in his Flora Indica, probably by an oversight. He 
is of opinion that the Agallochum secutidarium of Rum- 
phius (Herb. . I mb. ii, 34, t. 10), which that author re- 
ceived under the name of Agallochum Malaccense, also 
belongs to the same genus, as well as the Sinfu of 
Ka?mpfer (Amcen. Exot. p. 903), and the Ophispermmn 
sinense of Loureiro. This last-named missionary de- 
scribes a third plant, which he names Aloexylum agal- 
lochum, representing it as a large tree growing in the 
lofty mountains of Champava, belonging to Cochin 
China, about 13° of N. lat.. near the great river Lavum, 
and producing calambac (Flora Cochin Chinensis, edit. 
Wildcnow, i, 327). This tree, belonging to the class 
and order Decandria monogynia of Li mucus, and the nat- 
ural family of Leguminosce , has always been admitted as 
one of the trees yielding agallochum. But, as Loureiro 
himself confesses that he had only once seen a muti- 
lated branch of the tree in flower, which, by long car- 
riage, had the petals, anthers, and stigma much bruised 
and torn, it is not impossible that this may also belong 
to the genus Aquilaria, especially as his tree agrees in 
so many points with that described by Dr. Roxburgh. 
Rumphius has described and tigured a third plant, which 
he named Arbor exccecans, from ‘ Blindhout,’ in conse- 
quence of its acrid juice destroying sight, whence the 
generic name of Exccecaria ; the specific one of agallo- 
chum he applied because its wood is similar to, and often 
substituted for agallochum, and he states that it was 
sometimes exported as such to Europe, and even to 
China. This tree, the Excwcaria agallochum , of the 
Linnnean class and order Dicecia triandria, and the nat- 
ural family of Euphorbiaceie , is also very common in the 
delta of the Ganges, where it is called Geria; ‘but the 
wood-cutters of the Sunderbunds,’ Dr. Roxburgh says, 
‘who are the people best acquainted with the nature of 
this tree, report the pale, white, milky juice thereof to 
be highly acrid and very dangerous.’ The only use 
made of the tree, as far as Dr. Roxburgh could learn, 
was for charcoal and firewood. Agallochum of any sort 
is, he believed, never found in this tree, which is often 
the only one quoted as that yielding agila-wood; but, 
notwithstanding the negative testimony of Dr. Rox- 
burgh, it may, in particular situations, as stated by 
Rumphius, yield a substitute for that fragrant and long- 
famed wood. In Arabian authors numerous varieties 
of agallochum arc mentioned (Celsus, Hierobot. p. 143). 
Persian authors mention only three: 1. Aod-i-hindi ; 
that is, the Indian; 2. Aod-i-chini, or Chinese kind 


(probably that from Cochin China) ; 3. Sumunduri , a 
term generally applied to things brought from sea, which 
may have reference to the inferior variety from the In- 
dian islands. In old works, such as those of Bauhin and 
Ray, three kinds are. also mentioned: 1 . Agallochum 
prastantissimum, also called Calambac; 2. A . Ojjicina- 
rum, or Palo de Aguilla of Linschoten ; 3 . A. sylrestre, 
or Aguilla bra va. But, besides these varieties, obtained 
from different localities, perhaps from different plants, 
there are also distinct varieties, obtainable from the 
same plant. Thus, in a MS. account by Dr. Roxburgh, 
to which Dr. Royle had access, it is stated, in a letter 
from R. K. Dick, at Silhet, that four different qualities 
may be obtained from the same tree : 1st, Ghat'ki, which 
sinks in water, and sells from 12 to 1G rupees per seer of 
2 lbs.; Jhl, Doim, G to 8 rupees per seer; 3d, Simula, 
which floats in water, 3 to 4 rupees; and, 4th, Chiirum, 
which is in small pieces, and also floats in water, from 1 
to li rupees per seer, and that sometimes 80 lbs. of 
these four kinds may be obtained from one tree. All 
these tuggur- trees, as they are called, do not produce the 
aggur, nor does every part of even the most productive 
tree. The natives cut into the wood until they observe 
dark-colored veins yielding the perfume ; these guide 
them to the place containing the aggur, which generally 
extends but a short way through the centre of the trunk 
or branch. An essence, or attur, is obtained by bruising 
the wood in a mortar, and then infusing it in boiling 
water, when the attur floats on the surface. Early de- 
cay does not seem incident to all kinds of agallochum, 
for we possess specimens of the wood gorged with fra- 
grant resin (Illustr. Ilim. Bot. p. 173) which show no 
symptoms of it, but still it is stated that the wood is 
sometimes buried in the earth. This may be for the 
purpose of increasing its specific gravity. A large spec- 
imen in the museum of the East-India House displays a 
cancellated structure in which the resinous parts remain, 
the rest of the wood having been removed, apparently 
by decay" (Kitto). Notwithstanding the uncertainty 
respecting the identity of some of the above-described 
varieties, we have, at all events, two trees ascertained as 
yielding this fragrant wood — one, A quilaria agallochum, 
a native of Silhet, and the other A. ovata or Malaccen- 
sis, a native of Malacca, although it is still not clear that 
they are anything more than local variations of the 



same species. The former is described as a magnificent 
tree, growing to the height of 120 feet, being 12 feet in 
girth. “The bark of the trunk is smooth and ash-col- 
ored, that of the branches gray and lightly striped with 
brown. The wood is white, and very light and soft. It 
is totally without smell, and the leaves, bark, and fldwers 
are equally inodorous" (Script. Herb. p. 238). The fra- 


LIGN-ALOE 


429 


LIGUORI 


grance appears to reside wholly in the resin deposited 
in the pores, and is developed by heat. Both plants 
belong to the Linmean class and order Decandria mono- 
gynia, and the natural family of Aquilarinece. 

“It is extremely interesting to find that the Malay 
name of the substance in question, which is agila, is so 
little different from the ahalim of the Hebrew ; not 
more, indeed, than maybe observed in many well-known 
words, where the hard g of one language is turned into 
the aspirate in another. It is therefore probable that 
it was by the name agila (cighil in Koscnm filler, Biblic. 
Bot. p. 234) that this wood was first known in com- 
merce, being conveyed across the bay of Bengal to the 
island of Ceylon or the peninsula of India, which the 
Arab or Phoenician traders visited at very remote pe- 
riods, and where they obtained the early-known spices 
and precious stones of India. It is not a little curious 
that captain Hamilton (Account of the East Indies, i, 68) 
mentions it by the name of agaht, an odoriferous wood 
at Muscat. We know that the Portuguese, when they 
reached the eastern coast from the peninsida, obtained 
it under this name, whenee they called it pao d'aguila , 
or eagle-icood, which islhe origin of the generic name 
Aquilana. 

“It must be confessed, however, that, notwithstand- 
ing all that has been written to prove the identity of 
the ahalim- trees with the aloes - wood of eommeree, 
and notwithstanding the apparent connection of the 
Hebrew word with the Arabic aghlagun and the Greek 
agallochov , the opinion is not clear of difficulties. In 
the first place, the passage in Numb, xxiv, 6, ‘as the 
ahalim which Jehovah hath planted,’ is an argument 
against the identification with the Aquilaria agallo - 
chum. The Sept, seem to have read ohalirn ', 

tents ; and they are followed by the Vulg., the Syriac, the 
Arabic, and some other versions. If this is not the true 
reading — and the context is against it — then if ahalim 
be the Aq. agallochum , we must suppose that Balaam 
is speaking of trees concerning which, in their growing 
state, he could have known nothing at all. Roscnmiil- 
ler ( Schol . in V, T. ad Numb, xxiv, 6) allows that this 
tree is not found in Arabia, but thinks that Balaam 
might have become acquainted with it from the mer- 
chants. Perhaps the prophet might have seen the 
wood. But the passage in Numbers manifestly implies 
that he had seen the ahalim growing , and that in all 
probability they were some kind of trees sufficiently 
known to the Israelites to enable them to understand 
the allusion in its full force. But if the ahalim be the 
agallochum, then much of the illustration would have 
been lost to the people who were the subject of the 
prophecy ; for the A q. agallochum is found neither on 
the banks of the Euphrates, where Balaam lived, nor in 
Moab, where the blessing was enunciated. Michaelis 
C Supp . p. 34, 35) believes the Sept, reading to be the 
correct one, though he sees no difficulty, but rather a 
beauty, in supposing that Balaam was drawing a simil- 
itude from a tree of foreign growth. lie confesses that 
the parallelism of the verse is more in favor of the tree 
than the tent ; but he objects that the lign-aloes should 
be mentioned before the cedars, the parallelism requir- 
ing, he thinks, the inverse order. But this is hardly a 
valid objection, for what tree was held in greater esti- 
mation than the cedar? And even if ahalim be the 
Aq. agallochum , yet the latter clause of the verse does 
no violence to the law of parallelism, for of the two trees 
the cedar ‘is greater and more august.’ Again, the 
passage in Psa. xlv, 8 would perhaps be more correctly 
translated thus: ‘The myrrh, aloes, and cassia, per- 
fuming all thy garments, brought from the ivory palaces 
of the Minni, shall make thee glad.’ The Minni, or 
Minafi, were inhabitants of spicy Arabia, and carried on 
a great trade in the exportation of spices and perfumes 
(Pliny, xii, 14, 16; Bochart, Phaleg, ii, 22, 135). As the 
myrrh and cassia are mentioned as coming from the 
Minni, and were doubtless natural productions of the 
country, the inference is that aloes, being named with 


them, were also a production of the same region’’ (Kit- 
to). But see Minni. 

See generally Abulfeda, in Blisching’s Magazin , iv, 
277 ; Bokin, in Xotices et Extraits de la Bihlioth. da lloi, 
ii, 307 ; Liniueus, Pfanzensystem nach Ilouttyn (Nounb. 
1777), ii, 422 sq. ; Michaelis, Supplem. p. 32; Wahl, Os- 
tindien, ii, 772 ; the Fundgruben des Orients, v, 372 ; Bon- 
di, Or-Esther, p. 13 ; Sylv. de Saez, ad Abdollatiphi De- 
scrip. xEg. p. 320. Compare Aloe. 

Liguori, Alfonzo Maria de, a Homan Catholic 
bishop, and founder of the Order of liedemptorists, was 
born Sept. 27, 1600, at Naples. He was descended from 
a noble family, and the son of a royal officer ; from his 
mother, who was a fervid Catholic, he imbibed in early 
childhood a glowing devotedness to the Church of Home. 
Educated in an institution of the priests of the Oratory, 
he made such rapid progress that lie obtained in the six- 
teenth year of his life the degree of LL.I). In accord- 
ance with the wish of his parents he became a lawyer, 
but the loss of an important lawsuit so mortified him 
that he resolved to enter the priesthood. He overcame 
the violent opposition of his father, and took orders in 
1725. Soon after he entered the Congregation of the 
Propaganda at Naples, and began to labor with great 
zeal for the religious awakening of the lowest classes in 
Naples and the neighboring provinces. In order to en- 
large the sphere of his labors he concluded to establish 
a new religious congregation. The first house of the 
new congregation was established with the assistance of 
twelve companions at Scala; the chief task of the mem- 
bers was declared to be “to devote themselves to the 
service of the poorest and most abandoned souls.” Three 
years later the second house was established at Cionani, 
in the diocese of Salerno. The rule of the new congre- 
gation, which Liguori had drawn up with the assist- 
ance of several prominent men, was confirmed by a brief 
of pope Benedict XIV, dated Feb. 22, 1749, and Ligu- 
ori was elected superior general for his lifetime. The 
archbishopric of Palermo, which king Charles III of 
Naples offered to him, Liguori declined, but in 17G2 he 
had, at the request of pope Clement XIII, to accept the 
bishopric of Sta. Agata de’ Goti. A general chapter of 
the congregation unanimously declared that no new su- 
perior general should be elected in place of Liguori, 
but that the latter should appoint a vicar general to 
preside over the congregation in his place. The feeble 
state of his health repeatedly induced him to ask the 
pope to accept his resignation, but his wish was not 
granted until 1775. lie retired to the house of his con- 
gregation at Nocera de’ Pagani, where he spent the 
remainder of his life in composing theological and, in 
particular, ascetical works. In consequence of the in- 
trigues of several prominent members of his order, and 
the government of Naples, which, against his will, caused 
the rules of his order to be changed, he w r as compelled 
to resign its supreme management. He died August 1, 
1787. In 1796 he received from Pius VI the title “ Ven- 
erable,” in 1816 he was beatified, and on May 26, 1839, 
was canonized by pope Gregory XVI. In 1871 Pius 
IX conferred upon him the title and rank of a “ Doctor 
Ecelcsire.” Liguori w’as a very prolific writer, the best 
kmnvn among his w’orks being the Theologia M oralis 
(Naples, 3 vols.): — Homo Apostolicus (Venice, 1782, 3 
vols.) : — Institntio Catechetica (Bassano, 1768) : — Praxis 
Confessarii. Complete editions of his works have been 
published at Paris (1835 sq., in 16 vols.), at Monza (70 
vols.), and other places. 1 1 is works have been trans- 
lated into French and German, and, in great part, into 
English, Spanish, Polish, and other European languages. 
The principles of casuistry explained by Liguori have 
been received with much favor by the Ultramontane 
school of the Roman Catholic theologians, and his moral 
theology, which is a modification of the so-called “prob- 
abilistic system” of the age immediately before his own, 
is largely used in the direction of consciences. Few 
writers in modern times have gone so far in the defence 
of the extremest ultra-papal theories and practices as 


LIGUORIANS 


430 


LILIENTHAL 


Liguori, and, while his honesty and zeal are undoubted, 
he stands forth in the recent history of the Homan 
Church as a representative of the very worst tendencies 
of casuists. In the ordinary concerns of life, where 
there is no suspicion and no warning, he elaborately 
teaches how falsehood and trickery between man and 
man may be most advantageously practiced, and how 
far cheating and stealing on the part of tradesmen and 
servants may be venially carried on, and without incur- 
ring mortal sin. See Connelly, Reasons for abjuring 
A llegiance to the See of Rome (Lond. 1*52) ; Loud. Qu . 
Rer. 1*50, p. 390 ; Christian Remembr. 1854 (Jan.), p. 38 ; 
1855 (Oct.), p. 407. Biographies of Liguori have been 
written by Giatini (Vita del beato A Ifons. Liguori , Home, 
1815), Jeancard (Vie du C. .1. Liguori, Louvain, 1829), 
Klotts (Aix-la-Chapelle. 1835), Schick (Schaff hausen, 
1853), and others. In English we have a very good bi- 
ographical Life of St.A.M. de Liguori (London, 1848, 2 
vols. 8vo). For an account of the religious order found- 
ed by Liguori, see BedejmptohiSts. (A. J. S.) 

Lignorians. See Hedemptorists. 

Li'gure (D'ifp, le'shem , supposed to be from an old 
root preserved in the Arab., and signifying to taste ) oc- 
curs but twice (Exod. xxviii, 19; xxxix, 12) as the name 
of the first stone in the third row on the high-priest’s 
breastplate, where the Sept. renders \iyvpiov (apparently 
alluding to the above derivation), and is followed by the 
Yulg. ligurius, as well as the A.Y. So also Josephus 
(War, v, 5,7). “The word ligure is unknown in mod- 
ern mineralogy. Phillips (Mineralogy, p. 87) mentions 
ligurite, the fragments of which are uneven and transpa- 
rent, with a vitreous lustre. It occurs in a sort of talcose 
rock in the hanks of a river in the Apennines” (Smith). 
The classical ligure (or XvyKovpiov) was thought to 
be a species of amber (see Moore, Ane. Min . p. 10G), al- 
though ancient authors speak uncertainly respecting it 
(Pliny, Hist. X at. xxxvii, 11,13 ; Theophrastus. De lapul. 
e. 50), and assign a false derivation to the name (see 
Gesenius. Thesaur. Ileb. p. 7G3). The Hebrew word has 
been thought to designate the same stone as the jacinth 
(Braunius, De vestitu sacerd. ii, 14), although others ad- 
here to the opal as corresponding better with the ancient 
ligure (liosenmhller, Seh. in Exod. xxviii, 19). “Dr. 
Woodward and some old commentators have supposed 
that it was some kind of belemnite, because, as these fos- 
sils contain bituminous particles, they have thought 
that they have been able to detect, upon heating or rub- 
bing pieces of them, the absurd origin which Theophras- 
tus (Frag, ii, 28, 31; xv, 2, edit. Schneider) and Pliny 
(i/.X. xxxvii, iii) ascribe to the lyncyrium. As to the 
belie f that amber is denoted by this word, Theophrastus, 
in the passage cited above, has given a detailed descrip- 
tion of the stone, and clearly distinguishes it from elec- 
tron, or amber. Amber, moreover, is too soft for engrav- 
ing upon, while the lyncyrium was a hard stone, out of 
which seals were made” ( Smith). See Gem. Beckmann 
(Hist. Invent, i, 87, Bohn) believes, with Braun, Epipha- 
nius, and J. de Laet, that the description of the lyncyr- 
ium agrees well with the hyacinth-stone of modern min- 
eralogists, especially that species which is described as 
being of an orange-yellow color, passing on into a red- 
disli-brown (see Bosonmuller. Bibl. Mterth. 1Y, i, 28). 
The hyacinth is a variety of crystallized zircon, contain- 
ing also iron, which usually gives it a reddish or brown 
color. It generally occurs in four-sided prisms, termi- 
nated by four rhombic planes. It is diaphanous, glossy, 
and hard. It occurs in the beds of rivers, the best being 
brought from the West Indies, but is now little esteemed 
as a gem, although the ancients used it for engraving. 
“ With this supposition (that the lyncyrium is identical 
with the jacinth or hyacinth) Hill (Xotes on 1’1/eophras - 
tus on Stones, § 50, p. 1GG) and Hosenmiiller (Mineral, of 
Bible, p. 3G ; Bib. Cab.') agree. It must be confessed, 
however, that this opinion is far from satisfactory; for 
Theophrastus, speaking of the properties of the lyncyr- 
ium, says that it attracts not only light particles of 


wood, but fragments of iron and brass. Now there is no 
peculiar attractive power in the hyacinth; nor is Beck- 
mann’s explanation of this point sufficient. He says: 
‘If we consider its (the lyncyriunts) attracting of small 
bodies in the same light which our hyacinth has in com- 
mon with all stones of the glassy species, I cannot see 
anything to controvert this opinion, and to induce ns to 
believe the lyncyrium and the tourmaline to be the 
same.’ But surely the lyncyrium, whatever it be, had 
in a marked manner magnetic proper ties ; indeed, the 
term was applied to the stone on this very account, for 
the Greek name ligurion appears to be derived from 
\ti\ur, ' to lick,’ ‘ to attract,’ and doubtless was selected 
by the Sept, for this reason to express the Hebrew word, 
which has a similar derivation. Hence Dr. Watson 
(Philos. Trans. Ii, 391) identities the Greek lyncyrium 
with the tourmaline, or, more definitely, with the red 
variety known as rubellite, which is a hard stone, and 
used as a gem, and sometimes sold for red sapphire. 
Tourmaline becomes, as is well known, electrically polar 
when heated. Beckmann’s objection, that, ‘had Theo- 
phrastus been acquainted with the tourmaline, he would 
have remarked that it did not acquire its attractive 
power till it was heated,’ is answered by his own admis- 
sion on the passage, quoted from the Hist, de V Academic 
for 1717, p. 7 (see Beckmann, i, 91). Tourmaline is a 
mineral found in many parts of the world. The duke 
dc Nova purchased two of these stones in Holland, which 
are there called aschentrikker. Li imams, in his preface 
to the Flora Zeylandica , mentions the stone under the 
name of lapis electricus from Ceylon. The natives call 
it toumamal (Phil. Trans. 1. c.). Many of the precious 
stones which were in the possession of the Israelites 
during their wanderings were no doubt obtained from 
the Egyptians, who might have procured from the Tyr- 
ian merchants specimens from even India and Ceylon, 
etc. The fine specimen of rubellite nowin the British 
Museum belonged formerly to the king of Ava” (Smith). 

Lik'hi (Heb. Likclii', “PJ75, learned, otherwise cap- 
tivate r ; Sept. Aautid v. r. ActKig, Yulg. Led), the third 
named of the four sons of Shcmidah or Shemida, son of 
Manasseh (1 C’hron. vii, 19; comp. Josh, xvii, 2). He 
does not appear to have had a numerous if any progeny, 
as his name does not occur in the account of the Ma- 
nassite families (Numb, xxvi, 32). B.C. post 185G. 

Lilburne, John, a Quaker preacher, noted for his 
republicanism, was born of an old family in Durham 
County in 1G13. In his earl}” youth he was a clothier, 
lie entered the ministry after he had suffered great- 
ly by prosecution for his opposition to the government. 
His intrepid defence of his rights as a free-born Eng- 
I lishman before the dreaded bar of the High -Church 
party gained for him the familiar appellation of “free- 
born John.” He was condemned to receive five hun- 
dred lashes at the cart-tail, and to stand in the pil- 
lory; but his spirit was only aroused by this disgrace- 
ful punishment. His name became the watchword of 
the party known as Levellers. During the Kevolution 
he fought bravely against the king at Edge Hill and 
Marston Moor, where he led a regiment. Lilbnrne’s 
chief fault was the want of a more statesmanlike spirit, 
so that he was continually sinking from the leading po- 
sition he might have held, in virtue of his integrity and 
intrepidity, to that of a demagogue. 11c boldly ac- 
cused Cromwell and Ireton of treason, and the former 
tried in vain to make him comprehend the real situation 
of affairs, and seems at last to have given him up in de- 
spair, ami to have prosecuted him from necessity, while 
he valued his steady qualities and incorruptible nature. 
Heduced to quiescence under the iron hand of the pro- 
tector, his political enthusiasm subsided info the relig- 
ions, and tlie fanlous John Lilburne became a preacher 
among the Quakers. He died in 1G57. — Appleton’s Cy- 
clop. of Biography, p. 497. 

Lilienthal, Michael, a German theologian, was 
born at Liebstadt. in Prussia, Sept. S, 1G8G. He studied 


LILIEXTIIAL 


431 


LILY 


theology at Konigsberg and Jena, and became professor 
in the University of Rostock. He afterwards visited 
Holland, where he studied philology and arclueology, 
and after his return was for some years professor at Ko- 
nigsberg. In 1714 he became assistant librarian of that 
university, and in 1719 was appointed deacon of one of 
the churches at Heidelberg. He was made member of 
the Academy of Berlin in 1711, and of that of Strasburg 
in 1733. lie died at Konigsberg Jan. 23, 1750. His 
principal works are Biblisch-exegetische Bibliothek (Kb- 
nigsb. 1740-1744, 3 vols. 8vo) x—Biblischer Archivarius 
d. lleiligen Schrift (Konigsb. 1745-1746, 2 vols. 4to : it 
contains a list of Biblical commentators, arranged in 
the order of the difficult passages) : — Theologisch -ho melit . 
A rchivarius (Konigsberg, 1749, 4to). See Ilerzog, Real- 
EncyMop. viii, 413; 1 loefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate, xxxi, 
225. (J. N. P.) 

Lilienthal, Theodor Christopher, an eminent 
German theologian and writer, was born at Konigsberg 
Oct. 8, 1711. lie studied at the university of his na- 
tive place, and afterwards at Jena and Tubingen, and, 
after making a journey through Holland and England, 
spent some time in the University of Halle, lie was 
soon after appointed adjunct professor at Konigsberg, 
and in 1744 became extraordinary professor and doctor 
of theology. In 1746 he was made pastor of the com- 
munity of Nen-Rossgarten, and subsequently became 
ordinary professor of theology, and church and school 
counsellor. He died March 17, 1782. Among his works 
we notice Die gxite Sache der gottlichen Oft enba rung wi- 
der die Feinde derselben erwiesen u. gerettet (Konigsberg, 
1750-82, 16 vols. : additions and variations to the first 
four parts appeared in 1778, and also an augmented ad- 
dition in the same year). It gives a full collection of 
the divers objections that have been urged against Chris- 
tianity, and answers every one. It is consequently use- 
ful as a book of reference on this subject, like Lardner’s 
Credibility of the Gospel History, although, on account 
of its bulk and its antiquated apologetic stand-point, it 
is less fit to be in itself used as a weapon against incre- 
dulity. He wrote also l)e Canone M issue Gregoriano 
(Leyden, 1739, 8 vo): — Ilistoria beatm Dorotheas, Prus- 
sia patronce, fabulis variis maculata (Dantzig, 1743, 
4to) : — Commentatio critica duorum codicum Biblia lie - 
braica continentiuni (Dantzig, 1769, 4to), and a large 
number of sermons, dissertations, etc. See Schrockh, K. 
Gesch.seit d. Reformation, vi, 29 1 ; Herzog, Real-Encyklo- 
padie , viii, 4 13 ; Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate, xxxi, 226. 
(J.N.P.) 

Lilith. See Screech-owl. 

Lillie, John, D.D., a minister originally of the Re- 
formed (Dutch), but afterwards of the Presbyteriau 
Church, was bom in Kelso, Scotland, Dec. 16, 1812; 
graduated with the highest honors at the University of 
Edinburgh at the age of twenty-one years, prosecuted 
his theological studies for two years at Edinburgh, then 
came to America, and completed his course at the The- 
ological Seminary of the Reformed (Dutch) Church, 
New Brunswick, N. J. In 1835 he was installed pastor 
of the Reformed Dutch Church in Kingston, N. Y. In 
1841 he took charge of the grammar-school of the New 
York University, and in 1843 of a congregation which 
had gathered about him in the University Chapel, and 
afterwards (1846) occupied their new church in Stanton 
Street. From 1844 until 1848 he was the editor of the 
Jewish Chronicle. He was employed by the American 
(Baptist) Bible Union as one of its translators from 1851 
to 1857. In 1855 he received the degree of D.D. from 
the University of Edinburgh. In 1858 he accepted the 
call offered to him by the Presbyterian Church, King- 
ston, N. Y., and he there labored until his death in 1867, 
Dr. Lillie’s published productions are not numerous, hut 
highly creditable. His revision and translation of the 
Epistles to the Thessalonians , the Second Epistlaof Peter, 
those of J ohn and J ude, and the Revelation, for the Anglo- 
American edition of “Lange’s Commentary,” have won 


the highest encomiums. He was also the author of a 
small work on The Perpetuity of the Earth, in which he 
developed his prcmillennial views. Dr. Lillie was an ear- 
nest Christian, a ripe scholar, and a faithful pastor. See 
Wilson, Presb. Hist. Aim. 1868, p. 117 ; Kingston Argus 
and Journal, Feb. 1867 ; Mem. Sermon by Rev. W . Irvin; 
British and Foreign Evangelical Review, Ixix, 619. 

Lily (y.ljT.IL shushan', from its whiteness, 1 Kings vii, 
19; also shoshan', 1 Kings vii, 22, 26; Cant, ii, 16; 

iv, 5; v, 13; vi, 2, 3; vii, 2; and PIS 113 i w3, slioshannah', 
2 Cliron. iv, 5; Cant, ii, 1, 2; Hos. xiv, 5 [see Sin> 
siian ; SiiosiiANNUi] ; Sept, and N. T. Kpivov, Matt, vi, 
28 ; Luke xii, 27). “ There are, no doubt, several plants 
indigenous in Syria which might come under the de- 
nomination of lily, when that name is used in a general 
sense, as it often is by travellers and others. The term 
shoshan or sosun seems also to have been employed in 
this sense. It was known to the Greeks (aoixjov), for 
Dioscorides (iii, 116) describes the mode of preparing an 
ointment called susinon, which others, he says, call Kpi- 
vivov , that is, lilinum. So Atlienaeus (xii, 513) identi- 
fies the Persian suson with the Greek krinon. The Ar- 
abic authors also use the word in a general sense, several 
varieties being described under the head sosun. The 
name is applied even to kinds of Iris, of which several 
species, with various colored fiowers, are distinguished. 
But it appears to us that none but a plant which was 
well known and highly esteemed would be found occur- 
ring in so many different passages. Thus, in 1 Kings 
vii, 19-26, and 2 Cliron. iv, 5, it is mentioned as forming 
the ornamental work of the pillars and of the brazen 
sea, made of molten brass, for the house of Solomon, by 
Hiram of Tyre. In Canticles the word is frequently 
mentioned ; and it is curious that in five passages, Cant, 
ii, 2 and 16; iv, 5; vi, 2 and 3, there is a reference to 
feeding among lilies, which appears unaccountable 
when we consider that the allusion is made simply to 
an ornamental or sweet-smelling plant; and this the 
shushan appears to have been from the other passages 
in which it is mentioned. Thus, in Cant, ii, 1, ‘I am 
the rose of Sharon and the lily of the valleys;’ verse 2, 
‘as the lily among thorns, so is my love among the 
daughters;’ v, 13, ‘his lips like lilies, dropping sweet- 
smelling mvrrh;’ vii, 2, ‘thy belly is like an heap of 
wheat set about with lilies.'' If we consider that the 
book of Canticles is supposed to have been written on 
the occasion of the marriage of Solomon with a princess 
of Egypt, it is natural to suppose that some of the im- 
agery may have been derived from her native country, 
and that the above lily may be a plant of Egypt rather 
than of Palestine. Especially does the water-lily, or 
lotus of the Nile, seem suitable to most of the above pas- 
sages. Thus Herodotus (ii, 92) says. ‘When the wa- 
ters have risen to their extremest height, and all the 
fields are overflowed, there appears above the surface an 
immense quantity of plants of the lily species, which 
the Egyptians call the lotus; having cut down these, 
they dry them in the sun. The seed .of the flowers, 
which resembles that of the poppy, they bake, and make 
into a kind of bread : they also eat the root of this plant, 
which is round, of an agreeable flavor, and about the 
size of an apple. There is a second species of the lotus, 
which grows in the Nile, and which is not unlike. a rose. 
The fruit, which grows from the bottom of the root, re- 
sembles a wasp’s nest: it is found to contain a number 
of kernels of the size of an olive-stone, which are very 
grateful either fresh or dried.’ All this exists even to 
the present day. Both the roots and the stalks form 
articles of diet in Eastern countries, and the large fari- 
naceous seeds of both the nympluea and nelumbium are 
roasted and eaten. Hence possibly the reference to 
feeding among lilies in the above-quoted passages” 
(Kitto). This flower (the Nymphcea Lotus of Linnieus, 
and the beshnin of the modern Arabs) grows plentifully 
in Lower Egypt, flowering during the period of the an- 
nual inundation. There can be little doubt the “ lily- 


LILY 


432 


LILY 


work” spoken of in 1 Kings vii, 19, 22, was an ornament | 
in the form of the. Egyptian lotus. There were formerly | 
three descriptions of water-lily in Egypt, but one (the 
red-tlowcred lotus) has disappeared. “ The flower,” 
pays Burekhardt, speaking of the white variety, or 
Nympheea lotus, “ generally stands on the stalk from 



The Water-lily (Xymjjhcea Lotus). 


one to two feet above the surface of the water. When 
the flowers open completely, the leaves form a horizon- 
tal disk, with the isolated seed-vessel in the midst, 
which bends down the stalk by its weight, and swims 
upon the surface of the water for several days until it is 
ingulfed. This plant grows at Cairo, in a tank called 
Ihrket el-llotoli, near one of the northern suburbs whore 
1 happen to reside, it is not found in Upper Egypt, 1 
believe, but abounds in the Delta, and attains maturity 
at the time when the Nile reaches its full height. 1 
saw it in great abundance and in full flower, covering 
the whole inundated plain, on October 12, 1815, near the 
ruins of Tinev, about twelve miles south-east from Man- 
soura, on the Damietta branch. It dies when the water 
retires.” Among the ancient Egyptians the lotus was 
introduced into all subjects as an ornament, and as the 
favorite tlower of the country, but not with the holy 
character usually attributed to it, though adopted as an 
emblem of the god Nophre-Atmii (Wilkinson’s Ancient 
Egyptians, i, 57, 256). As the Hebrew architecture was 
of the Phoenico-Egyptian style, nothing was more natu- 
ral than the introduction of this ornament by Solomon 
into t lie Temple. It was in like manner borrowed by 
the Assyrians in their later structures (bayard's Nine- 
veh, ii, 356). Mr. Hard well, the architect, in his work 
entitled Temples, Ancient and Modern (1837), says, “The 
two great columns of the pronaos in Solomon’s Temple 
were of the usual proportions of Egyptian columns, being 
live and a half diameters high; and as these gave the 
great characteristic feature to the building, Solomon 
sent an embassy to fetch the architect from Tyre to su- 
perintend the moulding and casting of these columns, 
which were intended to be of brass. Observe how con- 
spicuous is the idea of the vase (the ‘bowl’ of our trans- 
lation), rising from a cylinder ornamented with lotus- 
flowers; the bottom of the vase was partly hidden by 
the flowers, the belly of it was overlaid with net-work, 
ornamented by seven wreaths, the Hebrew number of 
happiness, and beneath the lip of the vase were two 
rows of pomegranates, one hundred in each row. These 
superb pillars wore eight feet in diameter and forty-four 
feet high, supporting a noble entablature fourteen feet 
high,” See .Iacuin and Boaz. “In confirmation of 
the above idcntidcation of the lily of the O. T. with the 
lotus-flower, we may adduce also the remarks of Dr. W. 
C. Taylor in his Bible Illustrated by Egyptian Monu- 
ments, where he says that the lilies of the 45th and 59th 
Psalms have puzzled all Biblical critics. The title, ‘To 
the chief musician upon tihoshmrnim,' > has been supposed 
to be the name of some unknown tune to which the 
psalm was to be sung. But Dr. Taylor says * the word 
shoshannim is universally acknowledged to signify lil- 


ies, and lilies have nothing to do with the subject of the 
ode. But this hymeneal ode was intended to be sung 
by the female attendants of the Egyptian princess, and 
they are called “ the lilies,” not only by a poetic reference 
to the lotus lilies of the Nile, but bv a direct allusion to 
their custom of making the lotus lily a conspicuous or- 
nament of their head-dress.’ Thus, therefore, all the 
passages of O.-T. Scripture in which shushan occurs. ap- 
pear to be explained by considering it to refer to the 
lotus lily of the Nile” (Kitto). “ Lynch enumerates the 
‘ lily’ as among the plants seen by him on the shores of 
the Dead Sea, but gives no details which could lead to 
its identification (Exped. to the Jordan, p. 286). lie had 
previously observed the water-lily on the Jordan (p. 
173), but omits to mention whether it was the yellow 
(Nitphar lutca ) or the white {Nympheea alba'). ‘The 
only “ lilies” which I saw in Palestine,’ says Prof. Stan- 
1 ley, ‘in the months of March and April, were large yel- 
I low water-lilies, in the clear spring of ’Ain Mellahah, 

! near the lake of Merom’ (S. and Pal. p. 429). lie sug- 
gests that the name ‘lily’ ‘may include the numerous 
flowers of the tulip or amaryllis kind which appear in 
the early summer or the autumn of Palestine.’ The 
following description of the Huleh-lily by Dr. Thomson 
( The Land and the Book, i, 394), were it more precise, 
would perhaps have enabled botanists to identify it: 

! ‘This Huleh-lily is very large, and the three inner pe- 
| tals meet above and form a gorgeous canopy, such as 
I art never approached, and king never sat under, even 
in his utmost glory. . . . We call it Huleh-lily because 
it was here that it was first discovered. Its botanical 
name, if it have one, I am unacquainted with. . . . Our 
flower delights most in the valleys, but is also found on 
the mountains. It grows among thorns, and I have 
sadly lacerated my hands in extricating it from them. 
Nothing can be in higher contrast than the luxuriant 
velvety softness of this lily, and the crabbed, tangled 
hedge of thorns about it. Gazelles still delight to feed 
among them; and you can scarcely ride through the 
woods north of Tabor, where these lilies abound, without 
frightening them from their flowery pasture’” (Smith). 

On the other hand, some of the passages in which 
shoshan occurs evidently refer to a field variety, as Cant, 
ii, 1,2, and the tubular shape of the trumpet is sufficient 
to explain the transfer of the word to that musical in- 
strument. See SnosiiAxxiM. “The Hebrew word is 
rendered ‘rose’ in the Chaldee Targum, and by Maimon- 
ides and other Babbinieal writers, with the exception 
of Kimchi and Ben-Melech, who in 1 Kings vii, 19 trans- 
lated it by ‘violet.’ In the Judivo- Spanish version of 
the Canticles shoshan and shushemnuh are always trans- 
lated by rosa. but in Hos. xiv, 5 the latter is rendered 
lirio. But tepivov , or ‘lily,’ is the uniform rendering of 
the Sept., and is, in all probability, the true one, as it is 
supported by the analogy of the Arabic and Persian sv- 
san, which has the same meaning to this day, and by 
the existence of the same word in Syriac and Coptic. 
The Spanish azupena, ‘a white lily,’ is merely a modifi- 
cation of the Arabic, but, although there is little doubt 
that the word denotes some plant of the lilv species, it 
is by no means certain what individual of this class it 
especially designates. Father Souciet (Pecveil de diss. 
Crit. 1715) labored to prove that the lily of Scripture is 
tliQ ‘crown imperial.’ the Persian tusai, the npivov (3a- 
oi\tKov of the Greeks, and the Fritillaria imperudis of 
Linmeus. So common was this plant in Persia that it 
is supposed to have -given its name to Susa, the capital 
(Athen. xii, 1 ; Bochart, Phaleg, ii, 14); but there is no 
proof that it was at any time common in Palestine, and 
‘ the lily’/w excellence of Persia would not of necessity 
be ‘ the lilv’ of the Holy Land. Dioscorides (i,62) bears 
witness to the beauty of the lilies of Syria and Pisidia. 
from which the ‘best perfume was made. He says (iii, 
106 [116]) of the Kpivov fictoiXucov that the Syrians 
call it aaad ( = shushan), and the Africans df3i(3\a(3oi’, 
which Bochart renders in Hebrew characters 
‘white shoot.’ Kuhn, in his note on the passage, iden- 


LILY 


433 


LILY 


tifies the plant in question with the Lilium candidum of 
Linnaeus. It is probably the same as that called in the 
Mishna ‘ king’s lily’ ( Kilaim , v. 8). Pliny (xxi, 5) de- 
fines tcpi vov as Tubens lilium;’ and Dioscorides, in an- 
other passage, mentions the fact that there are lilies 
with purple flowers, but whether by this lie intended 
the Lilium mctrtagon or Chalcedonicum, Kuhn leaves 
undecided. Now in the passage of Athenceus above 
quoted it is said, So vaov ycip tlvai t?j *E\\i]vuv tyuvij 
to Kot vov. But in the Etymologicum Magnum (s. v. 
Sonera) we find tcl ydp \iipia vtto tojv <&oivtKii)v aovcra 
\eyerai. As the shushan is thus identified both with 
Kpivov, the red or purple lily, and with Ac tpiov, the 
white lily, it is evidently impossible, from the word it- 
self, to ascertain exactly the kind of lily which is refer- 
red to. If the shushan or skoskannak of the O. T. and 
the Kpivov of the Sermon on the Mount be identical, 
which there seems no reason to doubt, the plant desig- 
nated by these terms must have been a conspicuous ob- 
ject on the shores of the Lake of Gennesaret (Matt, vi, 
28; Luke xii, 27); it must have flourished in the deep, 
broad valleys of Palestine (Cant, ii, 1), among the thorny , 
shrubs ( ib . ii, 2) and pastures of the desert ( ib . ii, 16 ; iv, 

5 ; vi, 3), and must have beeu remarkable for its rapid 
and luxuriant growth (Hos. xiv, 5 ; Ecclus. xxxix, 14). 
The purple flowers of the khob, or wild artichoke, which 
abounds in the plain north of Tabor and in the valley 
of Esdraelon, have been thought by some to be the ‘ lil- 
ies of the field’ alluded to in Matt, vi, 28 (Wilson, Lands 
of the Bible , ii, 110), A recent traveller mentions a 
plant, with lilac flowers like the hyacinth, and called by 
the Arabs usweih, which he considered to be of the spe- 
cies denominated lily in Scripture (Bonar, Desert of Si- 
nai, p. 329)” (Smith). Tristram strongly inclines to 
identify the scarlet anemone {Anemone eoronaria) with 
the Scripture “ lily” (Nat. Hist, of Bible, p. 464), 

In the N. Test, the word “lily” occurs “in the well- 
known and beautiful passage (Matt, vi, 26), ‘ Consider 
the lilies of the field, how they grow; they toil not, nei- 
ther do they spin, and yet I say unto t ou that even 
Solomon, in all his glory, was not arrayed like one of 
these;’ so also in Luke xii, 27. Here it is evident that 
the plant alluded to must have been indigenous or 
grown wild in the vicinity of the Sea of Galilee, must 
have been of an ornamental character, and, from the 
Greek term Kpivov being applied to it, of a liliaceous na- 
ture. The name koivov occurs in all the old Greek 
writers (see Dioscor. iii, 116 ; compare Claudian. EpithaL 
seven . 126 ; Martial, v, 37, 6 sq. ; Calpurn. vi, 33 ; Athen. 
xv, 677, 680; Virgil, Eel . x, 25; Pliny, xv, 7 ; xxi, 11). 
Theophrastus first uses it, and is supposed by Sprengel 
to apply it to species of Narcissus and to Lilium can- 
didum. Dioscorides indicates two species, but very im- 
perfectly : one of them is supposed to be the Lilium 
candidum , and the other, with a reddish flower, may be 
L. martagon or L. Chalcedonicnm. He alludes more 
particularly to the lilies of Syria and of Pamphylia be- 
ing well suited for making the ointment of lily. Pliny 
enumerates three kinds, a white, a red, and a purple- 
colored lily. Travellers in Palestine mention that in 
the month of Januar}’’ the fields and groves everywhere 
abound in various species of lily, tulip, and narcissus. 
Benard noticed, near Acre, on Jan. 18th, and about Jaffa 
on the 23d, tulips, white, red, blue, etc. Gumpeuberg 
saw the meadows of Galilee covered with the same flow- 
ers on the 3 1st. Tulips figure conspicuously among the 
flowers of Palestine, varieties probably of Tulipa Ges - 
neriana (Kitto’s Palestine, p. ccxv). So Pococke sa) T s, 
‘ I saw many tulips growing wild in the fields (in March), 
and any one who considers how beautiful those flowers 
are to the eye would be apt to conjecture that these are 
the lilies to which Solomon in all his glory was not to 
be compared.’ This is much more likely to be the plant 
intended than some others which have been adduced, 
as, for instance, the scarlet amaryllis, having white 
flowers with bright purple streaks, found by Salt at 
Adowa. Others have preferred the Crown imperial , 


which is a native of Persia and Cashmere. Most au- 
thors have united in considering the white lily, Lilium 
candidum , to be the plant to which our Saviour referred ; 



but it is doubtful whether it has ever been found in a 
wild state in Palestine. Some, indeed, have thought it 
to be a native of the New World. Dr. Bindley, how- 
ever, in the Gardeners' Chronicle (ii, 744), says, ‘This 
notion cannot be sustained, because the white lily occurs 
in an engraving of the annunciation, executed some- 
where about 1480 by Martin Schongauer: and the first 
voyage of Columbus did not take place till 1492. In 
this very rare print the lily is represented as growing in 
an ornamental vase, as if it were cultivated as a curious 
object.’ This opinion is confirmed by a correspondent 
at Aleppo ( Gardeners' Chronicle, iii, 429), who has re- 
sided long in Syria, but is acquainted only with the bot- 
any of Aleppo and Antioch : ‘ I never saw the white lily 
in a wild state, nor have I heard of its being so in Syria. 
It is cultivated here on the roofs of the houses in pot3 
as an exotic bulb, like the daffodil.’ In consequence of 
this difficulty, the late Sir J. E. Smith was of opinion 
that the plant alluded to under the name of lily was the 
Amaryllis lutea (now Oporanthus luteus), ‘whose golden 
liliaceous flowers in autumn afford one of the most bril- 
liant and gorgeous objects in nature, as the fields of the 
Levant are overrun with them ; to them the expression 
of Solomon, in all his glory, not being arrayed like one 
of them, is peculiarly appropriate.’ Dr. Lindlev con- 
ceives ‘it to be much more probable that the plant in- 
tended by our Saviour was the Ixiolirion montamm, a 
plant allied to the amaryllis, of very great beauty, with 
a slender stem, and clusters of the most delicate violet 
flowers, abounding in Palestine, where colonel Chesney 
found it in the most brilliant profusion’ (/. c. p. 744). In 
reply to this, a correspondent furnishes an extract of a 
tetter from Dr. Bowring, which throws a new light upon 
the subject: ‘I cannot describe to you with botanical 
accuracy the lily of Palestine. I heard it called by the 
title of Lilia Syriaca, and I imagine under this title its 
botanical characteristics may be hunted out. Its color 
is a brilliant red; its size about half that of the common 
tiger lily. The white lily I do not remember to have 
seen in any part of Syria. It was in April and May 
that I observed my flower, and it was most abundant in 
the district of Galilee, where it and the Rhododendron 
(which grew in rich abundance round the paths) most 


LIMBO 


434 


LIMBO 


strong\y excited my attention.’ On this Dr. Lindley 
observes, ‘ It is clear that neither the white lily, nor the 
Oporanthus lutcus, nor Jxiolirion , will answer to Dr. 
Bowring's description, which seems to point to the Chal- 
cedonian or scarlet martayon lily, formerly called the 
lily of Byzantium, found from the Adriatic to the Le- 
vant, and which, with its scarlet turban-like dowers, is 
indeed a most stately and striking object' ( Gardeners' 
Chronicle , ii, 854)” (Kitto). As this lily (the Lilium 
Chalcedonicum of botanists) is in dower at the season of 



the year when the Sermon on the Mount is supposed to 
have been spoken (A! ay; but it is probable that our 
Saviour’s discourse on Providence, containing the allu- 
sion to the lily, occurred on a different occasion, appar- 
ently about October; see Strong’s Harmony of the Gos- 
pels, § 52), is indigenous in the very locality, and is 
conspicuous, even in the garden, for its remarkable 
showy dowers, there can now be little doubt that it is 
the plant alluded to by our Saviour. “ Strand ( Flor . 
Paleest.) mentions it as growing near Joppa, and Kitto 
(Plays, llisf. of Palest, p. 219) makes especial mention of 
the L. cundhhun growing m Palestine; and, in connec- 
tion with the habitat given by Strand, it is worth ob- 
serving that the lilv is mentioned (Cant, ii, 1) with the 
rose of Sharon ” (Smith). 

By some the lily is supposed to be meant by the term 
(chabatstse'leth, “rose”), in Isa. xxxv, 1 ; Cant, 
ii, 1. For further details, consult Oken, Lehrb. d. Xatur- 
yesch. II, i, 757 ; Bosenmliller, Bill. Alterth. iv, 138; Cel- 
sius, I/ierobot. i, 383 sq.: Billerbeck, Flora Class, p. 90 
sq. ; Gescmus, Thes. lltb. p. 1385; Penny Cyclopaedia, s. 
v. Lotus. 

Limbo or Limbus, meaning a border or depart- 
ment, is used by Bomanists as the name of the place of 
some of the departed, which the schoolmen who drst 
held this doctrine (see below) believed to be situated on 
the limb, i. e. the edge or border of hell. See Inter- 
31 edi ate State. There are five places to which the 
Church of Pome consigns departed spirits. Heaven is 
the residence of the holy, and hell of the finally damned. 
Besides these she enumerates limbus infant utn. the de- 
partment for iufants; limbus patrum, the department of 
the fathers; and puryatory. Ilell is placed lowest, pur- 
gatory next, then limbus for infants; and finally is enu- 
merated a place for those who died before the advent I 


of Christ. According to the Roman Catholic view, un- 
til Christ’s death and resurrection, which constituted 
the decisive moments of the work of redemption, the 
doors of heaven were closed to all ( Cateeh . Pom. i, 2, 7) ; 
since then they have been permanently open to all per- 
fect saints. This doctrine was first advanced by pope 
Benedict XII, and afterwards sanctioned by the Council 
of Florence (Perrone, v, 213). According to this theory, 
until the coming of Christ, the souls of all departed were, 
without exception, sent into the place of punishment, 
or infernus , as is (according to Romish views) still the 
case with those who die without having arrived at per- 
fection, or with some penance still to be performed for 
sin. At present they use the word infernus to convey 
the idea that all sinners are in some place outside of 
heaven, and that, on account of their different personal 
qualities, they are divided into different classes, which 
have nothing in common except their exclusion from 
the happiness of heaven, and therefore divide these ab- 
dita reveptaeula (Augustine, Enchiridion ad Laurent. § 
109), of which the place of punishment consists, into, 1, 
hell, in its fullest sense, that terrible, immense prison in 
which the damned, who died in a state of mortal sin, 
are to remain forever (Cat. Pom. i, G, 3, 5) ; 2, purga- 
tory, in which the souls of believers, and of those who 
are justified, suffer until they are entirely free from sin ; 
3, the bosom of Abraham, where the saints who died 
before the coming of Christ were received, and where, 
while free from torments, they were nevertheless, on 
account of original sin, prevented by the daemons from 
beholding the glory of God until the coming of the Re- 
deemer, whose merits freed them from these bonds, and 
opened to them the doors of heaven. Compare here the 
statement of the early English reformers in “the Insti- 
tution of a Christian Man" on the fifth article of their 
creed : “ Our Saviour Jesus Christ, at his entry into hell, 
first conquered and oppressed both the devil and hell, 
and also death itself , , =. afterwards he spoiled hell, and 
delivered and brought with him from thence all the 
souls of those righteous and good men which, from the 
fall of Adam, died in the favor of God, and in the faith 
and belief of this our Saviour, which was then to come.” 
The doctrine of the Church, as expressed in the sym- 
bols, names no other divisions. The third place which, 
in ecclesiastical phraseology, is usually called Limbus 
patrum, is even represented sometimes as a quiet habi- 
tation, and at other times as an unpleasant prison (mis- 
era illius custodies molestin'), which two views, being 
difficult to conciliate, gave rise to many intricate ques- 
tions unavoidable as soon as an attempt is made to es- 
tablish such a detailed topography of the places of 
future life. The limbo of Dante is placed in the outer- 
most of the nine circles of his Inferno. No weeping 
is heard within it, but perpetual sighs tremble on the 
air, breathed by an infinite crowd of women, men, and 
children, afflicted, but not tormented. These inhabi- 
tants are not condemned on account of sin, but solely 
because it was their fortune to live before the birth of 
Christ, or to die unbaptized. The poet was grieved at 
heart, as well lie might be, when he recognised in this 
sad company many persons of great worth (comp. Mil- 
man, Latin Christianity, bk. xiv, chap. ii). 

From the authorities of the Church, we find that the 
admission of the belief in a purgatory had in the West 
great influence on the ideas concerning the future. The 
scholastics, in the course of time, erected these views into 
a system. Besides the above-named three places of abode 
fordeparted spirits deprived of heavenly felicity recog- 
nised in the Roman Catholic Catechism, they asserted 
the existence of a fourth, intended for children who died 
previous to baptism. Bellartnine (Piny, ii, 7) considers 
it a very difficult question to decide whether there may 
not be a fifth, inwhieh the purified souls remain until 
their final admittance into the kingdom of heaven, and 
which must consequently be situated somewhere be- 
tween purgatory and heaven (Beda, Hist, v, 13 ; Diony- 
sius Carthusianus, Dial, de jud. particul. 31 ; Lud, Bio- 


LIMBO 


435 


LIMBO 


sius, Monil. Spirit. 13). The necessity of ascribing to 
each of these loca pcenalia its special position accounts 
sufficiently for the fact that the word limbus is made to 
answer both for the place where the saints who lived 
before Christ remain, and for the abode of children who 
died without baptism. It appears to have been first set 
forth by Thomas Aquinas, and to have been at once 
adopted by the Church. Hell is considered as situated 
in the centre of the earth ; next comes purgatory, which 
surrounds hell; then the Limbus infantum, or puerorum ; 
and finally, as the central point between hell and heav- 
en, the Limbus patrum , or Sinus Abrahae . Of course 
each different place has its own special punishments : in 
hell it is poena edema damni et sensus; in pnrgatorv, 
pcen a temporalis damni et sensus ; in the Limbus infan- 
tum, pana damni edema; and in the Limbus patrum, 
poena damni temporalis (Thom. Aq. iii, d. 22, q. 2, a. 1, 
q. 2, 4 ; d. 21, q. 1, a. 1, q. 2 ; d. 45, q. 1, a. 1, q. 2, 3, 3, 
q. 52, 2, 4, 4; d. 45, q. 1, a. q. 2, etc., Eleucidar. 64; 
Dante, Inf. 4 ; comp. 31 sq. ; Durand, De S. Port. Sentt. 

3, d. 22, q. 4 ; Sonnius, Demonstr. rel. Chr. ii, 3, 15, and ii, 

4, 1 ; Bellarmine, Purg. ii, 0 ; Andradius, Defens. Trid. 
Synod, ii, 290). 

The Limbus patrum is exclusively reserved to the 
saints of the Mosaic dispensation. They suffer only by 
the consciousness that they are deprived, in consequence 
of original sin, from beholding God, and by an ardent 
longing for the coming of their Messiah. Since Christ 
has atoned for original sin, and freed them from impris- 
onment, this limbo is empty, and no longer of any im- 
portance in a religious sense. It is called Limbus infer- 
ni , “ quia erat pcena carent'ne,” Sinus A bra bee ‘‘propter 
requiem, quia erat exspectatio gloria?” (Bellarmine, De 
Christo, iv, 10; Beeanus, Append, purg. Calc.'). This 
view is defended partly by means of some passages in 
Scripture (such as Gen. xxxvii, 35 ; 1 Sam. xxviii ; 
Zecli. ix, 11; Luke xvi, 23; xx, 37; xxiii, 43; John 
viii, 5G; lleb. xi, 5 ; 1 Peter iii, 19); but especially by 
oral tradition. This last is the more available because, 
with the exception of the later attempts at locating the 
different places, the ’Western Church has always taught 
the same things on this point, at least since St. Augus- 
tine (De civ. Dd, xx, 15), that the limbus in general was 
only the caput mortuum which the doctrine of the pur- 
gatory had yet left to the old Church. The Greek 
Church, on the other hand, holds no such views (Smith, 
De Eccles. Greec. statu, 1G78, p. 103; Ileineecius, Abbil- 
dnng d. alien n. neuen griech. Kirche, 1711, ii, 103). 

The doctrine of the Limbus infantum, or, rather, of 
the fate of unbaptized children, is insisted on with much 
greater force. On this point, however, the consequences 
of the system and the natural feelings of humanity 
come into conflict, and therefore the Church has never 
officially proclaimed its views as to the exact nature of 
it, so that a certain latitude is given for different opin- 
ions concerning it. The fathers early held different 
opinions on this point. Ambrosius (Orat. 40) does not 
venture to give any view concerning unbaptized chil- 
dren. Gregory of Nazianzum {Orat. in s. Bapt. xl, 21) 
claims that tovq coZ,aaji)otoSai, pijrt Ko\ao$i)- 
oeoSai TrspL rod CLKaiov KpLTOv ; and Gregory of Nys- 
sa (ed. Paris, 1G15, ii, 770) only denies in the very mild- 
est manner their being tv dAyarott;. Pelagins knew 
better where they do not go to than where they do go. 
In accordance with his general theory, St. Augustine 
consigns them “ad ignem mtermim darnnaturum iri ;” 
but at the same time he admits that theirs is the slight- 
est punishment consequent to original sin ; their dam- 
nation is even so very slight that he expresses the doubt, 
“ an eis, ut nulli essent, quam ut ibi essent, potius ex- 
pediret,” and declares “ definire se non posse, qua?, qualis 
et quanta crit” (Sermo 294, n. 3 sq. ; Enchirul. c. 93 ; De 
pecc. merit, i, c. 1G, n. 2; Contra Julian, v, 44; Epist . ad 
J Heron. 131). This is the view most generally held in 
the Roman Catholic Church. General coimcils held at 
Lyons and at Florence decided that both those who died 
in mortal sin and those who were only tainted by orig- 


inal sin went down to the infernus, but that their pun- 
ishments were different. In this respect the damnation 
of unbaptized children became defde, as it had to be in 
some w r ay distinguished from that of adults. Carrying 
out this view, the most distinguished scholastics, such 
as Peter Lombard {Sent. 2, d. 33), Thomas Bonaventura, 
and Scotus, assign to them only pcena damni, in contra- 
distinction from pcena sensus. The contrary assertion 
of Petavius (De Deo, ix, 10, 10) is based on an error. 
Gregory of Rimini alone makes an exception, and for 
this reason received the name of tor-tor infantum (Sar- 
pi, Storia del Cone, di Trento, ii ; Fleurv, Hist. Eccl. i, 
142, n. 128). 

Now, although the essential nature of the poena damni 
consists in the deprivation of the happiness of seeing 
God, there exists a difference in the manner of applying 
the idea to children and their inheritance of original 
sin. In the fifth session of the Council of Trent the 
Dominicans advocated the stricter view, making of the 
limbus infantum a dark, underground prison, while the 
Franciscans placed it above in a region of light. Oth- 
ers made the condition of these children still better: 
they supposed them occupied with studying nature, 
philosophizing on it, and receiving occasional visits from 
angels and saints. As the council thought it best not 
to decide this point, theologians have since been free to 
embrace either view. Bellarmine (De amiss, grat. vi, G) 
considers their state, like Lombard, as one of sorrow. 
On the contrary, cardinal Sfondrani {Xodus preedest. 
dissol. i, 1, 23, and i, 2, 1G) and Peter Godoy (compare 
Thomas, Queest. 5 de malo , a. 2) consider them as enjoy- 
ing all the natural happiness of which they are capable. 
They do not even know that supernatural happiness 
consists in the visio clara Dei, and can feel no pain from 
this, to them unknown, exclusion. Finally, Perrone (v, 
275), who takes Concil. Tr. sess. v, e. 4, as including in 
de Jide only the want of the supernaturalis beatitudo, 
says: “Si spectetnr relative, ad supernaturalem beatitu- 
dinem habet talis status rationem pcena? et dam nr tionis; 
si vero spectetnr idem status in se sive absolute, cum per 
peccatnm de naturalibus nihil amiserint, talis erit ipso- 
rum conditio, qualis fuisset, si Adam neque peccasset 
neque elevatus ad supernaturalem staturn fuisset. i. e. in 
eonditione pura? naturae.” This attempt at conciliation 
agrees so well with the Roman Catholic view of original 
sin, that on this account it has been admitted (Cone. Tr. 
sess. v, 2, 3, 5, anti sess. vi ; Bellarmine, De grat. prim, 
horn. v). Moreover, it is well known that Roman Cath- 
olic principles are of great elasticity in their application, 
so that there is always some way for the Church of get- 
ting out of difficulties. Thus, while the Catechism (ii, 
2, 28) continues to assert that, aside from baptism, there 
is “nulla alia salutis comparanda? ratio,” we learn from 
the theologians, from Duns Scotus down to Klee {Dogm. 
iii, 119), that the mere desiderium baptismi can be con- 
sidered as valid for the children while yet in the moth- 
ers’ womb, and is equivalent to the actual performance 
of the rite of baptism on the child. What becomes of the 
children who, though baptized, die soon after baptism, 
and who thus lose the meritum e congruo necessary for 
justification, cannot here be taken into consideration. 

Protestantism has taken but little notiee of all these 
views. It was considered by many that these theories 
were too unimportant. The old Protestant Church, on 
the contrary, tried to prove the untenability on Biblical 
or philosophical grounds of this changeable doctrine, its 
late origin, and its inner contradictions. Neither did it 
forget the impossibility of separating th ejioena damni and 
poena sensus (Calvin, iii, 1G, 9; Aretius, Loci, 17 ; Rys- 
senius, Snmma, xviii, 3, 4 ; 1>. Pictet, ii, 2G5 ; Gerhard, 
xxvii, 8, 3 ; IS. Niemann, De distinct. Pontif. in interno 
classib. 1689). The old Protestant theologians consid- 
ered it as an undeniable truth that there exist no other 
divisions than heaven and hell in the, to us, unknown 
world ; also that there can be no further distinction be- 
tween the souls of the departed than that based on be- 
lief and unbelief, causing the former to be blessed and 


- LIMBORCH 


436 


LIME 


the latter to be damned. Still there arose questions 
which it was difficult for them to settle: the Reformed 
theologians disposed of them in a comparatively easy 
manner, for, as they admitted only of a gradual differ- 
ence between the two dispensations, and upheld the 
identity of the action of grace and faith possible to both, 
they found no difficulty in ascribing blessedness to the 
saints of the old dispensation. It is well known that 
Zwingle went even further. Thus they also disposed 
of the doctrine of predestination, at least in regard to 
elect children, in which th ejides seminalis was presup- 
posed, and no one could deny, in view of Matt, xix, 14, 
that children dying in infancy can also be among the 
elect. The Lutherans solved the two questions in a 
different manner : in order to justify the qualitative 
equality of the Jewish and Christian faith, they were 
obliged to assert the retrospective power of Christ’s 
merits. With regard to children, they found a still 
greater difficulty on account of their stricter conception 
of original sin and their doctrine concerning baptism, 
which bears such close resemblance to that of the Ro- 
man Catholic Church. The only way in which they 
could dispose of it was to have recourse to the free pow- 
er of God, who can give salvation in other than the 
general way. Thus reasons Gerhard -when he says, 
“Quasi non possit Dens extraordinarie cum infantibus 
Christianorum parent um per prcces eceleshe et paren- 
tum sibi oblatis agere” (ix, 282). Also Buddeus (v, 1, 
G) : “In infantibus parentum Christianorum, qui ante 
baptismum moriuntur per gratiam quamdam extraordi- 
nariam fidem produci : ad infidelium autem infantes 
quod attinet, salutem a?tcrnam iis tribnere non aude- 
mus.’’ See Herzog, Real-Encyklop. viii, 415; Biblioth. 
Sacra , 18G3, i. Sec Life, Eternal ; Predestination ; 
Election; Salvation; Grace; Sin; Infants; Bap- 
tism (of Infants). 

Limborch, Philip van, an eminent Dutch theolo- 
gian, was born at Amsterdam June 10, 1633. lie first 
studied ethics, history, and philosophy at his native place, 
and then applied himself to divinity under the Remon- 
strants. From Amsterdam he went to L T trecht, and at- 
tended the lectures of Voetius, and other divines of the 
Reformed religion. In 1657 he became pastor of the 
Remonstrants at Gouda, and remained there until 1G67, 
when he removed to Amsterdam as pastor. The fol- 
lowing year he was called to the chair of divinity in 
the Remonstrant college at the latter place, which po- 
sition he held until his death, April 30, 1712. Limborch 
was on intimate terms with Locke, and corresponded 
with him regularly for several years on the nature of 
human liberty (see Locke’s Letters , Lond. 1727, 3 vols. 
fob). Limborch was gentle in his disposition, tolerant 
of the views of others, learned, methodical, of a reten- 
tive memory, and, above all, had a love for truth, and 
engaged in the search of it by reading the Scriptures 
with the best commentators. Next to Arminitis him- 
self, and Simon Episcopius, Limborch was one of the 
most distinguished of the Arminian theologians, “who 
exerted a bcnclicial reaction upon Protestantism by their 
thorough scientific attainments, no less than by the 
mildness of their sentiments” (Hagenbach’s History of 
Doctrines . ii, 214). In 1660, having found among the 
papers of Episcopius, his maternal uncle, several letters 
relating to ecclesiastical affairs, he arranged a collection 
with llartsocker, Epistohe preestantinm et eruditorum 
Yirorum (8vo). Limborch was specially noted for his 
doctrinal works, Ilis principal work is Tlieologia 
Christiana (1686; 4th ed. Amst. 1715, 4to), translated, 
with improvements from Wilkins, Tillotson, Scott, and 
others, by William Jones, under the title, A complete 
System or Body of Divinity, both speculative and practi- 
cal, founded on Scripture and Reason (Lond. 17.02, 2 vols. 
8vo). This was the first and most complete exposition 
of the Arminian doctrine, displaying grekt originality 
of arrangement, and admirable perspicuity and judicious 
selection of material. The preparation of the work was 
undertaken at the request of the Remonstrants (q. v.). 


His other works are, De veritate religionis Christiana} 
(1687), the result of a conference with the learned Jew, 
Dr. Orobius : — H istoria Inquisitionis (1692, fob; trans- 
lated by Samuel Chandler, under the title The History 
of the Inquisition, to which is prefixed a large introduc- 
tion concerning the rise and progress of persecution, and 
the real and pretended causes of it, London, 1731, 2 vols. 
4to). He is also the author of an exegetieal work, 
Commentarius in A eta A pos. et in Epistolas ad Roma- 
nos et ad Ilebreeos (Rotterdam, 1711, fob). “This com- 
mentary, though written in the interest of the author’s 
theological views, is deserving of attention for the good 
sense, clear thought, and acute reasoning by which it is 
pervaded” (Kit to). In addition, he edited many of the 
works of the principal Arminian theologians. Sec Ni- 
cerou, Hist, des Homines illustres, xi, 39-53; Abrah. des 
Armorie van dcr Hoevcn, IJe Jo. Clerico et Philippo a 
Limborch . (Amstclod. 1845, 8vo) ; llocfer, Nour. Biogr. 
Generate, xxxi, s. v. ; Herzog, Real-Encyklop. viii, s. v. ; 
Farrar, Crit. History of Free Thought , p. 386, 392 ; Meth- 
odist Quarterly Revieic , J uly, I8G4, p. 513. (C. R. B.) 

Limbus. See Limdo. 

Lime (T w, sid, peril, from its boiling or effervescing 
when slaked; Isa. xxxiii, 12; Amos ii, 1; rendered 
“plaster” in Deut. ii, 2, 4; the same word is used for 
bme in Arab, and Syr.), a well-known mineral substance, 
which is a very prevalent ingredient in rocks, and, com- 
bined with carbonic acid, forms marble, chalk, and lime- 
stone, of various degrees of hardness and every variety 
of color. Limestone is the prevailing constituent of the 
mountains of Syria; it occurs under various modifica- 
tions of texture, color, form, and intermixture in differ- 
ent parts of the country. The purest carbonate of lime 
is found in calcareous spar, whose crystals assume a va- 
riety of forms, all, however, resulting from a primary 
rhomboid. Under the action of fire, carbonate of lime 
loses its carbonic acid and becomes caustic lime, which 
has a hot, pungent taste. See Chalk. If lime be sub- 
jected to an intense heat, it fuses into transparent glass. 
When heated under great pressure, it melts, hut retains 
its carbonic acid. The modern mode of manufacturing 
common or “quick” lime was known in ancient times. 
Lime is obtained by calcining or burning marble, lime- 
stone, chalk, shells, bones, and other substances to drive 
off the carbonic acid. From Isa. xxxii, 12 it appears 
that lime was made in a kiln lighted with thorn-bushes. 
Dr. Thomson remarks, “It is a curious fidelity to real 
life that, when the thorns are merely to be destroyed, 
they arc never cut up, but are set on fire where they 
grow. They are only cut up for the lime-kiln” ( Land 
and Book , i, 81). See Furnace. In. Amos ii. 1 it is 
said that the king of Moab “ burned the hones of the 
king of Edom into lime.” The interpretation of the 
Targum and some of the rabbins is that the burnt bones 
were made into lime and used by the conqueror for plas- 
tering his palace. The same Hebrew word occurs in 
Deut. xxvii. 2-4 : “Thou shall set thee up great stones, 
and plaister them with plaister ; and thou slialt write 
upon them all the words of this law.” It is probable 
that the same mode of perpetuating inscriptions was fol- 
lowed as we know was customary in Egypt. In that 
country wo find paintings and hieroglyphic writing upon 
plaster, which is frequently laid upon the natural rock, 
and, after the lapse of perhaps more than three thousand 
years, we find the plaster still firm, and the colors of the 
figures painted on it still remarkably fresh. The pro- 
cess of covering the rock with plaster is thus described : 
“The ground was covered with a thick layer of tine 
plaster, consisting of lime and gypsum, which was care- 
fully smoothed and polished. Upon this a thin coat of 
lime white-wash was laid, and on it the colors were 
painted, which were bound fast either with animal glue 
or occasionally with wax” ( Egyptian Antiq., in Lib. of 
Entertaining KnmcL ). See Plaster. If it be insisted 
that the words of the law were actually cut in the rock, 
it would seem best to understand that the Hebrew word 


LIMINA MARTYRUM 


437 


LINDSEY 


sid does not here mean a “ plaister,” but indicates that 
the stones, after they had been engraved, were covered 
with a coat of tenacious lime white-wash, employed for 
similar purposes by the Egyptians, who, when the face 
of a rock had been sculptured in relievo, covered the 
whole with a coat of this wash, and then painted their 
sculptured figures (Kitto’s Piet. Bible , note ad loe.). See 
Mortar. 

Limina Martyrum (the houses of the martyrs ), a 
phrase sometimes used in ancient writers to designate 
churches. — Farrar, Eccles. Diet. s. v. 

Limiter ( Ibnitom *), the name given to an itinerant 
and begging friar employed by a convent to collect its 
dues and promote its temporal interests within certain 
limits , though under the direction of the brotherhood 
who employed him. Occasionally the limiter is a per- 
son of considerable importance. See Bussell’s Notes; 
Hbr/js of the English and Scottish Reformers , ii, 536, 542. 
— Buck, Theol. Diet. s. v. 

Lincoln, Ensign, a noted philanthropist and lay 
minister in the Baptist Church, was born at Hingham, 
Mass., Jan. 8, 1779. lie was brought into the Church 
when about nineteen years old, under the ministry of 
the Kev. Dr. Baldwin. lie had been apprenticed to a 
printer, and in 1800 he commenced business on his own 
account, lie also advanced the interests of Christian 
truth by preaching, for which he was licensed about 
1801, and, though he was not ordained, and therefore 
never relinquished his secular profession, he preached, 
and prayed, and performed the ordinary offices of a min- 
ister of the Gospel with all the holy fervor of an apostle. 
He won the unaffected respect of all men, as a generous 
neighbor, an honest friend, and a virtuous citizen. He 
died Dec. 2, 1832. “ If I should live to the age of Methu- 
selah,” he remarked, “ I could find no better time to die.” 
Mr. Lincoln was prominent in the organization of the 
Evangelical Tract Society, the Howard Benevolent So- 
ciety, the Boston Baptist Foreign Mission Society, the 
Massachusetts Baptist Education Society, and other in- 
stitutions of a similar character. He edited Winchell’s 
Watts, the Pronouncing Bible , and the series of beautiful 
volumes styled The Christian Library. Ilis own Scrip- 
ture Questions and Sabbath-school Class-book are well 
known. See Dr. Sharp's Funeral Sermon ; American 
Bajdist Magazine , April, 1833. (J. II. W.) 

Linda or Lindanus, William Dam as us van, a 
Koman Catholic prelate, noted as a controversialist, born 
at Dordrecht, Holland, in 1525, was professor of ltomish 
theology at Louvain and Dillingen ; later, dean in the 
Hague, and then bishop of Ghent. He is remarkable 
for the severity which characterized his acts as inquis- 
itor. In 15C2 he was appointed by Philip II bishop of 
Kusemond. He died in I5G8 or 1588. His most popu- 
lar Avork Avas Panoplia Ev angelica (15C3). See A. 11a- 
vensius, Vita G. Lindani (IC09). — Thomas, Biogr. Diet. p. 
1433 ; Wetzcr und Welte, Kirchen-Lexikon , vol. xii, s. v. 

Lindblom, Jacod Axel, a SAvedish prelate, was 
born in Ostrogothia in 1747. He Avas professor of belles- 
lettres in the University of Upsal, became bishop of 
Linkbpingin 1789, and Avas aftenvards chosen archbish- 
op of Upsal. He died in 1819. — Thomas, Biographical 
Dictionary , p. 1433. 

Linde, Ciiristopii Ludaaug, a German theologian, 
was born at Schmalkalden June 5, 1G76. In 1G98 he 
attended the University of Erfurt, and the folloAving 
year that of Leipsic. After he was graduated he be- 
came tutor, first at Leipsic, in order to develop his 
knoAvledge more fully, and in 1705 at his native place. 
In 170G he accepted a call as preacher to Farnbaeh, in 
1729 he returned to Schmalkalden as subdean, and in 
173G Avas chosen pastor, lie died Aug. 27, 1753. His 
productions are mostly dedicated to the youth and 
school-teachers of the Lutheran Church ; Ave mention 
only his Theologia in Hymnis (Schmalkalden, 1712, 8\'o). 
— During, Gelehrte Theol. Deutschlands , vol. ii, s. a\ 


Lindewood, Lindwood, or Lyndewood, 

William, an English prelate avIio flourished in the 15th 
century, \A r as divinity professor at Oxford in the time of 
Henry V, and bishop of St. DaAud’s in 1434. He died 
in 144G. lie Avrote Const it utiones Provinciales Ecclesice 
Anglicance (Oxon. 1679, fob). — LoAA T ndes’s Bibl. Man. p. 
1135; Marvin’s Leg. Bibl. p.482; Alii bone’s Dictionary 
of British and American Authors, ii, 1 101. 

Lindgerus (Ludgerus), St., a noted theologian, 
Avas born about the year 743 in Friesland. He became 
a disciple of St. Boniface, A\ ho admitted him to holy or- 
ders, and afterwards he Avent for four years and a half 
to England to perfect himself under the renoAvned Al- 
cuin, then at the head of the school of York. He re- 
turned in 773, and in 77G Avas ordained priest by Alberic, 
successor of St. Gregory. He preached the Gospel Avith 
great success in Friesland, converted large numbers, and 
foimded several convents, but A\ r as obliged to quit the 
country in consequence of the invasion of the Saxons. 
He then Avent to Borne to consult Avith the pope, Adrian 
II, and Avithdrew for three years to the monastery of 
Mount Cassin. Charlemagne having repulsed the Sax- 
ons and liberated Friesland, Lindgerus returned, preached 
the Gospel to the Saxons Avith great success, as also in 
Westphalia, and founded the convent of Werden. In 
802 he Avas, against his Avishes, appointed bishop of Mi- 
raigardeford, which Avas afterwards called Munster, lie 
always enjoyed the favor of Charlemagne, notAvithstand- 
ing the intrigues of enemies jealous of his usefulness. 
He died in A.D. 809. — Herzog, Real-Encyklop. vol. xix, 

S. A'. 

Lindsay, John (1), a learned English divine, Avho 
flourished about the middle of the 17th century, Avas ed- 
ucated at St. Mary’s Hall, Oxford, and for many years 
officiated as a minister of the nonjuring society in Trin- 
ity Chapel, Aldersgate Street, and is said to have been 
their last minister. He Avas also for some time a cor- 
rector of the press for Mr. BoAvver, the printer. He fin- 
ished a long and useful life June 21, 17G8. Mr. Lindsay 
published a Short History of the Regal Succession, etc., 
with Remarks on Whiston's Script ui'e Politics , etc. (1720, 
8 a t o) ; a translation of Mason’s Vindication of the Church 
of England (172G, reprinted in 1728), AA'liicli has a large 
and elaborate preface, containing *• a full and particular 
series of the succession of our bishops, through the sev- 
eral reigns since the Beformation,”etc. In 1747 he pub- 
lished Mason’s Two Sermotis preached at Court in 1620. 
See Gen. Biog. Diet. s. v. 

Lindsay, John (2), a Methodist Episcopal minis- 
ter, AA r as born at Lynn, Mass., July 18, 1788; AA'as con- 
A r erted in 1807 ; entered the NeAv England Conference in 
1809 ; was agent for the Wesleyan University in I835-G ; 
in 1837 AA'as transferred to the New York Conference, and 
made presiding elder on New Haven District; next he 
filled tAvo stations in NeAv York City; in 1842 he Avas 
agent for the American Bible Society; Avas transferred 
in 1845 to the Troy Conference; was appointed to the 
Albany District in 184G; and died at Schenectady Feb. 
10, 1850. Mr. Lindsay Avas an irapressi\ r e and success- 
ful preacher, and a man of noble beneA'olencc. He Avas 
A’ery actiA'e in the founding of the Wesleyan Academy 
at Wilbraham, and the Wesleyan University. — Minutes 
of Conf iv, 4G0 ; Stevens, Memorials of Methodism, voL 
ii, ch. xli. (G. L. T.) 

Lindsey, Tiieopiiilus, an eminent English Uni- 
tarian minister, Avas born at MiddleAA'ich, in Cheshire, 
June 20, 1723 (O. S.). He entered St. John’s College, 
Cambridge, in 1741, and, after taking his degrees, a vas 
elected felloAv in 1747. About this time he commenced 
his clerical duties at an Episcopal chapel in Spital Square, 
London. Later he became domestic chaplain to Alger- 
non, duke of Somerset, afte# Avhose death he travelled 
tAA'O years on the Continent Avith Algernon's son. On 
his return, about 1753, he AA'as presented to the living 
of Kirkby Wiskc, in the North Biding of Yorkshire, 

I and in 175G he remOA'ed to that of Piddletown, in Dor- 


LINDSEY 


438 


LINE 


setshire. In 1760 he married a step-daughter of his 
intimate friend archdeacon Blaeklmrne, and in 1763, 
chiefly for the sake of enjoying his society, took the 
living of Catteriek. Lindsey, who had felt some scru- 
ples respecting subscription to the Thirty-nine Arti- 
cles even while at Cambridge, began now to entertain 
serious doubts concerning the Trinitarian doctrines, and 
by 1760 his association with the llev. William Turner, 
a Presbyterian minister at Wakefield, and Dr. Priest- 
ley, then a Unitarian minister at Leeds, gave a more 
decided coloring to his Antitrinitarian views, and he 
actually began to contemplate the duty of resigning 
his living. He was induced to defer that step by an 
attempt which was made in 1771, by several clergymen 
and gentlemen of the learned professions, to obtain re- 
lief from Parliament in the matter of subscription to the 
Thirtv-nine Articles, and in which he joined heartily, 
travelling upwards of 2000 miles in the winter of that 
year to obtain signatures to the petition which was pre- 
pared. The petition was presented on the 6th of Feb- 
ruary, 1772, with nearly 250 signatures, but, after a spir- 
ited debate, its reception was negatived by 217 to 71. 
It being intended to renew the application to Parliament 
at the next session, Lindsey still deferred his resigna- 
tion, but when the intention was abandoned he began 
to prepare for that important step. He drew up, in July, 

1773, a copious and learned “Apology,” and, notwith- 
standing the attempts of his diocesan and others to dis- 
suade him from the step, he formally resigned his con- 
nection with the Established Church, and, selling the 
greatest part of his library to meet his pecuniary exigen- 
cies, he proceeded to London, and on the 17th of April, 

1774, began to officiate in a room in Essex Street, Strand, 
which, by the help of friends, he had been enabled to 
convert into a temporary chapel. His desire being to 
deviate as little as possible from the mode of worship 
adopted in the Church of England, he used a liturgy 
very slightly altered from that modification of the na- 
tional church-service which had been previously pub- 
lished by Dr. Samuel Clarke. This modified liturgy, 
as well as his opening sermon, Lindsey published, llis 
efforts to raise a Unitarian congregation proving suc- 
cessful, he commenced shortly afterwards the erection 
of a more permanent chapel in Essex Street, which 
was opened in 1778. His published “Apology” having 
been attacked in print by Mr. Burgh, an Irish M.P., by 
Mr. Bingham, and by Dr. Randolph, Lindsey published a 
“ Sequel” to it in 1776, in which he answered those writ- 
ers. In 1781 he published The Catechist , or an Inquiry 
into the Doctrine of the Scriptures concerning the only 
True God and Object of Religious Worship ; in 1783. A 
Historical View of the State of the Unitarian Doctrine 
and Worship from the Reformation to our own Times , an 
elaborate work, which had been several years in prepa- 
ration; and in 1785, anonymously, An Examination of 
Mr. Robinson of Cambridge's Plea for the Divinity of our 
Lord Jesus Christ, by a late Member of the University. 
In 1788 he published J Indicia Priestkiamc, a defence of 
his friend Dr. Priestley, in the form of an address to the 
students of Oxford and Cambridge; and this was fol- 
lowed, in 1790, by a Second Address to the Students of 
Oxford and Cambridge relating to Jesus Christ and the 
Origin of the great Errors concerning him. In 1782 he 
invited Dr. Disney, who then left the Established Chureli 
for the same reasons as himself, to become his colleague 
in the ministry at Essex Street; and in 1793, on account 
of age and growing infirmities, he resigned the pastorate 
entirely into his hands, publishing on the occasion a 
farewell discourse (which he felt himself unable to 
preach) and a revised edition, being the fourth, of his 
liturgy. In 1795 he reprinted, with an original pref- 
ace, the Letters to a Philosophical Unbeliever which I)r. 
Priestley had recently published in America in reply 
to Paine's Age of Reason; and in 1800 he republished 
in like manner another of Priestley’s works, on the 
knowledge which the Hebrews had of a future state. 
Lindsey’s last work was published in 1802, entitled 


Conversations on the Divine Government, showing that 
everything is from God and for good to all. He died 
on the 3d of November, 1808. Besides copious bio- 
graphical notices of Lindsey, which were published in 
the Monthly Repository and Monthly Magazine of Dec., 
1808, the Rev. Thomas Belsliam published, in 1812, a 
thick octavo volume of Memoirs, in which he gives a 
full analysis of Lindsey’s works and extracts from his 
correspondence, together with a complete list of his pub- 
lications. Two volumes of his sermons were printed 
shortly after his death. See Engl. Cyclop, s. v. ; Robert 
Hall, in his )) r orks (11th ed. 1853), iv, 188 sq.; London 
Quarterly Review, viii, 422 sq. 

Lindsley, James Harvey, a Baptist preacher, 
was born in North Branford, Connecticut, May 5, 1787. 
Brought to consider his spiritual condition through a 
severe illness, he sought and found pardon in December, 
1810. Shortly after he began a course of study with 
the view of entering the ministry, and graduated at 
Yale College in 1817. For a number of years his health 
was so poor as to forbid his preaching, and he was en- 
gaged iu teaching. He introduced into the Baptist de- 
nomination the religious meetings styled “Conference 
of the Churches,” and was chairman of the first two. 
Ilis first regular preaching was in Stratford, in a store 
hired by himself in 1831, and in the same year he re- 
ceived a regular license to preach. For five years he 
had charge of the churches in Milford and Stratlicld. 
In 1836 his health became impaired. He ceased preach- 
ing, and for a part of the year assisted in the compila- 
tion of the Baptist Select Hymns. He died Dee. 29, 1813. 
Mr. Lindsley was a ready writer, and a large contribu- 
tor to several of the periodicals of the day. llis articles 
took a wide range, including politics, religion, moral re- 
form, literature, and especially natural science. — Sprague, 
Annals of the American Pulpit, v ol. vi. 

Lindsley, Philip, D.I)., a Presbyterian minister, 
was born near Morristown, N. J., Dec. 21, 1786, and grad- 
uated in the College of New Jersey (Princeton) in 1804. 
After teaching for some time, and completing his theo- 
logical course, he was licensed in 1810. and went to 
Newtown, L. I., where he preached as a stated supply. 
In 1812 he became senior tutor in Priuceton College, 
and in 1813 was appointed to the professorship of lan- 
guages, and chosen secretary of the board of trustees. 
To these offices were added those of librarian and inspect- 
or of the college, and in 1817, when he was ordained, that 
of vice-president. In 1824 he agreed to go to Nashville, 
solely induced thereto by the new and wide field of ex- 
ertion which lay before him there, lie continued more 
than a quarter of a century at Nashville, and his repu- 
tation as a teacher was so high in the South and West 
that it was said that every university in those regions 
had solicited him to accept its headship. He was twice 
invited to preside over Dickinson College, in Pennsyl- 
vania, and was actually elected provost of the Univer- 
sity of Pennsylvania in 1834. From this period lie was 
successively moderator of the General Assembly of the 
Presbyterian Church of the United States, member of 
the Royal Society of Northern Antiquaries at Copenha- 
gen, professor of eeclesiastieal polity and Biblical archae- 
ology in the New Albany Seminary (Indiana), 1850. He 
removed from New Albany in April, 1853. and returned 
to Nashville, where he died in May, 1855. Dr. Linds- 
ley’s works have been published entire, with an intro- 
ductory notice of his life and labors by Leroy J. Halsey 
(Philadcl. 1865, 3 vols. 8vo). Their contents are as fol- 
lows: vol. i, Educational Discourses; vol. ii. Sermons 
and Religious Discourses; vol. iii, Miscellaneous Dis- 
courses and Essays. — Sprague, Annals, iv, 465. 

Lind wood. See Lixdewood. 

Line (represented by the following terms in the 
original: >^n, che'bel, a measuring-line, 2 Sam. viii, 2; 
Amos vii, 17 ; lienee a portion as divided out by a line, 
Psa. xvi, 6; elsewhere “cord,” “portion,” etc. 1JD or 
*)]?, hav, a measuring-line, Isa. xxxiv, 17 ; Ezek. xlvii, 


LINEAGE 


439 


LINEN 


8 ; either for construction, Job xxxviii, 5 ; Isa. xliv, 13 ; 
Jer. xxxi, 39; Zeeh. i, 10, or for destruction, 2 Kings 
xxi, 13; Lam. ii, 8; Isa. xxxiv, 11 ; metaph., a rule or 
norm, Isa. xxviii, 17, 10, 13 ; like the Gr. kuvi'ov, 2 Cor. 
x, 13, 15, 16 ; Gal. vi, 1G ; Pliil. iii, 10 ; also the rim, e. g. 
of a laver, 1 Kings vii, 23 ; 2 Chron. iv, 2; or string of a 
musical instrument, put for sound , q. d. accord, Psa. xix, 
4; where Sept, o <p$6yyog, aiul so Rom. x, 18,Vulg. so- 
7 ms ; once, strength , Isa. xviii, 2, where “ a nation meted 
out” should be rendered a most mighty nation : in three 
of the above passages, 1 Kings vii, 23; Jer. xxxi, 39; 
Zeeh. i, 16, the text reads H]}]?, ke'veh, of the same im- 
port; and in Josh, ii, 18, 21, occurs tikvah ', a 

cord, from the same root. Other terms less proper are : 
B!1 n, chut, a thread, for measuring a circumference, 1 
Kings vii, 15; “fillets,” Jer. Iii, 21 ; elsewhere generally 
a “ thread.” b^P.3, path#', a cord , for measuring length, 
Ezek. xl, 3 ; elsewhere a “ thread,” “ lace,” etc., especially 
the string for suspending the signet-ring in the bosom, 
rendered “bracelets” in Gen. xxxviii, 18, 25. 
se'i-ed, the awl or stylus with which an artist graves the 
sketch of a figure in outline, to be afterwards sculpt ured 
in full, Isa. xliv, 13). There can be little doubt that 
the Hebrews acquired the art of measuring land from 
the ancient Egyptians, with whom it was early preva- 
lent (Wilkinson’s Anc. Egypt, ii, 256). In Josh, xviii, 9 
we read, “And the men went out and passed through 
the land, and described it by cities into seven parts in a 
book, and came again to Joshua to the host at Shiloh.” 
These circumstances clearly indicate that a survey of 
the whole country was made, and the results entered 
carefully in a book (see Kitto’s Daily Bible Illust. ad 
loe.). This appears to be the earliest example of a top- 
ographical survey on record, and it proves that there 
must have been some knowledge of mensuration among 
the Hebrews, as is moreover evinced by the other topo- 
graphical details in the book of Joshua. 

Lineage (jrarpid, paternal descent, “kindred,” Acts 
iii, 25; “family,” Epli. iii, 15), a family or race (Luke 
ii, 4). See Genealogy. 

Linen has been made in the A. Version or elsewhere 
the representative of a considerable number of Ileb. and 
Greek terms, to most of which it more or less nearly 
corresponds. The material designated by them in gen- 
eral is no doubt principally, and perhaps by some of 
them exclusively, the product of the flax-plant; but 
there is another plant which, as being a probable rival 
to it, may be most conveniently considered here, name- 
ly, hemp. See also Silk; Wool. 

Hemp is a plant which in the present day is exten- 
sively distributed, being cultivated in Europe, and ex- 
tending through Persia to the southernmost parts of 
India. In the plains of that country it is cultivated 
on account of its intoxicating product, so well known as 
bang ; in the Himalayas both on this account iind for its 
yielding the ligneous fibre which is used for sack and 
rope making. Its European names are no doubt derived 
from the Arabic Mniiab, which is supposed to be con- 
nected with the Sanscrit shanapee. There is no doubt, 
therefore, that it might easily have been cultivated in 
Egypt. Herodotus mentions it as being employed by 
the Thracians for making garments. “These were so 
like linen that none but a very experienced person could 
tell whether they were of hemp or flax; one who had 
never seen hemp would certainly suppose them to be 
linen.” Hemp is used in the present day for smock- 
frocks and tunics; and Russia sheeting and Russia duck 
are well known. Cannabis is mentioned in the works 
of Hippocrates on account of its medical properties. 
Dioscorides describes it as teing employed for making 
ropes, and it was a good d$R cultivated by the Greeks 
for this purpose. Though we arc unable at present to 
prove that it was cultivated in Egypt at an early period, 
and used for making garments, yet there is nothing im- 
probable in its having been so. Indeed, as it w T as known 


to various Asiatic nations, it could hardly have been 
unknown to the Egyptians, and the similarity of the 
word husheesh to the Arabic shesh would lead to a belief 
that they were acquainted with it, especially as in a 
language like the Hebrew it is more probable that dif- 
ferent names were applied to totally different things, 
than that the same thing had two or three different 
names. Hemp might thus have been used at an early 
period, along with flax and wool, for making cloth for 
garments and for hangings, and would be much valued 
until cotton and the finer kinds of linen came to be 
known. — Kitto. 

1. Pisiiteii' (JlPlUQ, or, rather, according to Gese- 
nius, SHTB, pe'sheth, from U11JQ, to card) is rendered 
“linen” in Lev. xiii, 47, 48, 52, 59; Deut. xxii, 11 , Jer. 
xiii, 1; Ezek. xliv, 17, 18; and “flax” in Josh, ii, 6; 
Judg. xv, 14; Prov. xxxi, 13; Isa. xix, 9; Ezek. xl, 3; 
llos. ii, 5, 9. It signifies (1.) flax, i. e. the material of 
linen, Isa. xix, 9 ; Deut. xxii, 11 ; Prov. xxxi, 13, where 
its manufacture is spoken of; also a line or rope made 
of it, Ezek. xl, 3 ; Jiulg. xiv, 4 ; so “stalks of flax,” i. e. 
woody flax, Josh, ii, 6 (where the Sept, has XivotcaXdpi /, 
Vulg. stipules Uni, but the Arabic Vers, stalks of cotton ) ; 
and (2.) wrought flax, i. e. linen cloth, as made into gar- 
ments, e. g. generally, Lev. xiii, 47, 48, 52, 59; Dent, 
xxii, 11 ; Ezek. xliv, 17; a girdle, Jer. xiii, 1 , a mitre, 
a pair of drawers worn by the priests, Ezek. xliv, 18. A 
cognate term is USTl-JS, pistah', the plant “flax” as 
growing, Exod. ix, 31 ; spec, a wick , made of linen, i. e. 
of “ flax,” Isa. xiii, 3, or “ tow,” Isa. xliii, 17. To this 
exactly corresponds the Greek Xiv ov (whence English 
linen), which, indeed, stands for pishteh or pishtah in the 
Sept, (at Exod. ix, 31; Isa. xix, 9; xliii, 3). It signi- 
fies properly the y?aa:-plant (Xenophon, Ath. ii, 11, 12), 
but in the N.T. is only used of linen raiment (Rev. xv, 
6; comp. Homer, II. ix, 661 ; Od. xiii, 73), also the wick 
of a lamp, as being composed of a strip or ravellings of 
linen (Matt, xii, 20), where the half-expiring flame is 
made the symbol of an almost despairing heart, which 
will be cheered instead of having its religious hopes ex- 
tinguished by the Redeemer. In John xiii, 4, 5 occurs 
the" Latin term linteum, in its Greek form Xsvnov, liter- 
ally a linen cloth, hence a “towel” or apron (comp. Ga- 
len, Comp. Med. 9 ; Suetonius, Calig. xxvi). 

This well-known plant was early cultivated in Egypt 
(Exod. ix, 31 ; Isa. xix, 9 ; comp. Pliny, xix, 2; Herod. 

ii, 105; Hasselquist, Trar. p. 500), namely, in the Delta 
around Pelusium (“linum Pclusiacum,” Sil. Ital. iii, 25, 
375; “linteum Pelusium,” Phredr. ii, 6, 12); but also in 
Palestine (Josh, ii, 6 , IIos. ii, 7 ; compare Pococke, East, 
i, 260), the stalk attaining a height of several feet (see 
Josh, ii, 6 ; compare Hartmann, Ilebr. i, 1 16). Linen or 
tow was employed by the Hebrews, especially as a 
branch of female domestic manufacture (Prov. xxxi, 13), 
for garments (2 Sam. vi, 14; Ezek. xliv, 17 ; Lev. xiii, 
47 ; Rev. xv, 6 ; comp. Philo, ii, 225), girdles (Jer. xxxi, 
1), thread and ropes (Ezek. xl, 3; Judg. xv, 13), nap- 
kins (Luke xxiv, 12; John xix, 40), turbans (Ezek. xliv, 
18), and lamp-wick (Isa. xl, 3 ; xliii, 17 ; Matt, xii, 20). 
For clothing they used the “fine linen” (*D, oSrovi], 1 
Chron. xv, 27, where the Sept. ha3 fivamvog : see Hart- 
mann, iii, 38 ; compare Lev. xvi, 4, 23 ; Ezek. xliv, 17), 
perhaps the Pelusiac linen of Egypt (see Mishna, Joma, 

iii, 7), of remarkable whiteness (comp. Dan. xii, 6 ; Rev. 

xv, 6 ; see Plutarch, Isis, c. 4), with which the fine Bab- 
ylon linen manufactured at Borsippa doubtless corre- 
sponded (Strabo, xvi, 739), being the material of the 
splendid robes of the Persian monarchs (Strabo, xiv, 719 ; 
Curt, viii, 9), doubtless the karpas, °f Esth. i, 6 

(see Gesenius, Thesaur. Ileb. p. 715). Very poor persons 
wore garments of unbleached flax ( wfioXivov , linum cru- 
dum, i. q. tow-cloth , Ecelus. xl, 4). The refuse of flax or 
tow is called in Ileb. 1TH23, neo'reth (Judg. xvi, 9; Isa. 
i, 31). (See generally Celsius, Ilierobot. ii, 283 sq.)— ' 
Winer, i, 375. See Flax. 


LINEN 


440 


LINEN 


2. BCts ("“2, from a root signifying whiteness ) occurs 
in 1 CUron. iv, 21 ; xv, 27 ; 2 Giron, ii, 14 ; iii, 14 ; v, 12 ; 
Esth. i, f) ; viii, 15 ; Ezek. xxvii, 1G, in all which passages 
the A.V. renders it “ line linen," except in 2 Chron. v, 12, 
where it translates “ white linen.” The word is of Ara- 
imean origin, being found in substantially the same form 
in all the cognate dialects. It is spoken of the finest 
and most precious stuffs, as worn by kings (1 Chron. 
xv. 27), by priests (2 Chron. v, 12), and by other persons 
of high rank or honor (Esth. i, G, 8, 15). It is used of 
the Syrian hyssus (Ezek, xxvii, 1G), which seems there 
to be distinguished from the Egyptian hyssus or 2323, 
shesh (ver. 7). Elsewhere it seems not to differ from 
this last, and is often put for it in late Hebrew (e. g. 
1 Chron. iv, 21; 2 Chron. iii, 14; comp. Exod. xxvi, 81: 
so the Syr. and Chald. equivalents of huts occur in the 
O. and N. T. for the Heb. 125 113 and Gr. fivavoo). That 
the Ileb. garments made of this material were white may 
not only be certainly concluded from the etymology 
(which that of 123123 confirms), but from the express lan- 
guage of Rev. xix, 4, where the white and shining rai- 
ment of the saints is emblematical of their purity. Yet 
■we should not rashly reject the testimony of Pausanias 
(v. 5), who states that the Hebrew hyssus was yellow , for 
cotton of this color is found as w r ell in Guinea and India 
( Gassy plum reliyiosuni) as in Greece at this day (comp. 
Yossius, ad. Viry. Geo. ii, 220), although white was doubt- 
less the prevailing color, as of linen with us. J. E. Faber 
(in llarmar, Ohserv. ii, 382 sq.) suspects that the huts was 
a cotton-plant common in Syria, and different from the 
shesh or tree-cotton. It has long been disputed whether 
the cloths of hyssus were of linen or cotton (see Celsius, 
II ie robot, ii, 1G7 sq. ; Forster. De hysso antiquor. London, 
177G), and recent microscopic experiments upon the 
mummy- cloths brought to London from Egypt have 
been claimed as determining the controversy by discov- 
ering that the threads of these are linen (Wilkinson, 
Anc. Egypt, iii, 115). But this is not decisive, as there 
may have existed religious reasons for employing linen 
lor this particular purpose, and the cloths used for ban- 
daging the bodies are not clearly stated to have been of 
hyssus. On the contrary, the characteristics ascribed to 
this latter are such as much better agree with the qual- 
ities of cotton (see Forster, De hysso, ut sup.). “The 
corresponding Greek word jSi'aaoc occurs in Luke xvi, 
10, where the rich man is described as being clothed in 
purple and Jine linen, and also in Rev. xviii, 12, 16, and 
xix, 8, 14, among the merchandise the loss of which 
would be mourned for by the merchants trading with 
the mystical Babylon. But it is by many authors still 
considered uncertain whether this hyssus was of Jlax or 
cotton; fur. as Rosenm idler says, ‘The lleb. word shesh, 
which occurs thirty times in the tw'o first books of the 
Pentateuch (see Celsius, ii, 259), is in these places, as 
well as in Prov. xxxi, 22, by the Greek Alexandrian 
translators interpreted hyssus, which denotes Egyptian 
cotton, and also the cotton cloth made from it. In the 
later writings of the O. T., as, for example, in the Chron- 
iclcs, the book of Esther, and Ezekiel, huts is commonly 
used instead of shesh as an expression for cotton cloth.’ 
This, however, seems to be inferred rather than proved, 
and it is just as likely that improved civilization may 
have introduced a substance, such v. otton, which was 
unknown at the times when shesh was spoken of and 
employed, in the same manner as we know that in Eu- 
rope woollen, hempen, linen, and cotton clothes have at 
one period of society been more extensively worn than 
at another” (Kitto). 

Cotton is the product of a plant apparently cultivated 
in the earliest ages not only in India, Cyprus, and other 
well-known localities, but also in Egypt (Pliny, xix, 2; 
comp. Descript, de V Kyypte, xvi;, 104 sq.), and even in 
Syria (Ezek. xxvii, 1G) and Palestine (1 Chron. iv, 21 ; 
Pausan. v, 5, 2; Pococke, East, ii, 88; Arvieux, i, 80G). 
Two kinds of cotton are usually distinguished, the^I««t 
( Gossypium herhuceum) and the tree (Gossyp. arhoreuni), 


although the latest investigations appear to make them 
essentially one. The former, which in Western Asia is 
found growing in fields (Olearius, Travels, p. 207 ; Korte, 
Reis. p. 437), is an annual shrub tv r o or three feet high, 
but when cultivated (Olivier, Trav. ii, 4G1) it becomes 
a bush from three to five feet in height. The stalks are 
reddish at the bottom, the branches short, furzv, and 
speckled with black spots; the leaves are dark green, 
large, five-lobed, and v'eak. The ilowers spring from 
the junction of the leaves with the stem ; they are bell- 
shaped, pale yellow, but purplish beneath. They are 
succeeded by oval capsules of the size of a hazel-nut, 
which sw'cll to the size of a walnut, and (in October) 
burst spontaneously. They contain a little ball of white 
filaments, which in warm situations attains the size of an 
apple. Imbedded in this are seven little egg-shaped, 
woolly seeds, of a brown or black-gray color, which con- 
tain an oily kernel. The Gossypium arhoreum (fivloov 
ioio(p6piov of Theophrastus) was anciently (seeTheoph. 
Plant, iv, 0, p. 144, ed. Schneider), and still is indigenous 
in Asia (i. e. India), and attains a height of about twelve 
feet, but differs very little as to the leaves, blossoms, or 
fruit from the herbaceous cotton. See generally Belon, 
in Panlus’s Samml. i, 214 sq. ; Kurrer, in the Hall. Enrykl. 
viii, 200 sq. , Oken, Lehrh. d. Xaturyeseh.il, ii. 12G2 sq. ; 
Ainslie, Mater. Ind. p. 282 sq. ; Ritter, Erdk. vii, 1058 sq. 

Cotton (232?, shesh, according to Rosenm tiller, Alterth. 
IV, i, 175; comp. Tuch, Gen. p. 520 sq. ; later ‘j- , ’“2, huts, 
see Faber, in llarmar, ii, 383; comp. Gesenius, Thesaur. 
p. 190) was not only manufactured in Egypt into state 
apparel (Gen. xli, 42 ; comp. Pliny, xix, 2), and in Persia 
into cords (Esth. i, G), but the Israelites even made use 
of hyssus cloth (Exod. xxvi, 1 ; xxvii, 0) and clothing 
(Exod. xx viii, 39), and the Hebrew women were accus- 
tomed to similar fabrics (Prov. xxxi, 32). It has also 
been regarded as the sumptuous apparel which only the 
rich were able to afford (Luke xvi. 10; on the hyssus of 
the Greeks and Romans, see Celsius, ii, 170, 177, and Wet- 
stein, ii, 7G7). Nevertheless, the Hebrew shesh does not 
designate exclusively cotton, but also stands sometimes, 
like the Gr. hyssus often (as the product of a tree, Philostr. 
A poll, ii, 20; comp. Pollux, Onom. vii, 17 ; Strabo, xv, 
G03; Arrian, Imlic. vii), for the finest (Egyptian) white 
linen (certainly in Exod. xxxix, 28 ; comp, xxviii. 42 ; 
Lev. xvi, 4 ; see Pliny, xix, 2,3), which in softness com- 
pared with cotton (Hartmann, Ihhr. iii. 37 sip). Indeed, 
the Jewish tradition of the use of linen for sacred pur- 
poses (Biilir, Symbol, i, 2G4) is based altogether upon the 
custom of the Egyptians, whose priests were exclusively 
clothed in linen (Pliny, xix, 1.2; comp. Philostr. A poll. 
ii, 20), which it has likewise been contended was the an- 
cient hyssus (Rosellini, Mon. civ. 1, 341; comp. Becker, 
Char ill. 833 sq.). In fine, the Orientals often employed 
a single term to designate both cotton and linen, but 
Celsius was wrong when he insisted ( Ilierohot . ii, 259 
sq., 1G7 sq.) that shesh stands only for (fine) linen (sec 
Faber, in llarmar, ii, 380 sq. ; Ilartmann, llehr. iii, 34 
sq.). The same ambiguity that thus applies to ftvaaoQ 
is also found in the use of “i^PI (chur, Esth. i, 6; viii, 15; 
Sept. (ivaooQ), by which perhaps cotton is, after all, in- 
tended. See generally J. R. Forster, De hysso antiquor . 
(Bond. 177G); Smith’s Diet, of Class. Antiq. s. v. Bvssus; 
Egypt. Antiq. in the Lib. of Entertaininy Knoivl. ii, 182- 
102: Penny Cyclopaedia , s. v. Cotton, Gossypium. See 
Cotton. 

3. Bad (“12, perhaps from its separation for sacred 
uses) occurs Exod. xxviii. 42; xxxix, 28; Lev. vi, 10; 
xvi, 4, 23, 32; 1 Sam. ii, 18; xxxii. 18: 2 Sam. vi, 14; 
1 Chron. xv, 27 , Ezek. ix, 2, 3. 1 1 : x, 2, G. 7 ; Dan. x, 
5; xii, G, 7, in all which passages it is rendered “linen” 
in the Auth. Vers. It is nmjbrmly applied to the sacred 
vestments (e. g. drawers, mmc, ephod. etc.) of the priests, 
or (in the passages in Ezekiel and Daniel) of an angel 
(comp. John xx, 12; Acts i. 20). In these last instances 
it is in the plural, baddim', in the concrete sense 

I of clothes of this material, Sept, in the Pent, invariably 


LIN EX 


441 


LINEN 


AiVeoc, but in 1 Chron. fivcrmvoc. It is well known ' 
that the official garments of the Egyptian (as of the 
Brahmin) priests were always of linen (Bosenmiiller, 
Dot. of the Bible , p. 175), and hence the custom among 
the Hebrews (compare Ezek. xliv, 17, where the sacred 
apparel is expressly described as the product of flax, 
Q7ITw : 2). Celsius, however, is of opinion ( Ilierobot . ii, 
509) that bad does not signify the common linen, as 
some have imagined, but the finest and best Egyptian 
linen; and lie quotes (p. 510) Aben-Ezra as asserting 
that bad is the same as huts, namely, a species of linen 
in Egypt. With this view Gesenius concurs ( Thesaur . 
Ileb . p. 179). The Talmudists appear to have been of 
the same opinion, from their fanciful etymology of the 
term bad as of a plant with a single stem springing up- 
right from the earth from one seed (Braun, De vest, sa - 
cerd. p. 101). This interpretation is finally confirmed 
by the Arabic versions, which have a term equivalent 
to byssus. See No. 1 above. Perhaps, however, the 
requirement of the material in question for priestly gar- 
ments may only signify that no wool should be employ- 
ed in them, and they may therefore have consisted in- 
differently of either linen or eotton, provided it was 
entirely pure, and thus be represented by the equivocal 
term byssus. See No. 2 above. 

4. Shesh («*j, prob. from the Egyptian skeush , in 
ancient Egyptian cheuti , i. e. linen, Bunsen, EEg. i, GOG, 
which the Hebrews appear to have imitated as if from 
Uhl-, to be white; Sept, everywhere fiver cr or) occurs 
Gen. xli, 42; Exod. xxv, 4; xxvi, 1, 31, 36; xxvii, 9, 
16,18; xxviii, 5, 6, 8, 15,39; xxxv, 6, 23, 25, 35 ; xxxvi, 
8, 35, 37 ; xxxviii, 9, 16, 18, 23; xxxix, 2, 3, 5, 8, 27, 28, 
29; Prov, xxxi, 22; Ezek. xvi, 10, 13; xxvii, 7; in all 
which passages it is rendered “fine linen” in the Anth. 
Vers, (except Prov. xxxi, 22, where it is rendered ‘‘silk;” 
in Esth. i, 6; Cant, v, 15^ the same term occurs, but is 
rendered, as it there signifies, “ marble ”) ; onee siiesiii' 
C r L‘L\ from the same), Ezek. xvi, 13, text, “fine linen.” 
This word appears to designate Egyptian linen of pe- 
culiar whiteness and fineness, and as such it is stated 
to have been imported from Egypt by way of Tyre 
(Ezek. xxvii, 7), in distinction from the Syrian linen or 
buts verse 16). In the Pentateuch it is several 

times applied to byssus , of which, both as material spon- 
taneously offered (Exod. xxv, 4; xxxv, 6, 23) and as 
woven fabrics (Exod. xxxv, 25, 35 ; xxxviii, 23), were 
made both the curtains and veils of the sacred taberna- 
cle (Exod. xxvi, 1, 31, 36; xxvii, 9, 16, 18 ; xxxvi, 8, 35, 
37 ; xxxviii, 9, 16, 18), and the priestly garments, espe- 
cially the high-priest’s epliod or shoulder-piece (Exod. 
xxviii, 5, 6, 8, 15, 39; xxix, 2, 5, 8, 27, 28, 29). Bai- 
lment of this description is stated to have been worn by 
noble persons besides priests, e. g. by Joseph as prefect 
of Egypt (Gen. xli, 42), and women of eminence (Frov. 
xxxi, 22). But that shesh is also spoken of linen arti- 
cles is apparent from Exod. xxxix, 28, where the “ linen 
breeches” (TSIi n cpi*3) are said to have been made 
“of fine-twined linen” prr "3 d^j), as well as from the 
fact that Chirrs, pishtim, linen garments, are some- 
times (e. g. Isa. xliii, 17 ; Ezek. xliv, 18) rendered by 
the Chaldee interpreter by *p£, buts. It thus appears 
that shesh is equivalent in general to byssus. See No. 2 
above. See generally Celsius, Ilierobot. ii, 259; J. B. 
korster, Liber singula ris de bysso antiquorum (London, 
(tf); 4; E- Faber, Observat. ii, 282 sq. ; Hartmann, lie - 
briierin , iii, 34 sq.; BosenmUller, Bibl. A Iterth. IV, i, 175 
B( b — Gesenius, Thes. Ileb. s. v. 

5. Chur (“I >,!-!, from its whiteness) occurs Esth. i, 6; 
viji, 1 5, where the Autli. Version renders “white,” Sept. 
[3vo aoc, besides other passages where it signifies a 
“ hole” (Isa. xi, 8 ; xlii, 22, ete.) ; onee Tin, chor, plural 
poet. "‘Tin, Isa. xix, 9 (Auth.Vers. “net-works,” Sept. 
/3oc7 (roc nig. subtilia, Kimclii white garments). This 
term likewise appears to designate fine and white linen, 


or in general byssus, although Saadias and other inter- 
preters understand silk (see Schroder, De Vest. Mul. Ileb. 
p. 40, 245). See No. 2 above. 

6. Etun' (’i^N, from an obsolete root perhaps signi- 
fying to bind, referring to the use of the material for 
ropes) occurs only in Prov. vii,16, as a product of Egypt, 
“ I have decked my bed with coverings of tapestry, with 
earved works, with fine linen of Egypt.” As Egypt was 
from very early times celebrated for its cultivation of 
flax and manufactures of linen, there can be little doubt 
that etun is correctly rendered, though some have' thought 
that it may signify rope or string of Egypt, “funis 
/Egyptius,” “ funis salignus v. intubaeeus,” a sense that 
it bears in Chaldee, for the Targums employ in 

the sense of rope for the Heb. and (Josh, ii, 

15, Numb, iv, 32; 1 Kings xx, 32; Esth. i, 6, etc.). 
But, following the suggestion of Alb. Schultens, Celsius 
( Ilierobot . ii, p. 89) observes that etun designates not a 
rope, but flax and linen, as even the Greek odour] and 
oduutou, derived from it, sufficiently demonstrate. “So 
Mr. Yates, in his Textrinum Antiquorum, p. 265, says of 
odour] that ‘it was in all probability an Egyptian word, 
adopted by the Greeks to denote the commodity to 
which the Egyptians themselves applied it.’ For 
put into Greek letters and with Greek terminations, be- 
comes odour] and odouiou. Hesvchius states, no doubt 
correctly, ‘that odour] was applied by the Greeks to any 
fine and thin cloth, though not of linen.’ Mr. Yates fur- 
ther adduces from ancient scholia that odovai were 
made both of flax and of wool, and also that the silks 
of India are called odouai cnjpiKai by the author of the 
Periplus of the Erythrcean Sea. It also appears that 
the name odouiou was applied to eloths exported from 
Cuteh, Ougein, and Baroaeh, and which must have been 
made of eotton. Mr. Yates moreover observes that, 
though odour], like enuctou, originally denoted linen, 
yet we find them both applied to cotton cloth. As the 
manufacture of linen extended itself into other coun- 
tries, and as the exports of India became added to those 
of Egypt, all varieties, either of linen or cotton cloth, 
wherever woven, came to be designated by the origi- 
nally Egyptian names ’Odom] and (Ivitto). 

Forster ( De bysso antiquor. p. 75) endeavors to trace the 
Egyptian form of the word, and Ludolf ( Comment . ad 
hist. xEthiop. p. 204) renders it by the Ethiopic term for 
frankincense. But these efforts, as Gesenius remarks 
( Thesaur . Ileb. p.77), are wide of the mark. Among the 
Hebrews the term “thread of Egypt” (-^^r 1 p-N) 
may properly have designated a linen or even eotton 
material, similar to silk or byssus in fineness, such as we 
know was manufactured in Egypt (Isa. xix, 9; Ezek. 
xxvii, 7 ; Barhebr. p. 218), q. d. Egyptian yarn, not less 
famous among the ancients than “Turkish yarn” has 
been among moderns. Kimchi, the Venetian Greek, 
and others understand funiculum , and apply it to cords 
hanging from the side of a bed, or something of that 
sort ; rabbi Parehon, a girdle woven in Egypt — evident- 
ly mere conjectures. 

“In the N. T. the word odouiou occurs in John xix, 
40: ‘Then took they the body of Jesus and wound it 
in linen clothes' ( odouieic ) ; in the parallel passage (Math 
xxvii, 59) the term used is ertudoui , as also in Mark xv, 
46, and in Luke xxiii, 53. "We meet with it again in 
John xx, 5, ‘and he, stooping down, saw the linen clothes 
lying.’ It is generally used in the plural to denote 
‘ linen bandages.’ ’Odour], its primitive, occurs in Acts 
x, 11, ‘and (Peter) saw heaven opened, and a certain 
vessel descending unto him, as it had been a great sheet 
knit at the four corners, and let down to the earth,’ and 
also in xi. 5, where this passage is repeated” (Kitto). 
In Homer it signifies either the matrire (Odys. vii, 107), 
or wrought veils and under-garments for women (//. iii, 
141; xviii, 195) ; in later writers linen eloths (Lucilius, 
Dial. Mort. iii, 2), especially for sails (Mel. 80 ; Anth. x, 
5; Luc. Jup. 7 'rag. 46). From the preceding observa- 
tions it is evident that odouiou, whether answering to 


LINEN* 


442 


LINEN 


the Ileb. etun or not, may signify cloth made either of 
linen or cotton, but most probably the former, as it was 
more common than eotton in Syria and Egypt. In 
classical writers the word signifies linen bandages (Luc. 
Ph flops, 34), espec. lint for wounds (Tlipp. p. 772, etc.; 
Ar. A eh. 117G) ; also sail-cloth (Polybius, v, 89, 2 ; Dem. 
1 145, G). See Cotton ; also Nos. 7 and 10 below. 

7. Sadin' Cp-JO, from an obsolete root signifying to 
loosen or let down a garment, as a veil ) occurs in Judg. 
xiv, 12, 13 (where the Auth.Vers. has “sheets,” margin 
“shirts”), and Prov. xxxi, 24 ; Isa. iii, 23 (A. Vers. “ tine 
linen”). From these 'passages it appears to have been 
an ample garment, probably of linen, worn under the 
other clothing in the manner of a shirt by men (Judg. 
xiv, 12, 13), or as a thin chemise by women (Isa. iii, 23). 
The Talmud describes it as made of the finest linen 
(“the simlon is suitable for summer,” Menuch. xli, 1). 
The Targums similarly explain Psa. civ, 2; Lam. ii, 20. 
The corresponding Syriac is employed in the Peshito for 
( rovCcipiov , Luke xix, 20; \kvnov, John xiii, 4. The 
Sept, has en vdwu, Vulgate sindo ; but in Isa. iii, 23 the 
Sept, appears to have a paraphrase rr)v fiver gov gvv 
Xi)u<Jt<{j Koi vaKtVrjtp eyvyKaSvepaapivrjv. The passage 
in Prov. seems to refer to the manufacture of the doth 
or material, probably linen, but possibly sometimes of 
cotton; in Judges skirts or male under-apparel arc evi- 
dently referred to; and in Isaiah we may infer that fe- 
male under-clothing is in like manner alluded to. 

From this Heb. term many have thought is derived 
the Greek word cnvcwv, which occurs of linen or muslin 
cloth, e. g. a loose garment ■worn at night instead of the 
day-clothes, q. d. night-gown (Mark xiv, 51, 52, “linen 
cloth”); used also for wrapping around dead bodies, 
q. d. grave-clothes, cerements (“fine linen,” Mark xv, 
4G; “ linen cloth,” Matt, xxvii, 59, “linen,” Mark xv, 
4G; Luke xxiii, 53). This appears to have been a fine 
fabric (probably usually, but not necessarily of linen), 
either the Egyptian (Pollux, vii, 1G, 72) or Indian; 
called in Egypt senter (Pevron, p. 299), the Sanscrit 
sindhu (Jablonski. Opusc. i, 297 sq.). Others trace a 
connection with ’H'odc, Sind (Passow, Lex. s. v.) ; some 
(as Etymol. Mar/.) from the city Sidon, etc. It appears 
to have specially denoted a fine cotton cloth from India 
(llerod. i, 200; ii, 95; iii, 8G; vii, 181); also generally a 
linen cloth, used as a signal (Polyb. ii, 6G, 10), for sur- 
geons’ bandages (Herod, vii, 181), for mummy-cloth 
(llerod. ii, 8G), or other purposes (Sophocles, Ant. 1222; 
Thuc. ii. 49). This w r ord is therefore not decisive as to 
the material. See Schroder, De Vest. Mid. p.339; Mi- 
ehaclis, Suppl. 1720; Wetstein, X. T. i, G31. — Gesenius, 
Thes. JJeh. s. v. 

8. Karpas' (D3^3, Sept. Kapire'ienvoQ, Yulg. cat'basi- 
rms ) “occurs in the book of Esther (i, 6), in the descrip- 
tion of the hangings ‘in the court of the garden of the 
king’s palace,’ at the time of the great feast given in the 
city Shushan, or Susan, by Ahasuertis, who ‘ reigned 
from India even unto Ethiopia.’ M r e are told that 
there were white, green, and blue hangings fastened 
with cords of fine linen and purple to silver rings and 
pillars of marble. Karpas is translated green in our 
version, on the authority, it is said, ‘of the Chaldee par- 
aphrase,’ where it is interpreted leelc-grecn. Bosenm filler 
and others derive the llebrew r word from the Arabic ku- 
rufs, which signifies ‘garden parsley,’ A piitm petroseli- 
titan, as if it alluded to the green color of this plant ; at 
the same time arguing that as ‘the word karpas is 
placed before two other words which undoubtedly de- 
note colors, viz. the white and the purple-blue, it proba- 
bly also does the same.’ Hut if two of the words denote 
colors, it would appear a good reason why the third 
should refer to the substance, which was colored. This, 
there is little doubt, is what was intended. If we con- 
sider that the occurrences related took place at the Per- 
sian court at a time when it held sway as far as India, 
and that the account is by some supposed to have been 
originally written in the ancient language of Persia, we 


J may suppose that some foreign words may have been 
introduced to indicate even an already well-known sub- 
stance; but more especially so if the substance itself 
was then first made known to the Hebrews. The He- 
brew karpas is very similar to the Sanscrit keupasum, 
karpasa, or karpase, signifying the cotton-plant, whence 
the Armen, kierbas, anti the Greek Kvpfiaata , Kvpficicnc, 
etc. (J siat. Researches, iv, 231, Calcutta). Celsius (IJi- 
erobot. i, 159) states that the Arabs and Persians have 
karphas and kirbus as names for cotton. These must 
no doubt be derived from the Sanscrit, while the word 
karpas is now applied throughout India to cotton with 
the seed, and may even be seen in English prices-cur- 
rent. Vaptrctejog occurs in the Periplus of Arrian, who 
states (p. 1G5) that the region about the Gulf of Bary- 
gaze, in India, was productive of carpasus, and of the 
fine Indian muslins made of it. The word is no doubt 
derived from the Sanscrit karpasa, and, though it has 
been translated fine muslin by Dr. Vincent, it may mean 
cotton cloths, or calico in general. Mr. Yates, in his 
recently published and valuable work, Textnmnn Anti- 
quorum, states that the earliest notice of this Oriental 
name in any classical author which he has met with is 
the line ‘ Carbasina, molochina, ampelina’ of Ca?cilius 
Statius, who died B.C. 169. Mr. Y"ates infers that as 
this poet translated from the Greek, so the Greeks must 
have made use of muslins or calicoes, etc., which were 
brought from India as early as 200 years B.C. See his 
work, as well as that of Celsius, for numerous quotations 
from classical authors, where carbasus occurs; proving 
that not only the word, but the substance which it indi- 
i cated, was known to the ancients subsequent to this pe- 
riod. It might, indeed must, have been known long 
before to the Persians, as constant communication took 
[ place by caravans between the north of India and Per- 
sia, as has been clearly shown by Hoeron. Cotton was 
known to Ctesias, who lived so long at the Persian court. 

, Pliny describes it as a Spanish article (Xaf. II. xix, 1), 
but other ancient writers call it a product of India and 
the East (Strabo, xiv, 719: Curtins, viii, 9). Nothing 
can be more suitable than cotton, white and blue, in the 
above passage of Esther, as J. F. Boyle long since (1837) 
remarked in a note in his Essay on the Antiquity of 
Hindoo Medicine , p. 145: ‘ Hanging curtains made with 
calico, usually in stripes of different colors and padded 
with cotton, called purdahs, are employed throughout 
India as a substitute for doors.’ They may be seen used 
for the very purposes mentioned in the text in the court 
of the king of Delhi’s palace, where, on a paved mosaic 
terrace, rows of slender pillars support a light roof, from 
which hang by rings immense padded and striped cur- 
tains. which may be rolled up or removed at pleasure. 
These either increase light or ventilation, and form, in 
fact, a kind of movable wall to the building, which is 
used as one of the halls of audience. This kind of struc- 
ture was probably introduced by the Persian conquerors 
of India, and therefore may serve to explain the object 
of the colonnade in front of the palace in the ruins of 
Persepolis” (Kitto). See Abulpharag. Hist, dynast, p. 
433 ; Salmasius, Homonym, e.81 ; Celsius, Hierobot. ii, 157 ; 
Schroder, De Vest. Mul. p. 108 sq. See Cotton. 

9. Siiaatnez' (12^?—), a kind of garments woven 
of two sorts of thread, linen and wool, like the Greek 
v<pacrpa eijapipirov, Eng. linsey-woolsey, which the He- 
brews were forbidden to use, as appears from the two 
passages in the Mosaic law where the word occurs: 
Lev. xix, 19, “Neither shall a garment mingled of linen 
and woolen come upon thee ?” Dent, xxii, 11,“ Thou shalt 
not wear a garment of dirers sorts, as of linen and wool- 
en together.” In the former of these passages the term 
Shaatnez is interpreted by C'iOS 152, a garment of 
two different kinds, i. e. of heterogeneous materials; and 
in the latter by the explicit definition, 

of wool and fiax threads together. The Sept, 
renders KtfifijXov, i. e. adulterated; Aquila, dvrecia - 
Ktiptvov, i. e. various, of different sorts ; the Peshito and 


LING A 


443 


LINGENDES 


Samaritan, variegated. Other ancient interpreters have 
either retained the original word, as Onkelos, or have 
entirely neglected it, as the Vulg., usually introducing 
the interpretation from Dent, into Levit., as the Vene- 
tian Greek (tptoAivov), Saadias, the Armenian, Erpeni- 
us, and the Persic. The derivation is uncertain. The 
early etymologists have sought in vain a Samar, origin 
for the word, as Bochart ( Ilieroz . i, 545). The Talmud 
gives only fanciful derivations (Mishna, Kilaim , ix, 8; 
comp. Xidda, 61 b ; Buxtorf, Lex. Talm. s. v. ; Abr. Gei- 
ger, Lehrbucli d. J lischnah, ii, 75) ; and the Targums are 
little better (see Pseudojon. in Deut. ad loc.). Ernest 
Meyer proposes the signification gradually formed , from 
a transposition of the letters and comparison with the 
Arabic and Ethiopic {Lex rad. lleb. p. 68G). The word 
is prob. of Egyptian origin, although Forster {I)e bysso 
antiquorum , p. 95) and Jablonski {Opusc. i, 294 sq.) have 
not fully succeeded in tracing its original in the Coptic, 
which language, however, furnishes the nearest etymon 
(sec Peyron, Lexicon , s. v. KifidrjXog). — Geseuius, Thes. 
lleb. s. v. See Woollen. 

10. Mikveii' (flippy, a collection , as often) occurs only 
in connection with this subject in 1 Kings x, 28, “And 
Solomon had horses brought out of Egypt, and linen 
yarn ; the king’s merchants received the linen yarn at 
a price 5” also 2 Chron. i, 16, where the same language 
occurs. In these passages it evidently signifies a com- 
pany of horses, i. e. a drove or string, as brought from 
Egypt at a fixed valuation. The Sept, in most copies 
renders tic 0 ticove or ’Ekovf, otherwise Prolog, as in 
2 Chron. ; the Vulg. has Coa in both places, as a proper 
name, referring, as some have thought, to Mickoe (Pliny, 
vi,29), the country of the Troglodytes (see Calmet,/h‘tf. 
s. v. Coa). Others have sought less direct elucidations 
(see Bochart, Ilieroz. i, 171, 172; Lud. de Dieu, ad loc.; 
Cleric us and Dathe On Kings, ad loc.; Becke, Paraphr. 
Chald. ad Chron., ad loc., p. 7 ; Michaelis, Supplem. 1271, 
and In Jure Mosaico, iii, 332, Bbttcher, Specim . p. 170). 
But of these far-fetched explanations there is no occa- 
sion ; the passages simply refer to a caravan of horse- 
merchants carrying on the commerce of Solomon with 
Egypt (see Taylor, Fragments, No. 190). — Gesenius, Thes. 
lleb. s. v. 

Linga (a Sanscrit word which literally means a sign 
or symbol ) denotes, in the sectarian worship of the Hin- 
dus, the phallus , as an emblem of the male or generative 
power of nature. The Liuga-worship prevails with the 
Saivas, or adorers of Siva. See Hinduism. Originally 
of an ideal and mystical nature, it has degenerated into 
practices of the grossest description, thus taking the 
same course as the similar worship of the Chaldieans, 
Greeks, and other nations of the East and West. The 
accounts how Linga became a representative of Siva 
vary greatly, but coincide in the main in that Siva, hav- 
ing scandalized the penitent saints by his amour with 
Parwati, was cursed by them to be changed into what 
occupied so much his being, and to lose his genitals, by 
which he had given offence; later, when finding the 
punishment not in proportion to the result, they resolved 
to hold that very sign in reverence. It is most proba- 
ble that the organ of generation was here considered in 
the same light as Phallos and Priapus in Egypt and 
Greece. The manner in which the Linga is represented 
is generally inoffensive — the pistil of a flower, a pillar of 
stone, or other erect and cylindrical objects being held 
as appropriate symbols of the generative power of Siva. 
Its counterpart is Yoni, or the symbol of female nature 
as fructified and productive. The Siva-Purana names 
twelve Lingas which seem to have been the chief ob- 
jects of this worship in India. See Chambers, Cyclop. 
s. v.; Vollmcr, Mythol. Worterb. s. v. 

Lingard, John, D.D., LL.D., a Roman Catholic 
judest, and one of the most eminent of modern histo- 
rians, was born at Winchester, England, Feb. 5, 1771. 
He studied at the Roman Catholic College of Douai, 
France, and remained there until obliged by the horrors 


of the French Revolution to return to England. The 
college was finally settled at Ushaw, near the city of 
Durham, and Mr, Lingard there performed the duties of 
some of its offices. lie revisited France for a short 
time during the dangerous period of the Revolution, and 
on one occasion barely escaped being mobbed as a priest. 
In 1805 he wrote for the Xeiccastle Coui'ant a series of 
letters, which were collected and published under the 
title of Catholic Loyalty vindicated (12mo). He after- 
wards wrote several controversial pamphlets, which in 
1813 were published in a volume having the title of 
Tracts on several Subjects connected icith the Civil and 
Religious Principles oj' the Catholics (reprinted by F. 
Lucas, Jr., at Baltimore, 1823, 12mo, and often). Dr. 
Lingard’s great work, however, is his History of Eng- 
land from the First Invasion by the Romans to the Ac- 
cession of William and Mary in 1688 (London, 1819- 
25, 6 vols. 4to ; 2d edit. 1823-31, 14 vols. 8vo ; 4th edit. 
1837, 13 vols. 12mo; 5th ed. 1849-50, 10 vols. 8vo; 6th 
ed. 1854-55, 10 vols. 8vo; American editions, published 
by Dunigan, N.Y.,13 vols. 12mo; by Sampson & Co., of 
Boston, 1853-54, 13 vols. 12rao, of which the last is the 
best). It is a work of great research, founded on an- 
cient writers and original documents, displaying much 
erudition and acuteness, and opening fields of inquiry 
previously unexplored. The narrative is clear, the 
dates are accurately given, and the authorities referred 
to distinctly. The style is perspicuous, terse, and unos- 
tentatious. The work, perhaps, exhibits too exclusive- 
ly the great facts and circumstances, military, civil, and 
ecclesiastical, and enters less than might be desirable 
into the manners, customs, arts, and condition of the 
people. In all matters connected with the Romish 
Church the work is, as might have been expected, col- 
ored by the very decided religious opinions of the au- 
thor, but these are not offensively set forth. Dr. Lin- 
gard, after the completion of his “History of England,” 
paid a visit to Rome, where pope Leo XII offered to 
make him cardinal, but he refused the dignity, partly 
because he did not feel qualified for the office, and partly 
because it would have interfered with his favorite stud- 
ies. He spent the last forty years of his life in the 
small preferment belonging to the Roman Catholic church 
at the village of Hornby, near Lancaster, enjoying the 
esteem and friendship of all, both Protestants and Ro- 
man Catholics. He died July 13, 1851, and was buried 
in the cemetery of St. Cuthbert’s College, at Ushaw, to 
which institution he bequeathed his library. Lingard 
was also the author of Catechetical Instructions on the 
Doctrines and Worship of the Catholic Church (2d edit. 
Lond. 1840, 12mo; 3d edit. 1844, 18mo) A Review of 
certain Anti-Catholic Publications (Lond. 1813, 8vo) : — 
Examination of certain Opinions advanced by Bishop 
Burgess (anon.) (Manchester, 1813, 8vo) : — Strictures 
on Dr. Marsh's Comparative View of the Churches of 
England and Rome (Lond. 1815, 8vo) : — Observations on 
the Laics and Ordinances which exist in Foreign States 
relative to the Religious Concerns of their Roman Catholic 
Subjects (anon.) (Lond. 1817, 8vo) : — Documents to ascer- 
tain the Sentiments of British Catholics in former Ages 
respecting the Power of the Popes (Lond. 1819, 8vo): — 
The History and Antiquities of the Anglo-Saxon Church 
(Lond. 1806; 1845, 2 vols. 8vo; Phil. 1841, 12mo). In 
1836 he published anonymously an English translation 
of the N. T., which is said to be accurate and faithful in 
several passages where the Douai translation is faulty. 
See Engl. Cycl. s. v.; the London Times (July 25, 1851) ; 
Gentleman's Magazine (Sept. 1851, p.323 sq.) ; Herzog, 
Real-Encyklop. vol. viii, s. v.; Lowndes, Brit. Lib. p. 1096 
sq. ; Brit, and For. Rev. 1844, p. 374 sq. ; and the excel- 
lent article in Allibone, Diet. Brit, and A mer. A uthors, 
ii, 1102-1105. (J.H.W.) 

Lingendes, Claude de, a noted French pulpit 
orator of the Jesuits, was bom at Moulins in 1591. He 
entered the order, and soon rose to high distinction. 
He was intrusted with several important missions. He 
died at Paris, where he was superior of his order, April 


LINUS 


LINGENDES 44 

12, 16G0. See Hoofer. Xouv, Biograplu Generate , xxxi, I 
1>78. | 

Lingendes, Jean de, a French pulpit orator, a 
relative of the preceding, was born at Moulins in 1505. I 
As chaplain to Louis XI 11, he became quite eminent for 
his great talents in the pulpit, lie was made bishop 
of Macon in 1G50. l ie died in 1GG5. See Hoefer, Xouv. 
Bioy. Gener. xxxi, 278. 

Link, Johann Wolfgang Conrad, a German 
theologian, was born at Pirmasens April 23, 1753. In 
1771 he entered the University of Giessen, and in 1774 
was graduated A.M. In 1775 he obtained the chair of 
philosophy at that university as professor extraordinary, 
and in 1778 he beeame pastor at Biseliofsheim, near 
Darmstadt, lie died suddenly Dee. 23, 1788. In addi- 
tion to his theological researches, his extensive knowl- 
edge of modern languages enabled him to translate Eng- 
lish works into German and German productions into 
English, the latter for the ‘'Universal English Library.” 
Of his own compositions we mention Uebcr das fiebra- 
ische Sprachstudium (Giess. 1777, 8vo) : — Diss.de Schilo 
a Jacobo predieto Genes. 40, 10 (ibid, 1774, lto). See Do- 
ring, Gelelirte Theol. Deutschl. vol. ii, s. v. 

Link, Wenceslans, a German theologian, noted 
for his efforts in behalf of Martin Luther and the cause 
of the reformatory movement, was born at Colditz, near 
Meissen, Saxony, about 1483. He was an Augustinian 
monk of the convent Waldheim when he went to the 
Wittenberg University to pursue theological studies, 
and, after attaining to the distinction of doetor of the- 
ology, became successively prior of the convents at Wit- 
tenberg, Munich, Nuremberg, etc. Jle enjoyed great 
notoriety and popularity when the Information was 
first assuming shape, but his leaning towards it made 
him unpopular with Horn artists, and he gradually went 
over to the new cause. In 1523 he married, and two 
years later appeared as Protestant preacher at Nurem- 
berg. lie died there March 11,1547. Ilis works are 
not of any special merit. A list of them is given in 
Jbcher, Gelelirten Lexikon , ii, 2442 sq. 

Linn, John Blair, D.D., son of the succeeding, a 
Presbyterian minister, was born at Sliippensburg, Pa., 
March 14, 1777, and graduated in 1795 at Columbia Col- 
lege. where he distinguished himself by his proficiency 
in polite literature. Having abandoned the study of 
law, he removed to Schenectady, where he studied the- 
ology, and was licensed ill 1798. He was ordained in 
1799, and installed in the First Presbyterian Church, 
Philadelphia, where he continued until his sudden death, 
August 30, 1804, Linn was quite a poet, and most of 
his publications arc of a poetical nature. His best works 
arc, Pieces in Prose and Poetry: — A Sermon on the Death 
of Dr. E icing (1802) : — J Poem on the Influence of Chris - 
t umity : — a narrative poem, entitled Valerian, with a 
sketch of his life by Charles Brockden Brown (1805, 
8vo) ; and two traets against the doctrine of Dr. Priest- 
ley. See Sprague, A muds, iv, 210 ; Allibone, Diet. Brit, 
and Amer . A uthors, vol. ii, s. v. 

Linn, William, D.D., a Beformed (Dutch) minis- 
ter, was born near Shippensbnrg, Pa., Feb. 27, 1752. He 
graduated from Princeton College in 1772 with honor, 
studied divinity with Lev. Dr. Hubert Cooper, of Middle 
Spring, Pa., and in 1775 was licensed to preach by Done- 
gal Presbytery. Fired with the patriotism of the 1 {ev- 
olution, he became a chaplain in Gen. Thompson’s regi- 
ment, and was ordained to the ministry at this period. 
Ilis regiment being soon ordered to Canada, for domes- 
tic reasons he resigned his chaplaincy. After a brief set- 
tlement at Big Spring, he taught an academy in Somer- 
set County, Md., with sueeess, until in 178G he beeame 
pastor of a Presbyterian church at Elizabethtown, N. ,)., 
from whence he removed to New York in the same year 
as one of the pastors of the Collegiate Pefitrmed Dutch 
Church. He was full of genius and power. 1 1 is sermons 
were written, and committed to memory. His delivery 
was graceful, natural, animated, and accompanied by that 


electric power which thrills and sways an audience. His 
imagination was vivid, his language choice and classical, 
and his pictorial ability remarkable. He was celebrated 
for his missionary and charitable discourses. *■ Earnest, 
pathetic, persuasive, and alarming in his addresses, he 
peculiarly excelled in awakening sinners and urging 
them to the refuge of the Gospel. On special occasions 
he shone with conspicuous lustre, and rose above him- 
self.” In consequence of the failure of his health, he 
retired from the active ministry in 1805, and died at 
Albany Jan. 8, 1808. Among liis published addresses 
are some of his celebrated missionary and charity ser- 
mons, historical discourses, controversial sermons, a eu- 
logy on Washington, delivered before theNew York State 
Society of the Cincinnati, and a sermon preaehed in 1776 
to a regiment of soldiers who were about to join the 
army. — Sprague, A muds, vol. ix ; Dr. De Witt’s Histori- 
cal Discourse ; Dr. Bradford’s Funeral Sermon, etc. (W. 
J.H.T.) 

Lintel (prop. FpplLj’S, mashkojih', lit. a projecting 
cover ; Exod. xii, 22, 33 ; *• upper door-post,” ver. 7 ; also 
“I n£ S, kaphtor ', a chaplet, i.e. capital of a column, Amos 
ix, 1 ; Zeph. ii, 14; elsewhere a “knop” of the candela- 
brum; and ? a'yil, a “ ram,” as often; hence a pilaster 
or pillar in a wall, 1 Kings vi, 31, elsewhere “ post”), the 
head-piece of a door, or the horizontal beam covering the 
side-posts or jambs. See Post. This the Israelites were 
commanded to mark with the blood of the paschal lamb 
on the memorable occasion when the Passover was in- 
stituted. See Passover. 

Li 'nus (usually ATeoc, but prop. AtVoc, the name 
originally of a mythological and musical personage, per- 
haps from XiVor, linen), one of the Christians at Pome 
whose salutations Paul sent to Timothy (2 Tim. iv, 21). 
A.D. 64. He is said to have been the first bishop of 
Pome after the martyrdom of Peter and Paul (lrenreus, 
Adv. 1 1 ceres, iii, 3 ; Eusebius. Ilist. Kccles . iii, 2, 4, 13, 14, 
31; v, G; com]). Jerome, De Yiris. Jllust. 15; Augustine, 
Epist. liii, 2; Theodoret, ad 2 Tim. iv, 21), but there is 
some discrepancy in the early statement respecting his 
date (see Heinichen ad Euseb. iii, 187 ; Burton, Hist, of 
the Christ. Church ; Lardner, IPor/vr, ii, 31, 32, 17G, 187). 
‘•'Eusebius and Theodoret, followed by Baronins and 
Tillemont (Hist. Eccles. ii. 1G5, 591), state that he be- 
came bishop of Rome after the death of St. Peter. Oil 
the other hand, the words of Irenteus, ‘ [Peter and Paid] 
when they founded andbuilt’up the Church [of Pome], 
committed the office of its episeopate to Linus,’ certain- 
ly admit, or rather imply the meaning that he held that 
office before the death of St. Peter; as if the two great 
apostles, having, in the discharge of their own peculiar 
office, completed the organization of the Church at Pome, 
left it under the government of Linus, and passed on to 
preach and teach in some new region. This proceeding 
would be in accordance with the practice of the apostles 
in other places. The earlier appointment of Linus is as- 
serted as a fact by Puffinus ( Pncfl in Clem, ltecogn.'), and 
by the author of cl), xlvi, bk. vii of the Apostolic Consti- 
tutions. It is accepted as the true statement of the case 
by bishop Pearson (De Scrie et Succcssione P riorum 
Romcc Episcoporum, ii, 5, § 1) and by Fleury (Ilist. Keel. 
ii, 26). Some persons have objected that the undistin- 
guished mention of the name of Linus between the 
names of two other Roman Christians in 2 Tim. iv, 21 is 
a proof that lie was not at that time bishop of Pome. 
But even Tillemont admits that such a way of introduc- 
ing the bishop’s name is in accordance with the simplic- 
ity of that early age. No lofty pre-eminenee was at- 
tributed to the episcopal office in the apostolic times” 
(Smith). 

According to the Roman Breviary, Linus was born at 
Yolterra, but an old papal catalogue represents him as 
an Etrurian. According to tradition, he went to Pome 
when 22 years of age, made there the acquaintance of 
Peter, and was sent by him to Besan^on, in France, to 
preach the Gospel. After his return to Pome Peter ap- 


LINUS 


445 


LION 


pointed him his coadjutor; but, according to the Brev- 
iary, he was the one who primus post Petrum gubernavit 
ecclesiam. He is said to have enacted, on his accession 
to the bishopric, that, in accordance with 1 Cor. xi, 5, 
women should never enter the church with their heads 
uncovered. 

The duration of his episcopate is given by Eusebius 
(whose 1L E. iii, id, and Chronicon give inconsistent evi- 
dence) as A.D. 68-80; by Tillemont, who, however, re- 
proaches Pearson with departing from the chronology 
of Eusebius, as 66-78; by Baronins as 67-78; and by 
Pearson as 55-67. Pearson, in the treatise already 
quoted (i, 10), gives weighty reasons for distrusting the 
chronology of Eusebius as regards the years of the early 
bishops of Pome, and he derives his own opinion from 
certain very ancient (but interpolated) lists of those 
bishops (see i, 13, and ii, 5). This point has been sub- 
sequently considered by Baraterius (j)e Successione Anh- 
quissinm Episc. Rom. 1740), who gives A.D. 56-6# as the 
date of the episcopate of Linus. 

“The statement of Ruffin us, that Linus and Cletus 
were bishops in Rome while St. Peter was alive, has 
been quoted in support of a theory which sprang up in 
the 17th century, received the sanction even of Ham- 
mond in his controversy with Blondel ( IFonLs, ed. 1G84, 
iv, 825 ; Episcopates Jura , v. 1, § 11), was held with some 
slight modification by Baraterius, and has recently been 
revived. It is supposed that Linus was bishop in Rome 
only of the Christians of Gentile origin, while at the 
same time another bishop exercised the same authority 
over the Jewish Christians there. Tertullian’s assertion 
( L)c Prcescr. Ilceret. § 32) that Clement [the third bish- 
op] of Rome was consecrated by St. Peter has been 
quoted also as corroborating this theory, but it docs not 
follow from the words of Tertullian that Clement’s con- 
secration took place immediately before he became bish- 
op of Rome; and the statement of Ruffinus, so far as it 
lends any support to the above-named theory, is shown 
to be without foundation by Pearson (ii, 3, 4). Tille- 
mont’s observations (p. 500) in reply to Pearson only 
show that the establishment of two contemporary bish- 
ops in one city was contemplated in ancient times as a 
possible provisional arrangement to meet certain tempo- 
rary difficulties. The actual limitation of the authority 
of Linus to a section of the Church in Rome remains to 
be proved. Ruffinus’s statement ought, doubtless, to be 
interpreted in accordance with that of his contempo- 
rary Epiphanius {A dr. liter, xxvii, 6, p. 107), to the ef- 
fect that Linus and Cletus were bishops of Rome in suc- 
cession, not contemporaneously. The facts were, how- 
ever, differently viewed, (1) by an interpolator of the 
Gesta Pontijicum Damasi. quoted by J. Voss in his sec- 
ond epistle to A. Rivet (App. to Pearson’s Vindicice Igna- 
tiance) ; (2) by Bede {Vita S. Benedict i, § 7, p. 146, edit. 
Stevenson), when he was seeking a precedent for two 
contemporaneous abbots presiding in one monastery, 
and (3) by Rabanus Manrus ( Be Chorepiscop is, in Opp. 
ed. Migne, iv, 1197), v r lio ingeniously claims primitive 
authority for the institution of chorepiscopi on the sup- 
position that Linus and Cletus were never bishops with 
fidl powers, but were contemporaneous chorepiscopi em- 
ployed by St. Peter in his absence from Rome, and at his 
request, to ordain clergymen for the Church at Rome” 
(Smith). 

Linus is reckoned by Pscudo-Ilippolytus, and in the 
Greek Mencea, among the seventy disciples. According 
to the Breviary, he cured the possessed, raised the dead, 
and was beheaded at the instigation of the consul Satur- 
ninus, although he had restored the latter’s daughter 
from a dangerous illness. He was buried in the Vatican, 
by the side of St. Peter. Various days are stated by dif- 
ferent authorities in the Western Church, and by the 
Eastern Church, as the day of his death. According to 
the most generally received tradition, he died on Sept. 
23. A narrative of the martyrdom of St. Peter and St. 
Paid, printed in the Bibliotheca Pat rum (Paris, 1644, vol. 
viii), and certain pontifical decrees, arc incorrectly as- 


cribed to Linus, but he is generally considered as the 
author of a history of Peter’s dispute with Simon Magus. 
See 1 1 erzog, Ileal- Encyk! op. viii, 421 ; Lipsius, Die Papst 
Kataloge des Eusebius (Kiel, 1868, 8vo). 

Linz or Lintz, The Peace of, so named after the 
place where it was concluded, Dec. 13, 1645, between 
Rakoczv, prince of Transylvania, and the emperor Fer- 
dinand 111 , as king of Hungary, was an event of great 
importance for the legal existence of the Evangelical 
Church in Hungary. Rakoczv, who aimed at the crown 
of that country, and relied on the Protestant party for 
support, had concluded in April, 1643, with Sweden and 
France, a defensive and offensive alliance against Fer- 
dinand. In an address to the Hungarians, in which he 
enumerated their various grievances, he laid great stress 
on the oppression of the evangelical party. He suc- 
ceeded in assembling an army, and in obtaining John 
Kemenvi, an experienced general, to command it. Swe- 
den sent him soldiers under the renowned Dugloss, and 
France furnished him with large amounts of money. 
His troops obtained some unimportant advantages over 
those of Frederick, and the Swedish soldiers succeeded 
in driving the Imperialists out of several towns. This, 
however, did not continue, and in October, 1644, Rakoc- 
zy began negotiations for peace with Ferdinand. The 
advantages he asked, namely, the absolute religious lib- 
erty of Hungary, etc., were approved at Vienna August 
8, 1645, and the peace finally signed as above. The 
most important feature of the treaty is the grant of re- 
ligious liberty to the Hungarians. It gave permission 
to all to attend whatever Church they might choose; 
ministers and preachers of all the different confessions 
were to be left undisturbed, and such as had previously 
been persecuted and driven away on account of their 
religious principles were allowed to return, or to be re- 
called by their congregations. The churches and Church 
property taken from the evangelical party were restored 
to their previous owners. The eighth article of the sixth 
decree of king Wladislaus VI was re-enacted against 
those who infringed these regulations, and made them 
subject to a trial and punishment at the next session of 
the Diet. These regulations, however, so favorable to 
the Protestants, met with great opposition at the Diet 
of Presburg in 1647, and were most violently opposed by 
the Jesuits. The Roman Catholics refused to surrender 
to the Protestants the churches they had taken from 
them, and the evangelical party finally agreed to accept, 
instead of some 4U0 churches which had been taken 
from it, the small number of 90, which had been assured 
to it by a royal edict, under date of Feb. 10, 1647. See 
Steph. Katona, IJistoria critica regum llungancoram , 
xxii, 332 sq. ; Dumont, Corps universel diplomatique da 
droit des gens , vi, I sip; J. A. Fessler, Die Gesch. </. Un- 
garn , etc., ix, 25 sq. ; Johann Mailath, D. Religionswir - 
ren in Ungarn (Regensb. 1845), pt. i, p. 30 sq. ; Gesch. d. 
Evangelischen Kirche in Ungarn (Berlin, 1854), p. 199 
sq.; History of the Protestant Church in Hungai'y, transl. 
by J. Craig (Boston and New York, 1856, 12mo). See 
Hungary. 

Lion (prop. ari\ or aryeh' ; Sept, and 

X. T. \fwi'), the most powerful, daring, and impressive 
of all carnivorous animals, the most magnificent in as- 
pect and awful in voice. Being very common in Syria 
in early times, the lion naturally supplied many forcible 
images to the poetical language of Scripture, and not a 
few historical incidents in its narratives. This is shown 
by the great number of passages where this animal, in 
ail the stages of existence — as the whelp, the young 
adult, the fully mature, the lioness — occurs under differ- 
ent names, exhibiting that multiplicity of denomina- 
tions which always results when some great image is 
constantly present to the popular mind. Thus we have, 
1. *5*13, gor, or *1*15. gur (a suckling), a lion’s “whelp,’ a 
very young lion (Gen. xlix, 9; Dent, xxxiii, 2<); Jer. 
Ii, 38; Ezek. xix, 2, 3, 5; Xalmm ii, 11, 12). 2. “P53, 
kephii' f (the shaggy ), a “ young lion,” when first leaving 


LIOX 


446 


LIOX 


the protection of the old pair to hunt independently 
(Ezek. xix, 2, 3, 5, 0; xli, 19; Psa. xci, 13; Troy, xix, 
12; xx, 2; xxviii, 1; Isa. xxxi, 4; Jcr. xli, 3H ; IIos. 
v, 14; Nah. ii, 11; Zech. xi, 3), old enough to roar 
(Jrnlg. xiv, 5; Psa. civ, 21 , Prov. xix, 12; Jer. ii, 15; 
Amos iii, 4) ; beginning to seek prey for itself (Job iv, 
10; xxxviii, 39; Isa. v, 29; Jer. xxv, 38; Ezek. xix, 3; 
yiic. v, 8); and ferocious and blood-thirsty in his youth- 
fid strength (Psa. xvii, 12; xci, 13; Isa. xi, 6). This 
term is also used tropically for cruel and blood-thirsty 
enemies (Psa. xxxiv, 10; xxxv, 17 ; lviii, 6 ; Jer. ii, 15) ; 
Pharaoh, king of Egypt, is called a “young lion of the 
nations,*’ i. e. an enemy prowling among them (Ezek. 
xxxii, 2) ; it is also used of the young princes or war- 
riors of a state (Ezek. xxxviii, 13; Nah. ii, 13). 3. 

*nx, ari' (the puller in pieces, plur. masc. in 1 Kings x, 
20, elsewhere fem.), or ary eh' (the same with PI 

paragogic, also Chald.), an adult and vigorous lion, a 
lion having paired, vigilant and enterprising in search 
of prey (Nah. ii, 12; 2 Sam. xvii, 10; Numb, xxiii, 24, 
etc.). This is the common name of the animal. 4. 
blTJ, ska'ckal (the roarer ), a mature lion in full 
strength (Job iv, 10; x, 16; xxviii, 8; Psa. xci, 13; 
Prov. xxvi, 13; Hos. v, 11; xiii, 7). Bochart ( Ilieroz . 
i, 717) understands the swarthy lion of Syria (Plinv, II. 
X. viii, 17), deriving the name from black , by an 

interchange of liquids. This denomination may very 
possibly refer to a distinct variety of Hon, and not to a 
black species or race, because neither black nor white 
lions are recorded, excepting in Oppian ( De Yenat. iii, 
43) ; but the term may be safely referred to the color of 
the skin, not of the fur ; for some lions have the former 
fair, and even rosy, while in other races it is perfectly 
black. An Asiatic lioness, formerly at Exeter Change, 
had the naked part of the nose, the roof of the mouth, 
and the bare soles of all the feet pure black, though the 
fur itself was very pale buff. Yet albinism and mela- 
nism are not uncommon in the fell lire ; the former oc- 
curs in tigers, and the latter is frequent in leopards, 
panthers, and jaguars. 5. uPP, la'yish (the strong ), a 
tierce lion, one in a state of fury, or rather, perhaps, a 
poetical term for a lion that has reached the utmost 
growth and effectiveness (Job iv, 11; Prov. xxx, 30; 
Isa. xxx, 6). 6. lebia ', or lebi' (lowing, 

roaring ), hence a lion, lioness (Numb, xxiv, 9 ; Ilos. xiii, 
8; Joel i, 6; Dent, xxxiii, 20; Psa. lvii, 4 ; Isa. v, 29). 
Booh art. ( Ilieroz . i, 719) supposes this word not to de- 
note the male lion, but the lioness; and Gesenius ( Thes . 
p. 738) says this rests on good grounds, as it is coupled 
with other nouns denoting a lion, where it can hardly 
he a mere svnonyme (Gen. xlix, 9 ; Numb, xxiv, 9; Isa. 
xxx, 6*, Nah. ii, 11); and the passages in Job iv, 11; 
xxxviii, 39; Ezek. xix, 2, accord much better with a 
lioness than with a lion. 7. In Job xxviii, 8, the Ileb. 
words -j’rrj N 22, beney sh a' chats, are rendered “ the 
lions whelps .” The terms properly signify “ sons of 
pride," and are applied to the larger beasts of prey, as 
the lion, leviathan, so called from their proud gait, bold- 
ness, and courage. The lion is often spoken of as ** the 
king of the forest.” or “the king of beasts;” and in a 
similar sense, in Job xli, 34, the leviathan or crocodile 
is called the “king over all the children of pride, ” that 
is, the head of the animal creation (see Bochart, Hie- 
roz. i , 7 1 8 ). See Win-: u >. 

As “ king of beasts,” “ the lion is the largest and 
most formidably armed of all carnassier animals, the 
Indian tiger alone claiming to be his equal. One full 
grown, of Asiatic race, weighs above 450 pounds, and 
those of Africa often above 500 pounds. The fall of a 
fore-paw in striking has been estimated to be. equal to 
twenty-five pounds’ weight, and this, with the grasp of 
the claws, cutting four inches in depth, i§ sulHcientlv 
powerful to break t lie vertebra; of an ox. The huge 
laniary teeth and jagged molars, worked by powerful 
jaws, and the tongue entirely covered with horny papil- 


la;, harfl as a rasp, so as to crush the frame of the victim 
and clean its bones of the flesh, are all subservient to an 
otherwise immensely strong, muscular structure, capable 



African Lion. 


of prodigious exertion, and minister to the self-confi- 
dence which these means of attack inspire. In Asia the 
lion rarely measures more than nine feet and a half from 
the nose to the end of the tail, though a tiger-skin lias 
been known of the dimensions but a trifle less than thir- 
teen feet. In Africa they are considerably larger, and 
supplied with a much greater quantity of mane. Both 
lion and tiger aTe furnished with a small horny apex to 
the tail — a fact noted by the ancients, but only verified 
of late years (see the Proceedings of the Council of the 
Zoological Society of London, 1832, p. 146), because this 
object lies concealed in the hair of the tip, and is very 
liable to drop off” (Kitto). l"et this singular circum- 
stance has not escaped the attention of the Assyrians, 
and it is found represented on the mined inscriptions of 
Nineveh (Bonomi’s Nineveh, p. 245, 246). 



“All the varieties of the lion are spotted when whelps, 
but they become gradually buff or pale. One African 
variety, very large in size, perhaps a distinct species, 
has a peculiar and most ferocious physiognomy, a dense 
black mane extending half way down the back, and a 
black fringe along the abdomen and tip of the tail, while 
those of Southern Persia and the Dekkan are nearly des- 
titute of that defensive ornament. The roaring voice 
of the species is notorious to a proverb, but the warning 
cry of attack is short, snappish, and sharp" (Kitto). This 
is always excited by opposition, and upon those occa- 
sions when the lion summons up all its terrors for the 
combat, nothing can be more formidable. It then lash- 
es its sides with its long tail, its mane seems to rise and 
stand like bristles round its head, the skin and mus- 
cles of its face are all in agitation, its huge eyebrows 
half cover its glaring eyeballs, it discovers its formida- 
ble teeth and tongue, and extends its powerful claws. 
When it is thus prepared for war, even the boldest of 
the human kind are daunted at its approach, and there 
are few animals that will venture singly to engage it. 
Like all the felina;. it is more or less nocturnal, and sel- 
dom goes abroad to pursue its prey till after sunset. 
When not pressed by hunger it is naturally indolent, 

| and, from its habits of uncontrolled superiority, per- 


LION 


447 


LION 


haps capricious, but often less sanguinary and vindic- 
tive than is expected, in those regions .where it has 
not experienced the dangerous arts and combinations of 
man it has no apprehensions from his power. Jt bold- 
ly faces him, and seems to brave the force of his arms. 
Wounds rather serve to provoke its rage than to repress 
its ardor. Nor is it daunted by the opposition of num- 
bers; a single lion of the desert often attacks an entire 
caravan, and after an obstinate combat, when it finds 
itself overpowered, instead of riving, it still continues to 
combat, retreating and still facing the enemy until it dies. 

“ Lions are monogamous, the male living constantly 
with the lioness, both hunting together, or for each oth- 
er when there is a litter of whelps, and the mutual affec- 
tion and care for their offspring which they display are 
remarkable in animals doomed bv nature to live by blood 
and slaughter. It is while seeking prey for their young 
that they are most dangerous; at other times they bear 
abstinence, and when pressed by hunger will sometimes 
feed on carcasses found dead. They live to more than 
fifty years; consequently, having annual litters of from 
three to five cubs, they multiply rapidly when not seri- 
ously opposed. Zoologists consider Africa the primitive 
abode ol' lions, their progress towards the north and west 
having at one time extended to the forests of Macedonia 
and Greece, but in Asia never to the south of the Ner- 
budda nor east of the Lower Ganges. Since the invention 
of gunpowder, and even since the havoc which the osten- 
tatious barbarism of 1 toman grandees made among them, 
they have diminished in number exceedingly, although 
at the present day individuals are not unfrequentlv seen 
in Barbary, within a short distance of Ceuta” (Kitto). 
“At present lions do not exist in Palestine, though they 
are said to be found in the desert on the road to Egypt 
(Schwarz, Desc . of Pal. ; see Isa. xxx, 0). They abound 
on the banks of the Euphrates, between Bussorah and 
Bagdad (Russell, A leppo, p. Gl),and in the marshes and 
jungles near the rivers of Babylonia (Layard, Nineveh 
and Babylon, p. 5GG). This species, according to Layard, 
is without the dark and shaggy mane of the African lion 
(ibid. 487), though he adds in a note that he had seen 
lions on the River Karun with a long black mane. But, 
though lions have now disappeared from Palestine, they 
must in ancient times have been numerous. The names 
Lebaoth (Josh, xv, 32), Beth-Lebaoth (Josh, xix, G), 
Arieh (2 Kings xv,25), and Laish (Judg. xviii,7; 1 Sam. 
xxv, 41) were probably derived from the presence of, or 
connection with lions, and point to the fact that they 
were at one time common. They had their lairs in the 
forests which have vanished with them (Jer. v, 6; xii, 
8; Amos iii, 4), in the tangled brushwood (Jer. iv, 7; 
xxv, 38; Job xxxviii,40), and in the caves of the moun- 
tains (Cant, iv, 8 ; Ezek. xix, 9 , Nah. ii, 12). The cane- 
brake on the banks of the Jordan, the ‘pride’ of the 
river, was their favorite haunt (Jer. xlix, 19 ; 1, 44 ; Zech. 
xi, 3), and in this reedy covert (Lam. iii, 10) they were 
to be found at a comparatively recent period, as we learn 
from a passage of Johannes Phocas, who travelled in Pal- 
estine towards the end of the Pith century (Reland, Pal. 
i, 274). They abounded in the jungles which skirt, the 
rivers of Mesopotamia (Ammian. Marc, xviii, 7, 5), and 
in the time of Xenophon (De Yenat . xi) were found in 
Nysa” (Smith). 




Persian Lion. 


“Naturalists are disposed to consider the lion as a 
genus, consisting of some three or four species. Two of 
these are found in Asia, the one called, from the scanti- 
ness of its mane, the maneless lion ( Leo Goozeratensis ), 
found only in Western India, and the other furnished 
with that appendage in its ordinary profusion (L.Asiat- 
icus) , which is spread over Bengal, I^ersia, the Euphrate- 
an Valley, and some parts of Arabia. This is smaller, 
and more slightly built than the African lions, with a 
fur of a lighter yellow. It is doubtful, however, wheth- 
er it is really more than a variety” (Fairbairn). 

“The lion of Palestine was in all probability the 
Asiatic variety, described by Aristotle (II. A. ix, 44) 
and Pliny (viii, 18) as distinguished by its short curly 
mane, and by being shorter and rounder in shape, like 
the sculptured lion found at Arban (Layard, Nineveh and 



Babylon , p. 278). It was less daring than the longer- 
maned species, but when driven by hunger it not only 
ventured to attack the flocks in the desert in presence 
of the shepherd (Isa. xxxi, 4; 1 Sam. xvii, 34), but laid 
v^aste towns and villages (2 Kings xvii, 25, 2G ; Prov. 
xxii, 13; xxvi, 13), and devoured men (1 Kings xiii, 24; 
xx, 3G ; 2 Kings xvii, 25 ; Ezek. xix. 3, G). The shep- 
herds sometimes ventured to encounter the lion single- 
handed (I Sam. xvii, 34), and the vivid figure employed 
by Amos (iii, 12), the herdsman of Tekoa, was but the 
transcript of a scene which he must have often wit- 
nessed. At other times they pursued the animal in 
large bands, raising loud shouts to intimidate him (Isa. 
xxxi, 4) and drive him into the net or pit they had pre- 
pared to catch him (Ezek. xix, 4, 8). This method of 
capturing wild beasts is described by Xenophon (De Yen. 
xi, 4) and by Shaw, who says, ‘ The Arabs dig a pit 
where they are observed to enter, and, covering it over 
lightly with reeds or small branches of trees, they fre- 
quently decoy and catch them’ (Travels, 2d ed. p. 172). 
Benaiah, one of David's heroic body-guard, had distin- 
guished himself by slaying a lion in his den (2 Sam. 
xxiii, 20). The kings of Persia had a menagerie of 
lions (-3, gob, Dan. vi, 7, etc.). When captured alive 
they were put in a cage (Ezek. xix, 9), but it does not 
appear that they were tamed. In the hunting scenes at 



Lion-hunting— Lion being let out of a Cage. (From the 
1 bas-relief of Sardanapalns III, British Museum.) 


LION 


448 


LION 


Beni-llassan tame lions are represented as used in hunt- 
ing (Wilkinson, A nc. Egypt. iii, 17). On the bas-reliefs 



at Kouyunjik a lion led by a chain is among the pres- 
ents brought by the conquered to their victors (Layard, 
Nineveh and Babylon , p. 138)” (Smith). Wilkinson says : 
“The worship of the lion was particularly regarded in 
the city of Leontopolis, and other cities adored this an- 
imal as* the emblem of more than one deity.” It was the 
symbol of strength, and therefore typical of the Egyp- 
tian Hercules (Wilkinson, /I nc. Eyypt . v, 100). In Baby- 
lon it appears to have been the custom to throw offend- 
ers to be devoured by lions kept in dens for that pur- 
pose (Dan. vi, 7-28). This is thought to be confirmed 
by the evidence of several ancient monuments, brought 
to light by the researches of recent travellers, on the 
sites of Babylon and Susa, which represent lions destroy- 
ing and preying upon human beings. See Den. The 



Assyrian monuments abound in illustrations of lion- 
hunting, which appears to have been a favorite pastime, 
especially with royalty (Layard, Nineveh , i, 120). See 
Hunting. 

“The terrible roar of the lion is expressed in Hebrew 
by four different words, between which the following dis- 
tinction appears to be maintained: *XV,shdag' (Judg. 
xiv, 5; Psa. xxii, 13; civ, 21 ; Amos iii, 4), .also used of 
the thunder (Job xxxvii, 4), denotes the roar of the lion 
while seeking his prey; CH2, ndham ' (Isa. v, 29), ex- 
presses the cry which he utters when he seizes his vic- 
tim ; n^n, hdydh ' (Isa. xxxi, 4), the growl with which 
he defies any attempt to snatch the prey from his teeth ; 
while ir:, nd'ar' (Jer. li, 38), which in Syriac is applied 
to the braying of the ass and camel, is descriptive of the 
cry of the young lions. If this distinction be correct, 
the meaning attached to ndham will give force to Frov. 
xix, 12. The terms which describe the movements of 
the animal are equally distinct : ?*a&ate'(Gen. xlix, 

9 ; Kzck. xix, 2), is applied to the crouching of the lion, 
as well as of any wild beast, in his lair; shdchdli', 

!T1 ! *\ ydshab' (Job xxxviii, 40), and H'lX, drab' (Psa. x, 
9), to his lying in wait in his den, the two former denot- 
ing the position of the animal, and the latter the secrecy 
of the act; w'en, ramus' (Psa. civ, 20), is used of the 
stealthy creeping of the lion after his prey; and 
zinni-k' (Dent, xxxiii, 22), of the leap with which he 
hurls himself upon it” (Smith). “The Scriptures pre- 
sent many striking pictures of lions, touched with won- 
derful force and fidelity; even where the animal is a di- 
rect instrument of the Almighty, while true to his mis- 


sion, he still remains so to his nature. Tlius nothing 
can be more graphic than the record of the man of God 
(I Kings xiii, 28), disobedient to his charge, struck down 
from his ass, and lying dead, while the lion stands by 
him, without touching the lifeless body or attacking the 
living animal, usually a favorite prey. (See also Gen. 
xlix, 9 ; Job iv, 10, 1 1 ; Nah. ii, 1 1, 12.) Samson’s adven- 
ture also with the young lion (Judg. xiv, 5, 6), and the 
picture of the young lion coming up from the underwood 
cover on the banks of the Jordan, all attest a perfect 
knowledge of the animal and its habits. Finally, the 
lions in the den with Daniel, miraculously leaving him 
unmolested, still retain, in all other respects, the real 
characteristics of their nature” (Kitto). 

“ The strength (Judg. xiv, 18, Prov. xxx, 30 ; 2 Sam. 
i, 23), courage (2 Sam. xvii, 10; Prov. xxviii, 1; Isa. 
xxxi, 4 ; Nah. ii, 1 1), and ferocity (Gen. xlix, 9 ; Numb, 
xxiv, 9) of the lion were proverbial. The ‘lion-faccd’ 
warriors of Gad were among David’s most valiant troops 
(l Chron. xii, 8) ; and the hero Judas Maccabaeus is de- 
scribed as ‘ like a lion, and like a lion’s whelp roaring for 
his prey’ (1 Macc. iii, 4)” (Smith). Hence the lion, as 
an emblem of power, was symbolical of the tribe of Ju- 
dah (Gen. xlix, 9). Grotius thinks the passage in Ezek. 
xix. 2, 3, alludes to this fact that Judaea was among the 
nations like a lioness among the beasts of the forest ; 
she had strength and sovereignty. The same type of 
sovereignty recurs in the prophetical visions, and the 
figure of this animal was among the few which the He- 
brews admitted in sculpture or in cast metal, as exem- 
plified in the throne of Solomon (1 Kings x, 19, 20) and 
the brazen sea (1 Kings vii, 29, 36). The heathen as- 
sumed the lion as an emblem of the sun, of the god of 
war, of Ares, Ariel, Arioth, Be, the Indian Siva, of do- 
minion in general, of valor, etc.; and it occurs in the 
names and standards of many nations. This illustrates 
Dan. vii, 4, “ The first was like a lion, and had eagle’s 
wings.” The Chahkean or Babylonian empire is here 
represented (see Jer. iv, 7). Its progress to what was 
then deemed universal empire was rapid, and therefore 
it has the wings of an eagle (see Jer. xlviii, 40, and 
Ezek. xvii, 3). It is said by Megasthenes and Strabo 
that this power advanced as far as Spain. When its 
wings were plucked or tom out, that is, when it was 
checked in its progress by frequent defeats, it became 
more peaceable and humane, agreeably to that idea of 
Psa. ix, 20. A remarkable coincidence between the sym- 
bolical figure of Daniel’s vision and the creations of an- 
cient Assyrian art has lately been brought to light by 
the researches of Layard and Botta on the sites of Bab- 
ylon and Nineveh. See. Cherub. In Isa. xxix, L“ Woe 
to the lion of God, the city where David dwelt,” Jeru- 
salem is denoted, and the terms used appear to signify 
the strength of the place, by which it was enabled to 
resist and overcome all its enemies. See Ariel. The 
apostle Paul says (2 Tim, iv, 17), “I was delivered out 
of the mouth of the lion.” The general opinion is that 
Nero is here meant, or, rather, his prefect HHius Ca?sari- 
anus, to whom Nero committed the government of the 
city of Borne during his absence, with power to put to 
death whomsoever he pleased. See Paul. So, when Ti- 
berius died, Marsyas said to Agrippa,“ The lion is dead.” 
So likewise speaks Esther of Artaxerxes, in the apocry- 
phal chapters of that book (eh. xiv, 13), “Put a word 
into my mouth before the lion.” There are some com- 
mentators who regard the apostle’s expression as a pro- 
verbial one for a deliverance from any great or immi- 
nent danger, but others conclude that he had been actu- 
ally delivered from a lion let loose against him in the 
amphitheatre. That the same symbol should some- 
times be applied to opposite characters is not at all sur- 
prising or inconsistent, since different qualities may re- 
side in the symbol, of which the good may be referred 
to the one, the bad to another. Thus in the lion reside 
courage and victory over antagonists. In these respects 
it may be and is employed as a symbol of Christ, called 
the Lion of the tribe of Judah (Kev. v, 5), as being the 


LIONESS 


449 


LIPPE 


illustrious descendant of that tribe, whose emblem was 
the lion. In the lion also reside fierceness and rapacity. 
In this point of view it is used as a fit emblem of Satan : 
“ Be sober, be vigilant; because your adversary the dev- 
il, as a roaring lion, walkcth about, seeking whom he 
may devour” (1 Peter v, 8). On the subject generally, 
see Boehart, Ilieroz. ii, 1 sq.; Rose nm filler, Alterth . IV, 

ii, 111 sq. ; Wemvss, Claris Symbolical s. v.; Penny Cy- 
clopedia, s. v. ; Wood, Bible A nimals, p. 18 sq. ; Tristram, 
Natural History of the Bible, p. 115 sq. 

Lioness. See Lion. 

Lip (ilSb, saphah usually in the dual; Gr.yaXoe), 
besides its literal sense (e. g. Isa. xxxvii, 29; Cant, iv, 
3, 11 ; v, 13 ; Prov. xxiv, 28), and (in the original) met- 
aphorically for an edge or border, as of a cup (1 Kings 
vii, 20), of a garment (Exod. xxvii, 32), of a curtain 
(Exod. xxvi, 4 ; xxxvi, 11), of the sea (Gen. xxii, 17 ; 
Exod. ii, 3; Ileb. xi, 12), of the Jordan (2 Kings ii, 13 ; 
Judg. vii, 22), is often put as an organ of speech, e. g. 
to “open the lips,” i. e. to begin to speak (Job xi, 5; 
xxxii, 20), also to “ open the lips” of another, i. e. cause 
him to speak (Psa. Ii, 17), and to “refrain the lips,” i. e. 
to keep silence (Psa. xl, 10; Prov. x, 19). So speech 
or discourse is said to be “ upon the lips” (Prov. xvi, 
10; Psa. xvi, 4), once “under the lips” (Psa. cxl, 4; 
Bom. iii, 13; comp. Ezek. xxxvi, 3), and likewise “sin- 
ning with lips” (Job ii, 10; xii, 20; Psa. xlv, 3), and 
“ uncircnmcised of lips,” i. e. not of ready speech (Exod. 
vi, 12), also “fruit of the lips,” i. e. praise (Ileb. xiii, 
15; 1 Pet. iii, 5), and, by a bolder figure, “ the calves of 
the lips,” i. e. thank-offering (llos. xiv, 2) ; finally, the 
mo: ion of the lips in speaking (Matt, xv, 8; Mark vii, 
6; from Isa. xxix, 13). By metonomy, “lip” stands in 
Scripture for a manner of speech, e. g. in nations, a dia- 
lect (Gen. xi, 1, G, 7, 9; Isa. xix, 18; Ezek. iii, 5, 6; 1 
Cor. xiv, 21, alluding to Isa. xxviii, 11), or, in individ- 
uals, the moral quality of language, as “lying lips,” etc., 
i. c. falsehood (Prov. x, 18; comp, xvii, 4, 7) or wicked- 
ness (Psa. exx, 2), truth (Prov. xii, 19) ; “ burning lips,” 
i. e. ardent professions (Prov. xxvi, 23) ; “ sweetness of 
lips,” i. e. pleasant discourse (Prov. xvi, 22 ; so Zeph. 

iii, 9 ; Isa. vi, 5 ; Psa. xii, 3, 4). To “ shoot out the lip” 
at any one, i. q. to make mouths, has always been an 
expression of the utmost scorn and defiance (Psa. xxii, 
8). In like manner, “ unclean lips” are put as a repre- 
sentation of unfitness to impart or receive the divine 
communications (Isa. vi, 5, 7). Also the “ word of one’s 
lips,” i. e. communication, e. g. Jehovah’s precepts (Psa. 
xvii, 4; comp. Prov. xxiii, 1G: spoken of as something 
before unknown, Psa. lxxxi, G) ; elsewhere in a bad 
sense, i. q. lip-talk, i. e. vain and empty words (Isa. 
xxxvi, 5; Prov. xiv, 23), and so of the person uttering 
them, e. g. a man of talk, i. e. an idle talker (Job xi, 2), 
a prating fool (Prov. x, 8 ; comp. Lev. v, 4 ; Psa. evi, 33). 
See Tongue. 

The “upper lip” (EBb, sapham', a derivative of the 
above), which the leper was required to cover (Lev', 
xlii, 45), refers to the lip-beard or mustachios, as the 
Tenet. Greek ( pv<jra£ ) there and the Sept, in 2 Sam. 
xix, 24, render it, being the beard (in the latter passage), 
which Mephibosheth neglected to trim during David's 
absence in token of grief. The same practice of “cov- 
ering the lip” with a corner of one’s garment, as if pol- 
luted (comp. “ unclean lips”), as a sign of mourning, is 
alluded to in Ezek. xxiv, 17, 22 ; Mic. iii, 7, where the 
Sept, has vropa, yet A/;. See Mouth. 

Lipmann, Jo.vitob (of Miihlhausen), also called 
Tab-Jomi 'Z 1l 3 EV), a Jewish writer and 

rabbi of the Middle Ages, was born, according to some, 
at Cracow, Poland, but most authorities are now agreed 
that he nourished at Prague about the middle of the 
14th century. While a resident of the Bohemian cap- 
ital he brought forward his Nitsachon (‘pITJD, Victory), 
an important polemical work. It consists of seven parts, 
divided, he tells us himself in his preface, “ according 
V. — F f 


to the seven days of the week,” and of 354 sections, 
“according to the number of days in the lunar year, 
which is the Jewish mode of calculation to indicate 
that every Israelite is bound to study his religion ev- 
en’- day of his life, and to remove every obstruction 
from the boundaries of his faith.” In his treatment of 
the subject, the denial of the authenticity of the Chris- 
tian religion, Lipmann does not adopt any systematic 
plan, but discusses and explains every passage of the 
Hebrew Bible which is either adduced by Christians as 
a Messianic prophecy referring to Christ, or is used by 
sceptics and blasphemers to support their scepticism and 
contempt for revelations, or is appealed to by rational- 
istic Jews to corroborate their rejection of the doctrine 
of creation out of nothing, the resurrection of the body, 
etc., beginning with Genesis and ending with Chroni- 
cles, according to the order of the books in the Hebrew 
Bible, so that any passage in dispute might easily be 
found. The work, which, as we have seen from its di- 
visions, partook both of the character of a Jewish po- 
lemic and an O.-T. apologetic, was, until near the middle 
of the 16th century, entirely controlled by Jews. They 
largely transcribed and circulated it in MS. form among 
their people throughout the world; and in the numer- 
ous attacks which they had to sustain both from Chris- 
tians and rationalists during the time of the Reforma- 
tion, this book constituted their chief arsenal, supplying 
them with weapons to defend themselves. About 1G42 
the learned Ilascapan, then professor in the Bavarian 
University at Altdorf, was engaged in a controversy 
on the questions at issue between Judaism and Chris- 
tianity with a neighboring rabbi residing in Schnei- 
tach, who in his dissertations frequently referred to this 
Nitsachon (a MS. copy made in 1589), which Ilasca- 
pan asked the privilege to examine. Refused again 
and again, he at last called with three of his students 
on the rabbi, when he pressed him in such a man- 
ner to produce the MS. that he could not refuse. He 
pretended to examine it, and when the students had 
fairly surrounded the rabbi, the professor made his way 
to the door, got into a conveyance which was waiting 
for him, had the MS. speedily transcribed, and only re- 
turned it to the rabbi after much earnest solicitation. 
The professor enriched it by valuable notes and an in- 
dex, and then presented the work procured in such a 
dastardly manner to the Christian world (Altdorf, 1644).. 
It was rapidly reprinted, translated into Latin, correct- 
ed and refuted by Blendinger, Lipmanni Nizzachon in 
Christianos , etc., Latine conrersum (Altdorf, 1G45) ; Wa- 
genseil, Tela iynea Satance (Altdorf, 1681) ; Soto, Liber 
Mischnicus de Uxore Adulterii Suspect a (Altdorf. 1674)*, 
Appendix, and others (see Wolf, Bibl. Jud. i, 347 sq.)v 
Lipmann’s personal history is to our day very ob- 
scure. Jewish historians represent him as having been 
among the prisoners arrested at Prague (Aug. 3, 1399) 
for irreverent mention, etc., of the name of Jesus. What 
punishment he suffered is not known ; certain it is that 
he was not one of the seventy-seven Jews who were ex- 
ecuted on the day of the dethronement of kingWences- 
laus (Aug. 22, 1400), for he mentions the fact himself in 
the Nitsachon . Sec Griitz, Gcsch. der Juden , viii, 76 sq.; 
Ffirst, Biblioth. Judaica , ii, 403 sq. ; Stemschneider r CW«- 
logus Libr, Hebr. in Biblioth. Bodleiana, col. 1410-1414; 
Geiger, Proben Jud. Vertheidignng gegen Christ liche An- 
grife im Jfittelalter in Liebcrmann's Deutscher Volks- 
Kctlender (Brieg, 1854), p. 9 sq., 47 sq. ; Kitto, CycLBibl. 
Lit. vol. ii, s. v. 

Lippe, sometimes also (but less properly) Lippe- 
Detmold, a small principality of Northern Germany, 
surrounded on the W. and S. by Westphalia, and on the 
E. and N. by Hanover, Brunswick, Waldeck, and a de- 
tached portion of llesse-Cassel, extends over an area of 
432 square miles, and has a population (1871) of 111,153, 
mainly belonging to the Reformed Church. The earli- 
est inhabitants were the Cherusei; subsequently it was 
a part of the country of the Saxons. The first estab- 
lishment of Christianity in that province dates back to 


LIPPE 


450 


LIPSCOMB 


Charlemagne. In the very beginning of his war against 
the Saxons, in 772, he took the castrum sEresburgum 
(probably Radtberg, on the Diemel, near the southern 
frontier of the principality), and there destroyed the 
statue of the idol Trmansaul. hi 770 he went to Lipp- 
springe, and the following year to Padrabrun (Pader- 
born), both on the southern frontier of the province, 
obliging whole tribes of the conquered Saxons to receive 
baptism. In 783 Charlemagne again vanquished the 
Saxons in the great battle of Tbeotmelli (Detmold), in 
the very heart of the present principality. The Saxon 
army was entirely destroyed, and Charlemagne, in com- 
memoration of this event, erected a church which is still 
in existence. The next Christmas he spent at Ski- 
droburg-supra-Ambram, now Schieder, on the Limner, 
where it is said he also erected a church. Put his most 
important measure for Christianizing the country was 
his establishment of the bishopric of Padcrborn, embra- 
cing the district of Lippe within its diocese, for which 
the house of the princes of Lippe furnished many a 
bishop. 

The Reformation early found strong supporters in 
Lippe. The first city of the province to adopt it was 
Lemgo, moved to such a course by Luthers theses 
against indulgences. By 1524 the Reformation was 
further advanced in this part of Germany by the adhe- 
rents it had gained in the town of Ilerford, adjoining 
Lemgo, where the works of Luther and Melancthon 
had been circulated freely. Foremost among Luther’s 
supporters there were his colleagues the Augustine 
monks. One of them, Dr. John Drever, a native of Lera- 
go and a personal friend of Luther, distinguished for bis 
learning and eloquence, was the first to preach the Gos- 
pel in Ilerford. In spite of the priests, the people in- 
troduced the singing of the German hymns of Luther 
into their churches, and all attempts to put an end to this 
by violence gave way before the unanimous will of the 
people. The first to take the decided step of separation 
was Moriz Riderit, a priest, and formerly one of the most 
determined adversaries of the evangelical doctrines, and 
bv his influence the city was carried for Luther’s doc- 
trines. Lippstadt embraced them nearly at the same 
time. The monks of the Augustine convent in that 
city, who had sent two of their number to Wittemberg 
to be instructed by Luther, on their return preached the 
Gospel with great success to the people of Lippe and of 
neighboring places; and they so quickly advanced the 
cause of the Reformers, that when an inquisitor was 
sent to Lippe from Cologne in 1526 to stay the heresy, 
he found the evangelical party so strong that he gave 
up all attempts to control it, and returned to his home. 
In 1533 the town was besieged by the dukes of Cleves 
and Juliers, and the count of Lippe forced to surrender. 
The evangelical ministers were of course driven away, 
but it \vas not long before permission was granted for 
the preaching by Lutheran ministers again. After the 
death of the zealous Roman Catholic count Simon V, in 
1536, the Reformation made more rapid progress in the 
province. The landgrave Philip of Hessia and count 
Jobst von Hoya, two determined partisans of the Refor- 
mation, became guardians of the children of the deceased 
count, and caused them to be diligently instructed in the 
Protestant doctrines; and when, in 1538, both the no- 
bility and the people loudly demanded a reform in the 
Church of the count de Hoya, John Timann, surnamed 
Amstelrodamus, and Adrian Buxschoten, both of Brem- 
en, were called and sent to Lippe to frame a plan of evan- 
gelical church organization, which was submitted to the 
States and to Luther, and, upon approval (1538), it was 
promulgated throughout the principality, and Protest- 
ant ministers were everywhere appointed. Under John 
von Kyter, of Wittemberg, then general superintend- 
ent of Lippe, a new church ^organization was drawn up 
and printed in 1571, with the authorization of the au- 
thorities, and it is still in our day in force among the 
Lutheran communities of the country. 

In 1600, during the reign of count Simon YI (ruled 


1583-1613), who had imbibed Calvinistic views at the 
court of Cassel, Calvinism found an entrance in Lippe. 

It commenced by the appointment of a Calvinistic min- 
ister to preach at Horn in 1602. This preacher at once 
forbade the use of the Lutheran Catechism in the schools, 
administered the sacrament of the Lord’s Supper in strict 
Calvinistic form, and established the Reformed mode of 
worship in spite of the local authorities and of the peo- 
ple. In 1605 the same step was taken at Detmold, and 
was supported by the government, notwithstanding the 
opposition of the people and eitv authorities. In this 
manner Calvinism was established throughout the coun- 
try, the nobility alone and the city of Lemgo remaining 
Lutheran. It was not, however, until 1684 that Calvin- 
ism was sanctioned as the state religion. In that year 
count Simon Ilenrich promulgated the Reformed eccle- 
siastical organization, which recognises as its formula of 
confession the Catechism of Heidelberg, and is in force 
in our day. The city of Lemgo resisted these meas- 
ures, and succeeded in obtaining in 1717 an edict assur- 
ing its inhabitants the fullest religious liberty, the right 
of appointing their own ministers, etc. But as Ration- 
alism had obtained full control of the Reformed Church 
of Lippe in the 18th century, upon reaction towards the 
middle of the 19th century the whole country, including 
Lemgo, was subjected to the Reformed consistory, which, 
however, by the admission of one Lutheran member, 
became a mixed consistory. As an outline of doctrine, 
the Heidelberg Catechism was introduced. 

In 1871 the principality numbered about 2700 Roman 
Catholics, 6500 Lutherans, 1150 Israelites; the remain- 
der belonged to the Reformed Church. The latter is 
divided into three classes, at the head of each of which 
is a superintendent; at the head of the whole clergy is 
a superintendent general at Detmold. The supreme 
ecclesiastical board for both Reformed and Lutherans is 
the consistory at Detmold. The principality has 43 Re- 
formed, 5 Lutheran, and 6 Catholic parishes; the Cath- 
olics belong to the diocese of Paderborn, in Westphalia. 
See Herzog, Iieal-Eneyliopatlie, viii, 423 ; Falkmann und 
Prenss, Lippesche Ilegesten (Lemgo, 1860-63, 2 vols. 8vo) ; 
Falkmann, Beitrage zur Gesch. tier Fiirstenth. (ibid. 1847 
-56); and his Graf Simon VI zur Lippe (Detm. 1869, 
vol. i). (A.J.S.) 

Lippomani, Aloysius (or Luclovicits), born in Ven- 
ice in 1500, was alike renowned for his historical and 
linguistic learning and for the purity of his life, lie 
was in turn bishop of INI odena, Verona, and Bergamo. 
He was active in securing the pope’s assent to the 
transfer of the Tridentine Council to Bologna; was for 
two years after the interruption of the council papal 
nuncio in Germany, and in 1549 one of the three pres- 
idents of the council. In Poland the Reformation had 
made great advances through the influence of the Huss- 
ites and of the Bohemian Brethren, as also through 
the Socinian movement. At the national Diet of Pet- 
rikau in 1550, 1551, and especially 1555, the preroga- 
tives of the Catholic bishops were, through special in- 
fluence of the king, Sigismund II, greatly diminished, 
and the Protestant theologians — such as Calvin, Mc- 
lanethon, Beza — were recognised as important authori- 
ties in matters of faith. The Confession of Ilosius, 
adopted in a provincial synod at Petrikau, obtained 
great acceptance with the people. Lippomani was 
specially commissioned by pope Paul I A , in 1556, as 
nuncio in Poland, to exert himself against this rapid 
progress of reform. His efforts made him peculiarly 
obnoxious to the adherents of Protestantism, but were 
without marked success. He died as bishop ol Bergamo 
in August, 1559. lie wrote commentaries on Genesis, 
Exodus, and the Psalms, but they are of no special value 
to the exegetist of to-day. See Wetzer u. Welte, Kir- 
chen- Lex ikon, s. v. ; Krasinski, Ilist. Sketch of the llfo?'- 
mation in Poland , vol. i, chap. vi. (E. B. O.) 

Lipscomb, Philip D., a Methodist Episcopal min- 
ister, was bom in Georgetown, D. C., in October, 1798. 


LIPSIUS 


451 


LITANY 


He was converted probably in early life, and joined the 
Baltimore Conference in 18*22. Among his brethren in 
Conference assembled he was pleasant, attentive to bus- 
iness. safe in council. JHe was many years one of the 
stewards of the Conference. lie was also for a time 
treasurer of the Preachers’ Fund Society. A number of 
the vears of his ministry were given to the service of 
the American Colonization Society, and from that work 
he retired in 1803 to a place ou the superannuated list. 
A minister of this Conference, who knew him long and 
intimately, says, “Ilis life was beautiful in its consist- 
ency.” lie died in January, 1870. — Coif .Minutes, 1871. 

Lipsius, 'Justus, a Roman Catholic, renowned as a 
scholar in the 16th century, was born near Brussels in 
1547. 1 1 is talent was precocious, and he edited his Va- 

riie leetiones at the age of 19. lie was secretary to 
cardinal Granville about this time (1572-74). Later, 
as professor of history at Jena, he became a Protestant, 
and remained such for 13 years while professor of an- 
cient languages at Leyden, but subsequently he returned 
to the Roman Catholic Church, and was made professor 
at Louvain (1602). lie died March 23, 1606, holding at 
that time the appointment of historiographer to the king 
of Spain. His scholarship was honored by the pope and 
at several European courts. He distinguished himself 
especially by his commentary upon Tacitus, whose works 
he could repeat word for word, and by his enthusiastic 
regard for the stoical philosophy. He wrote De Con- 
stantin manuductia ad philosophiam Stoicam: — Physi- 
ologic Stoicorum libri tres (new edit. Antv. 1605, fol.) : 
— also De una religione, etc. His works were collected 
under the title Opera Omnia (Antv. 1585; 2d edit. 1637). 
See Wetzer u. Welte, Kirchen-Lexikon , vol. ii, s. v. ; Theol. 
Univ. Lex. (Elberf. I860), vol. i, s. v. 

Liptines or Lestines, Synod of ( Concilium Lip- 
tinensc). This synod was held at Liptinii or Lestines, 
near the convent of Laubes, in Ileunegau, in 743, by 
order of Carloman, Bonifaeius presiding. Four canons 
were published. The bishops, earls, and governors prom- 
ised in this council to observe the decrees of the Coun- 
cil of Germany (A.D. 742). All the clergy, moreover, 
promised obedience to the ancient canons; the abbots 
and monks received the order of St. Benedict, and a 
part of the revenue of the Church was assigned for a 
time to the prince, to enable him to carry on the wars 
then raging. (J. N. P.) 

Liquor de'ma, a tear , fig. of the juice of olives 

and grapes, Exod. xxii, 29 ; “ T'O, me'zeg, mixed, i. e. high- 
ly flavored wine, Cant, vii, 3 ; rTTJ^, mishrah ', macera- 
tion, i. e. drink prepared by steeping grapes, Numb, vi, 3). 
See Wink. 

Lismanini, Francis, a Socinian theologian, was 
born at Corfu in the beginning of the 16th century. 
He studied in Italy, joined the Franciscans, and a few 
years after became doctor of theology; removed to Po- 
land, and was appointed by queen Bona, wife of Sigis- 
mund I, her preacher and confessor. lie became also 
superior of the Franciscans of Poland, director of all the 
convents of the nuns of St. Clara, etc. The society of 
Andrew Fricesio and the reading of Oehin’s works led 
him to question the authority of the Roman Church, 
yet he was not displaced on account of it, but continued 
in favor with the qucu?n, and was sent by her to Rome, 
in 1549, to congratulate Julius III on his election as 
pope. On his return to Poland in 1551, Lismanini be- 
came acquainted with Socinius, and it is this association 
that no doubt gave rise to the mission with which he 
was intrusted by the king of Poland, ostensibly for the 
purpose of collecting works for the royal library, but in 
reality to study the position of the Reformation, and to 
report concerning it. Lismanini accordingly visited 
Padua, Milan, and Switzerland, where he finally left his 
order, embraced the Helvetic confession, and married. 
The king, fearing to be compromised by this overt act, 
broke all connection with him, ceased to supply him 


with funds, and Calvin, Bullinger, and Gesnerdn vain 
sought to obtain for Lismanini leave to return to Po- 
land. It was not until 1556 that he was permitted to 
return, but the king’s favor he never regained, notwith- 
standing the efforts of a large number of the Polish 
nobility in his behalf. His Socinian views on the doc- 
trine of the Trinity served still more to bring him into 
discredit. As he attempted to make converts he was 
exiled from Poland. He retired to Konigsberg, where 
he became counsellor of duke Albrecht. About 1563 
he became distracted on account of family difficulties, 
and committed suicide by drowning. His chief pro- 
duction is Brevis Explicatio doetriiue de sanctissima 
Trinitate, quam Stancaro et aliis quibusdam opposuit 
(1565, 8vo). See Bibl. antitrinit ariorum, p. 34; Bayle, 
Hist. Diet. ; Friese, Beitrdge z. Ref-Gesch. in Polen, ii, 1, 
p.247 sq.; Fock, Der Socinianismus, i, 145; Herzog, Peal- 
Encyklopadie, x, 426 ; Iloefer, Nouv. Biog. Gen . xxxi, 356. 
(J.ILW.) 

List, Carl Benjamin, a German theologian, was 
born at Mannheim, in the grand-duchy of Baden, Feb. 
5, 1725. He attended the universities of Jena and Stras- 
burg, and afterwards spent some time in Neufchatel to 
acquire French. About 1749 he was appointed court 
dean, in 1753 third pastor of his native city, and in 1756 
first pastor of the Evangelieal-Lutheran Church, togeth- 
er with the dignity of counsellor of the Consistory. lie 
died Jan. 16, 1801. He possessed a pure, liberal, and re- 
forming character, and to him is due the honor of hav- 
ing abrogated the custom of paying for confession in the 
Evangelieal-Lutheran Church. His productions, mostly 
of a corrective character in liturgy and hymns, were of 
great service to the Church to which he belonged. AY e 
mention Die Gescliichte der Evangelisch - Lutherischen 
Gemeinde zu Mannheim (Mannheim, 1767, 8vo); — A cue 
Litnrgie fur die Evangelisch- Luther ische Kirche in der 
Churpfalz (ibid. 1783, 8vo). See Ddriug, Gelehrte Theol. 
Deutschlands, vol. ii, s. v. 

Litany (Xiravsta, entreaty'), a word the specific 
meaning of which has varied considerably at different 
times, is used in the liturgical services of some churches 
to designate a solemn act of supplicat ion addressed with 
I the object of averting the divine anger, and especially on 
occasions of public calamity. Hooker, in his Ecclesias- 
tical Polity (book v, p. 265). has the following: “As 
things invented for one purpose are by use easily con- 
verted to more, it grew that supplications with this so- 
lemnity for the appeasing of God’s wrath and the avert- 
ing of public evils were of the Greek Church termed 
litanies; rogations, of the Latins.” 

The term litany for a supplicatory form of worship 
among the pagans was early adopted by Christian writ- 
ers. In the fourth century we find such occasions as 
litanies connected with processions, the clergy and peo- 
ple in solemn procession using certain forms of sup- 
plication and making special entreaty for deliverance. 
Whether anything of this kind would have been ven- 
tured before Christianity became a “religio lieita” (A.D. 
270) may be doubted. The predominance of a Chris- 
tian population, however, in certain localities, and the 
intervals of repose between persecutions, admit of their 
possibility at an earlier period. In these earliest de- 
velopments, moreover, of the processional litany, wheth- 
er before or during the fourth century, they rested, 
doubtless, upon an earlier Christian habit and custom 
— that of special seasons of prayer and supplication. 
These, in some cases, would be by the assembled body 
of believers in their houses or places of assembling; in 
others, for purposes of safety from the fury of their en- 
emies, in their individual homes and places of abode. 
Certainly the Church was not wanting in such occa- 
sions during the first centuries of her existence, when 
the course pursued by the disciples at Jerusalem (Acts 
xii, 5), and for similar reasons, would need to be repeat- 
ed. Occasions of this particular kind would of course 
pass away with the passing away of persecution. But 


LITAXY 


452 


LITAXY 


others of a different character would take their place. \ 
As early, indeed, as the times of Tertullian and Cyprian 
we find allusions to Christian prayers, and fastings, and i 
supplications for the removal of drought, the repelling 
of enemies, the moderation of calamities; and later, in 
the fourth and fifth centuries, we find the same thing, 
on a larger scale and in a more formal manner. Theo- 
dosius, preliminary to a battle, spent the whole night in 
fasting and prayer, and in sackcloth went with the j 
priests and people to make supplication in all the 
churches. So, again, in the reign of one of his suc- 
cessors, a solemn litany or supplication on account of a 
great earthquake was made at Constantinople. In these 
last eases, the element, to which allusion has been made, 
that of the procession, was undoubtedly present, and so 
continued until the time of the Reformation ; the name 
litany, indeed, being sometimes used simply to describe 
this part of it, as where seven litanies are directed by 
Gregory the Great to proceed from seven different 
churches (see below). The processions of the Arians in 
the times of Chrysostom, and the counter movement, on 
his part, by more splendid and imposing ones, to detract 
from any popularity which the Arians may have at- 
tained in this way, are described by Socrates. It is not 
at all improbable that in somewhat the same manner 
the hymns of Arius became circulated in Alexandria in 
the early part of the fourth century, and found lodgment 
in the minds of the populace. 

The prevalence of litanies in the Western Church may 
be recognised after the beginning of the fifth century; 
and during the time of Charlemagne we find allusion to 
large numbers of them, to be attended to as a matter of 
special appointment. The Council of Orleans, A.D. 51 1, 
expressly recognises litanies as peculiarly solemn suppli- 
cations, and enjoins their use preparatory to the celebra- 
tion of a high festival. In the Spanish Church, in like 
manner, they were observed in the week after Pentecost, 
( )ther councils subsequently appointed them at a variety 
of other seasons, till, in the seventeenth Council of To- 
ledo, A.D. G94, it was decreed that they should he used 
once in each month. By degrees they were extended 
to two days in each week, and Wednesday and Friday, 
being the ancient stationary days, were set apart for the 
purpose. Gregory the Great instituted a service at 
Rome for the 25tli of April, which was named Litania 
Septiformis, because a procession was formed in it of 
seven different classes. This service is distinguished 
as Litania Major , from its extraordinary solemnity. 
The Ufa nice Minores. on the other hand, are supposed 
by Bingham to consist only of a repetition of Kvpa 
the customary response in the larger supplica- 
tions. “ It was a short form of supplication, used one 
way or other in all churches, and that as a part of all 
their daily offices, whence it borrowed the name of the 
Lesser Litany, in opposition to the greater litanies, 
which were distinct, complete, and solemn services, 
adapted to particular times or extraordinary occasions. 
1 must note, further, that the greater litanies are some- 
times termed 4 exomologeses' — confessions — because fast- 
ing, and weeping, and mourning, and confession of sins 
were usually enjoined with supplication, to avert God’s 
wrath, and reconcile him to a sinful people.” Du Cange 
cites a passage from the acts of the Cone. Cloveshoviense, 
A.D. 717, confirming the identity of litania and rogatio, 
but showing that originally there was a distinction be- 
tween litania and exomologesis. Johannes tie Jamia 
terms litany, properly, a service for the dead. But Du 
Cange, by the authorities he cites for the early litanies, 
hazards the assertion that they differ hut little from 
those in modern usage. In the Western litanies two 
features are to be found not prevalent in the Eastern — 
the invocation of saints, and the appointment. of stated 
annual seasons for their use, as the rogation days of the 
Romish, and the tri- weekly usage of the English Church. 
There is, indeed, mention made of an annual litany in 
commemoration of the great earthquake in the reign of 
Justinian. But the general and present habit of the 


patriarchate of Constantinople has been and is to con- 
fine such services to their original purpose — extraordi- 
nary occasions. 

Freeman (Principles of Diving Service, ii, 325) insists 
that in its origin the litany is distinctly a “ eucharistic 
feature,” a series of intercessions closely associated with 
the eucharistic sacrifice. So we find in the East, and 
so it was originally in the West also, one most notable 
feature being the pleadiug of the work of Christ in be- 
half of his Church. In a Syriac form given by Benau- 
dot, the priest, taking the paten and cup in his right and 
left hand, commemorates (1) the annunciation; (2) the 
nativity, (3) the baptism ; (4) the passion; (5) the lift- 
ing up on the cross; (G) the life-giving death; (7) the 
burial ; (8) the resurrection ; (9) the session. Then 
follows the remembrance of the departed, and then sup- 
plication for all, both living and departed, ending with 
three kyries and the Lord's Prayer. This extended eu- 
charistic intercession St. Ephraem the Syrian rendered 
into a very solemn hymn (comp. Blunt, Diet, of Doctr. 
and Hist, Theol. p. 4 17). 

As to the peculiar structure of litanies, which are 
prayers, certain features may be mentioned that distin- 
guish them from other prayers (the collects and the so- 
called common prayers), for in the litany the priest or 
minister does not pray alone, the people responding after 
each separate petition. It is even not absolutely neces- 
sary that the minister should lead, as the whole may be 
divided between two choirs; for we must also notice 
that the litany, occupying a medium position between 
prayer and singing, may be sung or spoken, according 
to the custom of the place where it is used. Some com- 
positors even — Mozart, for instance — sometimes treated 
it in the same manner as the usual Church chants (the 
Stabat Mater , Requiem, etc.) ; but in this ease, by losing 
the distinction between petitions and responses, the lit- 
any entirely changed its character. In the next place, 
it must be noticed that in all litanies preceding the Ref- 
ormation there is great uniformity. They all begin 
alike — Kyrie cleison, Christe eleison, and end alike — Ag- 
| mis I)ci , qui tollis, etc. In this respect they resemble 
the mass. A form of supplication somewhat resembling 
a litany exists in the Apostolical Constitutions; as the 
deacon named the subjects of petition, the people an- 
swered to each, Lord, have mercy . That of the Church 
of England begins with an invocation of the persons of 
the Trinity, but uses the old invocations in its progress 
and close. In their original purpose litanies were con- 
nected with fasting and humiliation, and were therefore 
inappropriate to tire festal character of the Sunday ser- 
vice. In this respect their usage has been changed, and 
they are now part of divine service not only on Sundays, 
but on the most joyous seasons of Christian commemo- 
ration, such as Easter and Christmas day. One of the 
last efforts, indeed, in this kind of composition is the 
litany of Zinzemlurf for Easter morning. The ordinary 
arrangement of litany material maybe described as, first, 
the invocations, where we find the greatest difference 
between Romish and Protestant litanies; these arc fol- 
lowed by the deprecations, from which this kind of ser- 
vice originally took its predominant character; next 
come intercessions for various classes and conditions 
1 of men, the whole closing with supplications for divine 
audience, and blessing upon the worshippers. The lit- 
any of the Church of Rome is that of Gregory, with 
subsequent additions, especially in the material of invo- 
| cation to the hotly of Christ, the Blessed Virgin, and all 
the saints. There was an earlier form, hearing the name 
of Ambrose, agreeing in many respects with the Luther- 
an and English (see. below). There was another, put in 
j shape by Mamertius, bishop of Vienna, about the year 
| ICO. which was used hv Sidonius of Arranque soon after, 
in connection wit'll an invasion of the Goths, the annual 
usage of which the Council of Orleans enjoined. That 
of Gregory, however, composed during the next century, 
became the prevailing one, or rather the typical form of 
others in subsequent use. 


LITANY 


453 


LITERS FORMATS 


The three different forms now in use in the Romish 
churches are called the “litany of the saints” (which is 
the most ancient), the “litany of the name of Jesus,” 
and the “ litany of Our Lady of Loretto.” Of these the 
first alone has a place in the public service-books of the 
Church, on the rogation days, in the ordination service, 
the service for the consecration of churches, the conse- 
cration of cemeteries, and many other offices. The one 
called by the name o i litany of the saints bears its name 
from the prayers it contains to the saints for their help 
and intercession in behalf of the worshippers. Almost 
every saint in the calendar of the liomish Church has his 
particular form in the litany. The people’s response in 
the prayer is Ora pro nobis , “ Pray for us.” The litany 
of Jesus consists of a number of addresses to Christ under 
his various relations to men, in connection with the sev- 
eral details of his passion, and of adjurations of him 
through the memory of what he has done and suffered 
for the salvation of mankind. The date of this form of 
prayer is uncertain, but it is referred, with much proba- 
bility, to the time of St. Bernardino of Siena, in the 15th 
century. The litany of Loretto [see Lop.etto] resem- 
bles both the above-named litanies in its opening ad- 
dresses to the Holy Trinity and in its closing petitions 
to the “Lamb of God, who taketh away the sins of the 
world;” but the main body of the petitions are address- 
ed to the Virgin Mary under various titles, some taken 
from the Scriptures, some from the language of the 
fathers, some from the mystical writers of the mediaeval 
Church. Neither this litany nor that of Jesus has ever 
formed part of any of the ritual or liturgical offices of 
the Catholic Church, but there can be no doubt that 
both have in various ways received the sanction of the 
highest authorities of the Romish Church. Those of 
the Lutheran and English churches, which are very 
much alike, are derived from the same source, being 
shorter in that these invocations are expunged. 

In the Church of England it was originally a distinct 
service, and seems to have been used at a different time 
of day from the ordinary morning service, and only on 
certain occasions. In 1544 it was given to the people 
in a revised form by Ilenry VIII. Upon its insertion 
in the Prayer-book published by Edward VI, A.D. 154D, 
the litany was placed between the communion office 
and the office of baptism, under the title “The Litany 
and Suffrages,” without any rubric for its use ; blit at 
the end of the communion office occurred the follow- 
ing rubric: “Upon Wednesdays and Fridays the Eng- 
lish litany shall be said or sung in all places, after 
such form as is appointed by his majesty’s injunc- 
tions, or as it shall be otherwise appointed by his high- 
ness.” In the revision of the Common Prayer in 1552, 
the litany was placed where it now stands, and the rn- 
bric was added to “be used on Sundays, Wednesdays, 
and Fridays, and at other times when it shall be com- 
manded by the ordinary.” So late as the last revision 
in 1661, the litany continued a distinct service by itself, 
used sometimes after the morning prayer (then read at 
a very early hour) was concluded, the people returning 
home between them. The rubric which inserts the lit- 
any after the third collect in morning prayer is formed 
from a similar rubric in the Scotch Common Prayer- 
book, with this difference, that the English rubric en- 
joins the omission of certain of the ordinary intcrces- 
sional prayers; the Scotch rubric, on the other hand, 
states expressly, “ without the omission of any part of 
the other daily service of the Church on those days.” 

The litany of the German and Danish Lutherans 
closely resembles that of the Church of England and that 
of the Protestant Episcopal Church of the United States 
of America, and needs, therefore, no special mention here. 
The processional feature is still retained in the Greek 
and Roman litanies on special occasions, but is not their 
special accompaniment. Efforts towards its restoration 
in the English and American Episcopal Church have 
for the past ten years been in progress. Judging from 
the prevalent sentimeut of the episcopate in both coun- 


tries, and the tone of the last General Convention in this, 
the prospects of success are not very favorable. See 
Procter, Book of Common Prayer, p. 246 sq. ; Palmer, 
Oriyines Liturgicce, i, 264 sq.; Wheatly, Common Prayer , 
p. 163 sq.; Dean Stanley in Good Words for 1868 (June) ; 
Coleman, Manual of Prelacy and Ritualism, p. 302 sq. ; 
Ch ristian A ntiq . p. 66 1 ; Blunt, Diet . Doct. and I/ist. Theol. 
s. v. ; Eadie, Ecclesiastical Dictionai'y, s. v. ; Walcott, Sa- 
cred A rchceology, p. 353. See Liturgy. 

Literae Encyclicae, a term used in the Roman 
Catholic Church to denote letters addressed by the pope 
to the whole Church, but primarily to the clergy at 
large, as representatives of the Church. They are to 
be distinguished from apostolical briefs and bulls as 
never being applicable to local or individual cases only. 
They relate to some general need or tendency of a mor- 
al or doctrinal kind within the Church, or to any sup- 
posed dangers from without, and contain the pope’s 
views on the matters alluded to, with exhortations to 
co-operation on the part of the clergy and the Church 
at large in the course of conduct advised. See Encyc- 
lic a. 

Literee Formatae, or simply Formats, are the 
epistles of bishops and churches to others of like char- 
acter, and are so called because they are framed after cer- 
tain prescribed canonical rules. There have been need- 
less discussions over the fitness of the expression for- 
mata, and some would have it to be formalis (Suetonius, 
Domitian, 13) ; others will derive it from forma, TV7roc, 
seal (hence j'ormata, Ttrurriopivi], equivalent to sigil - 
lata), etc. Originally they were termed tcavoviKai, ca- 
nonical, but afterwards formates. The adoption of a 
particular form was early necessary, in order to prevent 
the alteration of and tampering with letters, of which 
Dionysius, bishop of Corinth (f c. a. 167), complained, 
according to Eusebius (Hist. Eccl. lib. iv, cap. 23), as also 
Cyprian ( Epist . 3). From the earliest limes the brother- 
ly union of the churches was cultivated by means of a 
regular correspondence, of which Optatus ol'Mileve says 
in the middle of the fourth century : “ Totus orbis com- 
mercio formatarum in nna eommunionis societate con- 
cordat.” The holy Scriptures themselves, namely, the 
epistles of the apostles, served as the first models. Let- 
ters of introduction and recommendation of brethren to 
the different churches were in the infancy of the Church 
the chief subject of this correspondence ; these were 
called by the apostles avarariKai iTiiaroXai (2 Cor. iii, 
1). literce commendatituv. They are mentioned by Ter- 
tullian (Adrej-sus haireses, cap. 20), Gregory of Nazian- 
zum (0 ratio, iii), and Sozomen (Hist. Eccl. lib. v, cap. 
16), etc. The demand for such letters of recommenda- 
tion became so numerous that it was necessary to frame 
regulations determining who was and who was not en- 
titled to them, and in what form they should be writ- 
ten. The Council of Elvira, a. 305 (? 310), c. 25, that 
of Arles, a. 314, c. 9, etc., decided that bishops alone 
should be authorized to write them. Every traveller, 
whether laic or clerical, was to provide himself with 
one. It is said, cap. 32 (al. 34) : “ Xullus episcopus 
peregrinorum aut presbyterorum aut diaconorum sine 
commendatitiis recipiatur epistolis; et cum scripta de- 
tulerint, discutiantur attentius, et ita suscipiantur, si 
pncdicatores pietatis extiterint ; sin minus, ha?c qune 
sunt neeessaria subministrantur eis, et ad communionem 
nullatenus admittantur, quia per subreptionem multa 
proveniunt” (see Cone. Antioch, a. 341 [? 332], c. 7, in c. 
9, dist. lxxi ; African, i, a. 506, c. 2 [c. 21, dist. 1], c. 
5). The defence of the right of these members of the 
clergy to officiate was often withdrawn, as by the Cone. 
Chalcedon. a. 451, c. 13, in c. 7, dist. lxxi, etc. The 
form of the writings was taken from the apostolic mod- 
els. Atticus, bishop of Constantinople, stated in the 
Council of Chalcedon, 451, that there was a formula 
established by the Council of Nica?a, 325 : Nicaea? .... 
constitutum, ut epistolie formats banc caleulationis sen 
supputationis habcant rationem, id est, ut assumantur 
in supputationem prima Gneca clementa Patris et 4 ilii 


LITH 


454 


LITHUANIA 


et Spiritus Sancti, hoc est 7T. v. a . qua? elementa octo- j 
genarium, et quadringentesimum, ct primtim significant 
numeruin. Petri quoque apostoli prima litera, id est | 

7 r : ejus quoque, qui scribit, episcopi prima litera; 

cui scribitur secunda litera; accipientis tertia litera; 
civitatis quoque, de qua scribitur, quarta: et in diet ion is, 
qiuucunque est illius temporis, numerus assuraatur. At- 
que ita his omnibus Grajcis literis .... in unmn ductis, 
unam, qmecunque fuerit collecta, suraraam epistola te- 
neat, hanc qui snscipit omni cum cautela requirat ex- 
presse. Addat praeterea separatim in epistola otiani 
nonagenariiun et nonum nunierum, qni secundum Gneca 
clementa signiricat a fit) v.” From these letters of rec- 
ommendation must be distinguished the dpijvucai iiri- 
GToXai, literce pacific # , a kind of letters of dismission 
(hence also called d7ro\uriKat), stating that the giver 
was privy to the bearer’s intention of travelling (c. 7, 8, 
Cone . Antioch, a. 332, c. 1 1 ; Cone. Chalced. 451; Cone. 
Trullav. a. 672, c. 17, etc.). Formates also contained 
the communications of one community to another, such 
as the information concerning the election of bishops, 
etc. ( ypaf.if.uiTa trSpovioraca , Eusebius, Ilist. Ecel. lib. 
vii, cap. 30: Evagrius, Hist. Keel. lib. 4, cap. iv) ; no- 
tices of festivals, particularly Easter, etc. {ypuppava 
topraoriKci , 7r«i7\«\<a, ejnstolie festales, paschales. etc. ; 
Cone. A relut. i, a. 314. c. 1 ; Carthay. v, a. 401, c. 7 ; Bra- 
ear. ii. a. 572, c. 7 ; Gratian. c. 24-2G, dist. iii, “de con- . 
seer.’’). The publication of ordinations was also made 
by format it:, as circulars, tytcvicXia, tTriaroXat, circu- 
lares, tractoriie. See Du Fresne, Glossar. Lot.; Suicer, 
Thcsaur. ecel. s.v. dpijviKog', F. B. Ferrari i Be antiquo 
epistolarum eeclesiasticarum yenere (Meliol. 1G13 ; and 
edit. G. Th. Meier, Hclmstadt, 1G78, 4to); Phil. Priorii 
Be literis canonic is diss. cum appentlice de tractoriis et 
synodicis (Paris, 1G75); J. P. Riesling, Be stabili primi- 
tivee eccles he ope literarum communieatoriarum connubio 
(Lipsia?, 1745, 4to) ; Gonzalez Tellez, Kommentar z. d. 
Becretalen (lib. ii, tit. xxii, “Be clcrins pereyrinisf cap. 
3); Elieinwald, Kirchliehe Archiioloyie (Berlin, 1830). 
— llerzog, Real-Encyklop. s. v. 

Lith, Joiiaxx AYtlitelm vox, a German theologian, 
was bom at Anspaeli, in Bavaria, Feb. 4. 1G78. In 1693 
he entered the University of Jena, and became in 1G94 
A.M. In the following year lie went to the University 
of Altdorf to continue his studies; in 1697 he studied at 
the University of Ilalle, and in 1G98 he was admitted to 
the philosophical faculty of that university. His health 
failing, he was obliged to leave for his native city. In 
1707 he became dean at Wassertrudingen. In 1710 he 
accepted a call to his native city as preacher of a foun- 
dation and counsellor of the Consistory; in addition to 
this, he became in 1714 city pastor. He died March 
13, 1743. Von Lith repeatedly declined calls to far 
higher dignities abroad. Ilis polemics against Cathol- 
icism prove him to have been a man of wide knowledge j 
and great acuteness ; and his repeatedly reprinted ser- 
mons, and his valuable contributions to the history of 
the lb-formation, give evidence of his success as a great 
preacher and historian. AYe mention Erlautcncny der 
Re format ionshistorie von 1524-28 (Schwabach. 1733, 
8vo; 2d edit. ibid. 1739, 8vo): — J)isqn isitio de adora - 
tione panis eonsecrati , etc. (Suabiei, 1754, 8vo). See 
During, Gelehrte Theol. 1 kntschlands , vol. ii, s. v. 


Lithuania, a grand-duchv in Eastern Europe, 
which formerly constituted a part of the kingdom of 
Poland, and which at the partition of the kingdom was 
partly united with Russia (the governments ofYilua. 
Grodno, Mohilev, Minsk, and Vitebsk), partly with Pros- : 
sia (the administrative district of Gombinnen). The | 
area of Lithuania is about 105,000 square miles. In 
the earliest historic times the country of the Lithu- 
anians was subject to the neighboring tribes, in partic- 
ular to the Russians of Polocz. As*an independent 
state it appears for the first time about 1217 under 
Ercziwil, who threw off the yoke of Polock, and con- 
quered Podlesia, Grodno, and Brzesk. Eberwand, about 


1220, began to expel the Tartars from Lithuania, and 
Ringold, about 1235, was the first independent grand- 
duke. His son Mindore, who had to cede Podlesia, 
Samogitia, and Courland to the prince of llalicz Nov- 
gorod and to the Teutonic Order, was in 1245 baptized 
by the archbishop of Riga and crowned as king ; but in 
12G1 he apostatized from Christianity, and in 12G3 he 
was slain by Svintorog, the governor of Samogitia, who 
in 1208 obtained control of the country. In 1281 Pod- 
lesia w r as reunited with Lithuania. In 1282 AYiten be- 
came ruler of Lithuania, after murdering his predeces- 
sor. His son Gedinim (1315-1328) conquered Samo- 
gitia and a portion of Russia, inclusive of Kiev, and 
founded the towns of A T ilna and Troki. The son of 
Gedinim, Olgerd, wholly expelled the Tartars from Po- 
dolia, and conquered the prince Demetrius of Russia at 
Moscow, in 1333 at Mosaisk. Ilis son Jagello was bap- 
tized on Feb. 14, 1386, at Cracow, and on this occasion 
received the name of ATadislav. The marriage of Ja- 
gello with the princess Hedwig of Poland led to the 
union of Lithuania with Poland, and made the latter 
country the greatest power of Eastern Europe. In 1401, 
and again in 1413, it was stipulated that the princes of 
Poland and Lithuania should only be elected with the 
consent of both nations. Under AVitold, who in 1413 
conquered Smolensk, Lithuania was a powerful state, 
which embraced, besides Lithuania proper, the larger 
portion of AYhite and Red Russia, Samogitia, and other 
districts. After a brief separation from Poland in the 
I5tli century, Lithuania and Poland were reunited in 
1501, and after this time the union was not again inter- 
rupted. In 1569 even the administrative union with 
Poland was carried through, and the history of Lithu- 
ania fully coincides with that of Poland. For an ac- 
count of the Reformation, and the subsequent conflicts 
of the Roman Catholic hierarchy with the Russian gov- 
ernment, see Poland and Russia. The Lithuanians, 
who still number about 1,340,000 inhabitants, are di- 
vided into three branches: 1, the Lithuanians proper, 
about 717,000, in the Russian government: 2, the Sa- 
mogitians or Shamaites, of whom about 308,000 live in 
the district of Samogitia, which in 1795 was incorpo- 
rated with Russia, and belongs to the government of 
Alina, and 184,000 in the former government of Au- 
gustovo of Poland; 3, the Prussian Lithuanians, about 
137,000. Before the partition of Poland, nearly the 
entire population of Lithuania, which embraced Lithu- 
anians, Poles, and Little Russians or Ruthenians, be- 
longed to the Catholic Church: the Lithuanians and 
Poles to the Latin rite, and the Little Russians or Ru- 
thenians to the Greek rite. The united Greek bishops 
were in 1839 prevailed upon to sever their connection 
with the pope and unite with the orthodox Greek 
Church, whereupon the Russian government officially 
regarded the entire population of their dioceses as being 
part of the Greek Church. The Catholics now consti- 
tute a majority only in the government of A’ilna: they 
have within the boundaries of the ancient Lithuania 
the archdiocese of Mohilev, and the dioceses of A’ilna, 
Samogitia, and Minsk. The Protestants belong mostly 
to the Reformed Church, which is divided into four dis- 
tricts, each of which has a superintendent and vice-su- 
perintendent at its head. It has about 30 ministers, 
and annually holds a synod which often lasts three or 
four weeks, and which has to be attended by all the lay 
members, and by those ministers in whose district the 
synod assembles. Every district must be represented 
either bv the president or by the vice-president. The 
meeting of the synod takes place every year in a dif- 
ferent district and parish, the clergyman of the latter 
receiving a compensation for entertaining the members 
of the synod. The synod rules the Reformed Church 
under the superintendence of the ministry of St. Peters- 
burg. It pays the salaries of the clergymen, attends to 
the repairs of the churches, and has also the care of all 
schools and poor-houses. It has from dotations an an- 
nual revenue of 22.0U0 silver rubles. The Lutheran 


LITTER 


455 


LITTLE CHRISTIANS 


congregations of Lithuania, which are less numerous, 
belong to the diocese of Courland. The orthodox Greek 
Church has within the limits of Lithuania the arch- 
bishop of White ltussia and Lithuania, the bishop of 
Mobile v, the bishop of Vilna, and the bishop of Vi- 
tebsk. The dioceses of the two former belong to the 
eparehies of the second, those of the two latter to the 
eparchies of the third and fourth class. The following 
table of the five governments formerly belonging to 
Lithuania exhibits the total population, the Roman 
Catholics, Protestants, and Israelites ; the remainder be- 
long chiefly to the orthodox Greek Church : 


Govern- 

ment. 

Roman 

Catholics. 

1 Per 
Cent. 

Prot- 
estan ts. 

Per 

Cl. 

Israel- 

ites. 

Per 

Cent. 

Total. 

Grodno . 
Minsk... 
Mohilev. 
Vilna . . . 
Vitebsk . 

265,506 

155.350 
37,003 

568,890 

200. 351 

2*1.7 

18.5 
4.0 

61.0 

26.6 

7,339 

1,360 

525 

1,879 

12,343 

0.8 

0.1 

0.2 

1.6 

99,473 

97,830 

122,662 

104,007 

70,520 

11.1 

9.8 

13.3 

11.6 

9.1 

' 958,852 
l,135,5Ss 
90S, 858 
973,574 
838,046 

Total.. 

1,263,16< 

27.9 

23,440 

0.7 

494,492 

11.0 

4,814,9 is 


See Krause, Lithaaen v. (lessen Beicohner (Halle, 1834); 
Glagau, Lithouen unci Lithauer , gesammelte Skizzen (Til- 
sit, 18G9). (A. J. S.) 

Litter occurs in the Auth. Vers, as a translation of 
Z 4 ( tsab , from to move slowly), in Isa. Ixvi, 20, 

(Sept. Xafnrijwj), where a sedan or palanquin for the 
conveyance of a princely personage, borne by hand or 
upon the shoulders, or perhaps on the backs of ani- 
mals, is evidently referred to. The original term oc- 
curs elsewhere only in Numb, vi, 3, in the phrase 
Z'4 ( egloth ' tsab, carts of the litter kind, A. V. ''covered 
wagons”), where it is used of the large and commodious 
vehicles employed for the transportation of the mate- 
rials and furniture of the tabernacle, being drawn by 
oxen. The term therefore signifies properly a hand- 
litter, and secondarily a wain or wheel-carriage. Lit- 
ters or palanquins were, as we know, in nse among the 
ancient Egyptians. They were borne upon the shoul- 



ders of men, and appear to have been used for carrying 
persons of consideration short distances on visits, like 
the sedan chairs of a former day in England (see Wil- 
kinson, A nc . Eg. i, 73). In Cant, iii, 0, we find the word 
uppiryon ' (perhaps a foreign [Egyptian] word), 
Sept, tpoptiov, Vulg. ferculum, which occurs nowhere 
else in Scripture, and is applied to a vehiele used by 
king Solomon. In the immediate context it is described 
as consisting of a framework of cedar-wood, in which 
were set silver stanchions supporting a gold railing, 
with a purple-covered seat, and an embroidered rug, 
the last a present from the Jewish ladies. This word is 
rendered “ ehariot” in our Authorized Version, although 
unlike any other word so rendered in that version. It 
literally means a moving couch , and is usually conceived 
to denote a kind of sedan, litter, or rather palanquin, 
in which great personages and Avomen were borne from 
place to plaee. “ The name as well as the object im- 
mediately suggests that it may ha\'e been nearly the 
same thing as the tukht-ravan , the moving throne or 
seat of the Persians. It consists of a light.’frame fixed 



Modern Persian covered Palanquin. 


on tivo strong poles, like those of our sedan chair. This 
frame is generally covered Avith eloth, and has a door, 
sometimes of lattice-AA'ork, at each side. It is carried by 
two mules, one betAA r een the poles before, the other be- 
hind. These conveyances are used by great persons 
when disposed for retirement or ease during a journey, 
or Avlien sick or feeble through age ; but they are chiefly 
used by ladies of consideration in their journeys” (Ivit- 
to). Some readers may remember the “litter of red 
cloth, adorned with pearls and jeAvels,” together with ten 
mules (to bear it by turns), which king Zahr-Shah pre- 
pared for the journey of his daughter (Lane’s Arabian 
Nights, i, 528). This was doubtless of the kind which 
is borne by four mules, t aa*o behind and two before. In 
Arabia, or in countries where Arabian usages prevail, 
tAVo camels are usually employed to bear the takht- 
ravan, and sometimes tivo horses. When borne by 
camels, the head of the hindmost of the animals is bent 
painfully down under the vehicle. This is the most 



comfortable kind of litter, and tAvo light persons may 
travel in it. “ The shibrieyeh is another kind of camel- 
litter, resembling the Indian howdeth, by which name 
(or rather hodaj) it is sometimes called. It is com- 



Camel bearing the Hodaj . 


posed of a small square platform Avith a canopy or arched 
covering. It accommodates but one person, and is placed 
upon the back of a earned, and rests upon tAVo square 
camel-chests, one on each side of the animal” (Kitto). 
See Cart; Camel. 

Little Christians is the name of a neiv sect, com- 


LITTLE HORN 


456 


LITURGY 


posed of members lately (1868) seceded from the Rns- 
so-(ireek Church at Atkarsk, in the province of Sar- 
atof, and diocese of the bishop of Tsaritzin. The se- 
ceders from the orthodox Church, or founders of this 
new sect, were only sixteen persons in number. “They 
set up a new religion, and began to preach a gospel of 
their own devising.” They condemned saints and altar- 
pieces as idolatrous, and abandoned the use of bread and 
wine in the sacrament. Before they founded the new 


secular character — those, for instance, which had refer- 
ence to the supervision of theatrical exhibitions or the 
presiding in the public assemblies. The religious mean- 
ing of the word in such case was not necessarily in- 
volved. In Isa. vii, 30 (Sept.), the idea of religious ser- 
vice predominates; in Rom. xiii, G, that of the secular, as 
under God; and .again, in Luke i, 23, and in Ileb. x, 11, 
it refers to the priestly function. At a later period we 
find it used by Eusebius ( Life of Constantine, iv, 47) in 


Church, which, they claim, Christ commanded them to speaking of the work of the Christian ministry. By a 
do, they were immersed, and also fasted and changed very natural process, the word, which thus designated 
their names. “ They have no priests, and hardly any j the public function or service performed by the minis- 
form of praver. They keep no images, use no wafers,] try, became restricted in its meaning to the form it- 
and make no sacred oil. Instead of the consecrated ( self— the form of words in which such sendee was ren- 
bread, they bake a cake, which they afterwards worship, dered, and thus, certainly before the middle of the fifth 
as a special gift from God. This cake is like a penny century, we find in the Church, in the present sense of 


bun in shape and size, but in the minds of these Little 
Christians it possesses a potent virtue and a mystic 
charm” (Dixon, Free Russia, p. 143, 144). The name 
they bear they gave themselves. Persecuted by the 
government, they have increased and are daily increas- 
ing in numbers. See Russia. (J. II. W.) 

Little Horn. See Antichrist; Daniel. 

Littlejohn, John, an early Methodist Episcopal 
minister, was born in Penrith, Cumberland Co., Eng., 
Dec. 7, 1756: emigrated to Maryland about 1767; re- 
ceived a respectable education; was converted in 1774 ; 
entered the Baltimore Conference in 1776 ; located on ac- 
count of poor health in 1778; removed to Kentucky in 
1818; re-entered the Baltimore Conference in 1831, and 


the word liturgies, forms for the conducting of public 
worship and the administration of sacraments. 

I. Jewish Liturgies. — This subject has, of course, its 
connection with the question of a similar state of things 
under the Jewish dispensation. Were there liturgical 
forms among the Jews, and, if so, to what extent? We 
find among the Greeks and Romans certain set forms in 
connection with their sacrifices, passing, it would seem, 
from mouth to mouth of successive priestly generations, 
and a usual form of prayer for the civil magistrate 
(Dellinger’s Heathenism and Judaism, i, 221-225) ; 
among the sacred books of India, hymns and prayers 
to be used on stated occasions (Muller's Chips from a 
German Workshop , i, 297) ; and in the Roman and in the 
Mohammedan worship, formulae of a similar character 


was the same year transferred to the Kentucky Confer- i (Lane s Mod. Egypt. 120 sq.). How was it in this mat- 
cncc as a superannuate, ami died Slay 13, 1830 .' Ilepos- , < er "" i t ‘ tlie Je " s? . r >e. r e "« s > cour f- » r ~ ua L , of 
sessed considerable mental power and much eloquence. f° rtn l but was there with it alsoaform of words . The 
His piety was deep and fruitful, and his ministrations rea(1m S of thc ?“' r * although enjoined, could hardly be 
were weighty and very useful —Minutes of Conferences, sa 'd to meet this demand. There are, however special 
ii 486 (G *1 T ) * forms m the Pentateuch which are liturgical in the 

’ * ' ' I «trir>f-pr of tlmt. f>vr>rp<iHinn Snmp nf thpsn Tinvp 


Littleton, Adam, D.D., a learned English divine, 
was bom Nov. 8, 1627, at Hales Owen, Shropshire, and 
was educated first at Westminster School, and later 
(1647) at Christ-chureh, Oxford, where he was ejected 
by the Parliamentary visitors in 1648. lie was after- 
ward usher, and taught as second master at Westmin- 
ster School (1658). He became rector of Chelsea in 
1674, and the same year was made prebendary of West- 
minster, and received a grant to succeed Dr. Busby in 
the mastership of that school. He had for some years 


stricter sense of that expression. Some of these have 
reference to possible contingencies, and would therefore 
be only occasional in their employment. Instances of 
this class may be found in the formula (Dent, xxi, 19), 
where complaint should be made to the elders by par- 
ents against a rebellious and incorrigible son. Of sim- 
ilar character is the formula (Deut. xxv, 8, 9) connected 
with the refusal to take the widow of a deceased broth- 
er or nearest kinsman, and so perpetuate his name in 
Israel. Another, again, of the same class, was that ap- 
pointed to be used by the elders and priests (Deut. xxi, 


becu ‘he king’s chaplain, and in 1070 received his dc- ^ of any pocality'in which the body of a murdered 


gree in divinity, which was conferred upon him with- 
out taking any in arts, on account of his extraordinary 
merit, lie was for some time subdean of Westminster, 
and in 1687 was transferred to the church of St.Botolph, 
Aldersgatc. London, which he held four years. He died 
June 30, 1694. He was an excellent philologist and 
grammarian, learned in the Oriental languages and Rab- 
binical lore. He was the author of a Latin Dictionary, 
long popular, but finally superseded by Ainsworth’s. lie 


person should be found ; and still another, and more of 
the nature of a stated religious service, was the pre- 
scribed declaration and mode of proceeding connected 
with thc going out to battle (Deut. xx, 1-8). These 
were occasional and contingent. For some of them 
there might never be the actual usage, as was probably 
the case with the first — that of the complaint against 
and the execution of a rebellions son. But there were 
others of a more stated character, having reference to 


also published many sermons anil other works. Thomas, larlv occlirring seasons am) ceremonies when tl.ey 
JJwyr.lHct. S.V.; Darling, Cydop. Btbhog. s. v. lvcre required to he used. The priestly benediction, 

Littleton, Edward, LL.I)., an English divine, repeated, it would seem, upon every special gathering 
was born about the opening of the last century, and was 0 f the people (Numb, vi, 23-27), is -an instance of this 
educated at Eton and King’s College, Cambridge, enter- class. The form of offering of the first-fruits (Deut. 
ing the latter in 1716. lie early turned his attention xxvi, 1-15) is another: in this latter the person making 
to poetry, but he also studied philosophy. In 1720 Air. the offering uses the formula, the priest receiving the 
Littleton was recalled to Eton as an assistant in the i offering; and still another is the appointed formula of 
school, and in 1727 was elected a fellow, and presented ] commination by the tribes at Ebal and Gerizim, the 
to the living of Maple Derham in Oxfordshire. He Levites repeating the curse, the whole people following 
was appointed June 9, D30, chaplain in ordinary to thc with the solemn amen. Distinct, moreover, from these 
king, and died in 1<34. He published poems and sev- were certain transactions, in which, without any specified 
oral discourses, lie was an admired preacher and cx- form, thc official was required to use certain words. The 
eellent scholar. — General Diog. Diet. s. v. I confession by the high-priest of the sins of the people 

Liturgy (Greek Xti Tovpyia), a function, service, or over the head of the scape-goat is one of these: in any 
duty of a public character. These public, services or such case, a set form, passing from priestly father to son, 
duties among the Greeks were frequently, if not al- not improbably came into use. The liturgical use of 
ways, connected with religious ideas or ceremonies of the Psalms in the Temple worship was, of course, a 
some kind, even when the duties themselves were of a | matter of much later arrangement. The fiftieth chapter 


LITURGY 


457 


LITURGY 


of Eeelesiasticus describes an exceptional service, and is, 
moreover, too indefinite in its language to justify any 
conclusion as to its liturgical character. During this 
period, however, between the captivity and the times 1 
of the New Testament, there comes to view another 
ecclesiastical development of Judaism which has its 
connection with this subject — that of the worship of the 
synagogue. This, which in all probability originated 
during the captivity, and in the effort to supply the 
want occasioned by the loss of the worship of the Temple, 
would in many respects be like that Temple worship ; in 
others, and from the necessity of the case, it would be 
very different. The greatest of these diversities would 
be in the fact of the necessary presence of the sacrificial - 
and priestly element in the service of the Temple, their 
absence in that of the synagogue. In the Temple the 
Levites sang psalms of praise before the altar, and the 
priests blessed the people. In the synagogue there 
were prayers connected with the reading of certain spe- 
cific passages of Scripture, of which are distinctly dis- 
cernible two “chief groups, around which, as time wore 
on, an enormous mass of liturgical poetry clustered — 
the one, the Shema (‘Hear, Israel,’ etc.), being a collec- 
tion of the three Biblical pieces (Dent, vi, 4-9; xi, 13- 
21 : Numb, xv, 37-41), expressive of the unity of God 
and the memory of his government over Israel, strung 
together without any extraneous addition; the second, 
the Tephillah , or Prayer, by way of eminence (adopted 
in the Koran as Salavat , Sur. ii, 40; comp. v. 15), consist- 
ing of a certain number of supplications, with a hymnal 
introduction and conclusion, and followed by the priest- 
ly blessing. The single portions of this prayer grad- 
ually increased to eighteen, and the prayer itself re- 
ceived the name Shemonah Esreh (eighteen; afterwards, 
however, increased to nineteen: the additional one -is 
now twelfth in the prayer, and is against apostates [to 
Christianity] and heretics [all who refused the Talmud], 
including consequently the Karaites). The first addi- 
tion to the Shema formed the introductory thanksgiv- 
ing for the renewed day (in accordance with the ordi- 
nance that every supplication must be preceded by a ! 
prayer of thanks) called Jozer (Creator of Light, etc.), to 
which were joined the three Holies {Ophan), and the sup- ; 
plication for spiritual enlightening in the divine law , 
(Ahabah). Between the Shema and the Tephillah was 
inserted the Genlah (Liberation), or praise for the mirac- 
ulous deliverance from Egypt and the constant watch- 
ings of providence. A Kaihlish (Sanctification or Ben- 
ediction) and certain psalms seem to have concluded 
the service of that period. This was the order of the 
Shaharith, or morning prayer, and very similar to this 
was the Maarib, or evening prayer; while in the Min- 
chuhj or afternoon prayer, the Shema was omitted. On 
new moons, Sabbath and feast days, the general order 
was the same as on week days; but since the festive 
joy was to overrule all individual sorrow and supplica- 
tion, the intermediate portion of the Tephillah was 
changed according to the special significance and the 
memories of the day of the solemnity, and additional 
prayers were introduced for these extraordinary occa- 
sions, corresponding to the additional sacrifice in the 
Temple, and varying according to the special solemnity 
of the day ( M ussaph, Neilah , etc.)” (Chambers). Com- 
pare Etheridge, Introduction to Ilebreic Literature , p. 3G7 
sq. ; Prideaux, ii, 160-170. It is likewise to be noted 
that in the Temple worship there were occasions and 
opportunities in which the individual worshipper might 
confess the plague of his own heart, make individual 
supplication, or offer individual thanksgiving. Thus it 
was at the time of the coming of Christ. The Jewish 
liturgies since then, under the influence of Rabbinism, 
and in view of the fact that the synagogue, so far as 
possible, supplies the absence of the Temple, have been 
very much enlarged, and extend to numberless partic- 
ularities. It may, in fact, be said that the whole life 
of the modern Jew is regulated by Rabbinic forms, that 
there is a rubric for every moment and movement of 


social as of individual existence. “The first compila- 
tion of a liturgy is recorded of Amram Gaon (A.D. 870- 
880) ; the first that has survived is that of Saadja Gaon 
(d. A.D. 942). These early collections of prayers gen- 
erally contained also compositions from the hand of the 
compiler, and minor additions, such as ethical tracts, 
almanacs, etc., and were called Siddurim (Orders, Iiitu- 
als), embracing the whole calendar year, week-days and 
new moons, fasts and festivals. Later, the term was 
restricted to the week-day ritual, that for the festivals 
being called Muchzor (Cycle). Besides these, we find 
the Selichoth, or Penitential Prayers ; Kinoth, or Elegies ; 
Iloshanahs, or Hosannahs (for the seventh day of the 
Feast of Tabernacles) ; and Bakashoth, or Special Sup- 
plications, chiefly for private devotion. The Karaites 
(q. v.), being harshly treated in these liturgies, especial- 
ly by Saadja, have distinct compilations. The first of 
these was made by David ben-llassan about A.D. 9G0 
(compare Buie, Karaites , p. 88, 104 sq., 118, 135 sq., 173 
note). The public prayers were for a long time only 
said by the public reader ( Chasan , Sheliach Zibbur ), the 
people joining in silent responses and amens. These 
readers by degrees — chiefly from the 10th century — in- 
troduced occasional prayers {Piutim) of their own, over 
and above those used of yore. The materials were 
taken from the Halaehah as well as the Haggadah (q. 
v.) ; religious doctrine, history, saga, angelology, and 
mysticism, interspersed with Biblical verses, are thus 
found put together like a mosaic of the most original 
and fantastic, often grand and brilliant, and often ob- 
scure and feeble kind; and the pure Hebrew in many 
cases made room for a corrupt Chaldee. We can only 
point out here the two chief groups of religions poetry 
— viz. the Arabic on the one hand, and the French- 
German school on the other. The most eminent repre- 
sentative of the Pajtanie age (ending e. 1100) is Eleazar 
Biribi Ivalir. Among the most celebrated poets in his 
manner are Meshulam b.-lvalonymos of Lucca, Solomon 
b.-Jehuda of Babylon, B. Gerson, Elia b.-Menahem of 
Mans, Benjamin b.-Serach, Jacob Zom Elem, Eliezer 
b.-Samuel, lvalonymos b.-Moses, Solomon Isaaki. Of 
exclusively Spanish poets of this period, the most bril- 
liant are Jehuda Halevi, Solomon b.-Gabirol, Josef ibn- 
Abitur, Isaac ibn-Giat, Abraham Abn-Esra, Moses ben- 
Nachman, etc. When, however, in the beginning of 
the 13th century, secret doctrine and philosophy, casu- 
istry and dialectics, became the paramount study, the 
cultivation of the Piut became neglected, and but few, 
and for the most part insignificant, are the writers of 
liturgical pieces from this time downwards” (Chambers). 
Comp. Zunz, Synagogale Poesie des Mittelulters , p. 59 sq. 
These liturgies, adopted by the Jews in different coun- 
tries, were naturally subject to great variation, not only 
in their order, but also in their contents. Even in our 
day there exists the greatest variety imaginable in the 
synagogues of even one and the same country, due, in a 
measure, also to the influence of the reformatory move- 
ments. See Judaism. Particularly worthy of note are 
the rituals of Germany (Poland), of France, Spain, and 
Portugal (Sefardim), Italy (Borne), the Levant (Bo- 
magna), and even of some special towns, like Avignon, 
Carpentras, Montpellier. The rituals of Barbary (Al- 
giers, Tripoli. Oran, Morocco, etc.) are of Spanish origin. 
The Judieo-Chinese liturgy, it may be observed bv the 
way, consists only of pieces from the Bible. Yet, in 
the main body of their principal prayers, all these lit- 
urgies agree. As illustrative of these unessential di- 
versities, we give the prayer of the Shemonah Esreh, 
which has been added to the number since the destruc- 
tion of the second Temple, but which now stands as the 
twelfth, and shows its manifest reference to the follow- 
ers of the Nazarene : “ Let there be no hope to those 
who apostatize from the true religion; and let heretics, 
how many soever they be, all perish as in a moment ; 
and let the kingdom of pride be speedily rooted out and 
broken in our days. Blessed art thou, O Lord our God, 
who destroyest the wicked, and bringest down the 


LITURGY 


458 


LITURGY 


proud 1 ’ (Prideaux). “ Let slanderers have no hope, and 
all presumj)tuous apostates perish as in a moment; and 
niav thine enemies, and those who hate thee, be sudden- 
ly cut oil', and all those who act wickedly be suddenly 
broken, consumed, and rooted out; and humble thou 
them speedily in our days. Blessed art thou, O Lord, 
who destroyest the enemies and humblest the proud” 
(Spanish and Portuguese Jews’ Prayer-book). That in 
the German and Polish Jews’ Prayer-book is more brief, 
and less pointed in its application to apostates, i. e. Jews 
converted to Christianity. There are translations and 
commentaries on them in most of the modern languages. 
In the orthodox congregations, these forms of prayer, 
whether for the worship of the synagogue or for domes- 
tic and private use, are all appointed to be said in He- 
brew. One of the best moves in this direction is the 
effort within the last century to remedy this evil by 
parallel translations. In this country the service-books 
in the synagogues are usually of this kind: either the 
Hebrew on one page and the English on the other, or 
both in parallel columns on the same page. 

II. Early Christian Liturgies. — 1. Their Origin. — So 
far as regards the primitive or apostolic age. the only 
trace of anything of that kind is the Lord’s Prayer, and 
the Amen alluded to in 1 Cor. xiv, 1G; this latter an un- 
doubted importation from the synagogue. As, more- 
over, wefindtheMaster, with the twelve, singing a hymn, 
one of the psalms probably, on the night of the last sup- 
per, it is not improbable that such portions of Old-Testa- 
ment Scripture, with which the early believers had been 
already familiar in the synagogue, should have still found 
favor in the Church. Even in free prayer fragments and 
sentences of old devotional forms, almost spontaneous 
through earlier use and sacred association, would natu- 
rally find utterance. This, however, would be the ex- 
ception. Christian prayer, for its own full and peculiar 
utterance, must find its own peculiar modes of expres- 
sion ; and it would baptize into a new life and meaning 
any of those familiar expressions, the fragments of an 
earlier devotion. That men, however, who had been 
accustomed to liturgical worship under the old system 
should gradually go into it under the new. is not at all 
surprising; and to this special inducements before very 
long were presented. The demand for some form of pro- 
fession of faith, of a definition of the faith, as dissensions 
and heresies arose, would be one of these occasions. The 
form of prayer given by the Master, in its present usage, 
would become the nucleus of others. The fact, again, 
that the most solemn act of Christian communion, the 
Lord’s Slipper, involved in the distribution of the ele- 
ments a form of action, and that this action, in its origi- 
nal institution, had been accompanied by words, would 
have a like influence. That every thing in this respect, 
if not purely extemporaneous, was exceedingly simple in 
the time of Justin Martyr, is very manifest from his own 
writings. The same remark is applicable to the state- 
ment of Pliny ( Ep. ad Traj. in Ep. x, 97). 

2. Primitive Type . — The earliest form in which litur- 
gical arrangement, to any extent, is found, is that which 
presents itself in the Apostolical Constitutions. The fol- 
lowing is the order of daily service, as given in these 
Constitutions : After the morning psalm (the sixty-third 
of our enumeration), prayers were offered for the several 
classes of catechumens, of persons possessed by evil spir- 
its, and candidates for baptism, for penitents, and for the 
faithful or communicants, for the peace of the world, and 
for the whole state of Christ’s Church. This was follow- 
ed by a short bidding prayer for preservation in the en- 
suing day, and by the bishop’s commendation or thanks- 
giving, and by his imposition of hands or benediction. 
The morning sendee was much frequented by people 
of all sorts. The evening service was much the same 
with that of the morning, except that Psalm cxl (Psalm 
cxli of the present enumeration) introduced the ser- 
vice, and that a special collect seems to have been used 
sometimes at the setting up of the lights. 8ee Service. 
’This work, a fabrication by an unknown author, and tak- 


ing its present form about the close of the third century, 
contains internal evidence (see Schaff, Church History, i, 
441) that much of its material belongs to an earlier date. 
It may be regarded as affording a type of the liturgi- 
cal worship in use during the latter part of the ante- 
Nicenc period. Bunsen ( Christianity and Mankind, vol. 
ii) has attempted to construct, out of fragments of this 
and other liturgies, the probable form of worship then 
prevailing. Krabbe, in his prize essay on this subject, 
regards the eighth book as of later date than the oth- 
ers. Kurtz, agreeing with Bunsen, substantially finds 
in this work the earliest extant form of liturgical ar- 
rangement, and the type of those of a later period. 
While, therefore, apocryphal as to its name and claims, 
yet in the character of its material, in its peculiarity of 
structure, in the estimation which it enjoyed, and in its 
infiuenee upon later forms of devotion, it is of great his- 
torical significance. Taking it as it comes to our day, 
the eighth book contains an order of prayer, praise, read- 
ing, and sermon, followed by the dismissal suecessivel}’’ 
of the catechumens, the penitents, and the possessed. 
After this comes the order of the Lord’s Supper for the 
faithful, beginning with intercessory prayer, this follow- 
ed by collects and responses, the fraternal kiss, warnings 
against unworthy reception of communion, with suita- 
ble hymns, prayers, and doxologies. Much of this ma- 
terial, as already hinted, is probably of a much earlier 
date than that of its unknown last compiler. The hymn 
Gloria in Exeelsis may have been the same of which 
Justin and Pliny speak, or an enlargement of it. This 
liturgy is remarkable, as contrasted with subsequent lit- 
urgies, in that it wants the Lord’s Prayer. The gen- 
eral spirit and tone pervading all its forms afford grate- 
ful indication of the interior Christian life of that period. 

• 3. Classification . — This brings us to the particular lit- 
urgies which found acceptance and usage in particular 
communities. One remark in connection with these 
needs to be made. Whatever may have been the litur- 
gical influences of the synagogue in shaping the wor- 
ship of the early Church, they had, by this time, been 
superseded by another of a much more objectionable 
character, that of the Temple. In other words, the sac- 
erdotal idea of the Christian ministry, and the sacrificial 
idea of the Lord’s Supper, were making themselves felt, 
not only in the substance, but in the minutue of form 
which the liturgies were assuming. Of these liturgies 
there is to be made the general division of Eastern and 
Western. 

(u.) Liturgies of the Eastern Churches. — Chronologi- 
cally those of the Oriental Church first demand exami- 
nation. (1.) The earliest, perhaps, is that of Jerusalem 
or Antioch, ascribed to the apostle James ; the first -word 
in it, b \eptvg — a word never used by apostolic men in 
speaking of the Christian ministry — puts the seal of rep- 
robation upon every such claim. The same may be said 
as to another anachronism, the word bpoovaioq applied 
to the third person of the Trinity. Putting aside, there- 
fore, such claim, as also the stranger notion that the 
apostle in 1 Cor. ii, 9, quotes from this liturgy rather 
than that the liturgist quotes from him, we may still rec- 
ognise in this early form of Christian worship features 
of peculiar interest. It is still used on St. James’s day 
in some of the islands of the Archipelago, and is the pat- 
tern of two others, those of Basil and Chrysostom. Por- 
tions of it may have existed at an earlier period, but in 
its present form it dates from the last half of the fourth 
century. For the distinction between the orthodox 
Greek and the Monophysite Syrian forms of this litur- 
gy, see Palmer, Origines Liturgies, vol. i. The latter, 
the Monophysite form, it is to be observed, is still in use, 
and in both are portions of the material to be found in 
that of the Apostolical Constitutions, 

(2.) The second of these liturgies is that of the Alex- 
andrian Church, called that of St. Mark, but. quite as 
clearly as that of St. James, betraying its later origin. 
In this, as in the other two, there may be materials pre- 
I viously existing ; but the probabilities indicate Cyril of 


LITURGY 


459 


LITURGY 


Alexandria as the author of it in its present shape. The 
effort lias been marie to separate in it the apostolic from 
the later elements, as is also attempted by Neale with 
that of St. James. As the object of this effort seems to be 
to prove the sacerdotal character of apostolic Christiani- 
ty, so all sacerdotal elements become proof of apostolic 
authorship. The conclusion is as false as the premise. 
The special historical interest of this liturgy of St. 
Mark is its relation to those of the Coptic and Etliio- 
pic churches, of which it forms the main constituent. 
The remark of Palmer as to its claim to inspired author- 
ship is well worthy of attention. In my opinion,” says 
he, “ this appellation of St. Mark’s liturgy began about 
the end of the fourth or beginning of the fifth century, 
after Basil had composed his liturgy, which was the first 
that bore the name of any man. Other churches then 
gave their liturgies the names of their founders, and so 
the Alexandrians and Egyptians gave theirs the name of 
Mark, while they of Jerusalem and Antioch called theirs 
St. James’s, and early in the fifth century it appears that 
Cyril, patriarch of Alexandria, perfected and improved 
tlie liturgy of St. Mark, from whence this improved lit- 
urgy came to be called by the Monophysites St. Cyril’s, 
and by the orthodox St. Mark’s.” The peculiarity of 
this last, in Neale’s estimation, is the difference from 
other liturgies in the position of the great intercession 
for cpiick and dead. That such intercession found place 
in any of them is evidence of their post-apostolic origin. j 

(3.) The third and last of these liturgies is that of 
C:esarea or Byzantium, composed probably by Basil of 
Ciesarea, and held to have been recast and enlarged by 
Chrysostom ; but more properly, perhaps, both these are 
to be regarded as elaborations of that of St. James. They, 
moreover, have historical and moral significance in the 
fact that, through the Byzantine Church, they have been 
received into that of Russia, and are used in its patriarch- 
ates, each for special occasions, at the present time. 
Such additions, of course, have been made as have been 
rendered necessary through peculiarities of Greek wor- 
ship, and accumulation of ritualistic minutiae coming into 
use since these liturgies in their original forms were in- 
troduced. They now contain expressions not to be found 
in the writings of Chrysostom: e. g. the appellation of 
Mother of God, given to the Virgin Mary, which was 
not heard of until after the third General Council at 
Ephesus [A. D.431] — the body which condemned the 
doctrines of Nestoriua — held 24 years after the death of 
Chrysostom. 

From these Oriental liturgies have sprung others, va- 
riously modified to meet doctrinal and other exigencies. 
The largest number is from that of Jerusalem, the next 
from that of Basil. The most important is that of the 
Armenians, Monophvsite, those of the Nestorians, and 
that of Malabar. For discussion as to the special origin 
of these subordinate forms, and the principles of classi- 
fication, sec Palmer’s Origines Liturgicce , vol. i ; Neale’s 
Primitive Liturgies ; Riddle, Christian A ntiquities , bk. iv, 
cli. i, sec. 6. 

(6.) Liturgies of the Western Church. — In the West 
liturgical development went on with less rapidity. (1.) 
That of the Roman Church, under the influence of the 
sort of feeling alluded to above in the quotation from 
Palmer, after it came into use, received the name of Pe- 
ter, and was traced to his authorship. In point of fact, 
it probably first assumed definite shape under Leo the 
Great during the first half of the fifth century, was add- 
ed to by Gelasius during the latter half of the same 
century, elaborated again by Gregory the Great not 
very long after, and through his influence secured its 
reputation and position. ‘*IIis Ordo et Canon Missce, 
making allowance for the unavoidable changes taking 
place in it during the centuries intervening, was settled 
under Pius V, 1570, as the Missale Romanorum. It was 
revised under Clement VII and Urban VIII. and forms 
at the present time the liturgical text of Romish wor- 
ship” (Palmer, in Herzog). The Liturgy of Milan seems 
to have been very much the same as that of Rome prior 


to the alterations of the latter under Gregory. These 
differences, at the greatest, were not of an essential char- 
acter. The question of the independence of the Mi- 
lanese and the supremacy of the Romans was probably 
the great issue upon which these differences turned. 
As nothing loss than apostolicity could enable the lit- 
urgy of Milan to sustain itself in such a conflict, its ori- 
gin was traced to Barnabas; and miracles, it was be- 
lieved, had been wrought for its preservation against 
the efforts of Gregory and Hadrian to bring it to the 
form of that of Rome. The severest point of this con- 
flict was doubtless when Charlemagne abolished the 
Ambrosian Chant throughout the West by the estab- 
lishment of singing-schools under Roman instructors to 
teach the Gregorian. The attachment of the people 
and clergy of Milan, however, to their liturgy could not 
be overcome, and it is still in their possession. Alex- 
ander VI established it expressly as the “Kitus Ambro- 
sianus.” 

Of even greater interest than the Roman liturgy are 
the Gallican and the Mozarabic. 

(2.) The former of these, the Gallican, claims, and it 
would seem justly, an antiquity greater than that of 
Rome. The connection of Gaulish Christianity with 
that of Asia, whether through the person of Irenreus or 
by earlier missionaries, would lead to a liturgical devel- 
opment of an independent character. It was displaced 
by the Roman liturgy during the Carolingian a?ra, and 
for a long time was almost lost sight of and forgotten. 
It does not seem to have been used or appealed to in 
the various conflicts of prerogative between the French 
monarchs and the pope, and no allusion to its existence 
is made in the Pragmatic Sanction. Public attention 
was again called to it during the controversies of the 
16th century. Interest both of a literary and doctrinal 
character has been exhibited in connection with this 
liturgy. But there seems to be but little probability 
of its restoration to use. While unlike in certain spe- 
cialities, its differences from the Roman liturgy are not 
essential. Like the others preceding, it has been traced 
, to the hand of an apostle — to the Church at Lyons, 
through that of Ephesus, from the apostle John ! The 
I apex upon which this inverted historical pyramid rests 
| is the single fact, which has been questioned, that Chris- 
tianity was introduced into Gaul by missionaries from 
the Church at Ephesus. 

(3.) The Mozarabic, that of the Spanish churches un- 
i der Arabic dominion, has so many resemblances to the 
! Gallic liturgy that it would seem probable they proceed- 
ed from the same source. It is described by Isidore His- 
palensis in the Gth century. During the Middle Ages, 
and in the time of the cardinal Ximenes, it received an 
addition of several rites. As Spanish territory was re- 
1 conquered from the Moors, and came more fully under 
the ecclesiastical jurisdiction of the papacy in other re- 
spects, the effort was made, and eventually succeeded, 
although at times warmly resisted by the people, to 
displace the Mozarabic, and introduce the Roman lit- 
urgv. In the beginning of the 16th century cardi® 
nal Ximenes endowed a college and chapel at Toledo 
for the celebration of the ancient rites, and this is now, 
perhaps, the only place in Spain where the primitive 
liturgy of that country and of Gaul is in some degree 
observed. The old Brirish liturgy, which was displaced 
by the Gregorian alter the decision of Oswy in 661, 
seems, like the Mozarabic, to have been essentially the 
same with the Gallican. 

(4.) One other liturgical composition of some interest, 
dating from the close of the 4th century, is that of the 
Cathari. published by E. Kunitz (Jena, 1852). It is of 
interest as giving a more favorable view of the com- 
munity for which it was composed than had been pre- 
viously entertained. It is to be remembered in connec- 
tion with all these liturgies of the West, as already re- 
marked of those of the East, that they are the names 
of many subordinate offshoots in nse and prevalence in 
different portions of the Church. The discretiouary 


LITURGY 


4G0 


LITURGY 


power of the bishops, both at this ami at earlier periods, 1 mediaeval times, and clerical ignorance and carelessness, 
to modify and adapt prevalent liturgies to peculiar exi- would of course increase it. The traces, however, of the 
gencies of time and place, naturally produced after a time parent stock in any such case would not be difficult of 
this kind of diversity. The ecclesiastical confusion of [ recognition. 


TABLE SHOWING THE DESCENT OF THE PRINCIPAL LITURGIES NOW USED IN THE CHURCn. 

OUR LORD’S WORDS OF INSTITUTION. 

I 

Apostolic Nucleus of a Liturgv. [See Lord’s Prayer, and Lord’s Supper.] 

I 


Liturgy of St. James, Antioch, 
or Jerusalem. 

I 


Liturgy of St. Mark, 
or Alexandria. 


oJstJ 


Liturpy of Si. Chrysostom. 

Present Liturpy of Oriental 
and Russian Church. 


Liturpy of St. Peter, 
dr Rome. 


Syriac Liturpy of 
St. James. 


Present Liturpy of 
Egypt. 


Ambrosian Liturgy, 


[Monophyaite 

Liturgies.] 


Saeramentary 
of St. Leo. 


Present Liturgy of Dio- 
cese of Milan. 


Liturgy of St. John, St. Paul, 
or Ephesus. 


Liturgy of Lyons. 


Sacrnmentary 
of Geiasius. 


Sacrnmentary 
of St. Gregory. 


Mozarabic, 
or Spanish 
Liturgy. 


Present Liturgy of 
Church of Rome. 


Liturpy of = Liturgy' of 
Britain, j Tours. 

Augustine’s revised 
Liturgy of Britain. 

Salisbury, York, and other 
Missals of English Church. 

Present Liturgy of the 
English Church. 


Liturgy of Scottish 
Church. 


Liturgy of 
American 
Church. 


4. Structure of Liturgies. — The variations of detail 
which are found in the parent liturgies of the Christian 
world are all ingrafted on a structural arrangement ! 
which they possess in common, much as four buildings 
might differ in the style and form of their decorations, ; 
and yet agree in their plans and elevation, in the posi- 
tion of their several chambers, and in the number of 
their principal columns. 

i. There is invariably a division of the liturgy into 
three portions — the office of the Prothesis, the Pro- An- 
aphora, and the Anaphora, the latter being the “ Canon” 
of the Western Church, and the office of the Prothesis 
being a preparatory part of the service corresponding to 
the “ Praeparatio” of the Western Liturgy, and not used 
at the altar itself. In the Pro-Anaphora the central feat- ! 
ures are two, viz. : (1) the reading of holy Scripture, and , 


(2) the recitation of the Creed. In the Anaphora they 
are four, viz. : (1) the Triumphal Hymn, or Trisagion ; 
(2) the formula of Consecration ; (3) the Lord’s Prayer ; 
and (4) the Communion. These four great acts of 
praise, benediction, intercession, and communion gather 
around our Lord’s words of institution and his pattern 
prayer, which form, in reality, the integral germ of the 
Christian liturgies. They are also associated with other 
prayers, intercessions, and thanksgivings, by which each 
is expanded and developed, the whole blending into a 
comprehensive service, by means of which the worship 
of the Church ascends on the wings of the eucharistic 
service, and her strength descends in eucharistic grace. 
The order in which these different portions of the lit- 
urgy are combined in the four ancient parent forms is 
shown by the following table : 


COMPARATIVE TABLE, SHOWING TnE STRUCTURE OF THE FOUR PARENT LITURGIES OF THE 

CHURCH. 


ST. JAMES (Palestine). 


Prefatory Prayer. 

Introit. 

The little entrance. 

Trisagion. 

Lections from Old and New Tes- 
tament. 

Prayer. 

Expulsion of Catechumens. 

The great entrance. 

Xicene Creed. 

Kiss of peace. 

Prayer inr all conditions. 
Sursuin eorda. 

Triumj>hal Jlymn. 

Commemoration of Institution. 
Oblation. 

Invocation. 

Prayer for quick and dead. 

Lard's Prayer. 

Emboli sums. 

Union of consecrated elements. 
Elevation. 

Fraction. 

Comm union. 

Thanksgiving. 

Dismissal with pax. 


ST. MARK (Alexandria). 


Prefatory prayer. 

Introit. 

The little entrance. 

Trisagion. 

Epistle and Gospel. 

Prayer after Gospel. 

Expulsion of Catechumens. 

The great entrance. 

Kiss of pence. 

Creed. 

Sursuin corda. 

Prayer for Church militant. 
Prayer for the departed. 
Triumphal Hymn. 

Commemoration of Institution. 
Oblation. 

Invocation. 

Union of consecrated elements. 
Prnver. 

Lord's Prayer. 

Embolismua. 

Prayer of intense adoration. 
Fraction. 

Confession. 

Communion. 

Thanksgiving. 

Dismissal with blessing. 


ST.JOHN (Gallican, Mozarabic, 
and Ephesian). 

ST. PETER (Roman). 

£ 

'Prefatory prayer. 

Introit. 

Gloria in excelsia. 

£ 

'Prefatory prayer. 

Introit. 

Gloria in excelais. 

2 

p. 

Epistle and Gospel. 

Oblation of elements. 

« < 

Epistle and Gospel. 

< 

c 


•V 

6 



Xicene Creed. 

.Expulsion of Catechumens. 
Prayer for the Church. 

6 

1 1 

Xicene Creed. 

.Oblation of elenienta. 
j Sursum corda. 


Triumphal Hymn. 

Prayer for quick and dead. 

Kiss of pence. 

Commemoration of Institution. 
Elevation nnd fraction of host 
into nine parts. 

Invocation. 

S' 

c- 

( Triumphal Hymn. 
'Commemoration of living (“Te 
igitur”). 

11 ’ords (f Institution. 

Oblation. 

Commemoration of dead. 

Union of consecrated elements. 
Elevation. 

■p,< 

OS 

a 

< 

Lord's Prayer. 

Embolismus. 

Union of consecrated elements. 

Canon, 

Lord's Prayer. 

Embolismus. 


Communion. 

Prayer. 

Dismissal by the deacons’ dec- 
laration, “ The mysteries are 
_ complete.” 


Communion. 

Thanksgiving. 

Dismissal with blessing. 


ii. There is also, in the second place, a substantial 1 
agreement among all the four great parent liturgies as 
to the formula of consecration (see Consecration; and 
comp. Blunt, Diet, of Doct. and J list. Theol. [>. 425-420). 

iii. Another point in which the four parent liturgies 
of the Church uniformly agree is in the well-defined 
sacerdotal character of their language. This is suffi- 
ciently illustrated hv the preceding comparative view. 


iv. The intercessory character of the primitive litur- 
gies is also a very conspicuous feature common to them 
all. The holy Eucharist is uniformly set forth and used 
in them as a service offered up to God for the benefit of 
all classes of Christians, living and departed. ‘‘Then,” 
says St. Cyril of Jerusalem, after the spiritual sacri- 
fice is perfected, the bloodless service upon that altar of 
propitiation, we entreat God for the common peace of 


LITURGY 


461 


LITURGY 


the Church ; for the tranquillity of the world ; for kings ; 
for soldiers and allies; lor the sick; for the afflicted; 
and, in a word, for all who stand in need of succor we 
all supplicate and offer this sacrifice. Then we com- 
memorate also those who have fallen asleep before us, 
first, patriarchs, prophets, apostles, martyrs, that at their 
prayers and intervention God would receive our petition. 
Afterward also on behalf of the holy fathers and bishops 
who have fallen asleep before 11 s, and, in a word, of all 
who in past years have fallen asleep among us, believing 
that it will be a very great advantage to the souls for 
whom the supplication is put up while that holy and 
most awful sacrifice is presented” (Catech. Led. xxiii, 9, 
10). St. Cyril was speaking thus in Jerusalem, where 
the liturgy used was that of St. James, and in that lit- 
urgy we find a noble intercession exactly answering to 
the description there given (Neale’s Translation, p. 52 ; 
Blunt’s Annot . Booh of Com. Prayer, p. 15G). A simi- 
lar intercession is to be found in the other liturgies, and 
it is evident that its use was one of the first principles 
of the Church of that day. 

111. Modern Greek and Eastern Liturgies. — Three litur- 
gies are in use in the modern Greek or Constantinopolitan 
Church, viz., those of Basil and of Chrysostom, and the 
liturgy of the Presanctificd. The liturgy bearing the 
name of Basil is used by the Constantinopolitan Church 
ten times in the year, viz., on the eve of Christmas 
Day; on the festival of St. Basil; on the eve of the 
Feast of Lights, or the Epiphany ; on the several Sun- 
days in Lent, except the Sunday before Easter, on the 
festival of the Virgin Mary; and on Good Friday, and j 
the following day, which is sometimes termed the great 
Sabbath. The liturgy ascribed to Chrysostom is read on 
all those days in the year on which the liturgies of Basil j 
and of the Presanctified are not used. The liturgy of 1 
the Presanctified is an office for the celebration of the 
Lord’s Supper on Wednesdays and Fridays during Lent, 
with the elements which had been consecrated on the 
preceding Sunday. The date of this liturgy is not 
known, some authors ascribing it to Gregory Thanma- 
turgus in the third century, while others ascribe it to 
Germanus, patriarch of Constantinople, in the eighth 
century. These liturgies arc used in all those Greek 
churches which are subject to the patriarch of Constan- 
tinople, and in those countries which were originally 
converted by Greeks, as in Russia, Georgia, Mingrelia, 
and by the Melchite patriarchs of Alexandria, Antioch, 
and Jerusalem (King’s Rites of the Greek Church, p. 131- 
134; Richard et Giraud’s Bibliotheqiie Sacree, xv, 222- 
224). The Coptic Jacobites, or Christians in Egypt, 
make use of the Liturgy of Alexandria, which formerly 
was called indifferently the Liturgy of St. Mark, the re- 
puted founder of the Christian Church at Alexandria, or 
the Liturgy of St. Cyril, who caused it to be committed 
to writing. The Egyptians had twelve liturgies, which 
are still preserved among the Abyssinians; but the patri- 
archs commanded that the Egyptian churches should 
use only three, viz., those of Basil, of Gregory the The- 
ologian, and of Cyril. The earliest liturgies of the 
Church of Alexandria were written in Greek, which was 
the vernacular language, until the fourth and fifth cen- 
turies; since that time they have been translated into 
the Coptic and Arabic languages. The Abyssinians or 
Ethiopians receive the twelve liturgies which were for- 
merly in use among the Coptic Jacobites ; they arc com- 
monly found in the following order, viz., l.The liturgy 
of St. John the Evangelist. 2. That of the three hundred 
and eighteen fathers present at the Council of Nice. 3. 
That of Epiphanius. 4. That of St. James of Sarug or 
Syrug. 5. That of St.John Chrysostom. G. That of 
Jesus Christ. 7. That of the Apostles. 8. That of St. 
Cyriac. 9. That of St. Gregory. 10. That of their patri- 
arch Dioscurus. 11. That of St. Basil. 12. That of St. 
Cyril. The Armenians who were converted to Christi- 
anity by Gregory, surnamed the Illuminator, have only 
one liturgy, which is supposed to be that of the Church 
of Caesarea in Cappadocia, in which city Gregory re- 


ceived his instruction. This liturgy is used on every 
occasion, even at funerals. The Syrian Catholics and 
Jacobites have numerous liturgies, bearing the names 
of St. James, St. Peter, St.John the Evangelist, St. Mark, 
St. Dionysius, bishop of Athens, St. Xystus, bishop of 
Rome, of the Twelve Apostles, of St. Ignatius, of St. Ju- 
lius, bishop of Rome, of St. Eustathius, of St. Chrysostom, 
of St.Marutlias, etc. Of these, the liturgy of St. James 
is most highly esteemed, and is the standard to which 
are referred all the others, which are chiefly used on the 
festivals of the saints whose names they bear. The 
Maronites, who inhabit Mount Lebanon, make use of a 
missal printed at Rome in 1594 in the Chaldeo-Syriac 
language: it contains thirteen liturgies under the names 
of St. Xystus, St. John Chrysostom, St.John the Evange- 
list, St. Peter, St. Dionysius, St. Cyril, St. Matthew, St. 

1 John the Patriarch, St. Eustathius, St. Maruthas, St. 

: James the Apostle, St. Mark the Evangelist, and a second 
liturgy of St. Peter. The Nestorians have three litur- 
gies — that of the Twelve Apostles, that of Theodoras, 

| surnamed the Interpreter, and a third under the name 
i of Nestorius. The Indian Christians of St. Thomas are 
said to make use of the Nestorian liturgies (Richard et 
Giraud, Bibliotheque Sacree, xv, 221-227). 

IV. Liturgies of the Church of Rome. — There are va- 
rious liturgical books in use in the modern Church of 
Rome, the greater part of which are common and gen- 
eral to all the members in communion with that Church, 
while others are permitted to be used only in particular 
places or by particular monastic orders. 

1. The Breviary (Latin breviarium ) is the book con- 
taining the daily service of the Church of Rome. It is 
frequently, but erroneously, confounded with Missal and 
Ritual. The Breviary contains the matins, lauds, etc., 
with the several variations to be made therein, accord- 
ing to the several days, canonical hours, and the like. 
It is general, and may be used in every place; but on 
the model of this have been formed various others, spe- 
cially appropriated to different religious orders, such as 
those of the Benedictines, Carthusians, Dominicans, 
Franciscans, Jesuits, and other monastic orders. The 
difference between these books and that which is by 
way of eminence designated the Roman Breviary, con- 
sists chiefly in the number and order of the psalms, 
hymns, ave-marias, pater-nosters, misereres, etc., etc. 
Originally the Breviary contained only the Lord’s 
Prayer and the Psalms which were used in the divine 
offices. To these were subsequently added lessons out 
of the Scriptures, according to tile institutes of the 
monks, in order to diversify the service of the Church. 
In the progress of time the legendary lives of the saints, 
replete with ill-attested facts, were inserted, in compli- 
ance with the opinions and superstition of the times. 
This gave occasion to many revisions and reformations 
of the Roman Breviary by the councils, particularly of 
Trent and Cologne, and also by several popes, as Greg- 
ory IX, Nicholas 1 II, Pius V, Clement VIII, and Urban 
VIII ; as likewise by some cardinals, especially cardinal 
Quignon, by whom various extravagances were removed, 
and the work was brought nearer to the simplicity of 
the primitive offices. In its present state the Breviary 
of the Church of Rome consists of the services of matins, 
lauds, prime, third, sixth, nones, vespers, complines, or 
the post-communion, that is of seven hours, on account 
of the saying of David, Septies in die laudem dixi — u Sev- 
en times a day do I praise thee” (Psa. cxix, 164). The 
obligation of reading this service-book every day, which 
at first was universal, was by degrees reduced to the 
beneficiary clergy alone, who are bound to do it on pain 
of being guilty of mortal sin, and of refunding their rev- 
enues in proportion to their delinquencies in discharg- 
ing this duty. The Roman Breviary is recited in the 
Latin language throughout the Romish Church, ex- 
cept among the Maronites in Syria, the Armenians, and 
some other Oriental Christians in communion with that 
Church, who rehearse it in their vernacular dialects. 

2. The Jfissal, or volume employed in celebrating 


LITURGY 


462 


LITURGY 


mass. According to a tradition generally believed by I 
members of the Komisli Church, this liturgy owes its 
origin to St. l’eter. The eanon of the mass was eom- j 
mitted to writing about the middle of the fifth century. 
Various additions were subsequently made, especially by 
Gregory the Great, who reduced the whole into better 
order. This Missal is in general use throughout the 
liomish Church. See 31 ass. 

3. The Ceremoniale contains the various offices peculiar 
to the pope. It is divided into three, books, the first of 
which treats of the election, consecration, benediction, 
and coronation of the pope, the canonization of saints, I 
creation of cardinals, the form and manner of holding a 
council, and the funeral ceremonies on the death of a 
pope or of a cardinal, besides various public ceremonies 
to be performed by the pope as a sovereign prince. The 
second book prescribes what divine offices are to be cel- 
ebrated by the pope, and on what days; and the third 
discusses the reverence which is to be shown to popes, 
cardinals, bishops, and other persons performing sacred 
duties; the vestments and ornaments of the popes and 
cardinals when celebrating divine service ; the order in 
which they are severally to be seated in the papal chapel; 
incensing the altar, etc. The compiler of this liturgi- 
cal work is not known. 

4. The Pontificate describes the various functions 
which are peculiar to bishops in the Romish Church, 
such as the conferring of ecclesiastical orders; the pro- 
nouncing of benedictions on abbots, abbesses, and nuns; 
the coronation c>f sovereigns; the form and manner of 
consecrating churches, burial-grounds, and the various 
vessels used in divine service; the public expulsion of 
penitents from the Church, and reconciling them; the 
mode of holding a synod; suspending, reconciling, dis- 
pensing, deposing, and degrading priests, and of restor- 
ing them again to orders; the manner of excommuni- 
cating and absolving, etc., etc. 

5. The Rituale treats of all those functions which are 
to be performed by simple priests or the inferior clergy, 
both in the public service of t lie Church, and also in the 
exercise of their private pastoral duties. The Pastorate 
corresponds with the Rituale , and seems to be only an- 
other name for the same book, 

V. Continental Reformed or Protestant Liturgies . — At 
the time of the Reformation there were, of necessity, j 
great changes in the matter of public worship. The 
liturgies in use at its commencement included the prev- 
alent doctrinal system, especially as connected with the 
Lord’s Supper; and very soon changes were made hav- 
ing in view the repudiation of Romish error, and the 
adaptation of reformed worship to the restored system of 
scriptural doctrine. The old forms, moreover, had there 
been no objection to them doctrinally, were liable to the 
practical objection that they were locked up from popu- 
lar use in a dead language. The Reformation, to a very 
great degree, had opened the ears of the people to the 
intelligent hearing and reception of Christian doctrine. 
Its task now was to open their mouths to the intelligent 
utterance of supplication — in other words, to provide 
forms of worship in the vernacular. This was done 
very largely by selection and translation from old forms, 
and, as was necessary, by the preparation of new ma- 
terial. With the English and Lutheran Reformers, the 
object seems to have, been to make as few changes in 
existing forms as possible. I )oubtful expressions, which 
admitted of a Protestant interpretation, but which, for 
their own merits, would never have been seleeted, were 
thus retained. It is to be said for the Reformers that 
they seem to have acted in view of the existing circum- 
stances of the communities by which they were sur- 
rounded, and from one of them, the most eminent of all. 
Luther, we have the distinct disavowal of all wish and 
expectation that his work, in this respect, should be im- 
posed upon other churches or continued in Lis own any 
longer than it was found for edification. 

a . Lutheran Liturgies. — As first among the Reform- 
ers we notice these liturgical works of Luther. Differ- 


ent offices were prepared by him, as needed by the 
churches under his influence, the earliest in. 1523, the 
latest in 1534. These were afterwards collected in a 
volume, and became a model for others. In his “ Or- 
der of Service” provision is made for daily worship in a 
service for morning and evening, and a third might be 
held if desirable. These services consist of reading the 
Scriptures, preaching or expounding, with psalms and 
responsoria, with the addition, for Sundays, of mass or 
communion. lie dwells earnestly, however, upon the 
idea, already mentioned, that these forms are not to be 
considered binding otherwise than in their appropriate 
times and localities. These views and this action of 
Luther were responded to by similar action on the part 
of the churches which through him had received the 
doctrines of the Reformation. These drew up liturgies 
for themselves, some of them bearing a close resem- 
blance to that of Wittemberg, others differing from it 
widely; the differences, in one direction, being condi- 
tioned by the Zwinglian or Calvinistic element, in the 
opposite by the Romish. These, in particular localities, 
have been changed at different times as circumstances 
seemed to require. No one Lutheran form has ever 
been accepted as obligatory upon all Lutheran church- 
es, as is the ease with the liturgy of the Church of Eng- 
land in all its dependencies ; although it is claimed that 
there is essential unity — an essential unity of fife and 
I spirit in all these unessential diversities as to outward 
! form of particular states and churches. The tendency 
| of the Rationalism of the last century was to neglect, to 
depreciate, and to mutilate the old liturgies, and then 
to procure changes which would substitute others in 
their stead. From this, and in connection with another 
movement, has followed a healthful reaction. This re- 
action may be seen in its effects upon the two great 
classes into which Lutheran Germany is now divided. 
It has controlled to a very great degree the efforts of 
the Unionists, has given form to the Union liturgy, and 
it is leading those who are opposed to this movement 
to a more careful study and diligent use of the older 
liturgies. The object of this new liturgy, that of the 
king of Prussia, first published in 1822, revised onee or 
twice since then, is to unite the worship of the mem- 
bers of the Lutheran and Reformed churches in the 
Prussian dominions. The excitement connected with 
this movement, in the way of attack and defence, has 
given a deeper and wider interest to all liturgical ques- 
tions — an interest deeply felt by the Lutheran churches 
of this country. Here, where the use of such forms is 
optional, the number of congregations returning to such 
use is on the increase. See Lutiier axism. 

In Sweden, which, although Lutheran, retains the 
episcopate, and may seem to demand a more special no- 
1 tice. there was published in 1811 a new, revised edition 
of the Liturgy, prepared at the time of the Reformation. 
This is divided into chapters, and contains the usual 
parts of a Church service, with forms for baptism, mar- 
riage, etc. In Denmark there is also a regularly con- 
stituted liturgy, of Bugenhageu’s, which, besides morn- 
ing and evening service for Sundays, contains three 
services for each of the three great festivals of Christ- 
inas, Easter, and Pentecost. 

h. Moravian Liturgy. — The liturgy of the Moravi- 
ans. as recipients, through their great leader, of the 
Augsburg Confession, is not without its interest in this 
connection. It was first published in 1G32. That which 
has been adopted by the renewed Moravian Church is 
mainly the work of count Zinzendorf, who compiled it 
chiefly from the services of the Greek and Latin church- 
es, but who also availed himself of the valuable labors 
of Luther and of the English Reformers. The United 
Brethren at present make use of a Church litany, intro- 
duced into the morning service of every Sunday ; a lit- 
any for the morning of Easter-day, containing a short 
but comprehensive confession of faith ; two offices for 
the baptism of adults, and two for the baptism of chil- 
dren; two litanies at burials; and offices for eonfirma- 


LITURGY 


4G3 


LITURGY 


tion, the holy communion, and for ordination ; the Te 
Deum, and doxologies adapted to various occasions. All 
these liturgical forms in use in England are comprised 
in the new and revised edition of the Liturgy and Hymns 
for the Use of the Protestant Church of the United Breth- 
ren (London, 1849). Other services peculiar to this 
Church, which are called “liturgies,” consist mainly of a 
choral, with musical responsoria as a litany. This litany 
is for Sundays. There is a short prayer of betrothal, 
a baptismal office, also a form on Easter, used in the 
church-yards, of expressing their confidence in regard to 
the brethren departed of the year preceding. The daily 
service, which is in the evening, is a simple prayer- 
meeting. In this, as in the Sunday service, the prayers 
and exhortations are extemporaneous. 

c. Culcinistic Liturgies. — The liturgy of Calvin, 
which, like that of Luther, constitutes the type of a 
class, differs from this latter in two important respects — 
the absence of responsive portions, and the discretion 
conferred upon the offieiator in the performance of pub- 
lic worship. This discretion seems to have been limit- 
ed, however, to the use of one form of prayer rather 
than another, given in the Directory. These prayers 
were read by the pastor from the pulpit. The service 
began with a general confession, was followed by a 
psalm, prayer again, sermon, prayer, the Apostles’ Creed, 
and benediction. Two additional prayers were pro- 
vided for occasions of communion, one coming before, 
the other after ; also a very long one of deprecation in 
times of war, calamity, etc. For the administration of 
the Lord’s Supper there is an exhortation as to its in- 
tent — “ fencing the tables,” as it is called in Scotland. 
This is followed by the distribution of the elements, 
with psalms and passages of Scripture appropriate to 
the occasion. The offices of baptism and marriage are 
simple, but not discretionary as to their form. In ac- 
cordance with what seems to be the peculiar Genevan 
characteristic, they are not wanting in length. 

The present liturgy of Geneva is a development of 
that of Calvin, with certain modifications. It has no 
responses. Several additional prayers have been added. 
A distinct service for each day in the week is provided, 
also for the principal festivals, and for certain special 
occasions. So also as to the churches in sympathy with 
the system of Calvin. They have liturgies similar to 
that of Geneva, although not identical. Sueh is the 
case with the churches of Holland and Neufchatel, and 
the Reformed ehurehes of France. A new edition of 
the old French Liturgy of 1562 was published in 1826, 
with additional forms for special occasions. The liturgy 
of the Church of Scotland is in some respects different. 
It was drawn up at Frankfurt by Knox and others, after 
the model of Calvin’s, and was first used by Knox in a 
congregation of English exiles at Geneva. It was af- 
terwards introduced by him into Scotland; its use en- 
joined in 1564, and such usage was continued until after 
his death. An edition of this liturgy was published in 
1811 by Dr. Gumming. It differs from that of Calvin 
in that it more clearly leaves to the minister officiating 
to deeide whether he shall use any form of prayer given 
or one of his own compositions extemporaneously or 
otherwise. It begins with the confession, as in Calvin’s, 
and with the same form. This is followed by a psalm, 
bv prayer, the sermon, prayer, psalm, and benediction. 
The book contains various offices and alternate forms; 
among other things, an order of excommunication, and 
a treatise on fasting, with a form of prayer for private 
houses, and grace before and after meals. The new 
book of Scotland of 1644 may be regarded as a modifi- 
cation of those of Knox and Calvin. In the Directory 
of the Westminster Assembly the discretionary power 
is greatly enlarged. Scriptural lessons are to be read 
in regular course, the quantity at the discretion of the 
minister, with liberty, if he see fit, of expounding. 
Heads of prayer in that before the sermon are pre- 
scribed, and rules for the arrangement of the sermon. 
The Lord’s Prayer ia recommended as the most perfect 


form of devotion. Private and lay baptism are forbid- 
den. The arrangement of the Lord’s table is to be such 
that communicants may sit about it, and the dead are 
to be buried without prayer or religious ceremony. 

d. Intermediate between these two great families of 
liturgies, the Lutheran and Calvinistic, are those of the 
other Reformed churches on the Continent. It may 
be said, in general, that the German-speaking portion 
of these churches approach and partake of the Lutheran 
spirit and forms, and the Swiss of the Calvinistic, t hough 
there are individual exceptions. In 1523, the same year 
with Luther's work already mentioned, Zwingle and Leo 
Judah published at Zurich offices for baptism, the Lord’s 
Supper, marriage, common prayer, and burial. This 
was followed by a more complete work in 1525, and sub- 
sequently by others. Similar works were published at 
Berne, Sehaffhausen, and Basle at a later period. The 
peculiarity of these, according to Ebrard, quoted in Her- 
zog, “is the liturgical character in the celebration of 
the Lord’s Supper, in which they compare favorably 
with the Calvinistic liturgies; also the custom of an- 
nouncing the dead, and the special prayers for the fes- 
tivals.” The liturgical issues which during this cen- 
tury have agitated the Lutheran Church have extended 
to those of the Reformed, not, however, to the same ex- 
tent, nor with results of such decided character. 

VI. Liturgies in the English Language. — Previous to 
the introduction of the Reformation on Anglican ground, 
the publie service of the English churches was, like 
that of other Western churches, performed in the Lat- 
in language. But, though the language was univer- 
sally Latin, the liturgy itself varied greatly in the dif- 
ferent parts of the kingdom. The dioceses of Bangor, 
Hereford, Lincoln, Sarum, York, and other churches, 
used liturgies which were commonly designated by the 
“ Uses,” ami of these the most celebrated were the 
Breviary and Missal, etc., secundum usum Sarum , com- 
piled by Osmund, bishop of Salisbury, about the year 
1080, and reputed to be executed with sueh exact- 
ness according to the rules of the Romish Church that 
they were also employed in divine service in many 
churches on the Continent. They consisted of prayers 
and offices, some of whieh bad been transmitted from 
very ancient times, and others were of later origin, ac- 
commodated to the Romish religion. Compare Maskell, 
The Ancient Liturgy of the Church of England , accord- 
ing to the Uses of Sarum , Bangor. York , Hereford , and 
the Modern Homan Liturgy (London, 1844, 8vo). Also 
by the same, Monument a Ritualia Ecclesice A nglicance ; 
or , Occasional Offices of the Church of England , ac- 
cording to the Ancient Use of Salisbury ; the Prymer in 
English, and other Prayers and Forms (London, 1846, 3 
vols. 8vo). 

The first attempt in England to introduce the ver- 
nacular was made in 1536, when, in pursuance of Henry 
VIII’s injunctions, the Bible, Pater-noster, Creed, and 
Decalogue were set forth and placed in churches, to be 
read in English. In 1545 the King's Primer was pub- 
lished, containing a form of morning and evening prayer 
in English, besides the Lord’s Prayer, Creed, and Ten 
Commandments, the Seven Penitential Psalms, Litany, 
and other devotions, and in 1547, on the accession of Ed- 
ward VI, archbishop Cranmer, bishop Ridley, and elev- 
en other eminent divines, martyrs, and confessors, were 
commissioned to draw up a liturgy in the English lan- 
guage “ free from those unfounded doctrines and super- 
stitious ceremonies which had disgraced the Latin litur- 
gies;” and this was ratified by aet of Parliament in 1548, 
and published in 1549. This liturgy is commonly known 
and cited as the First Prayer-Book of Edward IT. In 
the great body of their work Cranmer and his associates 
derived their materials from the earlier services which 
had been in use in England; “but in the occasional of- 
fices they were indebted to the labors of Melanethon 
and Bueer, and through them to the older liturgy of Nu- 
remberg, whieh those reformers were instructed to fol- 
low” (Dr. Cardwell’s Two Books of Common Prayer , set 


LITURGY 


4G4 


LIVER 


forth ... in the reign o f King Edward the Sixth, com- 
pared. p. xiv, Oxford, 1838). In consequence, however, 
of exceptions being taken at some things in this book, 
which were thought to savor too much of superstition, 
it underwent another revision, and was further altered 
in 1551, when it was again contirmed by Parliament. 
This edition is usually cited as the /Second Troyer-book 
of Edward VL: it is very nearly the same with that 
which is at present in use. The tiro Liturgies, A.D. 

3 541) and A.D. 155*2, with other Documents , set forth bg 
Authority in the Reign of King Edward 1 V, were very 
carefully edited for the Parker Society by the Rev. Jo- 
seph Ketley, M.A., at the Cambridge University Press, 
in 1814, in octavo. The two acts of Parliament (2 and 
3 Edward VI, c. 1, and 5 and 6 Edward VI, c. 1) which 
hail been passed for establishing uniformity of divine 
service were repealed in the first year of l^ueen Mary, 
who restored the Latin liturgies according to the popish 
forms of worship. On the accession of Elizabeth, how- 
ever, the Prayer-book was restored, and has been in use 
ever since. For the later history of the subject, includ- 
ing liturgical books in England, Scotland, and America, 
see Common Prayer. 

Among the curiosities of the subject we notice the 
following : 

(</.) Liturgy of the Primitive Episcopal Church . — 
u The Book of Common Prayer , and Administration of 
the Sacraments and other Rites and Ceremonies of the 
Church, according to the Use of the Primitive Episcopal 
Church , revived in England in the Year of our Redemp- 
tion One thousand eight hundred and thirty-one, together 
with the Psalter or Psalms of David," though bearing 
the imprint of London, was printed at Liverpool, but 
was never published. It was edited by the Lev. George 
Montgomery West, M.A., a presbyter of the Protestant 
Episcopal Church in the state and diocese of Ohio, in 
North America. This volume is of great rarity, not 
more than five or six copies being found in the libraries 
of the curious in ecclesiastical matters. The liturgy of 
the Protestant Episcopal Church in the United {States 
of America is the basis of this edition, excepting two or 
three alterations in the office for the ministration of 
baptism, and a few verbal alterations to fit it for use in 
England and in Ireland. “The Primitive Episcopal 
Church, revived in England in 1831,” had a short exist- 
ence of little more than twelve months. 

(5.) Deistical Liturgy. — In 1752 a liturgy was pub- 
lished in Liverpool by some of the Presbyterians, as 
Antitriuitarians are often called in England, but Christ's 
name is hardly mentioned in it, and the third part of 
the Godhead is not at all recognised in it. It is known 
also by the name of “ Liverpool Liturgy.” In 1770 was 
published “ A Liturgy on the universal Principles of Re- 
ligion and Morality;" it was compiled by David Wil- 
liams, with the chimerical design of uniting all parties 
and persuasions in one comprehensive form. This lit- 
urgy is composed in imitation of the Book of Common 
Prayer, with responses celebrating the divine perfec- 
tions and works, with thanksgivings, confessions, and 
supplications. The principal part of three of the hymns 
for morning and evening service is selected from the 
works of N1 ilton and Thomson, though considerable use 
is made of the language of the Scriptures (see Orton, 
Letters, i, 80 sq.; Pogue and Ilennett , Ilist. of the Dis- 
senters , iii,342). 

VII. Literature. — Of bibliographical treatises on the 
literature of liturgy we may name Zaccaria, Bibliotheca 
Ritualis (Lome, 1776-8, 4 vols. 4to); Gneranger, Institu- 
tions JAturgiqnes (Paris, 1840-51); Kcrcher , Bibliotheca \ 
Liturgica, etc., p. 690-866; Liturgies and other Documents 
of the Ante-Nicenc Period (Ante-Niccne Library, Edinb. 
1872, 8vo). Special works of note on the subject of lit- j 
urgv are: J. Goar, EuyoXoyion, sire Ritualc Grdcomm, 
etc., Gr. and Lat. (Par. 1647 ; Venice, 1740) ; .Jos. Aloys. 
Assemani (R.C.).f ’odex Liturgicus ecrlesue universer .... 
in quo continentur libri rituales , missales, pontificates, of- 
Jicia, dypticha, etc., ecclesiarum Occidentis et Orientis 


(published under the auspices of pope Boniface XIV, 
Kome^ 1749-66, 13 vols.); Euseb. Renaudot (R.C.), Li - 
turgiarum Orimtalium collect io( Paris, 1716 ; reprinted in 
1847, 2 vols,); L. A. Muratori (Ik C.), Liturgia Romana 
vet us (Venet. 1748, 2 vols.), contains the three Roman 
sacramentaires of Leo, Gelasius, and Gregory I, also the 
Missale Gothicum, and a learned introductory disserta- 
tion — De rebus liturgicis ; W. Palmer (Anglican), Ori- 
\ gines Liturgicee (Loud. 1832 and 1845, 2 vols. 8vo) [with 
; special reference to the Anglican liturgy]; Thos. Brett, 
i Collection of the Principal Liturgies used in the Christian 
j Church in the celebration of the Eucharist, particularly 
I the ancient (translated into English), with a Dissertation 
upon them (London, 1838) ; W. Trollope (Anglican), The 
Greek Liturgy of St. James (Edinb. 1848); Daniel (Lu- 
theran, the most learned German liturgist), Codex Litnr- 
gicus ecclesice universer. in cpitomem redactus (Lips. 1847 
sq., 4 vols. ; vol. i contains the Roman, vol. iv the Orient- 
al liturgies); Fr.J.Mone (Ik C.), Lateinische u. Grieeh- 
ische Messen aus dem 2 Un bis 6 f(n Jahrhundert (Frankf. a. 
M.1850), contains valuable treatises on the Gallican, Af- 
rican, and Roman Mass; J.M. Neale (Anglican, the most 
learned English ritualist and liturgist), Tetralogia litur- 
gica ; sive St. Chrysostom , St. Jacobi, St. Maid diviner 
misste : quibus accedit ordo Mozarabicus (Lond. 1849) ; 
the same, The Liturgies of St. Mark, St. James, St. Clem- 
ent, St. Chrysostom, St. Basil, or according to the L\se of 
the Churches of Alexandria, Jerusalem, Constantinople 
(Lond. 1859, folio, in the Greek original; and the same 
liturgies in an English translation, with an introduction 
and appendices, also at London, 1859); the same, Ilist. of 
the llolg Eastern Ch. (Lond. 1850-72, 5 vols. 8vo; Gen. 
Introd. vol. ii) ; the same, Essays on Liturgiology and Ch. 
History (Lond. 1863) [this work, dedicated to the metro- 
politan Philaret of Moscow, is a collection of various 
learned treatises of the author from the Christian Re- 
membrance)’, on the Roman and Gallican Breviary, the 
Church Collects, the Mozarabic and Ambrosian liturgies, 
liturgical quotations, etc.] ; Bi ntcrim, Denkwiirdigkeiten 
d. Christ.- Kat hoi. Kirche , Freeman, Principles of Divine 
Service (Oxf. 1855, $vo, enlarged in 1863) ; Mabillon, De 
Liturgia Gallicana , etc. (1865) , Etheridge, Syrian Ch. 
p. 188 sq. ; Coleman, Ancient Christianity Exemplified, p. 

I 284 sq. ; and his Manual of Prelacy and Ritualism (Phila. 
1869, 12mo), p. 275 sq. ; Riddle, Christian A ntiquities , p. 
396 sq., G02 sq. ; Siegel, Jlandb. d. Christl. Kirchl. A Iter - 
thinner, iii, 202 sq. , Augusti, Handb. d. Christl. A rchceol. 
i, 191 sq.; ii, 537 sq. ; iii, 704 sq., 714 sq. ; Blunt, Diet, of 
Hist, ami Doctr. Theol. s. v., and Eadic, Eccles. Diet. s. v. ; 
Bunsen, Christianity and Mankind (Lond. 1854), vol. vii, 
which contains Reliquue Liturgicer (the Irvingite work); 
Readings upon the Liturgy arid other Divine Offices of the 
Church (London, 1848-54); IIdfiing,L*7«?v//,sc/<es Urkun- 
denbuch (Leipz. 1854) ; llefele (C. Jos I), Bcitr.su Kirch - 
cngcsch. A rchdol. u. Liturgik (Tub. 1864), vol. ii : Dbllin- 
ger, Heathenism and Judaism ; Schaff, Ch. Hist, ii, § 100 ; 
Edinb. Review, 1852 (April) : The Round Table, 1867 (Au- 
gust 10); New Englander, 1861 (July), art. vi; Mercers- 
burg Review , 1871 (January), art. v ; Brit, and For. Miss. 
Rev. 1857 (July). (C.W.) 

Liutprand. See Luttprand. 

Liver (125 , l abed', so called as being the heaviest of 
the viscera) occurs in Exod. xxix, 13, 22 ; Lev. iii, 4, 10, 
15; iv, 9; vii, 4; viii, 16, 25; ix, 10, 19; Prov. vii, 23; 
Lam. ii, 11 ; Ezek. xxi, 21. In the Pentateuch it forms 
part of the phrase translated in the Authorized Version 
“the caul that is above the liver,” but which Gesenius 
{Thesaur. llcb. p. 645, 646), reasoning from the root, un- 
derstands to be the great lobe of the liver itself rather 
than the caul over it, which latter, he observes, is incon- 
siderable in size, and has but little fat. Jahn thinks the 
smaller lobe to be meant. The phrase is also rendered 
in the Sept. “ the lobe or lower pendent of the liver,” the 
chief object of attention in the art of hepatoscopv, or 
divination by the liver, among the ancients. (Jerome 
gives “ the net of the liver,” “ the suet,” and “ the fat;” 


LIVERPOOL LITURGY 


465 


LIVING CREATURES 


see Bochart, Ilieroz. \, 498.) See Caul. It appears 
from the same passages that it was burnt upon the al- 
tar, and not eaten as sacrificial food (Jalin, Bill. Ar- j 
chicol. § 378, n. 7). The liver was supposed by the an- 
cient Greeks and Romans to be the seat of the passions 
— pride, love, etc. (see Anaercon, Ode iii, fin. ; Theocritus, 
Idyll xi, 16; Horace, Carm. i, 13, 4 ; 25, 15; iv, 1, 12; 
and the Notes of the Delpliin edition. Comp, also Per- 
sius, Sat. v, 129 ; Juvenal, Sat. v, 647). Some have ar- 
gued that the same symbol prevailed among the Jews 
(rendering *nh2, in Gen. xlix, 6, “ my licer instead of 
“ my honor,” Sept, rd ijirara ; compare the Hebrew of 
Psa. xvi, 9; lvii, 9; cviii, 2), but Gesenius ( Iltbr . Lex. 
s. v. ‘Tins) denies this signification in those passages. 
Wounds in the liver were supposed to be mortal ; thus 
the expression in Trov. vii, 23, “a dart through his liv- 
er,” and Lam. ii, 11, “my liver is poured ont upon the 
earth,” are each of them a periphrasis for death itself. 
/Eschyhis uses a similar phrase to describe a mortal 
wound (.1 gamemnon , 1. 442). See Heart. 

The passage in Ezekiel (xxi, 21) contains an interest- 
ing reference to the most ancient of all modes of divina- 
tion, by the inspection of the viscera of animals, and 
even of mankind, saerificially slaughtered for the pur- 
pose. It is there said that the king of Babylon, among 
other modes of divination referred to in the same verse, 
“ looked upon the liver.” The liver -was always con- 
sidered the most important organ in the ancient art of 
Exthpidum , or divination by the entrails. Philostra- 
tus felicitously describes it as “the prophesying tripod 
of all divination” {Life of Apollonius, viii, 7, 5). The 
rules by which the Greeks and Romans judged of it are 
amply detailed in Adams’s Roman Antiquities , p. 261 sq. 
(Lond. 1834), and in Potter’s A rchceologia Gr excel, i, 316 
(Lond. 1775). Vitruvius suggests a plausible theory of 
the first rise of hepatoscopy. lie says the ancients in- 
spected the livers of those animals which frequented the 
places where they wished to settle, and if they found 
the liver, to which they chiefly ascribed the process of 
sanguification, was injured, they concluded that the wa- 
ter and nourishment collected in such localities were 
unwholesome (i, 4). But divination is coeval and co- 
extensive with a belief in the divinity. Cicero ascribes 
divination by this and other means to what he calls 
the heroic ages,” by which term we know he means a 
period antecedent to all historical documents (De Did - 
natione). Prometheus, in the play of that title (i,474 
sq.), lays claim to having taught mankind the different 
kinds of divination, and that of extispicy among the rest; 
and Prometheus, according to Servius (ad Vug. Eel. vi, 
42), instructed the Assyrians ; and we know from sacred 
record that Assyria was one of the countries first peo- 
pled. It is further important to remark that the first 
recortled instance of divination is that of the teraphim 
of Laban, a native of Padan-Aram, a district bordering 
on that country (1 Sam. xix, 13, 16), but by which tera- 
phim both the Sept, and Josephus understood “ the licer 
of goats” {Ant. vi, 11,4). See Teraphiji. Sec gener- 
ally Whiston’s Josephus, p. 169, note (Edinb. 1828) ; Bo- 
ehart, i, 41, De Caprarum Nominibus ; Encyclopaedia Me - 
tropolilana , s. v. Divination; Rosenmuller’s Scholia on 
the several passages referred to; Pcrizonius, adJElian. 
ii, 31; Pe ucer, De Preeeipuis Didnationum Gencribus , 
etc. (Wittemberg, 1560). — Kitto. See Divination. 

Liverpool Liturgy. See Liturgy. 

Living Creatures. These, as presented in Ezek. 
i-x, and Rev. iv sq., are identical with the cherubim. 
Besides the general resemblance in form, position, and 
service, we have, Ezek. x, 20 : “I know that they were 
the cherubim.” Ezekiel, being a priest, was familiar 
With these symbolical forms. The living ones present 
some variations from the cherubim, but not greater than 
appear in the cherubim themselves. The discussion of 
their forms and probable uses has already been given, 
and is not here resumed. Sec Cherub. They are taken 
up here to give a more careful attention to their symbol - 
V.-Gg 


ical utility. The importance of these symbols is mani- 
fest, 1, in the very minute description of them ; 2, in the 
fact that they do in some way pervade the entire pe- 
riod of grace, from the expulsion of Adam till, in the 
apocalyptic vision, we arrive at the gates of the city, 
having a right to the tree of life in the midst of the par- 
adise of God — such a right as man in innocence never 
attained. They were placed first at the front of the 
garden of Eden; renewed in the tabernacle; extended 
in the Temple; resumed in the visions of Ezekiel; in- 
corporated in the book of Psalms ; and in the prospec- 
tive history of Revelation they are left with us till the 
end of the world. The seraphim of Isaiah (ch. vi) ap- 
pear in all respects to be the same ; though differing in 
name and in position, they perform the same service. 
Even the idolatrous images, the teraphim, were proba- 
bly an unwarranted and superstitious imitation of the 
figures at the east of Eden. True, there are periods 
when they are under a cloud, e. g. from the Deluge till 
the erecting of the tabernacle ; still, we dare not say 
they were extinct, for before the tabernacle was built in 
the wilderness we read of another, called the tabernacle 
of the congregation (Exod. xxxiii, 7-11). There is 
much mystery about them, and many mistakes occur 
among expositors in relation to them. 1. They are not 
angels, nor do they represent the peculiar ministry of 
angels, (g) The Scriptures know no such orders as 
angels, archangels, cherubim, anil seraphim ; the orders 
of angelic nature are described as thrones, dominions, 
principalities, powers (Col. i, 16). (b) Angelic power 

would have been a very ineffectual agency for offsetting 
the sword of flame, and was not needed to wield that 
sword which turns on its own axis, (c) The living 
ones arc distinguished from angels in Rev. xv, 7. (d) 

They join the elders in the new song, “Hast redeemed 
us to God by thy blood,” etc. (Rev. v, 9). {e) Angels 

take but a small part in the direct administration of 
grace; they rather point the inquirer, and furnish as- 
sistance to the administrator (Acts x, 3 ; Rev. i, 1 : 1 
Chron. xxi, 18; Acts xii, 7). 2. Nothing vindictive or 

judicial belongs to them, (a) There is no need of such 
power ; the sword and the fire imbody the whole power 
of justice, (b) We never find them executing judgment, 
though they concur in it when executed, (c) They 
warn of danger from divine justice (Isa. vi, 3-5). (rZ) 
They call attention to justice (Rev. vi, 1, 3, 5, 7). (e) 

They deliver the commission to those who execute it 
(Ezek. x, 2, 7 ; Rev. xv, 7). (f) They join in celebra- 

ting the triumph over the victims of judgment (Rev. 
xix, 4). Very different is their function in the admin- 
istration of grace; there they make application of the 
remedy to the very spot (Isa. vi, 6, 7). 3. They are not 
devoid of human sympathy, {a) They have the face 
of a man. (6) They have the hands of a man under 
their wings (Ezek. i, 8). (c) When the prophet was 

alarmed (“undone”), one of them brought him instant 
relief— just such relief as he felt in need of. (d) The 
throne which they bear has a man above upon it (Ezek. 
i, 26). (e) In Rev. iv, 6, we find them in the midst of 

the same throne, and round about it. (f) Th’ev asso- 
ciate with the elders in sympathy with the one hundred 
and forty-four thousand who sing the new song (Rev. 
xiv, 3), and with the Chureh in celebrating the over- 
throw of her enemies (Rev. xix, 4). They thus abound 
in the sympathies of a redeemed humanity. 

(I.) In general terms they represent mercy, as contra- 
distinguished from justice. 1. They are distinct from 
the sword, as already shown. If, in Ezek. i, 6, they 
seem to be evolved out of the fire, this is no more than 
we have already in the first promise, where the death of 
death is our life; and in Rsa. cxxxvi, 10 sq. 2. They 
were united to the Wacm'ipiov, the mercv-scat itself. 
3. They belonged to the holy of holies, both the larger 
figures of olive-tree, and the smaller of pure gold ; but 
this chamber was a type of heaven (Heb. ix. 24). 4. 

Other cherubic emblems were wrought on the inner cur- 
| tains of the tabernacle, and iimer walls of the Temple, 


LIVINGSTON 


46G 


LIVINGSTON 


both Solomon's and Ezekiel’s (1 Kings vi, 29 ; Ezek. xli, 
18-20). All is merev inside of the Temple. 5. The like 
figures were made on the washstands of the Temple, in- 
terspersed with lions and oxen (1 Kings vii, 29; “lions 
and palm-trees,” ver. 30 ; comp. Eph. v, 26 ; Titus iii, 5). 
0. The firmament over their heads, with its throne and 
man upon it (Ezek. i, 20, 27, combines Exod. xxiv, 10 
with Rev. i, 15). 7. The iids surrounding all this glory 

of the Lord puts on the finish to that institution where 
mercy rejoices against judgment (Ezek. i, 28). 

(II.) They seem to represent mercy in its dispensa- 
tion , so to speak — in its instrumentalities, with all their 
interesting and happy varieties. While the sword = the 
whole power of justice, deters man from entering the 
earthly paradise ; drives men away in their wickedness ; 
awakes against the Shepherd ; torments enemies in the 
second death ; on the contrary, the living ones represent 
the entire administration of merev (Ezek. i, 12: “ Whith- 
er the spirit was to go, they went ver. 20 : “ Thither 
was their spirit to go”). Whether an organized Church, 
an open Bible, an altar, or a temple; whether patriarchs 
or prophets, priests or presbyters ; apostles, John the 
Baptist, or Christ himself; evangelists, pastors, or teach- 
ers ; whether angelic messengers, or little children, be 
the instrumentalities in dispensing the grace of God, 
the qualities of cherubim are, and ought to be, the char- 
acteristics with which they are imbued : the courage 
and power of the lion ; the patience and perseverance 
of the ox ; the sublimity, rapidity, and penetration of 
the eagle; with the sympathetic love and prudent fore- 
cast of our own humanity; each one full of eyes, within 
and without (Eph. iv, 16). In this view they do, as it 
were, bring God near to men. 

('ll!.) The cherubim, in this dispensation of mercy, 
bring out prominently the idea of the throne of God — 
t he throne of grace (Ezek. i, 26 : “ Likeness of a throne”). 
In Psalm xeix, 1, “The Lord reigneth” is parallel with 
“inhabiting the cherubim.” Both in the tabernacle 
and Temple the Shekinah was between the two cher- 
ubim, which seemed to constitute, with the lid of the 
ark. the very throne itself, according to Exod. xxv, 22, 
and Ezek. xliii, 7. In the versions of Ezekiel, the cher- 
ubim seem to support the throne ; in Isa. vi, 2, and Rev. 
iv, 6-9, they appear as attendants. To the English 
reader the seraphim might seem to be above the throne , 
but the original places them above the Temple , in which 
position they may still be below the throne, for the 
skirts of his robe flow down and till the holy house. 

(IV.) The idea of carrying the throne, or bearing 
royalty in his throne from one place to another, brings 
us to the acme of the whole cherubic system — “ the 
chariot of the Lord." The key-note of this is given in 
1 Chron. xxviii, 18*: “Gold for the pattern of the char- 
iot .... the cherubim that spread out their wings and 
covered the ark of the covenant of the Lord;” compare' 
Psa. xviii, 10 : “ lie rode upon a cherub and Ilab. iii, 
8, 13, 15. These figures constituted a “moving throne." 
See Creature. ( R. 11.) 

Livingston, Gilbert Robert, D.D., a (Dutch) 
Reformed minister, a descendant of the celebrated Rev. 
John Livingston (q. v.), was born at Stamford, Conn., 
Oct. 8, 1786, and graduated at Union College in 1805. 
lie studied theology under Rev. Dr. Perkins, of Great 
Hartford, Conn., and Rev. Dr. John Henry Livingston 
(q. v.). In 1811 he became pastor of the Reformed Dutch 
Church in Coxsaekic, N.Y., where about six hundred per- 
sons were the fruits of his ministry of fifteen years. In 
1826 he removed to Philadelphia as pastor of the First 
(Dutch) Reformed (or Crown Street) Church. Here 
again his ministry was greatly blessed, three hundred 
and twenty persons being added to the Church, and 
over one hundred in a single year. He died March 9, 
1831. He was a man of large, physical frame, benevo- 
lent countenance, and amiable temper. Ilis preaching 
was practical, and addressed more to the understanding 
and conscience of the people than to their feelings. Ilis 
pastoral labors were incessant and successful. At one 


period of his life he embraced what were generally 
known as “New Measures,” but he lived to abandon 
them in his later ministry. A single sermon and a 
tract are all that he is known to have published. — 
Sprague, Annals; Corwin’s Manual Ref. Church; Fu- 
neral Sermon by C. C. Cuyler, D.D. ; Historical Dis- 
course by W. J. K. Taylor, D.D. (W. J. R. T.) 

Livingston, Henry Gilbert, son of the preced- 
ing, was born at Coxsaekie, N. Y., Feb. 3, 1821 , graduated 
at Williams College in 1840, was principal of Clinton 
Academy (now Hamilton College) for two years, studied 
theology in Union Theological Seminary, N. Y., where 
lie graduated in 1844, and was licensed to preach by the 
Presbytery of Long Island in the following autumn, lie 
became, pastor of the Presbyterian church of Carmel, N. 
Y., in 1844, but removed in 1849 as pastor of the Third 
Reformed Dutch Church of Philadelphia. Resigning 
in 1851 on account of feeble health, he returned to Car- 
mel, and became principal of the Raymond Institute, 
and also supplied the vacant church of which he was 
formerly pastor. lie died suddenly, Jan. 25, 1855. “No 
doubts, no fears, no darkness” beclouded his dying 
hours. Mr. Livingston was a man of noble mould, tall, 
massive, intellectual, modest, amiable, dignified in man- 
ners, somewhat reserved, diffident, and self-distrustful. 
His character was finely balanced. True manliness, 
transparent simplicity, moral purity, generosity, and the 
most delicate sensibility, were blended with deep piety 
and beautiful consistency of life, with a holy ministry 
and a full use of all his talents. Only two of his dis- 
courses were published. See Memorial Sermon by W. 
J. R. Tavlor, D.D., and Sprague’s Annals , vol. ix. (\Y. 
J.R.T.) 

Livingston, John, a noted Scottish Presbyterian 
divine, was born in 1603, and was educated at Glasgow, 
where he took the degree of A.M. in 1621. He entered 
the ministry, and soon distinguished himself as an able 
I preacher. A zealous Covenanter, he opposed the epis- 
copal government of the Church after the Restoration, 
and on this account suffered many inconveniences. 
Very remarkable in his life was the result which fol- 
lowed his preaching on a special fast-dav appointed by 
the “Kirk of Shotts,” June 21, 1630. lie was at this 
time domestic chaplain to the countess of Wigton. 
Later he became minister at Ancram. He was twice 
suspended from his pastoral office, but, his opposition to 
the government continuing, he was banished the king- 
dom in 1663. lie retired to Holland, and became min- 
ister of t a Scottish church at Rotterdam. There he died 
in 1672. lie wrote his Autobiography (Glasgow, 1751, 
12mo); also hires of eminent Scottish Divines (1754, 
8vo). See Chambers, JJiog. Did . of eminent Scotsmen, s. 
v.: A. Gunn. Jfemoirs of John Livingston (X. V. 1829) ; 
Gorton, Biog. Did. vol. ii, s. v. 

Livingston, John Henry, D.D., S.T.P., the 
“father of the Reformed Dutch Church in this coun- 
try,” and in many respects its most celebrated represent- 
ative, was born at Poughkeepsie, N. Y., May 30. 1746, 
son of Henry Livingston, and a lineal descendant in the 
fourth generation from the Rev. John Livingston, of 
Scotland. He graduated at Yale College in 1762, and 
then studied law for two years, when his health gave 
way under his close application, and he was obliged to 
discontinue it. About this time he was converted, and 
then directed his attention to the Christian ministry, 
llv advice of Dr. Laidlie, of New York, he went to Eu- 
rope to complete his theological studies at the Universi- 
ty of Utrecht, in Holland, where he remained four years, 
and was licensed to preach the Gospel by the Chassis of 
Amsterdam. Having received a call to become pastor 
and second preacher in English of the Church of New 
York, he passed examination at the university for the 
degree of doctor of divinity, returned to New York Sept. 
3, 1770, and at once began his labors as pastor of the 
Church. Here he soon established his great reputation 
i as a pulpit orator and as a learned theologian; but his 


LIVONIA 


467 


LIVONIA 


grand ecclesiastical achievement was the settlement of 
the old and bitter controversy between the “ Coetus” and 
“ Conference” parties of the Reformed Dutch Church, 
and the consummation in about two years of the union, 
which has never since been broken. ITis pastoral rela- 
tion to the Church in New York continued forty years — 
1770 to 1810 — although during the Revolutionary War 
he was obliged to leave the city, and upon his return 
in 1783 he found himself the sole pastor, and so re- 
mained for three years. The next year he was appoint- 
ed professor of theology, and retained this office, with 
his pastorate, until 1810, when lie removed to New 
Brunswick, N. J., at the request of the synod, and open- 
ed the theological seminary in that city, occupying, in 
connection with it, the presidency of Queens, now Rut- 
gers College. These two offices he held until his death 
in 1825. It is difficult, in this brief notice, even to sum 
up the services and character of this eminent man. 
More than four hundred souls were received into the 
Church on profession of their faith during the three 
years of his sole pastorate after the war. Nearly two 
hundred young men were trained by him for the min- 
istry of the Church. To him, more than to any other 
man, is due the credit of the separate organization of 
the Reformed (Dutch) Church in this country. He 
principally shaped its Constitution ; he prepared its first 
psalm and hymn book. His theological lectures still 
form the basis of didactic and polemic instruction in the 
theological seminary of which he was the founder and 
father. The whole denomination is reaping to-day the 
fruits of the sacrifices which he made for it. His influ- 
ence in the Church was like that of Washington in the 
nation. Ilis grand and eloquent sermon, preached be- 
fore the New York Missionary Society in 1804, from 
Rev. xiv, 6, 7, was one of the leading influences in that 
revival of the missionary spirit which gave Samuel J. 
Mills and his young friends to the work, and which re- 
sulted in the subsequent organization of the “American 
Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions'’ in 1813. 
Several of Dr. Livingston’s occasional productions were 
published by himself, and a posthumous volume, con- 
taining a syllabus of his theological lectures, was issued 
by the Rev. Jesse Fonda, one of his pupils. Ilis death, 
at his residence in New Brunswick, January 19, 18*25, 
was like a translation, without pain or complaint, “in 
a moment, in the twinkling of an eye.” His wife, 
Sarah Livingston, whom he married in October, 1775, 
was the daughter of Philip Livingston, one of the sign- 
ers of the Declaration of Independence. Like him, Dr. 
Livingston was an ardent and fearless patriot, and dur- 
ing all of the Revolutionary struggle he earnestly sus- 
tained the cause of freedom. In person Dr. Livingston 
was tall, commanding, dignified, and imposing. Ilis 
features were regular and handsome. Ilis manners 
were refined and studiously polite. lie was the model 
of the Christian gentleman. In his later years his ap- 
pearance was truly patriarchal, ilis piety was all-per- 
vading. As a preacher, he possessed eminent abilities. 
Ilis oratory was pecidiar to himself, and very effective. 
It was full of action, variety, and power. As a theo- 
logical teacher, he was clear, concise, learned, syste- 
matic, and practical. Ilis influence over his students 
was wonderful. His great aim was to make them ex- 
perimental ministers of Christ, and they loved and rev- 
erenced him almost as an apostle. Whatever faults he 
had were more than covered, to the eyes of his friends, 
by his majestic bearing, his admirable character, his pi- 
ous life, and fruitful ministry, and by his services to the 
Church of Christ. See Dr. Gunn’s Life, etc., abridged 
by Dr. T. W. Chambers ; also Sprague, A mutts, vol. ix, an 
admirable portraiture ; also several funeral discourses, 
etc. (W. J. R. T.) 

Livonia, the largest of the Baltic provinces of 
Russia ; area, 17,801 sq. m. ; pop. in 1871 , 980.784. The 
Germans, who chiefly live in the towns, number about 
64,000 inhabitants; the remainder are mostly either 
Letts (a branch of the Slavi, kindred to the Lithuanians) 


or Esthonians, who are of Finnish descent. Christian- 
ity was first introduced at Riga about 1180 by merchants 
from Bremen. The great missionary was the Augus- 
tinian monk Meinhard, who in 1186 established the first 
church at Wexkull, on the Duna, and in 1191 was con- 
secrated bishop of Livonia. Ilis successor, abbot Ber- 
thold, of Loccum, endeavored to accelerate the conver- 
sion of the Livonians by force of arms, and in 1198 fell 
in a victorious battle of the Crusaders. Bishop Albert, 
of Apeldern, in 1202 founded the Order of the Knights of 
the Sword, and gradually overcame the persistent oppo- 
sition of the Livonians to the enforcement of Christian- 
ity. After his death (in 1229) the see of Riga was sep- 
arated from the ecclesiastical province of Bremen, and 
in 1246 made an independent archbishopric. The union 
of the Order of the Sword with the Teutonic Knight se- 
cured the subjection and Christianization of Livonia, 
but involved the bishops in long-protracted conflicts 
with the order, which hastened the decay of the Church. 
The army-master, Walter of Plettenberg (1494-1531), 
adopted the doctrines of the Reformation, and converted 
Livonia into a secular duchy under Polish sovereignty. 
The centre of the reformatory movement was in Riga, 
w*here the Hussite Nicolaus Russ, of Rostock, had, from 
1511 to 1516, prepared the way for a religious reforma- 
tion. Among the first promoters of the Lutheran Ref- 
ormation were Andreas Knopken, a Lutheran school- 
teacher from Treptow, in Pomerania, who arrived in 
Riga in 1521, and Sylvester Tagetmeier, from Hamburg, 
who arrived in the following year. Both were appoint- 
ed preachers by the town council, in spite of the remon- 
strances of the archbishop. In Wolmar and Dorpat, 
Melchior Hoffmann labored so violently in behalf of the 
Reformation that he created dissatisfaction even among 
the friends of the movement, and had to leave Livonia. 
Luther’s epistle of congratulation and exhortation (1523) 
to the congregations of Riga, Revel, and Dorpat shows 
that at that time the Reformation had made considera- 
ble progress. In 1524, the archbishop, Caspar Linde, of 
Riga, died, deeply mortified at the utter failure of his 
zealous efforts for saving the Catholic Church. Ilis suc- 
cessor, John ATI Blankenfeld, previously bishop of Dor- 
pat and Revel, was no longer recognised by the town 
council of Riga as sovereign, and in 1525 he was even 
made a prisoner. Under the archbishop AYilhelm, mar- 
grave of Brandenburg, who in 1539 succeeded Thomas 
Sehonnig, the Reformation spread throughout Livonia; 
the archbishop himself became favorable to the new 
doctrine, and at the time of his death the Catholic- 
Church in Livonia had almost ceased to exist. Johann 
Briesmann (1527-31), who was called from Konigsberg 
to Riga, drew up in 1530 the first agenda. The liturgy 
for Revel appeared in 1561, but had in 1572 to yield to 
that of Courland. The Esthonian catechism and the 
Livonian hymn-book of Mathias Knopken were likewise 
published in 1561. In the same year the army-master 
Ketteler concluded a treaty with Poland, by virtue of 
which Livonia was placed under the sovereignty of Po- 
land ; it was stipulated, however, that the Lutheran 
Church of Livonia should not be interfered with. In 
violation of this treaty, the Jesuits at once began their 
agitation for the restoration of the Catholic Church, but 
the Swedish rule again secured the predominance of 
Protestantism, and greatly strengthened it by establish- 
ing the University of Dorpat. A new liturgy was in- 
troduced in 1632, a new agenda in 1633 ; at the same 
time, a Lettish and Esthonian translation of the Bible 
was published. In the 18tli century the religious life 
of the province suffered greatly from the fact that most 
of the preachers, being called from Germany, were una- 
ble to preach in the native languages. The spiritual 
destitution of many country districts attracted the Mo- 
ravians, who continued their zealous labors even when, 
in 1743, their meetings had been forbidden. For a long 
time they confined themselves to the Lutheran Church ; 
but the large attendance at their meetings led them 
(since 1817) to separate from the Lutheran Church. 


LIZARD 


468 


LIZARD 


The latter therefore began, in 1843, to engage in a vig- I 
orous contest with the Moravians, invoking the stipula- I 
tions of the peace of Xystiidt (1721), in which Sweden 
had ceded Livonia to Iiussia, while the latter confirmed 
the privileges of the Lutheran Church. The Russian 
government supported the Lutherans against the Mo- 
ravians, but, on the other hand, began (1841) to make 
great efforts to prevail upon the Lettish peasants to join 
the Greek Church. Several thousands of Letts and Li- 
vonians sueeumbed to the pressure brought upon them 
by the government, and, after having once joined the 
orthodox Greek Church, they were forbidden (as many 
soon desired) to return to the Lutheran Church. All 
the children born of mixed marriages (Lutheran and 
Greek) must be educated in the Greek religion. In 
1863, the Lutheran bishop Walter, who vigorously stood 
up for the defence of the rights of his Church, had to 
yield to an intrigue, and not until 1868 was the rigor of 
the Russian government against the Lutheran Church 
somewhat relaxed. These conflicts have awakened a 
general interest in the religious community, to which 
the re-establishment of the University of Dorpat (1802) 
has been greatly instrumental. The number of Roman 
Catholics is about 5000, that of Greek Catholics is esti- 
mated at 143,000; the remainder are Lutherans. (A. J.S.) 

Lizard appears in the Auth.Vers. in but one pas- 
sage (Lev. xi, 30) as the rendering of letadh 

but different species of the animal seem to be desig- 
nated by several Hebrew terms, variously rendered in 
the English translation. In the East numerous varie- 
ties of these reptiles are met with in great abundance, 
several of which are regarded as venomous (Hasselquist, 
Trav. p. 241, 344 sq.). Others, again, are used by the 
modern Arabs for food (comp, also Arrian, Mar. Eryth. 
p. 17, ed. Hudson), whereas the Mosaic law (Lev. xi) 
classes them among unclean animals. 

(1.) Ko'ach (fib, strength , Lev. xi,30; Sept, \agai- 
Yiuv, Auth.Vers. “chameleon”), prob. the Lacerta stel- 
lio, an olive-brown lizard, with black and white spots, 
and a tail about a span long, while the body itself is 
scarcely of this length (llasselqnist, Trav. p. 352 ; fig- 
ure in liilppel, Atlas, tab. 2). Boeliart ( Hieroz . ii, 493 
sq.) understands this term to refer to the species called 
El-ivaral, which exhibits its great strength (hence its 
name) in combat with the crocodile and serpents, is dis- 
gusting in appearance, and said to be poisonous (Leon. 
Afrie. Descript. A \fric. ix, 53). But Miehaelis ( Suppl . 
2221) and Rosenmiiller have long since remarked that 
the derivation of the name kodch is perhaps from a dif- 
ferent root. According to the Arabic interpreters, it is 
the land crocodile, or a species of it, perhaps the Waran 
el-hard or skink ( Lacerta sc'utcits), which sometimes at- 
tains a length of six feet or more. See Chameleon. 

(2.) Letaaii' (Hfcob, peril, so called from its hiding; 
Lev. xi, 30; Sept. \a\af3ioTTjc, Yulg. stellio , Auth.Vers. 
“lizard”), perhaps the species called in Egypt Shecha- 
fit, described by Forskal ( Descr . p. 13) as a delicate lit- 
tle animal, about a span in length and of the thickness 
of the thumb, found in the neighborhood of houses. 
Boeliart. ( llieroz . ii, 407 sq.) maintains that it is the wa- 
grat of the Arabs, a kind of lizard that clings close to 
the ground (hence his derivation from an Arabic root, 
signifying to stick to the earth), to which also the Sept, 
alludes (comp. Oken, Xaturgesch. Ill, ii, 203). Geddes 
regards it as identical with the Lacerta gecko. 

(3.) Cho'met (L^n, so called from lying close to the 
ground; Lev. xi ; 30; Sept. aav pa, Auth.Vers. “snail”) 
has been supposed by Boeliart (ii, 500 sq.) to mean the 
Galkan , a species of lizard that burrows in the sand (on 
the precarious interpretation of the Talmud). The in- 
terpretation snail rests on no better foundation. Both 
the Arabic interpreters understand the chameleon . The 
species intended is uncertain. (See F idler, Miscell. vi, 9.) 

(4.) Anakaii' (i"!j?3X, a shriek ; Lev. xi, 30; Sept, 
and Vulg. shrewmouse, Auth.Vers. “ferret”) is regarded 


by the Arab. Erpen. as the Waral, considered by some as 
identical with the Lacerta Xiloticu (Hasselquist, Trav. 
p. 361 sq.), but which last Forskal ( Descript . A ninuil. p. 
13) calls Waran (comp. Robinson, ii, 253). The Waral 
is described by those who have personally seen it (see 
Leo Afrie. Descr. ix, 51) as having a length of three or 
four feet, a scaly, very strong, grayish-yellow skin, and 
is regarded as poisonous in every part. (See Rosen- 
miiller, Alterth. IV, ii, 256 sq. ; Gesen. Thesaur. p. 128.) 

(5.) Tsab (32E, prob. from its sluggishness; Lev. xi, 
29 ; Sept, and Vulg. the ci'ocodile, Auth.Vers. “ tortoise”) 
is doubtless the species of lizard still called by the Arabs 
Dhah (see Boeliart, Hieroz. ii, 463 sq.), a stupid creature 
tenanting rocky waters. According to Leo Afrie. (ix, 
52), it is about a yard long, without poisonous qualities, 
and incapable of drinking. They are caught and eaten 
in the desert. Forskal {Desci'ipt. Animal, p. 13) and 
Hasselquist {Trav. p.353 sq.) appear to have described 
it under the name of Lacerta _ Egypt iaca (comp. Paulus, 
Samml. ii, 263). According to Burekhardt (ii,863 sq.), 
it has a scaly skin of a yellow color, and sometimes at- 
tains a length of eighteen inches. 

(6.) Tinshe'metii (n«bsn,the hard breather; Sept., 
Vulgate, and Auth.Vers. mole ; Lev. xi, 30; being the 
same Ileb. word used in Lev. xi, 18; Dent, xiv, 16, to 
describe a bird, rendered “ swan”) is (according to Sa- 
adias) a species of lizard, probably the Gecko (Ilassel- 
quist, Trav. p. 356 sq.), a kind described as having a 
round tail of moderate length, and tufted feet, lamellated 
lengthwise on the bottom, said to be peculiar for ex- 
uding poison from the divisions of its toes, eagerly seek- 
ing spots imbued with salt, which it leaves infected with 
a virus that engenders leprosy (see also Forskal, p. 13). 
Boehart (ii, 503 sq.) understands the chameleon, deriving 
the etymology from the ancient belief that this crea- 
ture lived upon the air (Plinv, Hist. Xat. viii, 33, 51), a 
notion probably derived from its long endurance of hun- 
ger. (See Hasselquist, Trav. p. 348 sq. ; Sonnini, Trav. 

i, 87; Oken, Xaturgesch. Ill, ii, 306 sq. ; Russel, A leppo, 

ii, 128 sq.) See Chameleon. 

(7.) Semamitii' (rP’S'ab, prob. as being held poi- 
sonous; Prov. xxx. 28; Sept. KaXafiwTijg, Vulg. stellio , 
Auth.Vers. “spider”) is mentioned as a small creature 
of active instincts; prob. the Arabic saum, a poisonous 
lizard with leopard-like spots (Boehart, Hieroz. ii, 1084). 
Comp. Rosenmiiller, A Iterth. IV, ii, 268. See Siuder. 

(8.) Tannin' CpSF) or Tannim' (D^fr), otherwise 
Tan On), seems occasionally to signify a huge land 
serpent or saurian. See Dragon. 

(9.) Livyatiian' CjSYHP) sometimes stands for the 
largest of the lizard tribe, the crocodile. — Winer. See 
Leviathan. 

Under the denomination of lizard the modern zoolo- 
gist places all the cold-blooded animals that have the 
conformation of serpents with the addition of four feet. 
Thus viewed as one great family, they constitute the 
Saurians, Laeertina?, and Laeertidae of authors, embra- 
cing numerous generieal divisions, which commence 
with the largest, that is, the crocodile group, and pass 
through sundry others, a variety of species, formidable, 
disgusting, or pleasing in appearance — some equally fre- 
quenting the land and water, others absolutely confined 
to the earth and to the most arid deserts; and, though 
in general harmless, there are a few with disputed prop- 
erties, some being held to poison or corrode by means of 
the exudation of an ichor, and others extolled as aphro- 
disiacs, or of medical use in pharmacy; but these prop- 
erties in most, if not in all, are undetermined or illusory. 
One of the best known of these is the common chame- 
leon ( Chameeleo vulgaris ). See Chameleon. When it 
is considered that the regions of Syria, Arabia, and Egypt 
are overrun with animals of this family, there is every 
reason to expect allusion to more than one genus in the 
Scriptures, where so many observations and similes are 
derived from the natural objects which were familiar 


LIZARD 


469 


LIZARD 



Chctmcelco Vulgaris. 


to the various writers. Among the names enumerated 
above, Bochart refers 225, tsab (Lev. xi, 29), to one of the 
group of Monitors or Varanus, the Nilotic lizard, Lacer- 
ta Nilotica , Varanus Niloticus , or Waran of the Arabs. 
Like the others of this form, it is possessed of a tail 
double the length of the body, but is not so well known 
in Palestine, where there is only one real river (Jordan), 
and that not tenanted by this species. It appears that 
the true crocodile frequented the shores and marshes of 
the coast down to a comparatively late period, and there- 
fore it may well have had a more specific name than 
leviathan — a word apparently best suited to the digni- 
fied and lofty diction of the prophets, and clearly of 
more general signification than the more colloquial des- 
ignation. Jerome was of this opinion ; and it is thus 
likely that tsab was applied to both, as Waran is now 
considered only a variety of, or a young, crocodile. 
There is a second of the same group, Lacerta scincus 
of Merrem ( Varanus arenarius), Waran el-hard , also 
reaching to six feet in length ; and a third, not as yet 
clearly described, which appears to be larger than either, 
growing to nine feet, and covered with bright cupreous 
scales. This last prefers rocky and stony situations. 
One of the last mentioned pursues its prey on land with 
a rapid bounding action, feeds on the larger insects, and 
is said to attack game in a body, sometimes destroying 
even sheep. The Arabs, in agreement with the an- 
cients, assert that this species will do fierce and victori- 
ous battle with serpents. Considerations like these in- 
duce us to assign the Hebrew name ft 3, koach (a desig- 
nation of strength) to the species of the desert; and if 
the Nilotic waran be the tsab, then the Arabian dhab, 
as Bruce asserts, will be Varanus arenarius , or waran 
el-hard of the present familiar language, and chardaun 
the larger copper-colored species above noticed. But it 
is evident from the Arabic authorities quoted by Bo- 
chart, and from his own conclusions, that there is not 
only confusion among the species of lizard, but that the 
ichneumon of Egypt ( Ilorpestes Pharaonis) is mixed up 
with the history of these saurians. 

We come next to the group of lizards more properly 
so called, which Hebrew commentators take to be the 
ftS^b, letaah, a name having some allusion to poison 
and adhesiveness. The word occurs only once (Lev. xi, 
30), where saurians alone appear to be indicated. If 
the lleb. root were to guide the decision, letaah would 
be another name for the gecko or anakah , for there is but 
one species which can be deemed venomous; and with 
regard to the quality of adhesiveness, though the geckos 
possess it most, numerous common lizards run up and 
down perpendicular walls with great facility. We 
therefore take 22in, chomet, or the sand lizard of Bo- 
chart, to be the true lizard, several (probably many) 
species existing in myriads on the rocks in sandy places, 


and in ruins in every part of Palestine and the 
adjacent countries. There is one species partic- 
ularly abundant and small, well known in Arabia 
by the name of Sarcibaridi. We now come to the 
Stelliones , which have been confounded with the 
noxious geckos and others from the time of Al- 
drovandus, and thence have been a source of in- 
extricable trouble to commentators. They are 
best known by the bundles of starlike spines on 
the body. Among these Lacerta stellio , Stellio 
Orientalis , the KpoiccdtiXog of the Greeks, and 
hardun of the Arabs, is abundant in the East, and 
a great frequenter of ruinous walls. The genus 
U romastix offers Still io spinipes of Daudin or Ur- 
spinipes, two or three feet long, of a fine green, 
and is the species which is believed to strike with 
the tail ; hence formerly denominated Caudie ver- 
bena It is frequent in the deserts around Egypt, 
and is probably the Guaril of the Arabs. Another 
subgenus, named Trapelus by Cuvier, is exempli- 
fied in the Tr. JEgyptiacus of Geoff., with a spi- 
nous swelled body, but remarkable for the faculty 
of changing color more rapidly than the chameleon. Next 
we place the Gcckotians, among which comes ana- 

kah, in our versions denominated ferret, but which is with 
more propriety transferred to the noisy and venomous 
abu-burs of the Arabs. There is no reason for admitting 
the verb p22t, anak, to groan, to cry out, as radical for the 
name of the ferret, an animal totally unconnected with 
the preceding and succeeding speeies in Lev. xi. 29, 30, 
and originally found, so far as we know, only in West- 
ern Africa, and thence conveyed to Spain, prowling 
noiselessly, and beaten to death without a groan, though 
capable of a feeble, short scream when at play, or when 
suddenly wounded. Taking the interpretation “ to cry 
out,” so little applicable to ferrets, in conjunction with 
the whole verse, we find the gecko , like all the species 
of this group of lizards, remarkable for the loud crating 
noise which it is apt to utter in the roofs and walls of 
houses all the night through ; one, indeed, is sufficient 
to dispel the sleep of a whole family. The particular 
species most probably meant is the Lacerta gecko of 
Hasselquist, the Gecko lobatus of Geoffrey, distinguished 
by having the soles of the feet dilated and striated like 
open fans, from which a poisonous ichor is said to ex- 
ude, inflaming the human skin, and infecting food that 
may have been trod upon by the animal. See Ferret. 
Hence the Arabic name of abu-burs, or *• father of lepro- 
sy,” at Cairo. The species extends northwards in Syria, 
but it may be doubted whether the Gecko fuscicidaris, or 
tarentola of South-eastern Europe, be not also an inhabi- 
tant of Palestine; and in that case the sema- 

mith of Bochart, would find an appropriate location. To 
these we add the Chameleons proper; and then follows 
the Scincus (in antiquity the name of Varanus arena- 
rius), among which Lacerta scincus, Linn., or Scincus 
officinalis, is the El-adda of the Arabs, figured by Bruce, 
and well known in the old pharmacy of Europe. S. 
Cyprius, or Lacerta Cyprius scincoides , a large greenish 
species, marked with a pale line on each flank, occurs 
also; and a third, Scincus variegatus or ocillatus, often 
noticed on account of its round black spots, each marked 
with a pale streak, and commonly having likewise a 
stripe on each flank, of a pale color. Of the species of 
Seps, that is, viviparous serpent-lizards, having the body 
of snakes, with four weak limbs, a species with only 
three toes on each foot, the Lacerta chalcides of Linn., 
appears to extend to Syria.— Kitto. See further detaik 
in the Penny Cyclopaedia, s. v. Varanidie; Wood, Bible 
Animals, p. 534 sq. 

From this examination, it appears probable that the 
generic name for the lizard among the Hebrews (being 
the only one thus rendered in the Auth. Version) is the 
nX-b, letaah, which, although an unclean animal, does 
not usually designate a poisonous species. Among the 


LIZEL 


470 


LLORENTE 


various kinds with which the East abounds, the Lacerta 
stellio , or starry lizard, may be selected as probably af- 
fording the best type of the scriptural terms, or at least 
of leiaah in general, as it is the most common in Egypt 
and Palestine. It is covered with tubercles, and is of a 
gray color. It lives in the holes of walls, and under 
stones, and covers itself with dirt. Belon states that it 



Lacerta Stellio . 

sometimes attains the size of a weasel. This is said to 
be the lizard which infests the Pyramids, and in other 
countries where it is found, harbors in the crevices and 
between the stones of old walls, feeding on Hies and oth- 
er winged insects. This may be the species intended 
by Bruce when lie says, “The number I saw one day, in 
the great court of the Temple of the Sun at Baalbek, 
amounted to many thousands; the ground, the walls, 
the stones of the ruined buildings, were covered with 
them; and the various colors of which they consisted 
made a very extraordinary appearance, glittering under 
the' sun, in which they lay sleeping and basking.” Lord 
Lindsay also describes the ruins at Jerash (the ancient 
Gerasa) as “absolutely alive with lizards.” Near Suez, 
he speaks of “ a species of gray lizard ;” and on the as- 
cent towards Mount Sinai, “ hundreds of little lizards of 
the color of the sand, and called by the natives sara- 
bamli,T,vcTe darting about.” In the Syrian desert, Ma- 
jor Skinner says, “The ground is teeming with lizards ; 
the sun seems to draw them from the earth, for some- 
times, when 1 have lixed my eye upon one spot, 1 have 
fancied that the sands were getting into life, so many 
of these creatures at once crept from their holes.” Wil- 
kinson says, “ In Egypt, of the lizard tribe, none but the 
crocodile seems to have been sacred. Those which oc- 
cur in the hieroglyphics are not emblematical of the 
gods, nor connected with religion.” Sec Snail. 

Lizel, Geo no, a German theologian, was born at 
Ulm, in Wiirtemberg, Nov. 23, 1 GOT ; attended succes- 
sively the universities of Strasburg, Leipsie, Jena, Halle, 
Wittenberg, Altdorf, and Tubingen, and in 1735 became 
vicar at Weidenstetten, and soon after pastor at Steinen 
Kirch ; but in 1730, on account of false charges against 
his character, he lost his situation. In 1737 he was ap- 
pointed subrector at the Gymnasium of Ulm, afterwards 
inspector of the alumni and imperial poet laureate. The 
Prussian Koval Society of Duisburg, and the German 
Society of Jena, elected him a member of their respect- 
ive bodies, lie died Mar. 22, 1701. flis life was spent 
in the investigation of science, and in the cause of re- 
ligion and education. While at the universities he ex- 
plored numerous antique libraries, and the results he 
gave to the public in more than twenty volumes. As a 
theologian Lizel was faithful to his Church, and con- 
fronted and challenged Komanism. For a list of his 
works, see During, deleft rte Theol. 1 kutschl. vol. ii, s. v. 

Llorente, Don Juan Antonio, the noted author 
of a history of the Inquisition , etc., was borit at Rincon 
del Soto, near Calahorra, Spain, March 30, 175(5. lie 
studied at Tarascone with great success, and received 
the tonsure when but fourteen years of age. In 1779 


he was ordained priest, and took his degree in canon law. 
At this time the liberal ideas prevailing in France were 
beginning to make their way into Spain, and Llorente 
became interested in them. In 1781 he was named 
advocate of the Council of Castile, and in the year fol- 
lowing was made general vicar of the bishopric of Cala- 
horra. While in this position he appears to have con- 
nected himself with the Freemasons, and, although this 
rumor seems to have been generally credited, be was 
nevertheless appointed commissary of the Inquisition in 
1785, and general secretary in 1789. After the down- 
fall of the grand inquisitor he attached himself to the 
Liberal minister Jovellanos, who contemplated a relig- 
ious and political regeneration of Spain. The minister 
fell, and Llorente was involved in his fall, the more 
surely as he openly expressed his sympathy for him. 
Suspected by his superiors, he was closely watched. He 
was subjected to innumerable petty annoyances, his let- 
ters were opened, and, without any reason being given 
for the measure, was deposed from his situation, and 
imprisoned in a convent for one month. In 1805 he 
was again received into favor as the reward of a liter- 
ary service of a very questionable character which he 
rendered to the minister Godoy. The latter purposed 
abolishing the ancient privileges of the Basque Prov- 
inces, and carrying out in Spain a thorough system of 
centralization; to accomplish this, he deemed it advan- 
tageous to prepare the way bv means of a historical es- 
say, disproving the ancient liberties of those provinces. 
The mission was given to Llorente, who wrote Xo- 
ticias historicas sobre las tres provincias Bascongadas 
(Madrid, 180G-8, 3 vols. 8vo), a work not in any way re- 
markable for historical truthfulness. Llorente was now 
again favored with several high offices. His tendency 
towards the French ideas, centralization among others, 

, led him perhaps to accept olfers which he would other- 
wise have rejected. Upon the intrusion of the French 
(1807), Llorente found himself placed between the na- 
tional government which opposed all progress, and that 
of a foreign sovereign which offered both political and 
religious liberty. Unable to serve at once the cause of 
the hereditary monarch and that of progress, Llorente 
and the Josephinos chose the latter: but the accusation 
preferred against them of having sold themselves to 
France (Hofele, in Wetzcr und Welte, Kirchen-Lexikon , 
vi, 557 sq.) is unsupported by proof, and unlikely ; they 
simply chose a foreign master rather than religious and 
political slavery. In 1809 the Spanish Inquisition was 
abolished in Spain, and Llorente was commissioned to 
search its records for the purpose of writing a history 
of that tribunal. He had already, as early as 1789, be- 
gan to collect materials for this purpose, yet two more 
years were spent, with the aid of several assistants, in 
compiling the voluminous records. When the convents 
were abolished he was given the direction of the pro- 
ceedings, and the charge of the sequestered goods, as 
also the administration of the national properties, an 
ungrateful and not very creditable task, for these prop- 
, erties were the result of sequestration; yet he claimed 
afterwards to have introduced many favorable changes 
in the administration, such, for instance, as that of 
leaving the management of the property belonging to 
parties put under the ban to the members of their fam- 
ily, and the many distinguished persons of Spain to 
whom he appealed in corroboration of his assertion have 
never denied its truth. He was, however, accused of 
embezzlement to the amount of 11,000,000 reals, and 
lost his position ; but the accusation not being substan- 
tiated, he was indemnified by another situation. In the 
mean time he continued to advocate the cause of Joseph 
Bonaparte both by his pen and in public addresses, and 
when the celebrated Constitution of the Cortes of Cadiz 
was proclaimed he" was one of its most zealous oppo- 
nents. When Joseph lost the Spanish throne (1814) 
Llorente was obliged to quit the country in haste. Af- 
ter his Higlit, banishment was pronounced against him, 
and his property, and his library of 8000 volumes, some 


LLOYD 


LLOYD 


471 


of which were rare and costly manuscripts, were seques- j 
tered. After stopping a short time in London, Llorente 
settled in Paris, where he completed the work of which 
he had published a sketch in Spain : llistoire critique 
de V Inquisition d'Espaync (4 vols. 8vo). It was written , 
in Spanish, but was immediately translated into French | 
by Alexis Pellier, under Llorente’s own supervision (Par. ! 
1817-18). Translations into most of the languages of I 
Europe were made shortly afterwards. One of the best 
English editions was published in London in 1826. (For 
a review, see British Critic, i, 119.) Llorente was now 
the outspoken enemy of the Church, and he was forbid- 
den to officiate as priest in Paris, and thus deprived of 
his regular means of support. He next attempted to 
earn a living by teaching Spanish, but the University 
of Paris forbade him teaching in public, and he became 
altogether dependent on his literary labors and the as- 
sistance of his masonic brethren for a support. To 
what straits he found himself reduced is seen in the 
fact that he translated Faublas into Spanish. In 1822 
he published his Portraits politiques des Pap>es , which 
still increased the animosity of the clergy against him, 
and in this instance it must be granted that he reck- 
lessly provoked this enmity by accepting as undoubted 
facts such legends as that of the popess Joanna, etc., 
while his friends were obliged to admit that the nature, 
tendencies, and even the tone of the work were not be- 
coming the character of a priest. In December of the 
same year (1822) he received orders to leave France 
within three days. Exiled from the land of his adop- 
tion, he returned to that of his birth, but died shortly 
after (Feb. 5, 1823) at Madrid, in consequence of the 
hardships he had undergone during his journey. 

Llorente’s character and writings have been the object 
of as extravagant praise by some as of extravagant cen- 
sure by others. He lived in a time of great fermenta- 
tion, and in a country where the struggle between prog- 
ress and conservatism gave rise to innumerable par- 
ties: under these circnmstances he remained true to 
progress, and if he did not remain true also to any of 
the divers political parties, it was because he could not 
maiutaiu his fidelity to both. When writing the his- 
tory of the Inquisition, he was yet a fervent Roman 
Catholic; and in attacking an institution which he con- 
sidered and proved to have been more political than re- 
ligious, he undeservedly received the censure of a large 
proportion of the Koman Catholic world; he dul not 
mean to attack the Romish Church, but, on the contrary, 
to vindicate it from the imputation of having been sol- 
idly concerned in the transaction of that fell tribunal. 
If in his subsequent works he went further, and attack- 
ed the I {oman Catholic Church itself, the reason is to be 
found in the persecutions he endured at the hands of 
that Church. Llorente is not to be considered as a his- 
torian; neither liis literary talents, nor his historical 
knowledge, nor the gift of correctly combining and con- 
necting events, gave him any title to that appellation. 
Ilis greatest production, the Critical History of the In- 
quisition , such Protestant historians as Prescott and 
Ranke judge to be of but little value, because of its par- 
tisan character, and the exaggerations in which it 
abounds, and, as the readers of this Cyclopedia must 
have noticed, in the article Inquisition (see especially 
p. 603, col. 1), he has rarely been quoted. His only 
credit in the work is that he brought together much 
material before inaccessible. We might say Llorente 
was a good and diligent compiler, but too ardent a par- 
tisan to be aught of a historian. See his autobiography 
entitled Xotitia hioyrafica o Memorias para la Historia 
de su \ ida (1818) ; Mahul, Notice biographique sur Don 
J. II. Llorente (1823); Prescott, Hist, of Ferdinand and 
Isabella , i, pt. i; Ranke, Hist, of the Papacy , i, 142, 272; 
ii, 293 ; Monthly Review , xci (1820), Append. ; Revue En- 
eyclopedique (1823). (J. II. W.) 

Lloyd, Charles Hooker, a Presbyterian minis- 
ter, was born in New Haven, Conn., Feb. 21, 1833. His 
early life was spent in mercantile pursuits in New York 


City. In 1856, however, purposing to become a mis- 
sionary to the heathen, he entered New York Universi- 
ty; later he studied divinity in the theological semina- 
ry at Princeton, N. J., and graduated in 1862. He was 
licensed and ordained as an evangelist by the New York 
Presbytery April 29, 1862, and appointed (June 21,1862) 
by the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign 
Missions to South Africa. He did not, however, do 
much effective mission work, as he died Feb. 10, 1865. 
Air. Lloyd, as a preacher, was eminently wise to win souls. 
He was gifted with a strong passion for music, and wrote 
and arranged many chants and hymns for the African 
converts. See Wilson, Presb. 1 list. A Imanac , 1 867, p. 1 69. 

Lloyd, Thomas, a noted Quaker preacher, was 
born in North Wales in 1649. While a student at Ox- 
ford University, he visited, during a vacation, his broth- 
er Charles, who had been imprisoned for Quakerism at 
Welch-Pool, and by the latter’s influence became him- 
self a convert to the religion of the Friends. He imme- 
diately left Oxford, suffered with the Quakers in their 
persecutions, and became an “instructor” on their “First- 
days.” On account of persecution, reproach, and loss of 
property for his religion’s sake, he emigrated to Penn- 
sylvania soon after the first settlement of that province. 
He died July 10, 1694. As president of the council, 
and subsequently as deputy governor of Pennsylvania, 
he exercised a most salutary influence upon the inter- 
ests and progress of the colony. See Janney’s History 
of Friends , ii, ch. xvii ; iii, ch. ii. 

Lloyd, William, a noted English prelate, was 
born in Berkshire in 1627, and was educated at Oriel 
Coflege, Oxford. In 1640 he removed to Jesus College, 
where he became fellow in 1646. He took deacon’s or- 
ders from Dr. Skinner at the time of Charles’s execution. 
In 1656 he was ordained priest, and acted as tutor of 
John Backhouse, son of Sir Wm. Backhouse, at Wadham 
College, Oxford. In 1660 he became master of arts at 
Cambridge, and was also made a prebendary of Ripon, 
in Yorkshire. In 1666 he was appointed king’s chap- 
lain, and in 1667 was collated to a prebend of Salisbury, 
and proceeded doctor of divinity at Oxford. In 1668 
he was presented to the vicarage of St. Mary’s, in Read- 
ing, and also installed archdeacon of Merioneth, in the 
church of Bangor, of which he became deacon in 1672, 
besides being made prebend in St. Paul’s Church, Lon- 
don. In 1674 he was made residentiary of Salisbury, 
and in 1676 promoted to the see of Exeter, the vicarage 
of St. Martin’s-in-the-Fields, Westminster. In 1680 he 
was appointed bishop of St. Asaph, was translated to 
Lichfield in 1692, and to Worcester in 1699-1700. He 
took an active part in the troubles between the Roman- 
ists and Protestants in 1678. He preached the funeral 
sermon of Sir Edmondbury Godfrey, believed to have 
been murdered in carrying out what is known as the 
popish plot for overthrowing Protestantism in England. 
In 1688, with six other bishops, he signed, and, as spokes- 
man, presented to the king, a memorial against the pub- 
lication of his declaration of indulgence to Romanists 
and Dissenters. He was one of the six bishops who, 
together with archbishop Sancroft, composing the illus- 
trious seven bishops, for their refusal to publish the 
king’s declaration, were shortly after imprisoned by 
James II in the Tower, and, after trial, acquitted, to the 
great joy of all England. He became almoner to Wil- 
liam III, and later also to queen Anne. He died at 
Hartlebury Castle Aug. 30, 1717. Lloyd furnished val- 
uable materials to Burnet’s History of his Oicn Times , 
and wrote Considerations touching the true Way to sup- 
press Popery in this Kingdom , etc. (Loud. 1684, 8 vo, 2d 
edit.) [a work which was attacked by Mackenzie ( De- 
fence of the A Jitiquity of the Royal Line of Scotland , etc.), 
and was defended by bishop Stillingfleet (Origines Brit.), 
who reprinted it, with Notes by 'I'. P. Panton (Oxford, 
1842, 2 vols. 8vo)] : — History of the Government of the 
Chiu'ch of Great Britain : — A Dissertation on Daniel's 
Seventy Weeks : — A System of Chronology (1712) : — liar- 




LOAF 


472 


LOAN 


viony of the Gospels , etc., etc. See Allibone, Diet, of 
Brit, and A m. A uthors, vol. ii, s. v.; Stoughton, Eecles. 
Hist. ( Restoration ), i, 500; ii, 5, 28, 141 sq., 140; Strick- 
land, Lives of the Seven Bishops. 

Loaf (properly ‘122, kikkar ', a circle, in the phrase 
Cn5 222, a round of bread, i. e. circular cake, being 
the form of Oriental bread, or rather biscuit, Exod. 
xxix, 23, Judg. viii, 5, 1 Sam. x, 3; 1 Chron. xvi, 3; 
rendered “piece” or “morsel” of bread in Prov. vi, 26; 
Jer. xxxvii, 21 ; 1 Sam. ii, 20; sometimes simply 
le'chem, bread , Lev. xxiii, 17 ; 1 Sam. xvii, 17 ; xxv, 18 ; 
1 Kings xiv, 3; 2 Kings iv, 42; and so likewise the 
Creek «pro£, bread , espec. in the plural, Matt, xiv, 17, 
19 , xv, 34, 30; xvi, 9, 10; Mark vi, 38, 41, 44, 52; viii, 
5.0,14,19; Luke ix, 13, 10; xi, 5; John vi, 9, 11, 13, 26), 
a round cake, the usual form of bread among the an- 
cients. See Suev-bkead. The bread of the Jews was 
either in small loaves, or else in broad and thick cakes, 
as is the present custom in the East. Bread was al- 
ways broken into such portions as were required, and 
distributed by the master of the family. See Bread. 



Ancient Roman Bread (from a paintinj 
nou). 


; on the walls of the Parthe- 




Aneient Egyptian Bread. (The first two figures are from 
the Monuments, the others from specimens iu the Brit- 
ish Museum.) 


The two wave loaves mentioned in Lev. xxiii, 17 are 
called in Hebrew Cfl?, le'chem temtphah ', sig- 

nifying the act of waving or moving to and fro before 
Jehovah, a ceremony observed in the consecration of 
offerings; hence applied as a name to anything conse- 
crated in this manner. See Offering. 

Lo-am'mi (lleb. Lo-Ammi', JN’P, not my peo- 
ple , as it is explained in the context, Hos. i, 9; Sept, 
O u \abg pov,\ ulg. Xon populus meus ; in the parallel 
passage, Hos. ii, 23, Sept, ov \a<p pov, Vulg. 

non populo meo , Auth. Vers, “not my people”), a sym- 
bolical name given by the prophet Hosea at t lie divine 
instance to his second son, in token of Jehovah’s rejec- 
tion ami subsequent restoration of his people, alluding 
to the Babylonian captivity (Hos. i, 9; ii, 23; comp, ii, 
1). B.C. cir. 725. See Hosea. 

Loan sheelah 1 Sam. ii, 20, a petition or 

request, as elsewhere rendered). The law of Moses did 
not contemplate any raising of loans for the purpose of 
obtaining capital, a condition perhaps alluded to in the 
parables of the “pearl” and “hidden treasure” (Matt. 

xiii, 44, 45 ; Michaelis, Comm, on Laws of Mo- 
ses, art. 147, ii, 297, edit. Smith). See Com- 
merce. Such persons as bankers and sure- 
ties, in the commercial sense (Prov. xxii,26; 
Neh. v, 3), were unknown to the earlier ages 
of the Hebrew" commonwealth. The Mosaic 
laws which relate to the subject of borrowing, 
lending, and repaying are in substance as fol- 
lows : If an Israelite became poor, what lie de- 
sired to borrow was to be freely lent to him, 
and no interest, either of money or produce, 
could be exacted from him ; interest might be 
taken of a foreigner, but not of an Israelite by 
another Israelite (Exod. xxii,25; Deut.xxiii, 
19, 20; Lev. xxv, 35-38). At the end of ev- 
ery seven years a remission of debts was or- 
dained; every" creditor w as to remit wdiat he 
had lent : of a foreigner t lie loan might be ex- 
acted, but not of a brother. If an Israelite 
wished to borrow’, he w'as not to be refused because the 
year of remission w’as at hand (Dent, xv, 1 1 1). Pledges 
might be taken, but not as such the mill or the upper 
millstone, for that would be to take a man’s life in pledge. 
If the pledge was raiment, it was to be given back before 
sunset, as being needful for a covering at night. The 
widow’s garment could not he taken in pledge (Exod. 
xxii, 26. 27 ; Deut. xxiv, 0, 17). The law thus strictly 
forbade any interest to be taken for a loan to any poor 
person, either in the shape of money or of produce, and 
at first, as it seems, even in the. case of a foreigner; but 
this prohibition was afterwards limited to Hebrew's only, 
from whom, of whatever rank, not only w’as no usury 
on any pretence to be exacted, but relief to the poor by 
way of loan was enjoined, and excuses for evading this 
duty were forbidden (Exod. xxii, 25; Lev. xxv, 35, 37 ; 
Deut. xv, 3, 7-10; xxiii, 19, 20). The instances of ex- 
tortionate conduct mentioned with disapprobation in 
the book of Job probably represent a state of things pre- 
vious to the law, and such as the law' was intended to 
remedy (Job xxii, 6; xxiv, 3, 7). As commerce in- 
creased, the practice of usury, and so also of suretyship, 
grew' up, but the exaction of it from a Hebrew appears 
to have been regarded to a late period as discreditable 
(Prov. vi, 1, 4; xi, 15; xvii, 18; xx, 10; xxii, 20; Psa. 
xv, 5; xxvii, 13; Jer. xv, 10; Ezek. xviii, 13 ; xxii, 12). 
Systematic breach of the law in this respect was cor- 
rected by Nehemiah after the return from captivity 
(Xeh. v, 1, 13; see Michaelis, ibid. arts. 148, 151 ). In 
later times the practice of borrowing money appears 
to have prevailed without limitation of race, and to 


The word fiSH, challah', “cake” (2 Sam. vi, 19), of- 
ten refers to a cake of oblation (Exod. xxix, 23; Lev. 

... ^ . " * 1 . iw ^ JMtlillll VI D ILIIUIU JlllliLULlWU UJ 1(11:1% (U1U LU 

vin, -u , rsunih. m, lo j etc.), from the root chnhtl , have been carried on upon systematic principles, though 
to pierce through, because they were pricked, as among the original spirit of the law was approved bv our Lord 
the Arabians and Jews of the present day. We also (Matt, v, 42; xxv, 27; Luke vi, 35; six, 23). The 
find, on the paintings in the monuments of Egypt, rep- money-changers (Kfoparurrai and KoWvfiuTTat), w’ho 
resentations of offerings of cakes pricked. See Cake, j had seats and tables in the Temple, were traders whose 


LOAN 


473 


LOAN 


profits arose chiefly from the exchange of money with I 
those who came to pay their annual half shekel (Pol- i 
lux, iii, 84 ; vii, 170 ; Selileusner, Lex. N. T. s. v. ; Light- j 
foot, //or. I/ebr. at Matt. xxi, 12). The documents re- ' 
lating to loans of money appear to have been deposited I 
in public offices in Jerusalem (Josephus, War, ii, 17, 6). 

In making loans no prohibition is pronounced in the 
law against taking a pledge of the borrower, but certain 
limitations are prescribed in favor of the poor. 1. The 
outer garment, which formed the poor man’s principal 
covering by night as well as by day, if taken in pledge, 
was to be returned before sunset. A bedstead, how- 
ever, might be taken (Exod. xxii, 26, 27 ; Dent, xxiv, 
12, Id; comp. Job xxii, 6; Prov. xxii, 27 ; Shaw, Trav. 
p. 224; Burckliardt, Xotes on Bed. i, 47, 231 ; Niebuhr, 
Descr. de VA r. p. 56; Lane, Mod. Eg. i, 57, 58 ; Gesen. 
Thesaur. p. 403 ; Michael is, Laics of Moses, arts. 143 and 
150). 2. The prohibition was absolute in the case of 

((f) the widow’s garment (Deut, xxiv, 17), and (5) a 
millstone of either kind (Deut. xxiv, 6). Michaelis 
(art. 150, ii, 321) supposes also all indispensable animals 
and utensils of agriculture; see also Mishna, Maaser 
Sheni, i. 3. A creditor was forbidden to enter a house 
to reclaim a pledge, but was to stand outside till the 
borrower should come forth to return it (Deut. xxiv, 10, 
11). 4. The original Koman law of debt permitted the 

debtor to be enslaved by his creditor until the debt was 
discharged (Livy, ii, 23 ; Appian, Jtal. p. 40) ; and lie 
might even be put to death by him, though this ex- 
tremity does not appear to have been ever practiced 
(Gell. xx, 1, 45, 52; Smith, Diet, of Class. Antiq. s. v. 
Bonorum Cessio, Nexurn). In Athens also the creditor 
had a claim to the person of the debtor (Plutarch, 1 'it. 
Sol. 15). The Jewish law, as it did not forbid tem- 
porary bondage in the case of debtors, yet forbade a 
Hebrew debtor to be detained as a bondsman longer 
than the seventh year, or at furthest the year of jubilee 
(Exod. xxi, 2; Lev. xxv, 30, 42; Deut. xv, 9). If a 
Hebrew was sold in this way to a foreign sojourner, he 
might be redeemed at a valuation at any time previous 
to the jubilee year, and in that year was, under any cir- 
cumstances, to be released. Foreign sojourners, how- 
ever, were not entitled to release at that time (Lev. 
xxv, 44. 46, 47, 54; 2 Kings iv, 2; Isa. 1, 1 ; lii, 3). 
Land sold on account of debt was redeemable either by 
the seller himself, or by a kinsman in case of his inabil- 
ity to repurchase. Houses in walled towns, except 
such as belonged to Levites, if not redeemed within one 
year after sale, were alienated forever. Michaelis doubts 
whether all debt was extinguished by the jubilee; but 
Josephus’s account is very precise {Ant. iii, 12, 3 ; comp. 
Lev. xxv, 23, 34 ; Ruth iv, 4, 10; see Michaelis, § 158, ii, 
360). In later times the sabbatieal or jubilee release 
was superseded by a law, probably introduced by the 
Romans, by which the debtor was liable to be detained 
in prison until the full discharge of his debt (Matt, v, 
26). Michaelis thinks this doubtful. The case imag- 
ined in the parable of the unmerciful servant belongs 
rather to despotic Oriental than Jewish manners (Matt, 
xviii, 34. Michaelis, ibid. art. 149; Trench, Parables , p. 
141). Subsequent Jewish opinions on loans and usury 
may be seen in the Mishna, Baba Meziah , c. iii, x. See 

Jt'KlLEE. 

These laws relating to loans may wear a strange and 
somewhat unreasonable aspect to the mere modern read- 
er, and cannot be understood, either in their bearing or 
their sanctions, unless considered from the Biblical point 
of view. The land of Canaan (as the entire world) be- 
longed to its Creator, but was given of God to the de- 
scendants of Abraham under certain conditions, of which 
this liberality to the needy was one. The power of 
getting loans, therefore, was a part of the poor man’s 
inheritance. It was a lien on the land (the source of 
all property with agricultural people), which was as valid 
as the tenure of any given portion by the tribe or fam- 
ily to whose lot it had fallen. This is the light in 
which the Mosaic polity represents the matter, and in 


this light, so long as that polity retained its force, would 
it, as a matter of course, be regarded by the owners of 
property. Thus the execution of this particular law 
was secured by the entire force with which the consti- 
tution itself was recommended and sustained. But as 
human selfishness might in time endanger this particu- 
lar set ol'laws, so Moses applied special support to the 
possibly weak part. Hence the emphasis with which 
he enjoins the duty of lending to the needy. Of this 
emphasis the real essence is the sanction supplied by 
that special providence which lay at the very basis of 
the Mosaic commonwealth, so that lending to the des- 
titute came to be enforced with all the power derivable 
from the express will of God. Nor are there wanting 
arguments sufficient to vindicate these enactments in 
the light of sound political economy, at least in the ease 
of the Jewish people. Had the Hebrews enjoyed a free 
intercourse with other nations, the permission to take 
usury of foreigners might have had the effect of im- 
poverishing Palestine by affording a strong inducement 
for employing capital abroad; but, under the actual re- 
strictions of the Mosaic law, this evil was impossible. 
Some not inconsiderable advantages must have ensued 
from the observance of these laws. The entire aliena- 
tion and loss of the lent property were prevented by 
that peculiar institution which restored to every man 
his property at the great year of release. In the in- 
terval between the jubilees the system under considera- 
tion would tend to prevent those inequalities of social 
condition which always arise rapidly, and which have 
not seldom brought disaster and ruin on states. The 
affluent were required to part with a portion of their 
affluence to supply the wants of the needy, without ex- 
acting that recompense which would only make the rich 
more wealthy and the poor more needy, thus superin- 
ducing a state of things scarcely more injurious to the 
one than to the other of these two parties. There was 
also in this system a strongly conservative influence. 
Agiiculture was the foundation of the constitution. 
Had money-lending been a trade, money-making would 
also have been eagerly pursued. Capital would be with- 
drawn from the land ; the agriculturist would pass into 
the usurer; huge inequalities would arise, commerce 
would assume predominance, and the entire common- 
wealth be overturned — changes and evils which were 
prevented, or, if not so, certainly retarded and abated 
by the code of laws regarding loans. As it was, the 
gradually increasing wealth of the country was in the 
main laid out on the soil, so as to augment its produc- 
tiveness and distribute its bounties. The same regula- 
tions, moreover, prevented those undue expansions of 
] credit and those sudden fluctuations in the relative value 
of money and staple commodities which have so often 
brought on financial collapses and prostration in mod- 
ern communities. While, however, the benign tend- 
ency of the laws in question is admitted, and special ob- 
jects may be adduced as attainable by them, may it not 
be questioned whether they were strictly just ? £uch 
a doubt could arise only in a mind which viewed the 
subject from the position of our actual society. A mod- 
I ern might plead that he had a right to do wliat he 
pleased with his own ; that his property of every kind 
— land, food, money — was his own ; and that he was 
! justified to turn all and each part to account for his 
: own benefit. Apart from religious considerations, this 
position is impregnable. But such a view of property 
finds no support in the idosaic institutions. In them 
property has a divine origin, and its use is intrusted to 
man on certain conditions, which conditions arc as valid 
as is the tenure of property itself. In one sense, in- 
deed, the entire land — all property — was a great loan, a 
loan lent of God to the people of Israel, who might well, 
therefore, acquiesce in any arrangement which required 
a portion — a small portion — of this loan to be under cer- 
tain circumstances accessible to the destitute. This 
view receives confirmation from the fact that interest 
1 might be taken of persons who were not Hebrews, and 


LOAYSA 


474 


LOBETHAN 


therefore lay beyond the sphere embraced by this spe- I 
cial arrangement. It would open too wide a held did I 
we proceed to consider how far the Mosaic system might 
be applicable in the world at large ; but this is very 
clear to our mind, that the theory of property oil which 
it rests — that is, making property to be divine in its or- 
igin, and therefore tenable only on the fulfilment of such 
conditions as the great laws of religion and morality 
enforce — is more true and more philosophical (except in 
a college of atheists) than tfic narrow and baneful ideas 
which ordinarily prevail. 

These views may prepare the reader for considering 
the doctrine of “the Great Teacher” on the subject of 
loans. It is found forcibly expressed in Luke’s Gospel 
(vi,34,35) : “ If ye lend to them of whom ye hope to re- 
ceive, what thank have ye? for sinners also lend to sin- 
ners, to receive as much again; but love ye your ene- 
mies, and do good, and lend, hoping for nothing again ; 
and your reward shall be great, and ye shall be the chil- 
dren of the Highest; for he is kind unto the unthank- 
ful and to the evil.” The meaning of the passage is 
distinct and full, unmistakable, and not to be evaded, 
lie commands men to lend, not as Jews to Jews, but 
even to enemies, without asking or receiving any re- 
turn, after the manner of the Great Benefactor of the 
universe, who sends down his rains and bids his sun to 
shine on the fields of the unjust as well as of the just. 
To attempt to view this command in the light of reason 
and experience would recpiire space which cannot here 
be given; but we must add, that any attempt to ex- 
plain the injunction away is most unworthy on the part 
of professed disciples of Christ ; and that, not impossi- 
bly at least, fidelity to the behests of him whom we call 
Lord and Master would of itself answer all doubts and 
remove all misgivings by practically showing that this, 
as every other doctrine that fell from his lips, is indeed 
of God (John vii, 17). — Kitto; Smith. Yet, while we 
must maintain the paramount obligation of our Sav- 
iour’s precept, corroborative — and, indeed, expansive — 
as it is, of the essential principle of the Mosaic economy, 
namely, the inculcation of universal brotherly love, nev- 
ertheless common sense, no less than sound morality, 
dictates at least the following co-ordinate considera- 
tions, which should likewise be taken into the account 
in the exercise of Christian liberality, in loans as well as 
in gifts: 1. Due inquiry should be instituted, so as to 
satisfy the lender of the moral worthiness of the cred- 
itor, lest the loan, instead of being a benefaction, should 
really be but a stimulus to vice, or, at least, an encour- 
agement to idleness. 2. The wants of one’s own family 
and nearer dependents must not be sacrificed by ill- 
judged and untimely generosity. 3. Funds held in 
trust should be carefully discriminated from one’s own 
personal property, and a greater degree of caution exer- 
cised in their administration. 4. We have no right to 
loan what is already due for our own debts — “We must 
be just before we are generous.” 5. In fine, the great 
fact that we arc but stewards of God’s bounty should be 
the ruling thought in all our benefactions, whether in 
the form of loans or gifts, and we should therefore dis- 
pense funds so as to contribute most to the divine glory 
and the highest good of the recipients. This principle 
alone is the true corrective of all selfishness, whether 
parsimony on the one hand, or prodigality oil the other. 
Sec Bolt now; Lend, etc. 

IiOaysa, Gkacia de, an eloquent Dominican preach- 
er and Spanish cardinal, was born in 1470 at Talavera, 
Castile; entered the Dominican Order at St. Paul dc 
Pcnnetiel in 1405, and was made successively professor 
of philosophy, next of theology, director of studies, rec- 
tor at St. Gregory, prior of the convent of Avila and of 
Valladolid, provincial of Spain (1518), and finally gen- 
eral of his order. In 1532 he was chosen confessor to 
Charles Y, of whom he had previously bc6n a teacher. 
In the following year Charles V made him bishop of 
Osma. lie admitted him into his private council, and 
very soon made him president of the Koval Council of 


the Indies, and president of the Crusade. Loavsa 
strongly opposed the release, without ransom or condi- 
tion, of Francis 1, king of France, made prisoner by 
Charles at Pavia. Succeeding events proved bis coun- 
sel good. In 1530 Charles V obtained a cardinalsliip 
for him from pope Clement VII, aud also the title St. 
Suzanne. In the same year lie named him bishop of 
Siguenza, and also archbishop of Seville. Loavsa final- 
ly became grand inquisitor of Spain. He was frequent- 
ly ambassador for Charles V, and kept up a private cor- 
| respondence with him, some of the letters of which 
(from 1530 to 1532), embracing Charles's stay in Ger- 
many, the most important period in the history of the 
Reformation, are published by G. Heine from the ar- 
chives of Simancas. These letters prove Loavsa very 
bitter against the “heretics.” Loaysa died April 21, 
1540, at Madrid. See Antonio, Biblioth. Ilispana Xova , 
iii, 514 ; Echard, Scriptores Ordinis Pnedicatorum, ii, 39 ; 
Le I‘. Ton run, Homines illustres de I'Ordre de Saint- Dom- 
inique, iv, 93 ; Table du Journ. des S a vans, vol. vi ; Hoefer, 
A r ouv. Biop. Generate, vol. xxxi, s. v. ; Vehse, Memoirs of 
the Court of Austria, i, 158 sq. ; Thomas, Diet, of Biorj . 
and Mytkol. s. v. 

Lobbes, a celebrated convent in Hennegau, near 
Liege, in Belgium, founded by St.Laudelin, is noted par- 
ticularly because it educated, aud at one time bad as its 
abbot, the celebrated monk Heriger, who flourished to- 
wards the close of the 10th century. His whole history 
is so thoroughly entangled in mythical narratives that 
it is well-nigh impossible to tell when Heriger first 
came to Lobbes. Vogel, in Herzog ( Real-Eneyklopddie , 
v, 753), thinks it probable that Heriger entered Lobbes 
, in 9G0, and that he could not, because of the low condi- 
tion of the inmates of that monastery previous to this 
date, have been educated there. Heriger wrote Vita St. 
Ursmari: — Gesta episcopornm Turtgrensium et Leodien - 
shim (about A.D. 979): — Vita St.Laudoaldi (about 980), 
etc. He died Oct. 31, 1007. 

Lober, Gottiiilf Friedemann, a German theolo- 
gian, was born at Bonneburg, in the duchy of Sachsen- 
Altenburg, Oct. 22, 1722. In 1738 he entered the Uni- 
versity of Jena, where, in 1741, he lectured on linguis- 
tics of the Old and New Test., and later on philosophy. 
Notwithstanding his splendid prospects in this sphere, 
he gave up academical life in 1743, and removed to Al- 
tenburg as assistant court preacher (his aged father was 
then chief court preacher). In 1745 he became assessor 
of the Consistory; in 1747, archdeacon: in 1751, preach- 
er of a foundation and councillor of the Consistory ; in 
1768, superintendent general; in 1792, privy councillor 
of the Consistory ; in the following year he celebrated 
his jubilee of fifty years of office. lie died August 22, 
1799. By reason of his extensive learning, profound 
linguistic attainments, accurate knowledge of all the 
branches of theology, and great piety, he is considered 
one of the greatest Lutheran theologians of the 18th 
century. Of his productions, we mention Observationes 
ad historiam vitce et mortis Jesu Christi in ipsa (e tat is 
fore obitce spectantes (Altenburg, 1767, 8vo). — During, 
Gelehrte Theol . Deutschlands, s. v. 

Lobethan, Johann Konrad, a German theologian, 
was born at Hebei, near Homburg, Sept. 29, 1688. In 
1705 he entered the University of Marburg; later, he 
spent three years in Cassel, and in 1711 went to Bremen 
to continue his studies. In 1714 he accepted a call to 
Weimar as court preacher of the duchess dowager Char- 
lotte Dorothea Sophie ; iu 1720, to Cothen, as chief min- 
ister and superintendent, with the dignity of a council- 
lor of the Consistory. Subsequently he was, for several 
years, the first minister and councillor of the Consistory 
of the German Reformed Church at Magdeburg. The 
latter portion of his life he spent at Cothen, where he 
died Nov. 29, 1735. Lobethan was noted as an eminent 
preacher ; the earnest and warm mode of his delivery 
always captivated the attention of his audience. Of 
his productions, mostly of an ascctical character, we 


LOBO 


475 


LOCAL PREACHERS 


mention Dissert, de magisterio gratim sub Novo Testam. 
(Bremae, 1711, 4to). — During, Gelehrte Th. Deutschl. s. v. 

Lobo, Jeronimo, a noted Portuguese missionary 
of the Order of the Jesuits, was born at Lisbon in 1593. 
He was at first a professor in the Jesuits’ College at 
Coimbra, whence he was ordered to the missions in 
India, and removed to Goa in 1622. In 1623 he vol- 
unteered for the mission to Abyssinia to Christianize 
that country, whose sovereign, by Lobo called sultan 
Segued, had turned Roman Catholic through the instru- 
mentality of father Paez, who in 1603 had gone to Abys- 
sinia (q. v.). Lobo sailed from Goa in 1624, and landed 
at Pate, on the coast of Mombaza, thinking to reach : 
Abyssinia by land. He proceeded some distance from 
Pate to the northward among the Gallas, of whom he 
gives an account, but, finding it impracticable to pene- 
trate into Abyssinia by that way, he retraced his steps 
to the coast, and embarked for India. In 1625 he start- 
ed out again, this time in company with Mendez, the 
newly-appointed patriarch of Ethiopia, and other mis- 
sionaries. After sailing up the Red Sea they landed at 
Belur, or Belal Bay (13° 14' N. lat.), on the Daneali 
coast, whose sheik was tributary to Abyssinia, and 
thence, crossing the salt plain, Lobo entered Tigre by a 
mountain pass, and arrived at Fremona, near Duan, 
where the missionary settlement was. Here he spent 
several years as superintendent of the missions in that 
kingdom. A revolt of the viceroy of Tigre, Teela 
Georgis, put Lobo in great danger, for the rebels were 
joined by the Abyssinian priests, who hated the Roman 
Catholic missionaries, and indeed represented the pro- 
tection given to them by the emperor Segued as the 
greatest cause of complaint against him. The viceroy, 
however, was defeated, arrested, and hanged ; and Lobo, 
having repaired to the emperor’s court, was afterwards 
sent by his superiors to the kingdom of Damot. From 
Damot, Lobo, after some time, returned again to Tigre, 
where the persecution raised by the son and successor 
of Segued overtook him. All the Portuguese, to the 
number of 400, with the patriarch, a bishop, and eigh- 
teen Jesuits, were compelled to leave the country in 
1634. Lobo now sailed for Europe, but on his way was 
shipwrecked on the coast of Natal, and some time 
elapsed before he arrived in Portugal, where he sought 
to enlist the government in behalf of his scheme, the 
reclamation of Abyssinia to the Romish Church. Nei- 
ther here nor at the court of Rome did his plan find 
favor, and he left in 1640 for India, and became provin- 
cial of the Jesuits in Goa. In 1656 he returned to Lis- 
bon, and published the narrative of his journey to Abys- 
sinia, entitled History of Ethiopia (1659), which was 
afterwards translated into French by the abbe Lcgrand, 
who added a continuation of the history of the Roman 
Catholic missions in Abyssinia after Lobo’s departure, 
and also an account of the expedition of Poncet, a 
French surgeon, who reached that country from Egypt, 
and a subsequent attempt made by Du Roule, who bore 
a sort of diplomatic character from the French court, 
but was murdered on his way, at Sennaar, in 1705. 
This is followed by several dissertations on the history, 
religion, government, etc., of Abyssinia. The whole 
was translated into English by Dr. Johnson in 1735. 
Lobo died at Lisbon in 1678. — Eng. Cycl.s.v. 

Lobstein, Johann Michael, a German theologian, 
was born at Lampertheim, near Strasburg, May, 1740. 
In 1755 he entered the university of his native place, 
went to Paris in 1767, and at the expiration of nearly 
two years returned to Strasburg, and became pastor of 
the French Nicolai Church. In addition to this he be- 
came, after a few years, preacher of the German Peter's 
Church, and assistant at the Gymnasium. In 1764 he 
obtained a position as assistant of the philosophical fac- 
ulty of the university of the same place. Iu 1775 he 
accepted a call to the University of Giessen as prof. ord. ; 
of divinity and assessor of the Consistory; in 1777 he , 
received the degree of doctor of divinity, and was ap- | 


pointed inspector and first preacher at Butzbaeh. In 
1790 he again returned to Strasburg as professor and 
preacher, and there died, June 29, 1794. Lobstein’s 
above-mentioned stay in Paris not only offered him the 
opportunity of hearing some of the best Orientalists of 
the day (a fact which chiefly contributed to his exten- 
sive and accurate knowledge of the Oriental languages), 
but also made him acquainted with many great men 
of that city. Of his scholarly productions we only 
mention Diss.de dicina animi pave, sa twice comite (Ar- 
gentorati, 1766, 4to) : — Covnnentutio historico-philolvgica 
de montibus Ebal et Garizim (ibid. 1770, 4to) : — Observa- 
, t ‘tones critical in loca Pentateuehi illustria (Gissae et Frau- 
cof. 1787, 8vo). He published also the Samaritan Codex, 
after the MSS. of the Royal Library at Paris. — During, 
Gelehrte Thcol. Deutsch. s. v. 

Lobwasser, Ambrosjus, a German Protestant poet, 
■was born at Selineeburg, in Saxony, April 4, 1515. He 
studied law, and became chancellor of Misnia, which po- 
sition lie resigned in 1563, to assume the duties of a pro- 
fessorship at the Lhiiversity of Konigsberg. He died 
Nov. 25, 1585. Lobwasser exerted great influence over 
the religious concerns of the duchy of Prussia, which, 
being at first exclusively Lutheran, finally came to be 
about equally divided among Lutherans and Calvinists. 
Ilis reputation chiefly rests, however, on his German 
version of the Psalms (based upon the French transla- 
tion of Clement Marot and Theodore Beza), published 
under the title Die Psalmen Davids nach franz. Melodey 
in deutsche Ileymen gtbracht (Lpz. 1573, 8vo; Heidelb. 
1574; Lpz. 1579; Strasb. 1597, Amsterd. 17( 4). The 
translation was so symmetrical that the music made for 
the French by Claude Gondiinel was exactly adapted to 
the German. At the same time, it must be acknowl- 
edged that it is entirely devoid of poetical merit, as 
might naturally be expected, for a translation from a 
translation can seldom have any of the original spirit. 
These Psalms were nevertheless used in the German 
Reformed churches until the middle of the 18th cen- 
tury, on account of the people's aversion against sing- 
ing any but sacred productions. Lobw r asser wrote also 
Summai'ien cdler Kapitel d.heiligen Schrift, in deutschen 
Reimen (Lpz. 1584, 8vo). See J ocher, Gelehrten Lexi- 
con ; Koch, Gesck. d. Kirche ; Herzog, Real-Encyklop. x, 
447 ; Hoefer, Nouv. Eiog. Gen. xxxi, 428. (J. N. P.) 

Local Preachers. The term “local,” as applied 
to preachers in Methodist churches, is used in contra- 
distinction to the term “itinerant” or “travelling,” which 
designates members of Annual Conferences. Local 
preachers are lag preachers. They are not subject to 
appointment by bishops or stationing committees, as 
are itinerant ministers. Nevertheless, they are formally 
licensed, and subject to the direction and friendly requi- 
sitions of the pastoral authority in the charge in which 
they reside. By special arrangement, and by authority 
of the presiding elder, a local preacher is sometimes ap- 
pointed preacher in charge or pastor for a longer or 
shorter period. 

In the Methodist Episcopal Church the following is 
the process of the appointment of any person as a local 
preacher. 1. lie must be recommended by the leaders’ 
meeting of the Church to which lie belongs. He must 
be elected by a Quarterly Conference before which he 
has been examined on the subject of doctrines and dis- 
cipline. 2. An election by the Quarterly Conference at 
this stage appoints a candidate to the office of a local 
preacher. Iu proof of his appointment, he is furnished 
with a license signed by the president of the Confer- 
ence. The license is given for one year only, and, in 
order to validity, must be renewed every year thereaf- 
ter. 3. Subject to the following prerequisites, a local 
preacher may be ordained: (1.) He must have held a 
local preacher’s license for four consecutive years before 
I his ordination. (2.) He must have been examined in 
j the Quarterly Conference on the subject of doctrines 
| and discipline. (3.) lie must have received a “testi- 


LOCAL PREACHERS 


476 LOCI COMMUNES TI1EOLOGICI 


rooni:il” from the Quarterly Conference, signed by the 
president and countersigned by the secretary. This 
testimonial must recommend the applicant as a suitable 
person to receive ministerial orders. (4.) He must pass 
an examination as to character and acquirements before 
the Annual Conference, and obtain its approbation and 
election to orders. 

Local preachers are amenable to the Quarterly Con- 
ferences of which they arc members. An ordained 
local preacher is not required to have his credentials re- 
newed annually, although his character must be ap- 
proved each year by the Quarterly Conference. No 
person is eligible to admission on trial in an Annual 
Conference who is not a local preacher, and specially 
recommended by the Quarterly Conference as a suitable 
candidate for the “travelling connection.” Thus the 
local or lay preacher’s office is made preparatory to the 
itinerant or fully-constituted ministry. Local preachers 
are subject to all the moral and religious obligations of 
the regular ministry. Although expected to devise and 
execute plans for doing good to the extent of their in- 
dividual ability, they are nevertheless required to act 
under the direction of their pastors or presiding elders, 
who are on their part required by the Discipline of the 
Church to give local preachers regular and systematic 
employment on the Sabbath. 

On "large circuits, and on stations embracing mission- 
ary work, and where the number of local preachers is 
considerable, it is customary to arrange and print a 
Plan covering all the appointments of a quarter, and 
designating the time and place of each individuals ser- 
vices. in the Wesleyan Methodist Church of Great 
Britain the insertion of a local preacher’s name on the 
current plan of the charge is deemed a sufficient license 
and public authentication for his office. In his meas- 
ures for training and employing lay workers in the Con- 
gregational Church, llev. T. Dewitt Talmage, of Brook- 
lyn, has adopted the system of mapping out the work 
of his lay preachers in a printed plan, after the manner 
above alluded to. 

According to official statistics, the number of local 
preachers in the Methodist Episcopal Church at the 
close of 1871 was 11,382, a number greater by 2083 than 
that of the itinerant ministers of the same Church. 
The number of local preachers in the eight other Meth- 
odist bodies of the United States is supposed to be about 
10,000. In all but a few exceptional cases, the individ- 
uals forming this great body of evangelical workers ren- 
der their services to churches and people without fee or 
reward. 3 1 any of them faithfully and zealously obey 
the commands of the great Teacher : “Go out quickly 
into the streets and lanes of the city, and bring in hith- 
er the poor, and the maimed, and the halt, and the 
blind;” also, “Go out into the highways and hedges, 
and compel them to conic in, that my house may be 
tilled.” While, preaching laboriously on the Sabbath, 
they support themstlves b} r diligence in business during 
the week. 

Within a few years past a spirited effort has been 
made among the local preachers of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church for mutual improvement, and the general 
increase of the intellectual and spiritual power of the 
body. A National Local Preachers’ Association has been 
formed, which has held public sessions in various parts 
of the United States. “At these annual gatherings rep- 
resentatives from all parts of the world come together 
for counsel, and for the comparison of personal experi- 
ence, and observations, and methods of labor; also to 
discuss questions bearing upon their work generally.” 
This association also encourages the organization of 
branch associations in different sections of the country. 
The National Association referred to memorialized the 
General Conference of 1872, requesting the following 
legislation, viz. : 

(t.) To organize in each presiding elder’s district a Dis- 
trict Conference, to he composed of all the travelling and 
local preachers in the district, and to be presided over by 
the presiding elder, and meet semi-uunually. 


(2.) To give this District Conference authority to re- 
ceive, license, try, and expel local preachers, and also to 
recommend suitable persons to the Annual Conference 
to be received into the travelling connection, and for or- 
dination as local deacons and elders. 

(3.) To authorize the District Conference to assign each, 
local preacher to a field of labor for the quarter, and to 
hold him strictly responsible for an efficient performance 
of his work. 

This scheme of District Conferences being analogous to 
that long practiced by the Wesleyans of Great Britain, 
was, with sundry additions and modifications, adopted, 
but, nevertheless, made subject to the option of a ma- 
jority of the Quarterly Conferences in any given dis- 
trict. The local preacher’s office may be considered a 
feature of Methodist churches, in all their branches and 
in all parts of the world. By means of it lay preaching 
is not only sanctioned, but regulated and made auxil- 
iary to regular Church and missionary movements. In 
England a monthly magazine is published, entitled The 
Local Preacher's Magazine , to furnish lay preachers 
material for study, etc., since 1851. See also J. II. Carr, 
The Local Ministry , its Character, Vocation, and Position 
(Lond. 1851); G. Smith, Wesleyan Local Pr'cachcr's Man- 
ual (Lond. 1861); Mills, Local or Lag Ministry (Loud./ 
1851). (D.B.K.) 

Lochman, J. Geokge, D.D., a Lutheran minister, 
widely and favorably known, was bom in Philadelphia 
Dee. 2, 1773. After the proper preparation, he entered 
the University of Pennsylvania, at which he was grad- 
uated in 1789, and from which institution he subse- 
quently received the doctorate. He studied theology 
under the direction of Dr. Helmuth, and was licensed to 
preach the Gospel in 1794. Soon after, he accepted a 
call to Lebanon, Penn., where be remained twenty-one 
years, laboring with great fidelity and the most satisfac- 
tory results. In 1815 he was elected pastor of the Lu- 
theran Church at Harrisburg, Penn, llis successful la- 
bors here were terminated by death July 10, 1826. Dr. 
Lochman was an able and popular preacher. He was 
held in high estimation by the Church, and exercised 
an unbounded influence. See Sprague, Annals Am. Pul - 
pit, ix, 1 10 sq. (M. L. S.) 

Loci Communes Theologici is the name giv- 
en to expositions of evangelical dogmatics in the early 
times of the Reformation. It originated with Melanc- 
tlion, and was retained by many as late as the 17th cen- 
tury. Melancthon was led to adopt it in consequence 
of its classical signification, the word loci being then 
used to denote the fundamental principles of any system 
or science, and he considered it desirable that the loci of 
theology should also be regularly established and de- 
fined : “E quibus rerum summa pendeat, nt quorsum di- 
I rigenda sint studia intelligatur” {Loci communes s. hypo - 
typoses theologies, 1521); “ Prodcst in doetrina Christ, 
online colligcre pnecipnos locos ut intclligi possit; quid 
in summa profitcatur doetrina Christiana, quid ad cam 
porti neat, quid non pertincat” {Loci communes, 1533, 

| init.). But, as the very first principle of the Reforma- 
tion was the Bible as a source of saving truth, it is evi- 
j dent the Loci communes theologici could be nothing else 


than the Scriptures themselves. In the first edition of 
his Loci Melancthon confined himself almost exclusive- 
ly to the Epistle to the Romans, in the exposition of 
which he collected the Communissimi rerum theologica - 
rum loci; in his second work (1533) he extended his 
field, following the historical order, and this plan has 
been generally adopted since. The most striking prog- 
ress accomplished by this method, compared with the 
former scholastic treatment of dogmatics, is, as Melanc- 
tlion himself pointed out, a return to the Bible on all 
points, instead of to the sentences of Peter Lombard, 
“Qui ita recitat. dogmata ut nec muniat Icctorcm Scrip- 
tune testimoniis nec de summa Scriptune disputet.” 
As the Reformation restored the Bible to the people, it 
was natural that the Loci theol. also should be less scien- 
tific and learned works than ‘such as could help the peo- 
ple to a cleared understanding of the Scriptures. Hence 


LOCK 


477 


LOCKE 


they were published in German hv Spalatin (1521). 
tenvards by J. Jonas (1536), and finally by Melancthon 
himself (1542), and designated by them as the chief ar- 
ticles and principal point of Scripture (1 1 anptartikel u. 
furnehnste Punkte d. ganzen heil. Schrift), or of Chris- 
tian doctrine ( Ilaupturtikel christlicher Lthre ). Me- 
lancthon, however, in the third part of his Loci (1543- 
59), gradually withdrew from this position, and adopted 
a manner of treating the subject more akin to scholas- 
ticism. This was subsequently the case with the Loci 
theologici of Abdias Pnetorius (Schulze) (Wittemberg, 
1569) and Strigel (ed. Pezel, Neust. 1581), who held the 
same views, as well as with those of Martin Chemnitz 
(ed. P. Lyser, Franc f. a. M. 1591) and Ilafenrefler (Tub. 
1600), who differed from him; also of Leonard Hot- 
ter (Wittemb. 1619), who went on an entirely different 
principle, which John Gerhard tried to soften down in 
his renowned Loci theol. (Jena, 1610), while A. Calov, 
in his Systema locor. theol. (Wittemb. 1655), carried it 
to its full extreme. After this time the expression Loci 
theologici ceased to be used in Lutheran dogmatics. In 
the Reformed Church it was used by IJvperius (Basle, 
1566),W. Musculus (Berne, 1561), Peter Martyr (Basle, 
1580), J. Maccov (Franeker, 1639), and D. Chamier (Ge- 
neva, 1653). See Gass, Gesch. d.prot. Dogmatik (1854, 
vol. i) ; Heppe, Dogmutik des deutsch. Protestantismus, 
etc. (1857, vol. i) ; C. Schwarz, Studien u. Kritiken (1855, 
i, and 1857, ii). — Herzog, Real-Eneyklopcidie , viii, 449. 
(J. N. P.) 

Lock (b?3, naaV, to ha?' up a door, Judg. iii, 23, 24; 
rendered “ bolt,” 2 Sam. xiii, 17, 18, “ inclose,” “ shut j 
up,” in Cant, iv, 12; hence manuV , the holt or 

fastening of a door, Nell, iii, 3, 6, 13, 14, 15; Cant, v, 5). i 
The doors of the ancient Hebrews were secured by bars ' 
of wood or iron, though the latter were almost entirely 
appropriated to the entrance of fortresses, prisons, and 
towns (comp. Isa. xlv, 2). Thus we find it mentioned 
in 1 Kings iv, 13 as something remarkable concerning 
Bashan that “there were threescore great cities, hav- 
ing walls and brazen bars.” These were almost the 
only locks known in early times, and they were fur- 
nished with a large and clumsy key, which was applied 
to the bar through an orifice on the outside, by means 
of which the bolt or bar was slipped forward as in mod- 
ern locks (Judg. iii, 24). There were smaller contri- 
vances for inner doors, and probably projecting pieces 
by which to shove the bolt with the hand (Cant, v, 5). 
See Key. Lane thus describes a modern Egyptian lock : 
“ Every door is furnished with a wooden lock, called 
dahheh, the mechanism of which is shown by a sketch 
here inserted. No. 1 is a front view of the lock, with 
the bolt drawn back; Nos. 2, 3, and 4 are back views of 
the separate parts and the key. A number of small 
iron pins (four, five, or more) drop into corresponding 
holes in the sliding bolt as soon as the latter is pushed 
into the hole or staple of the door-post. The key also 


af- has small pins, made to correspond with the holes, into 
which they are introduced to open the lock, the former 
pins being thus pushed up, the bolt may be drawn back. 
The wooden lock of a street door commonly has a slid- 
ing bolt about fourteen inches long; those of the doors 
of apartments, cupboards, etc., are about seven, eight, 
or nine inches. The locks of the gates of quarters, pub- 
lic buildings, etc., are of the same kind, and mostly two 
feet in length, or more. It is not difficult to pick this 
kind of lock” {Mod. Egyptians , i, 25). Hence they were 
sometimes, as an additional security, covered with clay 
(q. v.), and on this a seal (q.v.) impressed (comp. Job 
xxviii, 14). (See Ramvollff, Trav. in Ray, i\ 17; Rus- 
sell, A leppo, i, 22; Volney, Trav. ii, 438; Chardin, Yoy. 
iv, 123; Wilkinson, Anc. Egypt ., abridgment, i, 15, 16.) 
See Door. 

The other terms rendered “lock” in the Auth.Yers. 
refer to the hair of the head, etc. ; they are the follow- 
ing: tYsbpPC, machlaphoth', hrauls or plaits, e. g. of 
the long hair of Samson (Judg. xvi, 13, 19); 
tsitsith ', the forelock of the head (Ezek. viii, 3; also a 
“ fringe” or tassel , Numb, xv, 38, 39 ; comp. Matt, xxiii, 
5) ; 2HB, pe'ra, the locks of hair, as being shorn (Numb, 
vi, 5; Ezek. xliv, 20 ; and ni!Tl£, kerutstsoth', the fore- 
locks or sidelocks of a man’s or woman’s hair (Cant, v, 2, 
12; comp. Schultens, Op. min . p. 246); but tsam- 

mah', is a veil or female covering for the head and face, 
usual in the East (Cant, iv, 1, 3; vi, 7 ; Isa. xlvii, 2). 
See Hair. 

Locke, George, a Methodist preacher, was born 
in Cannonstown, Pa., June 8, 1797, and reared in Ken- 
tucky. His early educational advantages were few, 
but he improved all opportunities to secure knowledge. 
His parents were Presbyterians, but George was made 
a Methodist through the preaching of Edward Talbot 
when a saddler’s apprentice. In 1817 he was licensed to 
exhort, and soon began to preach. In 1819 he entered 
Tennessee Conference, and was successively appointed 
to Little River Circuit, to Powell’s Talley, and to Bowl- 
ing Green Circuit, Kv. In 1822 he located in Slielbv- 
ville, and engaged in secular business. II is conscience 
forced him to re-enter the ministry, and he success- 
ively preached on Jefterson Circuit and Hartford Cir- 
cuit (Kentucky Conference). In 1826 he was trans- 
ferred to Corydon Circuit, Illinois Conference. In 1828 
he labored on Charleston Circuit, and was the means 
of one of the greatest revivals that Southern Indiana 
ever witnessed. The same year he was appointed pre- 
siding elder of Wabash District, which embraced an 
area of territory in Indiana and Illinois of at least 100 
miles from east to west, by 200 miles from north to 
south, on either side of the Wabash River. While on 
this district he contracted the consumption, and was 
obliged to become supernumerary. He died in New 
Albany, Ind., in July, 1834. See Sprague, Annals of 
the A mei'ican Pulpit, vii, 608. 






f= ^r- 5 =| 

— ifi lB 


Locke, John, the most notable of modem 
English philosophers, who has exercised the great- 
est influence on all subsequent speculation, in both 
psychology and politics, and whose doctrines, un- 
der various modifications or exaggerations, still 
contribute largely to mould the opinions of the 
civilized world. He has in great measure deter- 
mined the complexion of British psychology. As 
the most strenuous antagonist of Cartesianism ; 
as the precursor and teacher alike of the French 
encyclopaedists and of the Scotch school; as the 
oracle of the freethinkers, the target of Leib- 
nitz, and the stimulator of Hartley, Berkeley, and 
Hume, Locke must always attract the earnest con- 
sideration of the student of metaphysics. For 
nearly two centuries his name has been a battle- 
cry, and his dogmas have been fought over by the 
shadowy hosts of warring ideologues with the zeal 
and the fury with which the Greeks and the Tro- 


Modern Egyptian wooden Lock. 



LOCKE 


478 


LOCKE 


jans contended over the body of Patroclus. His labors 
in the department of mental philosophy constitute only 
a part of his claims to enduring regard. His inquiries 
have been scarcely less fruitful in political philosophy 
and political economy. In the former he is the av ant- 
courier of Rousseau; in the latter science, of Adam 
Smith; and in each he has laid the foundations on 
which later theorists and later statesmen have been con- 
tent to build. 

Life. — John Locke was born Ang. 29, 1G32, at Wring- 
ton, Somersetshire, and was educated first at Westminster 
School, and later at Christ Church College, Oxford. Here 
he prosecuted the prescribed studies with diligence and 
success, but deviated from the beaten path by devoting 
himself to the discountenanced writings of Des Cartes, 
who had died a few years before. He obtained the bac- 
calaureate in 1G55, and the master’s degree in 1658, and 
then applied himself to the study of medicine, rather 
for the sake of knowledge and of his sickly frame than 
with the purpose of practicing his profession. 

In 1664 Locke accompanied the embassy to the elec- 
tor of Brandenburg as secretary of legation, but he re- 
turned to Oxford within the year, and applied him- 
self to experimental philosophy, then rising into favor. 
An accident now decided his course of life, and occa- 
sioned his acquaintance with lord Ashley — the celebra- 
ted earl of Shaftesbury — with whom he was persuaded 
to take up his abode the next year. By his skill and 
good luck he relieved his patron of an abscess which 
endangered his life, and was induced to confine his med- 
ical practice to a small circle of the lord's friends, and 
to give his chief attention to political speculation and 
questions of state. He thus became a man of the world 
before he became a philosopher. In 1608 Locke ac- 
companied the earl and countess of Northumberland to 
France. The earl proceeded towards Borne, and died 
on the way. Locke returned with the countess to Eng- 
land, and again found a home with Ashley — chancellor 
of the exchequer after Clarendon’s fall. The future 
sage was employed to superintend the education of Ash- 
ley’s heir, a feeble boy of sixteen. He was afterwards 
commissioned to select a wife for him, and did so satis- 
factorily. In due course of time he took charge of the 
education of the eldest son of this marriage, the author 
of “ the Characteristics.” “To such strange uses may 
we come at last !” 

Though residing with lord Ashley, Locke retained his 
connection with Oxford, which he frequently visited. 
On one of these visits, in 1670, the conversation of Dr. 
Thomas and other friends turned his thoughts to the 
difficult, still unsettled, and perhaps insoluble question 
of the nature and limits of human knowledge. This 
supplied the germ of the Essay on the Human Under- 
standing, though nearly twenty years elapsed before the 
completion and publication of the work. In 1G72, Ash- 
ley, the master-spirit in Charles IBs “Cabal,” was cre- 
ated earl of Shaftesbury, and soon after he was made 
lord high chancellor. Locke was appointed secretary 
of Plantations. Next summer Shaftesbury surrendered 
the great seal, and became president of the Board of 
Trade and Plantations. Loeke was named secretary of 
the board. It was at this time that he produced for his 
noble friend and the other proprietors the Constitution 
of the Carolinas. In another year the Commission of 
Trade was dissolved, Locke lost his post, and he dreamt 
of making a livelihood by his profession. But his health 
was feeble, and he travelled in France, acquiring at 
Montpellier the intimacy of the earl of Pembroke, to 
whom he afterwards dedicated his “ Essay .” 

On Shaftesbury’s restoration to office as lord presi- 
dent of the council, 1679, he sent for Locke, but the 
minister was dismissed in October of the same year. 
In two years more he was brought to trial for treason, 
but the grand jury ignored fhe indictment. Shaftes- 
bury, however, was compelled to escape secretly to Hol- 
land, where he died, June 21, 1G83. Locke had followed 
him, and wrote an alfeetionate tribute to his memory. 


The hostile testimony of bishop Fell proves that 
Locke had held himself aloof from the intrigues in 
which Shaftesbury was involved. He did not avoid 
the malice which such an intimacy invited. lie was 
deprived of his studentship at Christ Church, and vain- 
ly attempted to regain it at the Devolution. On the 
accession of James II his surrender was demanded from 
the states’ general on the charge of complicity in Mon- 
mouth’s insurrection. He was concealed bv his Dutch 
friends. William Penn offered to procure his pardon, 
but the office was nobly declined. During this exile 
Locke composed his first Letter on Toleration , and pro- 
duced his plan of “A Commonplace Book” — if it be his 
— a cumbrous and inadequate device, which admits of 
easy improvement. Durug this period — towards the 
close of 1G87 — he finished the Essay concerning the Hu- 
man Understanding. The mode of its composition has 
left painful traces on the completed work, as was appre- 
hended and acknowledged by its author. 

The Devolution of 1688 restored Locke to his native 
land. He signalized his return by the publication of 
his great philosophical work. An attempt was made to 
prohibit its introduction into the University of Oxford. 
In 1690 he issued his two treatises On Government. They 
controverted the doctrine of the divine right of kings, 
and referred the origin of government to a social com- 
pact, which is equally disproved by theory and by his- 
tory. They rendered a greater service by recognising 
labor as the foundation of property, though the tenet 
was pressed too far. 

Locke continued to decline diplomatic honors, but ac- 
cepted the place of Commissioner of Appeals, with the 
modest salary of £200. He directed his regards in 
these years to the coinage of the realm, which was 
much debased; and published in 1691 his Considerations 
on the Lowering of Interest and Raising the Value of 
Money , which was followed in 1695 by Further Consid- 
erations on Raising the Value of Money. He was in fre- 
quent consultation with the earl of Pembroke on the 
subject of that restoration of the British coinage which 
was brought about by the concurrent action of lord 
Somers and Sir Isaac Newton. 

In 1693 Locke withdrew from the dull, heavy atmos- 
phere of London, and accepted a pleasant retreat for his 
increasing asthma and advancing age at Oates, in Es- 
sex, the seat of Sir Francis Masham, who had married 
the accomplished daughter of Dr. Cudwortli. It had 
been the fortune of Locke through life to live “ quadris 
alienis .” His last quarters were at Oates. This was 
his home till he found a quieter home in the grave, 
where he waited in cold abstraction's apathy for a mir- 
acle to reanimate his spirit, according to the dogma of 
The Reasonableness of Christianity (produced in 1695). 
This work sought the union of all Christian believers 
by advancing the doctrine that the only necessary arti- 
cle of Christian belief is comprised in the acceptance of 
Jesus as the Messiah, making all the requirements be- 
yond this to consist of practical duties, of repentance for 
sin, and obedience to the moral precepts of the Gospel. 
It will be remembered that king William III, of Eng- 
land, entertained the design of uniting Conformists and 
Dissenters on some common ground, and to further this 
scheme Loeke wrote The Reasonableness of Christianity 
(comp. Quarterly Review , Lond. 1864, J uly). About the 
time of his retirement from the city Locke published his 
third Letter on Toleration, and in the first year of his se- 
clusion wrote his little tract on the Education of Chil- 
dren. The same year which brought out his exceed- 
ingly heterodox essay on Christianity was marked by 
his philosophical controversy with Dr.Stillingfieet, bish- 
op of Worcester. 

Locke’s circumstances were now rendered perfectly 
easy by his appointment as commissioner of Trade and 
Plantations, with emoluments amounting to £1000 per 
annum. Loeke, however, had an aptitude for losing or 
dropping the gifts of the fairies. Increasing debility 
made him resign his comfortable sinecure in 1700, and. 


LOCKE 


479 


four years later, he died calmly at Oates, Oct. 28, 1704. 
He was buried at the neighboring church of High La- 
ver. Queen Caroline, one of those femmes jirecieuses 
who, like Christina of Sweden or Kuler’s princess, fol- 
lowed with her sympathies the studies she could not 
understand, placed Locke’s bust with those of Bacon, 
Newton, and Clarke, in the mausoleum erected by her 
at Richmond Park to commemorate the glories of Eng- 
lish philosophy. 

Locke’s health was always exceedingly feeble, and 
his existence was prolonged only by constant vigilance 
and care. This doubtless contributed to his abstinence 
from any energetic vocation, and probably influenced 
his theories as well as his character and conduct. It 
rendered his existence a career of tranquil and learned 
leisure, except so far as it was interrupted by the suspi- 
cions and malice which civil discord directs against ev- 
ery man of note. The self-regarding habits of a vale- 
tudinarian may have impelled the thoughts of the phi- 
losopher to that continual introspection and that exag- 
geration of personal impressions which so strongly mark 
his philosophy. His love of ease and security showed 
itself in his general demeanor. He was cautions and 
retiring, affable and genial in his intercourse, kindly 
and affectionate in his nature, free from personal ani- 
mosities, notwithstanding his transitory difference with 
Newton and his controversy with bishop Stillingfleet. 
lie avoided the incumbrances of matrimony; and the 
deficient experiences of ail old bachelor — the want of 
that most suggestive knowledge, the dawn of intelli- 
gence in infancy — may be noted in his whole psychol- 
ogy. His life was, however, worthy of his eminence, 
and was such as to make him a suitable compeer of 
those fortunate nimium — those happy philosophic dispo- 
sitions which are represented by Malebranche, Spinoza, 
Leibnitz, Berkeley, and Ilume. 

Philosophy. — The philosophy of Locke is very sim- 
ple, if not very coherent, and very unsystematic in its 
treatment by himself. It consists rather of one pro- 
lific principle and its explanations than of any complete 
and orderly scheme. That principle furnishes a foun- 
dation for a distinctive method, which was only im- 
perfectly and inconsistently developed by him. That 
method is psychological, and Locke has been too hastily 
regarded as its inventor, whereas he only applied it too 
exclusively and within too narrow limits. Locke’s con- 
troversial works are naturally directed to the removal 
of the numerous objections and misapprehensions to 
which his fundamental tenet and its applications are 
obnoxious: but even the Essay itself is mainly employ- 
ed in the discussion of topics which illustrate the dog- 
ma rather than establish a formal body of doctrine, and 
which belong to the preliminaries or prolegomena of 
philosophy much more than to philosophy proper. 

An examination of the analysis usually prefixed to 
the “ Essay” will show how small a portion of the work 
really belongs to the regular exposition of a metaphys- 
ical system; how much is occupied with the anticipa- 
tion of objections, or the simplification of apprehended 
difficulties. The treatise is divided into four books. 
The first repudiates the Cartesian doctrine of innate 
ideas, and is therefore controversial and negative. It 
does not seem to have been very highly regarded by 
Locke himself. The second is an inquiry into the ori- 
gin and limits of human knowledge, and is the charac- 
teristic portion of Locke’s philosophy. The third is 
given to the consideration of words, and is in many re- 
spects the most valuable part of the book, affording use- 
ful suggestions for guarding against the multitudinous 
seductions of the hlola Fori. It is dialectical rather 
than philosophical, though it affords frequent opportuni- 
ties ol confirming or expounding his cardinal tenet, and 
many of exhibiting its inadequacy. The fourth book 
is on the nature of knowledge in general, and does little 
more than apply the conclusion already reached to the 
determination of the degree, extent, and quality of hu- 
man knowledge, which is reduced by him not merely 


LOCKE 

to relativity, but to a beggarly and unsatisfactory rela- 
tivity. 

The circumstances which provoked the composition 
of Locke’s celebrated treatise account in a most instruc- 
tive manner for the character of his doctrine. His ad- 
diction to the writings of Des Cartes in his college days 
— his rejection of his postulates and conclusions — his 
fondness for the physical and natural sciences— his ut- 
ter defect of poetic sensibility— his association with the 
great and with the beau monde — his political and prac- 
tical proclivities, confined his attention to observed phe- 
nomena, cramped and discouraged the criticism of those 
phenomena, and withdrew his thoughts from what lay 
beyond, and was required for the intelligent observation 
and interpretation of the phenomena supposed to be ob- 
served. Hence he was led to ignore the spirit of hu- 
man thought — to exaggerate the importance of the 
words which served for the counters of metaphysical 
speculation — to make much of his philosophy turn upon 
the precision and determinateness of terms, and to con- 
sider that a scrupulous recognition of their import in 
their acceptance and employment constituted the main 
part of philosophy. Hence, when he undertook •* to ex- 
amine our own abilities, and see what objects our under- 
standings were or were not fitted to deal with,” the ex- 
amination scarcely reached to that primary and essen- 
tial problem of metaphysics, but revolved tediously and 
with needless prolixity around the limits of the mean- 
ings of words, lie thus necessarily arrived at an ex- 
cessive, though far from rigorous nominalism. 

Locke’s point of departure was that of all the philoso- 
phers of the latter part of the 17th and the first quarter 
of the 18th century — Cartesianism. The influence of 
the suspected doctrine was manifested at the outset of 
his labors by his proposition to substitute the phrase 
determinate ideas for clear and distinct ideas — though a 
mere change of name, and such a change, could effect 
little in producing a complete reform of system. It is a 
startling commentary on the insufficiency of this sub- 
stitution that no writer has been more capricious and 
vacillating in his employment of terms than Locke him- 
self, and that the very term idea , which he elaborately 
defines, is used by him without determinate meaning, 
and in almost every possible sense except its true one. 
He, however, furnished neither the first nor the solitary 
example of the abuse of this fine Platonic invention. 
Locke’s popularity maj' be due to the ease, and vigor, 
the vivacity, and homeliness of his style; but the style 
is rugged, ambiguous, conversational, and as far removed 
from philosophical propriety as it is from literary ele- 
gance. 

The influence of Des Cartes, educing antagonism, 
tempted Locke to commence his investigations by an 
assault on the hypothesis of innate ideas, which un- 
questionably formed the latent substratum of the Car- 
tesian delusions. Certainly the clear and distinct ideas 
of Des Cartes had no title to be accepted as innate. 
Locke had thus an easy task in refuting the Cartesian 
positions. He failed to recognise that the incriminated 
doctrine was not thereby refuted. The 11 tabula iasa ” 
of Locke was just as much an assumption and as much 
a fallacy as the innate truths of his opponent — unless by 
the tabula rasa is understood, what Locke would not 
have understood, the sensitive and sympathetic tablet 
ready to restore in the sunlight of life all images pre- 
sented to it. It is perfectly true that distinct concep- 
tions and formulated maxims are not innate, or anterior 
to all excitation. This admission does not disprove the 
reality of congenital and constitutional preadaptations 
of the intellectual faculties for the acceptance of such 
conceptions and propositions when suitably presented to 
the mind and apprehended by it. Locke’s doctrine on 
this point has consequently been surrendered, and the 
doctrine opposed by him has been accepted, under juster 
limitations, by mam r who continue to entertain the pro- 
foundest reverence for his general procedure. The Car- 
tesian postulate compelled the assertion of a divine in- 


LOCKE 


480 


LOCKE 


flux to explain the operations of the mind, and suggest- 
ed Malebraiiche’s celebrated thesis of “seeing all things 
in God.” Locke, who had assailed the heresiareh, felt 
the necessity of controverting the hazardous modifica- 
tion proposed by the fervent acolyte. But the tenet to 
which Locke was himself driven by the compulsion of 
his own erroneous principles was equally hazardous and 
still more fallacious — that our idea of God is obtained 
by sensation and reflection. 

Having got rid of innate ideas — tenues sine corpora 
vitce — the English philosopher proceeded to investigate 
the origin of human knowledge — the avowed object of 
his main inquiry. There was an inversion of logical 
order, as Morell has observed, in seeking the ratio es~ 
sendi of the phenomena before ascertaining the phenom- 
ena themselves; but the accidental connection between 
the first and second pairs of the Essay is very intimate. 
If knowledge be not deduced ab intra , it might natural- 
ly appear to be derived ab extra. Hence Locke con- 
cluded that all knowledge is obtained from sensation 
and reflection. This is his principle, and his principle 
is his philosophy — the curtain is the picture. The dis- 
tinction between the sensation and its intellectual ap- 
preciation was unsuspected by him ; nor did he observe 
that if sensation and reflection upon sensation are the 
exclusive sources of knowledge, the knowledge of reflec- 
tion is derivative from and dependent upon sensation, 
and all knowledge springs from sensation alone. This 
oversight occasioned his very inadequate explanations 
of space, time, power, cause, good and evil, and God ; 
it furnished llume with his cardinal positions in regard 
to impressions and ideas; it rendered Locke a suitable 
patron for the French encyclopaedists and the material- 
ists, and created the belief that he espoused the tenet 
“ Xihil in intellectu quod non prius in sensaP This te- 
net was held bv neither Aristotle nor Locke, but Locke’s 
development of his own principle often seems to assert 
and to rest upon that tenet, and both provoked and 
justified the celebrated response and refutation offered 
by Leibnitz in the proposed addition to the maxim of 
the words “ nisi intellectus ipse.'' Locke might have ac- 
cepted that addition, but it was not declared by his lan- 
guage, nor clearly indicated by his teachings; and its 
frank acceptance would have been fatal to his philo- 
sophical expositions; for, if reflection be considered as 
a source of knowledge distinct from sensation, it must 
be different from sensation, and must be a contribution 
of the mind itself to the intellectual product. Locke’s 
original attitude was that of a polemic engaged in the 
refutation of Des Cartes; this attitude he never alto- 
gether abandoned; it determined his habits of specula- 
tion, and continually misled him. Locke was still fur- 
ther misled by the looseness, awkwardness, obscurity, 
and prolixity of his stifle, by its colloquial negligence of 
phrase, by that wavering of expression and impalpabil- 
ity of figurative illustration which have been noted by 
Sir William Hamilton, Maurice, and nearly every other 
student of his works. The equivocation of the terms 
employed by him escaped his recognition, while it per- 
plexes his readers, and produced much the same effect 
upon his reasoning as was produced upon Hume’s by a 
similar agency. With Locke there might be delusion ; 
there was no sophistry; there was an open, manly spir- 
it, a candor and honesty of investigation which often 
slighted or ignored consistency in the determined ap- 
prehension of what was felt instinctively to be right, 
llis book accordingly exercises a most wholesome influ- 
ence even when the developments of his doctrine are 
most aberrant, and its perversions most perilous. The 
practical character of his own disposition, the predilec- 
tion for the studies of observation, and the innocence 
and simplicity of his own nature, guarded lfim from the 
effects as well as from the^perception of his errors, hut 
at the same time rendered those errors less apparent and 
more seductive to others. They preserved his own pie- 
ty, while his system became a iemplum impietatis. 

This practical appetency of Locke’s mind was so en- 


grossing as to leave him utterly without imagination or 
poetic sensibility. Poetry he discountenanced from 
want of taste, but professedly for the more ignoble rea- 
son that “no gold was found at the roots of Parnassus.” 
The absence of imagination was a very serious defect. 
It was not true in his ease that omne iynotum pro mini - 
bill. On the contrary, the wondrous domain of the un- 
known and the unapprehended was “undreamt of in his 
philosophy.” These intellectual peculiarities became 
very manifest in his religious and political treatises — 
sometimes inducing point, perspicuity, and popularity; 
sometimes generating prosaic assumptions for want of 
penetrating vision. Thus were probably occasioned the 
denial of the immortality of the soul in the Reasonable- 
ness of Christianity — the ascription of all value to labor 
originally expended in his economical speculations — 
the allegation of a social contract and of a state of nature 
— pure and untenable hypotheses — in his treatises On 
Government, and other less prominent vagaries. These 
points merit careful consideration, but they can be only 
noted here. We should not, however, omit to mention 
that Locke’s amiable and tolerant disposition, the asso- 
ciations of his life, the tenor of his philosophy, his love 
of justice and freedom, rendered efficient service towards 
the extension of civil, political, and religious liberty at 
home and abroad, and entitle him to reverential regard 
as one of the chief benefactors of humanity. 

Literature. — The literature illustrative of Locke’s phi- 
losophy is endless. It includes the greater part of the 
metaphysical treatises written since the close of the 17th 
century. It must suffice, therefore, to mention here only 
the works of most direct importance, and most readily 
accessible. Of such is the following list composed. 
Loeke, IForLs (London, 1824, 9 vols. 8vo) ; Locke, Philo- 
sophical H r onfcs, by J. A. St.John (London, 1854, 2 vols. 
12mo); Leibnitz, Xouveavx Essais sur V Entendement 
Ilumcrin ; Joannes Clerieus, Lock'd Vita ; “Life of John 
Loeke,” in the Biograph ica Britannica ; Lord King, The 
Li fe of John Locke , etc. (Lond. 1830, 2 vols. 8vo); Fors- 
ter, Original Letters of John Locke , etc. (London, 1847) ; 
Browne, “ Life of John Loeke,” in the JLncyclop. Britan- 
nica ; Dugald Stewart, Supplement to the Encyclop. Bri- 
tannica ; Sir James Mackintosh, On the philosophical 
Genius of Bacon and Locke ; Henry Bogers, Miscellanies 
(Lond. 1855, 8 vols. 8vo) ; Bitter, Gesch. d. Christl. rhilos. 
vii, 449 sq. ; V. Cousin, Hist, de la Philosophic ; Lewes, 
Biograph. Hist, of Philosophy (Lond. 1857, 2 vols. Svo'), 
ii, 237 sq. ; Farrar, Critical Hist, of Free Thought, p. 124 
sq. ; Blakev, Hist. Philosophy of Mind (London, 1850,4 
vols. 8vo) ; Morell, Crit. History of Modem Philosophy 
(Lond. 1847, 2 vols. 8vo); Brit. Quar.Rev. 1847 (May); 
Xorth Brit. Rev. 1864 (July), p. 37 sq. ; Edinb. Rev. 1864 
(April), 1854 ; Lond. Qucir. Review , 1864 (July), p. 4L sq. 
(G.F.1I.) 

Locke, Nathaniel C., D.D., a Presbyterian min- 
ister, was born June 1, 1816, at Salem, N. J„ graduated 
from Middleburv College, Vt., in 1838; from Union The- 
ological Seminary, New York, in 1844 ; was immediately 
licensed by the New York Third Presbytery, and soon 
after entered upon the duties of his first charge at East- 
ville, Northampton County, Ya. ; accepted a call to the 
Central Church, Brooklyn, in 1847 ; three years later 
took charge of the Church at Hempstead, L. L, N. Y., 
and there labored until 1860, when failing health com- 
pelled him to seek for a dismission. Dr. Loeke was a 
member of the General Assembly of I860, which met in 
Bochester, N. Y. A number of his discourses were pub- 
lished, and he was also a large contributor to the relig- 
ious press. He died July 21, 1862. He was gifted 
with a well-trained and well-stored mind, and was emi- 
nently genial and social as a pastor and friend, and ear- 
nest and eloquent as a preacher. See Wilson, Presbyte- 
rian Historical Almanac , 1863, p. 188. (J. L. S.) 

Locke, Samuel, D.D., a noted American divine 
and educator, was born at Woburn, Mass., Nov. 23, 
1732, and was educated at Harvard University (class 
of 1755). He was ordained minister of the Gospel at 


LOCKE 


481 


LOCUST 


Sherburne, Mass., Nov. 7, 1759, and remained in the 
ministry until 1709, when he was called to preside over 
his alma mater, and was inducted to the office March 21, 
1770. Three years later lie was honored by the college 
authorities with the doctorate of divinity, but some 
troubles must have arisen shortly after, for in December 
of this self-same year Locke resigned his position at 
Harvard, and spent the remainder of his life in retire- 
ment. lie died at Sherburne, Mass., Jan. 15, 1788. An 
estimate of the man we lind in two letters written by Dr. 
Andrew Eliot, of Boston, to Mr. Hollis, of London, the 
distinguished benefactor of the college, about the time of 
Locke’s election to the presidency of Harvard Univer- 
sity, in which he is represented as “ a clergyman of a 
small parish about twenty miles from Cambridge; of 
line talents — a close thinker, having when at college the 
character of a first-rate scholar — of an excellent spirit, 
and generous, catholic sentiments — a friend to liberty — 
his greatest defect a want of knowledge of the world, 
having lived in retirement, and perhaps not a general 
acquaintance with books.” The only production of Dr. 
Locke's that exists in print is the Convention Sermon 
preached in 1772. “ His manner in the pulpit is said 

to have been marked by great dignity and impressive- 
ness.” See The X. Y. Observer , March, 18G5. 

Locke, William E., a minister and instructor, 
first in the Baptist, and later in the Presbyterian Church, 
was born in New York City, where he received a good 
education at the high school, in which he subsequently 
became an assistant teacher. In 1832 he took charge 
of the Mantua Manual Labor Institute in New York, 
and in 1833 was licensed to preach in the Baptist 
Church. He entered the junior class of Hamilton In- 
stitute (now Madison University) ; in 1835 he accepted 
his first call from the Church in Messina, N. Y., and was 
ordained Aug. 18, 1836. He remained in the Baptist 
connection until 1849, when his views concerning bap- 
tism led him to a change of his ecclesiastical relations. 
He was called in 1850 to the Presbyterian Church at 
Springfield, N. J., where, because of impaired health, he 
quit preaching. He subsequently took charge of the 
Female Collegiate Institute in Lancaster, Pa., and in 
August, 1857, removed to Missouri, and took charge of 
the Van liensselaer Presbyterial Academy. At the end 
of his first quarter in this new position he was taken ill, 
and died Nov. 15, 1858. Mr. Locke’s talents as a teacher 
were of a high order, and in the various places in which 
he labored he made many warm friends. See Wilson, 
Presb. Hist. A Im. I860, p. 73. (J. L. S.) 

Lockyer, Nicholas, a Presbyterian divine and 
pious Nonconformist, was born in 1612. He studied at 
New Inn Hall, Oxford, and became provost of Eton 
College in 1658, but was ejected at the Kestoration. He 
died in 1684. His writings show him to have been 
very zealous and affectionate, earnestly bent on the con- 
version of souls. Some of his most important works 
are the following : Baulme for bleeding England and Ire- 
land, or seasonable Instructions for persecuted Chnstians , 
delivered in several sermons [on Col. i, 11, 12] (London, 
1644) : — Christ's Communion with his Church militant 
[on John xiv, 18] (5th etl. London, 1672, 12mo): — Eng- 
land faithfully watcht with her Wounds , or Christ as a 
Eather sitting up with his Children in their swooning 
State; which is the summe of sevei'al Lectures painfully 
preached upon Colossians i (Lond. 1646, 4to). See Alli- 
bone, Diet, of Brit, and Amer. Auth. s. v. ; Darling, Cy- 
clop. Bibliogr. s. v. 

Locust, a well-known insect, which commits terri- 
ble devastation to vegetation in the countries which it 
visits. In the following account we shall chiefly follow 
the articles on the subject in Kitto’s and Smith’s Dic- 
tionaries, with additions from other sources. 

I. There are ten Hebrew words which appear to sig- 
nify locust in the Old Testament, while in the Greek 
the general term is which is employed in the 

New I estament. It has been supposed that some of 
V.— H ii 


these words denote merely the different states through 
which the locust passes after leaving the egg, viz. the 
larva, the pupa, and the perfect insect — all which much 
resemble each other, except that the larva has no wings, 
and that the pupa possesses only the rudiments of those 
members, which are fully developed only in the adult 
locust (Michaelis, Supplem. ad Lex. Hebr. ii, 667, 1080). 
But this supposition is manifestly wrong with regard to 
several of these terms, because, in Lev. xi, 22, the word 
“after his kind,” or species, is added after each 
of them (compare ver. 14, 15, 16). It is most probable, 
therefore, that all the rest are also the names of species. 
But the problem is to ascertain the particular species 
intended by them respectively. 

(1.) Arbeh' occurs in Exod. x, 4 ; Sept, cucpi- 

da 7ro\\i)v, a vast flight of locusts, or perhaps indica- 
ting that several species were employed, Vulg. locustam; 
and in verses 12, 13, 14, 19, aKpig and locusta, Eng. “lo- 
custs;” Lev. xi, 22, /Ipouyoiq bruchits, “locust;” Deut. 
xxviii, 38, aKpig, locustce, “locust;” Judg. vi, 5; vii, 12, 
aKpig, locustarum, “grasshoppers;” 1 Kings viii, 37, 
fipovxog, locusta, “locust;” 2 Chron. vi, 28, aKpig , lo- 
custa, “locusts;” Job xxxix, 20, ciKpiStg, locustas, 
“grasshopper;” Psa. lxxviii, 46, aKpici, Symm. oKtbXr}- 
ki, locustce, “locust;” Psa. cv, 34, aupig, locusta, “lo- 
custs;” Psa. cix, 23, aKpideg, locustce, “locust;” Prov. 
xxx, 27, aKpig, locusta , “locusts;” Jer. xlvi, 23, ctKpica, 
locusta, “grasshoppers;” Joel i, 4; ii, 25, aKpig, locusta, 
“locust;” Nah. iii, 15, (3pov\og , bruchus, “locusts;” ver. 
17, ctrriXafiog, locustce, “ locusts”). In almost every 
passage where arbeh occurs, reference is made to its ter- 
ribly destructive powers. 

It is the locust of the Egyptian plagues described in 
Exod. x, where, as indeed everywhere else, it occurs in 
the singular number only, though it is there associated 
with verbs both in the singular and plural (ver. 5, 6), as 
are the corresponding words in the Sept, and Vulgate. 
This it might be as a noun of multitude, but it will be 
rendered probable that four species were employed in 
the plague on Egypt, of which this is named first (Psa. 
lxxviii, 46, 47 ; . cv, 34). These may all have been 
brought into Egypt from Ethiopia (which has ever been 
the cradle of all kinds of locusts), by what is called in 
Exodus “the east wind,” since Bochart proves that the 
word which properly signifies “east” often means 
“ south” also. The word arbeh may be used in Lev. xi, 
22 as the collective name for the locust, and be put first 
there as denoting also the most numerous species; but 
in Joel i, 4, and Psa. lxxviii, 46, it is distinguished from 
the other names of locusts, and is mentioned second, as 
if of a different species; just, perhaps, as we use the 
wordjfy, sometimes as a collective name, and at others 
for a particular species of insect, as when speaking of 
the hop, turnip, meat fly, etc. When the Hebrew word 
is used in reference to a particular species, it has been 
supposed, for reasons which will be given, to denote the 
Gryllus gregarius or migratorius. Moses, therefore, in 
Exodus, refers Pharaoh to the visitation of the locusts, 
as well known in Egypt ; but the plague would seem to 
have consisted in bringing them into that country in 
unexampled numbers, consisting of various species never 
previously seen there (comp. Exod. x, 5, 6, 15). 

It is one of the flying creeping creatures that were 
allowed as food by the law of Moses (Lev. xi, 21). In 
this passage it is clearly the representative of some spe- 
cies of winged saltatorial oi'thoptera, which must have 
possessed indications of form sufficient to distinguish 
the insect from the three other names which belong to 
the same division of orthoptera, and are mentioned in 
the same context. The opinion of Michaelis ( Suppl . 
667, 910), that the four words mentioned in Lev. xq 22 
denote the same insect in four different ages or stages 
of its growth, is quite untenable, for, whatever particu- 
lar species are intended by these words, it is quite clear 
from verse 21 that they must all be winged orthoptera. 
The Septuagint word (Spovxog there clearly shows that 


LOCUST 


482 


LOCUST 


the translator uses it for a winged species of locust, con- 
trary to the Latin fathers (as Jerome, Augustine, Greg- 
ory, etc.)? who all dctine the bruckus to be the unhedged 
voting or larva of the locust, and who call it attelabus 
when its wings are partially developed, and locusta when 
able to fly; although both Sept, and Yulg. ascribe flight 
to the bruchus here, and in Nah. iii, 17. The Greek fa- 
thers, on the other hand, uniformly ascribe to the fipov- 
%ag both wings and flight, and therein agree with the 
descriptions of the ancient Greek naturalists. Thus 
Theophrastus, the pupil of Aristotle, who, with his pre- 
ceptor, was probably contemporaneous with the Septua- 
gint translators of the Pentateuch, plainly speaks of it 
as a distinct species, and not a mere state : “ The cucpi- 
ceg (the best ascertained general Greek word for the lo- 
cust) are injurious, the cirriXa/Soi still more so, and 
those most of all which they call jSpovxoC (De Anim). 
The Sept, seems to recognise the peculiar destructive- 
ness of the }3pov\og in 1 Kings viii, 37 (but has merged 
it in the parallel passage, 2 Chron.), and in Nah. iii, 15, 
by adopting it for arbeh. In these passages the Sept, 
translators may have understood the G. migratorius or 
gregarius (Linn.), which is usually considered to be the 
most destructive species (from fipiomcio, I devour'). Yet, 
in Joel i, 4; ii, 25, they have applied it to the yelek, 
which, however, appears there as engaged in the work 
of destruction. Hesychius, in the 3d century, explains 
the fipovxog as “ a species of locust/’ though, he ob- 
serves, applied in his time by different nations to differ- 
ent species of locusts, and by some to the ciTTeXaftoc. 
May not his testimony to this effect illustrate the vari- 
ous uses of the word by the Sept, in the minor prophets? 
Our translators have wrongly adopted the word “grass- 
hopper” in Judges and Jer. xlvi, 23, where “ locusts” 
would certainly have better illustrated the idea of “in- 
numerable multitudes and here, as elsewhere, have 
departed from their professed rule “ not to vary from 
the sense of that which they had translated before, if 
the word signified the same in both places” (translators 
to the reader, ad finem). 

The Hebrew word in question is usually derived from 
“to multiply,” o^“be numerous,” because the lo- 
cust is remarkably prolific; which, as a general name, is 
certainly not inapplicable ; and it is thence also inferred 
that it denotes the G. migratorius, because that species 
often appears in large numbers. However, the largest 
flight of locusts upon record, calculated to have extend- 
ed over five hundred miles, and which darkened the air 
like an eclipse, and was supposed to come from Arabia, 
did not consist of the G. migratorius , but of a red spe- 
cies (Kirby and Spence, Introd. to Entomology , i, 210); 
and. according to Forskal, the species which now chiefly 
infests Arabia, and which he names G.gregarius , is dis- 
tinct from the G. migratorius of Linn. ( Encyc . Brit. art. 
Entomology, p. 193). Others derive the word from 
— jN. “ to lie hid ” or “in ambush,” because the newly- 
hatched locust emerges from the ground, or because the 
locust besieges vegetables. Kosenmuller justly remarks 
upon such etymologies, and the inferences made from 
them (Scholia in Joel, i, 4), “ How precarious truly the 
reasoning is, derived in this manner from the mere ety- 
mology of the word, everybody may understand for 
himself. Nor is the principle otherwise in regard to 
the rest of the species” He also remarks that the ref- 
erences to the destructiveness of locusts, which are of- 
ten derived from the roots, simply concur in this, that 
locusts consume and do mischief. Illustrations of the 
propriety of his remarks will abound as we proceed. 
Still, it by no means follows from a coincidence of the 
Hebrew roots, in this or any other meaning, that the 
learned among the ancient Jews did not recognise dilfer- 
ent species in the different names of locusts. “The Eng- 
lish word fly, from the Saxmi Jleon, the Ileb. T\'V, and 
its representative “fowl,’ m the English version (Gen. i, 
20, etc.), all express both a general and specific idea. 
Even a modern entomologist might speak of “the flies" 


in a room, while aware that from fifty to one hundred 
different species annually visit our apartments. The 
Scriptures use popular language; hence “the multitude,” 
“ the devourer,” or “ the darkener,” may have been the 
familiar appellations for certain species of locusts. The 
common Greek words for locusts and grasshoppers, etc., 
are of themselves equally indefinite, yet they also served 
for the names of species, as cucpig, the locust generally, 
from the tops of vegetables, on which the locust feeds ; 
but it is also used as the proper name of a particular 
species, as the grasshopper: TtTpa7rrepvX\ig, “four- 
winged,” is applied sometimes to the grasshopper; rpu>K- 
aXXig, from rputycj, “to chew,” sometimes to the cater- 
pillar. Yet the Greeks had also distinct names restrict- 
ed to partietdar species, as bvog, poXovptg, KtpKwrii, etc. 
The Hebrew names may also have served similar pur- 
poses. 

(2.) Geb (Zt, Isa. xxxiii, 4; Sept. dtcpiStg, Vulgate 
omits, Engl, “locusts”), or Gob (-i^, Amos vii, 1 , tVi- 
yo vij ciKpiCiow, Aquila, fiopddov [voratriees], loeustee , 
“grasshoppers ;” Nah. iii, 17, drrtXajSoc, loeustee, “grass- 
hoppers”). Here the lexicographers, finding no Hebrew 
root, resort to the Arabic, ^03, “to creep out” (of the 
ground), as the locusts do in spring. Hut this applies 
to the young of all species of locusts, and Bochart’s quo- 
tations from Aristotle and Pliny occur unfortunately in 
general descriptions of the locust. Castell gives anoth- 
er Arabic root, “to cat ” or “ tear,” but this is open 
to a similar objection. Parkhurst proposes anything 
gibbous, curved, or arched, and gravely adds, “ The lo- 
cust in the caterpillar state, so called from its shape in 
general, or from its continually hunching out its back in 
moving.” The Sept, word in Nahum, dvreXafioc, has 
already been shown to mean a perfect insect and species. 
Accordingly, Aristotle speaks of its parturition and eggs 
(Ilist. Anim. v, 29; so also Plutarch, De Jsid. et Osir.). 
It seems, however, not unlikely that it means a wing- 
less species of locust, genus Podisma of Latreille. Grass- 
hoppers, which are of this kind, he includes under the 
genus Tettix. Hesychius defines the drreXajSog as “a 
small locust,” and Pliny mentions it as “ the smallest of 
locusts, without wings” (Histor. Xat. xxix, 5). Accord- 
ingly, the Sept, ascribes only leaping to it. In Nahum 
we have the construction locust of the locusts, 

which the lexicons explain as a vast multitude of lo- 
custs. Archbishop Newcome suggests that “ the phrase 
is either a double reading where the scribes had a doubt 
which was the true reading, or a mistaken repetition not 
expunged.” He adds, that we may suppose "C'3 the 
contracted plural for C'll.* (Improved Version of the Mi- 
nor Prophets , Pontefr. 1809, p. 188). Henderson under- 
stands the reduplication to express “ the largest and most 
formidable of that kind of insect” (Comment, on the Mi- 
nor Prophets , ad loc.). Some writers, led by this pas- 
sage, have believed that the gob represents the larva 
state of some of the large locusts; the habit of halting 
at night, however, and encamping under the hedges, as 
described by the prophet, in all probability belongs to 
the icinged locust as well as to the larva? ; see Exod. x, 
13: “ The Lord brought an east wind upon the land all 
that day and all that night; and when it was morning , 
the east wind brought the locusts.” Air. Barrow (i, 257 
-8), speaking of some species of South African locusts, 
says that when the larva', which are still more voracious 
than the parent insect, are on the march, it is impossible 
to make them turn out of the way, which is usually that 
of the wind. At sunset the troop halts and divides into 
separate groups, each occupying in bee-like clusters the 
neighboring eminences for the night. It is quite possi- 
ble that th a gob may represent the larva or nympha state 
of the insect; nor is the passage from Nahum, “When 
the sun ariseth they flee away,” any objection to this 
supposition, for the last stages of the larva differ but 
slightly from the nympha. both which states may there- 
fore be comprehended under one name ; the gob of Nah. 


LOCUST 


483 


LOCUST 


iii, 17 may easily have been the nymphee (which in all 
the Ametabula continue to lectl as in their larva condi- 
tion) encamping at night under the hedges, and, ob- 
taining their wings as the sun arose, are then represent- 
ed as flying away (so too Kitto, I* id. Bible, note on Nah. 
iii, 17). It certainly is improbable that the Jews should 
have had no name for the locust in its larva or nympha 
state, for they must have been quite familiar with the 
sight of such devourers of every green thing, the larvae 
being even more destructive than the imago ; perhaps 
some of the other nine names, all of which Bochart con- 
siders to be the names of so many species, denote the 
insect in one or other of these conditions. See Grass- 
hopper. 

(3.) Gazam' (ET3,Joel i,4; ii,25; Amos iv, 9; in all 
which the Sept, reads Kapiri). the Vulg. emeu , and the 
English “ palmer-worm”), Bochart observes that the 
Jews derive the word from 1^5 or Tt3, “to shear ” or 
“clip,” though he prefers ETS, “to cut,” because, he ob- 
serves, the locust gnaws the tender branches of trees as 
well as the leaves. Gesenius urges that the Chaldee 
and Syriac explain it as the young unhedged braehus, 
which he considers very suitable to the passage in Joel, 
where the gazam begins its ravages before the locusts ; 
but Dr. Lee justly remarks that there is no dependence 
to be placed on this. Gesenius adds that the root Ety 
in Arabic and the Talmud is kindred with EGE, “to 
shear” — a derivation which, however, applies to most 
species of locusts. Michaelis follows the Sept, and Vul- 
gate, where the word in each most probably means the 
caterpillar, the larvae of the lepidopterous tribes of in- 
sects ( Bupplem . ad Lex. 290, compared with Reeueil de 
Guest. p. 63). AVe have, indeed, the authority of Colu- 
mella, that the creatures which the Latins call emcee 
are by the Greeks called Kcif.nrcu, or caterpillars (xi, 3), 
which he also describes as creeping upon vegetables and 
devouring them. Nevertheless, the depredations as- 
cribed to the gazam , in Amos, better agree with the 
characteristics of the locust, as, according to Bochart, it 
was understood by the ancient versions. The English 
word palmer-icorm,” in our old authors, means properly 
a hairy caterpillar, which wanders like a palmer or pil- 
grim, and, from its being rough, called also “ beareworm” 
(AIonlTct, Insectorum Thcatrum, p. 186). See PALMER- 
WORM. 

(4.) Ciiagab' (Ejn, Lev. xi. 22 ; Numb, xiii, 33 ; Isa. 
xl, 22; Eccles. xii, 5, and 2 Chron. vii, 13, in all which 
the Sept, reads chcpig, Vulg. loensta, and Engl, “grass- 
hopper.” except the last, where the Engl, has “locusts.” 
The manifest impropriety of translating this word 
“grasshoppers” in Lev. xi, 22, according to the English 
acceptation of the word, appears from its description 
there as being winged and edible; in all the other in- 
stances it most probably denotes a species of locust. 
Our translators have, indeed, properly rendered it “lo- 
cust” in 2 Chron. ; but in all the other places “ grasshop- 
per,” probably with a view to heighten the contrast de- 
scribed in those passages, but with no real advantage. 
Oedman ( Verm. Samml. ii, 90) infers, from its being so 
often used for this purpose, that it denotes the smallest 
species of locust ; but in the passage in Chronicles vo- 
racity seems its chief characteristic. An Arabic root, 
E^H, signifying “to hide,” is usually adduced, because 
it is said that locusts fly in such crowds as to hide the 
sun; but others say, from their hiding the ground when 
they alight. Even Parkhurst demurs that “ to veil the 
sun and darken the air is not peculiar to any kind of 
locust ;” and with no better success proposes to under- 
stand the cucullated, or hooded, or veiled species of lo- 
cust. Tychsen {Comment, de Locust, p. 76) supposes 
that ehdgdb denotes the Grgllus eoronutus, Linn.; but 
this is the Aeanthodis coronatus of And. Serv., a South 
American species, and probably confined to that conti- 
nent. Michaelis {Supptlem. 668), who derives the word 
from an Arabic root signifying “ to veil,” conceives that 


ehdgdb represents either a locust at the fourth stage of 
its growth, “ante quartas exuvias xpiod adhuc velata 
est,” or else at the last stage of its growth, “post quar- 
tas exuvias, quod jam volans solem calinnqne. obvelat 
To the first theory the passage in Lev. xi is opposed. 
The second theory is more reasonable, but ehdgdb is 
probably derived not from the Arabic, but the Hebrew. 
From what has been stated above, it will appear better 
to own our complete inability to say what species of lo- 
cust ehdgdb denotes, than to hazard conjectures which 
must be grounded on no solid foundation. In the Tal- 
mud ehdgdb is a collective name for many of the locust 
tribe, no less than eight hundred kinds of chdgdbim be- 
ing supposed by the Talmud to exist! (Lewysolin, Zoo- 
log. des Talm. § 384). Some kinds of locusts are beau- 
tifully marked, and were sought after by young Jewish 
children as playthings, just as butterflies and cockchaf- 
ers are nowadays, M. Lewysohn says (§ 384) that a 
regular traffic used to be carried on with the chagdbim, 
which were caught in great numbers, and sold after 
wine had been sprinkled over them; he adds that the 
Israelites were only allowed to buy them before the 
dealer had thus prepared them. See Grasshopper. 

(5.) Ciianamal' (2E!ri, occurs only in Psa. lxxviii, 
47 ; Sept. Trdyp?/ ; Aq. iv icpvti ; Vulg. in pruina ; Eng. 
“frost”). Notwithstanding this concurrence of Sept., 
Vulg., and Aquila, it is objected that “frost” is nowhere 
mentioned as having been employed in the plagues of 
Egypt, to which the Psalmist evidently alludes; but 
that, if his words he compared with Exod. x. 5, 15, it 
will be seen that the locusts succeeded the hail. The 
Psalmist observes the same order, putting the devourer 
after the hail (comp. Mai. iii, 11). Hence it is -thought 
to be another term for the locust. If this inference be 
correct, and assuming that the Psalmist is describing 
facts, this would make a fourth species of locust em- 
ployed against Egypt, two of the others, the arbeh and 
chasil, being mentioned in the preceding verse. Pro- 
posed derivation, J"En, to seHle, and b^lE, to cut off, be- 
cause where locusts settle they cut off leaves, etc., or as 
denoting some non-migrating locust which settles in a 
locality (see Bochart, in roc.'). Michaelis ( Suppkm . 
846) suggests the signification of ants , comparing the 
Arabic name for that insect, with n prefixed. Gesenius 
regards it as a quadriliteral, and argues from the term 
hail, in the parallel member, that it denotes some- 
thing peculiarly destructive to trees. See Frost. 

(6.) Chasil' (b^Gn, 1 Kings viii,37 ; 2 Chron. vi, 28 ; 
Psa. lxxviii, 4G ; Isa. xxiii,4; Joel i,4; ii, 25 ; Septuag. 
dicptg, but in 2 Chron. ftpov\og ; Vulg. rubigo, bntchus, 
cerugo ; Engl, always “caterpillar”). Gesenius derives 
it from the root bGH, to eat off, Dent, xxxiii, 38. It 
thus points to the same generic idea of destructiveness 
prominent in all this genus. See Caterpillar. 

(7.) Chargoi/ (b^H, only in Lev. xi, 22; Septuag. 

Vulg. ojddvmachus, Auth. Vers, “beetle”), de- 
rived by Gesenius from the Arabie quadriliteral root 
b>Gn, to gedlop as a horse, and applied by the Arabs to 
a flight of wingless locusts, but thought by him to in- 
dicate in Leviticus a winged and edible locust. Beck- 
mann has arrived at the conclusion that some insect of 
the sphex or ichneumon kind was meant (apud Bochart, 
a Kosenmiiller, iii, 264). The genus of locusts called 
Truxalis , said to live upon insects, has been thought to 
answer the description. But is it a fact that the genus 
Truxalis is an exception to the rest of the Acridites, 
and is pre-eminently insectivorous ? Serville {Orth opt. 
p.579) believes that in their manner of living the Trux- 
alides resemble the rest of the Acridites, but seems to 
allow that further investigation is necessary. Fischer 
{Orthop. Europ. p. 292) says that the nutriment of this 
family is plants of various kinds. It is some excuse for 
the English rendering “beetle” in this place, that Pliny 
classes one species of grvllus, the house-cricket, G. domes- 


LOCUST 


4S4 


LOCUST 


ticus, under the scaraban (Hist. Nat. xi, 8). The Jews 
interpret chargol to -mean a species of grasshopper, Ger- 
man heuschrecke, which M. Lewysolm identities with 
Locusta viridissima, adopting the etymology of Bocliart 
and Gesenius. The, Jewish women used to carry the 
eggs of the chargol in their ears to preserve them from 
the earache (Buxtorf, Lex. Chald. ct Rabbin, s. v. Char- 
ged). See Beetle. 

(8.) Ye'lek (pP?, Psa. ev, 34, /3po5yoc, “cat- 

erpillars;” Jer.li, 14, 27, ciupig, bruchus , “caterpillars;” 
and in the latter passage the Vulgate reads bruchus acu- 
leatus, and some copies horripilantes ; Joel i, 4; ii, 25, 
fioovxog, bruchus, “ eanker - worm Nah. iii, 15, 16, 
aicptg and /3poDx°£> “canker-worm”). Assuming that 
the Psalmist means to say that the yelek was really an- 
other species employed in the plague on Egypt, the 
English word caterpillar in the common acceptation can- 
not be correct, for we can hardly imagine that the lame 
of the Papilionidre tribe of insects could be carried by 
k - winds.” Canker-worm means any worm that preys on 
fruit. Bpof'xoe could hardly be understood by the Sept, 
translators of the minor prophets as an unfledged locust, 
for in Nah. iii, 16 they give the fipovxog Jlies away. As 
to the etymology, the Arabic pP^, to be white , is offered ; 
hence the white locust or the chafer-worm, which is 
white (Michaelis, Recueil de Quest, p. 64 ; Supp. ad Lex. 
Ilcb. 1080). Others give ppP, to lick off, as Gesenius, 
who refers to Numb. xxii,4, where this root is applied 
to the ox “licking” up his pasturage, and which, as de- 
scriptive of celerity in eating, is supposed to apply to 
the yelek. Others suggest the Arabic pP^, to hasten, al- 
luding to the quick motions of locusts. The passage in 
Jer. li, 27 is the only instance where an epithet is ap- 
plied to the locust, and there we find ppP "TED, “rough 
caterpillars.” As the noun derived from this descriptive 
term ("i‘Cp’2) means “nails,” “sharp-pointed spikes,” 
Michaelis refers it to the rough, sharp-pointed feet of 
some species of chafer (itt supra). Oedman takes it for 
the G. cristatus of Linn. Tyehsen, with more proba- 
bility, refers it to some rough or bristly species of locust, 
as the G. heematopus of Linn., whose thighs arc eiliated 
with hairs. Many grylli are furnished with spines and 
bristles; the whole species A diet a, also the pupa species 
of Linn., called by Degeer Locusta pupa spinosa, which 
is thus described : Thorax ciliated with spines, abdo- 
men tuberculous and spinous, posterior thighs armed be- 
neath with four spines or teeth ; inhabits Ethiopia. The 
allusion in Jeremiah is to the ancient accoutrement of 
war-horses, bristling with sheaves of arrows. See Can- 
kek-wokm. 

(Ik) Salam' (EP*PD\ only in Lev. xi, 22, cirratcij, at- 
tacus, “ the bald locust.” A Chaldee quadriliteral root 
is given by Bocliart, CP’PD, to devour. Another has 
been proposed, "PS, a rock or stone, and 'rhv.tn go up ; 
hence the locust, which climbs up stones or rocks; but, 
as Bocliart observes, no locust is known answering to 
this characteristic. Others give P’PD, a stone, and 
to hide under; equally futile. Tyehsen, arguing from 
what is said of the salam in the Talmud (Tract, (’holin'), 
viz. that “this insect has a smooth head, and that the 
female is without the sword-shaped tail,” conjectures 
that the species here intended is Gryllus eversor (Asso), 
a synonyme that it is difiicult to identify with any re- 
corded species. From the text where it is mentioned it 
only appears that it was some species of locust winged 
ami edible. 

(10.) Tselatsal' (p:£P:£, as the name of an insect 
only in Deut. xxviii,42, ipvoifitp rubigo. *• locust”). The 
root commonly assigned is PPjJ, to sound (whence its 
use for a whizzing of wings, Isa. xviii. 1 ; for cymbals, 2 
Sam. vi, 5; Psa. cl, 5; or any ringing instrument, as a 
harpoon, Job xli, 7); hence, says Gesenius, a species of 
locust that makes a shrill noise. Or. Lee says a tree- 


cricket that does so. Tyehsen suggests the G. stridulus 
of Linn. The song of the gryllo-tulpa is sweet and loud. 
On similar principles we might conjecture, although 
with perhaps somewhat less certainty, a derivation from 
the Chald. XP:*, to pray, and thence infer the Mantis re - 
ligiosa, or Prior Oieu, so called from its singular atti- 
tude, and which is found in Palestine (Kitto’s Physical 
History, p. 419). The words in the Septuag. and Yulg. 
properly mean the mildew on corn, ete., and are there 
applied metaphorically to the ravages of locusts. This 
mildew was anciently believed by the heathens to be 
a divine chastisement; hence their religious ceremony 
called Kubigalia (Pliny, Hist. Nat. xviii, 29). The word 
is evidently onomatopoietic, and is here perhaps a syn- 
onyme for some one of the other names for locust. IMi- 
chaelis (Supjdem. 2094) believes the word is identical 
with chasil, which he says denotes perhaps the mole- 
cricket, Gryllus talpiformis , from the stridulous sound 
it produces. Tyehsen (p. 79,80) identities it with the 
Gryllus stridulus, Li mucus ( = (Edipoda stridula, And. 
Serv.). The notion conveyed by the Hebrew word will, 
however, apply to almost any kind of locust, and, in- 
deed, to many kinds of insects; a similar word, tsalsetlza, 
was applied by the Ethiopians to a fly which the Arabs 
called zimb, apparently identical with the tsetse tlv of Dr. 
Livingstone and other African travellers. In the pas- 
sage in Deuteronomy, if an insect be meant at all, it 
may be assigned to some destructive species of grass- 
hopper or locust. 

(11.) The Greek term for the locust is d/qn'c, which 
occurs in Rev. ix, 3, 7, with undoubted allusion to the 
Oriental devastating insect, which is represented as as- 
cending from the smoke of the infernal pit, as a type of 
the judgments of God upon the enemies of Christianity. 
They are also mentioned as forming part of the food of 
John the Baptist (Matt, iii, 4; Mark i, 6), where it is 
not, as some have supposed, any plant that is intended, 
but the insect, which is still universally eaten by the 
poorer classes in the East, both in a cooked and raw 
state (llackett’s Illustra. of Script, p. 97). 

II. Locusts belong to that order of insects known by 
the term Orthopterei (or straight-winged). This order 
is divided into two large groups or divisions, viz. Cur- 
soria and Sanatoria. The first, as the name imports, 
includes only those families of Orthoptera which have 
legs formed for creeping, and which are considered un- 
clean by the Jewish law. Under the second are com- 
prised those whose two posterior legs, by their peculiar 
structure, enable them to move on the ground by leaps. 
This group contains, according to Serville’s arrange- 
ment. three families, the Gryllides, Locustariec , and the 
Acridites , distinguished one from the other by some pe- 
culiar modifications of structure. The common house- 
erieket ( Gryllus domesticus, Oliv.) may be taken as an 
illustration of the Gryllides; the green grasshopper 
( Locusta viridissima, Fabr.), which the French call 
Sauterelfe rerte, will represent the family Locusta rier ; 
and the Acridites may be typified by the common mi- 
gratory locust ( (Edipoda miyratoria, And. Serv.), which 



(Edipoda Migratoria. 

is an occasional visitor to Europe (see the Gentlemans 
Magazine July. 1748, p. 331, 414; also The Times, Oct. 
4, 1845). Of the Gryllides, G. cerisyi has been found 
in Egypt, and G. domesticus, on the authority of Dr. 
Kitto, in Palestine ; hut doubtless other species also oc- 
cur in these countries. Of the Locustariev, Phanerop- 
terafalcata, Serv. ( G.falc . Seopoli), has also, according 
to Kitto, been found in Palestine, Bradyponis dasypus 
in Asia Minor, Turkey, etc., Saga Natolice near Smyr- 


LOCUST 


485 


LOCUST 


na. Of the locusts proper, or Acridites , four species of 
the genus Truxalis are recorded as having been seen in 
Egypt, Syria, or Arabia, viz. T. nasutct , 1\ variabilis, 
T. procera , and T. miniata. The following kinds also 
occur: Opsomala pisciformis , in Egypt, and the oasis 
of Harrat; ]\vkiloceros hieroglyphicus , P. bufonius , P. 
punctiventris, P. ru lean us, in the deserts of Cairo; l)c~ 
ricorys albidula in Egypt and Mount Lebanon. Of the 
genus Acridium % .1. mcestum , the most formidable per- 
haps of all the A criditcs , A . lineola ( = (?. xEgypt. Linn.), 



which is a species commonly sold for food in the mar- 
kets of Bagdad (Serv. Orthop. G57), A . semifasciatum , 
A . peregrinum, one of the most destructive of the spe- 
cies, and A, morbosum, occur either in Egypt or Arabia. 
Calliptamus serapis and Chrotogonus lugitbris are found 
in Egypt, and in the cultivated lands about Cairo; Ere- 
mobia carinata, in the rocky places about Sinai. E, 
cist E. pidchripemns, (Edipoda octofasciata , and (Ed, 
migratoria ( = 6'. viigrat. Linn.), complete the list of 
the SaUatorial Orthoptera of the Bible lands. Of one 
species M. Olivier ( Voyage dans V Empire Othoman, ii, 
424) thus writes : “With the burning south winds (of 
Syria) there come from the interior of Arabia and from 
the most southern parts of Persia clouds of locusts 
(.1 cridium peregrinum ), whose ravages to these coun- 



Acridium Peregrinum . 


tries are as grievous and nearly as sudden as those of 
the heaviest hail in Europe. AVe witnessed them twice. 
It is difficult to express the effect produced on us by the 
sight of the w r hole atmosphere filled on all sides and to 
a great height by an innumerable quantity of these in- 
sects, whose flight was slow and uniform, and wdiose 
noise resembled that of rain : the sky was darkened, 
and the light of the sun considerably weakened. In a 
moment the terraces of the houses, the streets, and all 
the fields were covered by these insects, and in tw r o days 
they had nearly devoured all the leaves of the plants. 
Happily they lived but a short time, and seemed to 
have migrated only to reproduce themselves and die; 
in fact, nearly all those we saw the next day had paired, 
and the day following the fields were covered with their 
dead bodies.” This species is found in Arabia, Egypt, 
Mesopotamia, and Persia. The ordinary Syrian locust 
greatly resembles the common grasshopper, but is larger 
and more destructive. It is usually about two inches 
and a half in length, and is chiefly of a green color, with 
dark spots. It is provided with a pair of antennas or 
“feelers” about an inch in length, projecting from the 
head. The mandibles or jaws are black, and the wing- 
coverts are of a bright brown, spotted with black. It 
has an elevated ridge or crest upon the thorax, or that 


portion of the body to which the legs and wings are at- 
tached. The legs and thighs of these insects are so 
powerful that they can leap to a height of two hundred 
times the length of their bodies; when so raised they 
spread their wings, and fly so close together as to appear 
like one compact moving mass. 



Locusts, like many other of the general provisions of 
nature, may occasion incidental and partial evil, but, 
upon the w hole, they are an immense benefit to those 
portions of the w r orld wdiich they inhabit; and so con- 
nected is the chain of being that w 7 e may safely believe 
that the advantage is not confined to those regions. 
“ They clear the wav for the renovation of vegetable 
productions w’hich are in danger of being destroyed by 
the exuberance of some particular species, and are thus 
fulfilling the law 7 of the Creator, that of all w hich he has 
made should nothing be lost. A region which has been 
choked up by shrubs, and perennial plants, and hard, 
half-withered, impalatable grasses, after having been 
laid bare by these scourges, soon appears in a far more 
beautiful dress, w ith new r herbs, superb lilies, fresh an- 
nual grasses, and young and juicy shrubs of perennial 
kinds, affording delicious herbage for the wild cattle 
and game” (Sparman’s Voyage, i, 3(37). Meanwhile their 
excessive multiplication is repressed by numerous causes. 
Contrary to the order of nature with all other insects, 
the males are far more numerous than the females. It 
is believed that if they w r cre equal in number they 
would in ten years annihilate the vegetable system. 
Besides all the creatures that feed upon them, rains are 
very destructive to their eggs, to the larvae, pupa?, and 
perfect insect. AVhen perfect they always fly with the 
winds, and are therefore constantly carried out to sea, 
and often ignorantly descend upon it as if upon land. 
(See below 7 , III.) Myriads are thus lost in the ocean 
every year, and become the food of fishes. On land 
they afford in all their several states sustenance to count- 
less tribes of birds, beasts, reptiles, etc.; and if their of- 
fice as the scavengers of nature, commissioned to remove 
all superfluous productions from the face of the earth, 
sometimes incidentally and as the operation of a general 
law 7 , interferes w 7 ith the labors of man, as do storms, 
tempests, etc., they have, from all antiquity to the pres- 
ent hour, afforded him an excellent supply till the land 
acquires the benefit of their visitations, by yielding him 
in the mean time an agreeable, wholesome, and nutri- 
tious aliment. 

There are different ways of preparing locusts for food : 
sometimes they are ground and pounded, and then mixed 
with flour and water and made into cakes, or they are 
salted and then eaten ; sometimes smoked ; boiled or 
roasted; stew'ed, or fried in butter. I)r. Kit to (J'ict. 
Bible , note on Lev. xi, 21), who tasted locusts, says they 
are more like shrimps than anything else; and an Eng- 
lish clergyman, some years ago, cooked some of the 
green grasshoppers, Locust a viridissima , boiling them 
in w 7 ater half an hour, throwing away the head, wings, 
and legs, and then sprinkling them with pepper and 



LOCUST 


486 


LOCUST 


salt, and adding butter: he found 
them excellent. How strange, then, 
nay, “ how idle,” to quote the words 
of Kirby and Spence ( Entom . i, 305), 
“was the controversy concerning the 
locusts which formed part of the sus- 
tenance of John the Baptist, . . . and 
how apt even learned men are to per- 
plex a plain question from ignorance 
of the customs of other coimtries!” 
They are even an extensive article of 
commerce (Sparman’s Voyage , i, 367, 
etc.). Diodorus Siculus mentions a 
people of Ethiopia who were so fond 
of eating them that they were called 
A cridophagi, “caters of locusts” (xxiv, 
3). Whole armies have been relieved 
bv them when in danger of perishing 
(Porphyrius, l)e Abstinent ia Carnis). 
We learn from Aristophanes and Aris- 
totle that they were eaten by the in- 
habitants of Greece (Aristopli. A char- 
nen . 11 16, 1117, edit. Dind. ; Aristotle, 
Hist. Anim. v, 30, where he speaks of 
them as delicacies). (See below, HI.) 
Dried Locusts on That they were eaten in a preserved 
rods borne in state by the ancient Assyrians is evi- 

proeession. (On t } cn t from the monuments (Layard, 
sculptures from , .... v - 

K o n y n n j i k, Tab. an d ^ in ' P* 289). 
now iii the Brit- Birds also eagerly devour them 
ish Museum.) (Bussell, Natural History of Aleppo, 
p. 127 ; Volney, Travels, i, 237 ; Kitto’s Physical History 
of Pal. p. 410). The locust-bird referred to by travel- 
lers. and which the Arabs call smnrmur , is no doubt, 
from Dr. Kitto’s description, the “rose-colored starling,” 
Pastor roseus. The Bcv. H. B. Tristram saw one speci- 
men in the orange-groves at Jaffa in the spring of 1858, 




The Smurmar, or Locnst-cating Bird. 

hut makes no allusion to its devouring locusts. Dr. 
Kitto in one place (p. 410) says the locust-bird is about 
the size of a starling; in another place (p. 420) he com- 
pares it in size to a swallow. The bird is about eight 
inches and a half in length. Yarrell ( British Birds, ii, 
51, 21 ed.) says “it is held sacred at Aleppo because it 
feeds on the locust;” and Col. Sykes bears testimony to 
the immense tlocks in which they tlv. lie says (Cata- 
logue of the Birds of Dukhan) “they darken the air by 
their numbers . . . forty or fifty have been killed at a 
shot.” But he says “ they prove a calamity to the hus- 
bandman. as they are as destructive as locusts, and not 
much less numerous.” 

The great llights of locusts occur only every fourth 
or lifth season. Those locusts which come in the tirst. 
instance only fix on trees, and do not destroy grain: it 
is the young, before they are able to fly, which are 
chiefly injurious to the crops. Nor do ail the species 
feed upon vegetables; one, comprehending many vari- 
eties, the truxalis. according to some authorities, feeds 
upon insects. Latreillc says the house-cricket will do 
so. “Locusts,” remarks a very sensible tourist, “seem 
to devour not so much from a ravenous appetite as from 
a rage for destroying." Destruction, therefore, and not 
food, is the chief impulse of their devastations, and in 


this consists their utility; they are, in fact, omnivo- 
rous. The most poisonous plants are indifferent to 
them; the}' will prey even upon the crowfoot, whose 
causticity bums the very hides of beasts. They simply 
consume everything without predilection, vegetable mat- 
ter, linen, woollen, silk, leather, etc.; and Pliny does not 
exaggerate when he says, “Fores quoqiic tectorum,” 
“and even the doors of houses” (xi, 29), for they have 
been known to consume the very varnish of furniture. 
They reduce everything indiscriminately to shreds, 
which become manure. It might serve to mitigate 
popular misapprehensions on the subject to consider 
what would have been the consequence if locusts had 
been carnivorous like wasps. All terrestrial beings, in 
such a ease, not excluding man himself, would have be- 
come their victims. There are, no doubt, many things 
respecting them yet unknown to us which would still 
further justify the belief that this, like “every” other 
“work of God, is good" — benevolent upon the whole 
(see Dillon’s Trav. in Spain, p. 256, etc., London, 1780, 
4to). 

III. The general references to locusts in the Scrip- 
tures are well collected by Jahn (Bibl. Archceoh § 23), 
while Wemyss gives many of the symbolical applica- 
tions of this creature ( Claris Symboliea, s. v.). It is well 
known that locusts live in a republic like ants. Agur, 
the son of Jakeh, correctly says, “ The locusts have no 
king.” But Mr. Horne gives them one (Introduction, 
etc., 1839, iii, 76), and Dr. Harris speaks of their having 
“ a leader whose motions they invariably observe” (Nat. 
Hist, of the Bible, London, 1825). See this notion re- 
futed by Kirby and Spence (ii, 16), and even by Mouffet 
( Theat . Insect, p. 122, Lond. 1634). It is also worthy of 
remark that no Hebrew root has ever been offered fa- 
voring this idea. Our translation (Nah. iii, 17) repre- 
sents locusts, “great grasshoppers,” as “camping in the 
lodges in the cold day, but when the sun ariseth as 
fleeing away.” Here the locust, gob, is undoubtedly 
spoken of as a perfect insect, able to fly, and as it is well 
known that at evening the locusts descend from their 
flights and form camps for the night, may not the cold 
day mean the cold portion of the day, i. e. the night, so 
remarkable for its coldness in the East, the word fi'V' 
being used here, as it often is, in a comprehensive sense, 
like the Gr. igdoa and Lat .dies? Gcsenius suggests 
that r. 1-1*13, “hedges,” should here be understood like 
the Gr. atpacid, shrubs, brushwood, etc. (See above, 
I, 2.) With regard to the description in Joel (chap, ii), 
it is considered by many learned writers as a figurative 
representation of the ravages of an invading “army” of 
human beings, as in Bcv. ix, 2-12, rather than a literal 
account, since such a devastation would hardly, they 
think, have escaped notice in the books of Kings and 
Chronicles. Some have abandoned all attempt at a lit- 
eral interpretation of Lev. xi, 22, and understand by the 
four species of locusts there mentioned, Shalmaneser, 
Nebuchadnezzar, Antioehus, and the Bomans. Theodo- 
ret explains them as the four Assyrian kings, Tiglath- 
pileser, Shalmaneser, Sennacherib, and Nebuchadnezzar ; 
and Abarbanel, of the four kingdoms inimical to the 
Jews, viz. the Babylonians, Persians, Greeks, and Bo- 
mans (Pococke’s Works, i. 21 J, etc., Lond. 1740; Bosen- 
m tiller, Scholia in Joel. c. i). 

From the Scriptures it appears that Egypt, Palestine, 
and the adjacent countries were frequently laid waste 
hv vast bodies of migrating locusts, which are especial- 
ly represented as a scourge in the hand of divine Prov- 
idence for the punishment of national sins; and the 
brief notices of the inspired writers as to the habits of 
the insects, their numbers, and the devastation they 
cause, are amply borne out by the more labored details 
of modern travellers. 1. Locusts occur in great num- 
bers, and sometimes obscure the sun (Exod. x, 15; Jer. 
xlvi, 23; Judg. vi, 5; vii, 12; Joel ii, 10; Nah. iii, 15; 
compare Livy, xlii, 2 ; JElian, A r . A . iii, 12 ; Pliny, X. II. 
xi, 29 ; Shaw, Travels, p. 187 [fol. 2d ed,] ; Ludolf, Hist. 


LOD 


487 


LODGE 


JEthiop. i, 13, anil De Locustis, i, 4; Volnev, Travels in 
Syria, i, 230). 2. Their voracity is alluded to in Exod. 

x, 12,15; Joel i, 4, 7, 12, and ii,3; Dent. xxviii,38; Psa. 

lxxviii, 40 ; cv, 34 ; Isa. xxxiii, 4 (comp. Shaw, 7 ’ravels, 
p. 187, and travellers in the East, passim). 3. They are 
compared to horses (Joel ii,4 ; Rev. ix, 7. The Italians 
call the locust “Cavaletta;” and Kay says, “Caput ob- 
longnm, equi instar prona speetans.” Compare also the 
Arab’s description to Niebuhr, Descr. de I'A rabie). 4. 
They make a fearful noise in their flight (Joel ii, 5 ; Kev. 
ix, 9; comp. Forskal, Descr. p. 81 : “Transeuntes grylli 
super verticem nostrum sono magiue cataraetre terve- 
bant Volnev, Trav. i, 235). 5. Their irresistible prog- 
ress is referred to in Joel ii, 8, 9 (comp. Shaw, Trav. p. 
187). G. They enter dwellings, anil devour even the 
wood-work of houses (Exod. x, 0; Joel ii, 9, 10; comp. 
Plinv, A r . //. xi, 29). 7. They do not fly in the night 

(Nah. iii, 17 ; comp. Niebuhr, Descr. de I'A rabie , p. 173). 
8. The sea destroys the greater number (Exod. x, 19: 
Joel ii,20; compare Pliny, xi, 35; Hasselquist, Trav. p. 
445 [Engl, trails!. 1700] ; also Iliad, xxi, 12). 9, Their 

dead bodies taint the air (Joel ii. 20 ; eomp. Hasselquist. 
Trav. p. 445). 10. They are used as food (Lev. xi, 21, 

22 ; Matt, iii, 4 ; Mark i, 0 ; compare Pliny, N. II. vi, 35 ; 

xi, 35; Dioil. Sic. iii, 29 ; Aristoph. A char. 1110 ; Ludolf, 
II. sEthiop. p. 07 [Gent’s trails].] ; Jackson, Marocco, p. 
52 ; Niebuhr, Descr. de I'A rabie, p. 150 ; Sparman, Trav. 
i. 307, who says the Hottentots are glad when the lo- 
custs come, for they fatten upon them; Hasselquist, 
Travels , p. 232,419; Kirby and Spence, Entom. i, 305). 
There are people at this day who gravely assert that 
the locusts which formed part of the food of the Baptist 
were not the insect of that name, but the long, sweet 
pods of the locust-tree ( Ceratonia siliqua), Johannis 
brodt, “ St.John’s bread,” as the monks of Palestine call 
it. For other equally erroneous explanations, or unau- 
thorized alterations of cacptdec, see Celsii Ilierob. i, 74. 

IV. The following are some of the works which treat 
of locusts^ Ludolf, Dissertatio de Locustis (Franeof. ad 
Moen. 1094) [this author believes that the quails which 
fed the Israelites in the wilderness were locusts (vid. his 
Diatriba qua sententia nova de Selaris sire Locustis de- 
fenditur , Franeof. 1094), as do the Jewish Arabs to this 
day. So does Patrick, in his Comment, on Numbers. A 
more absurd opinion was that held by Norrelius, who 
maintained that the four names of Lev. xi,22 were birds 
(see his Schediasma de A vibus sacris , A rbeh, Chuyub, 
Sulam, et Charged, Upsal. 1740, and in the liibl. Brem. 
iii, 30)] ; Faber, De Locustis Bibliris, et sigillatim de A vi- 
bus Quadrupedibus, ex Lev. xi, 20 (Wittenb. 1710-11); 
Asso, Abhamllnng von den Heuschrecken (Kostoek, 1787 ; 
usually containing also Tychsen’s Comment.de Locustis) ; 
Oedman, Yermischte Sammlung, vol. ii, e. vii ; Kirby and 
Spence, Introduction to Entomology, i, 305, etc. ; IJoehart, 
Hierozoicov , iii, 251, etc., ed. Kosenmuller ; Kitto, Phys. 
History of Palestine , p. 419,420; Harris, Natural Hist, 
of the Bible , s. v. (1833); 11 armor, Observations (Loud. 
1797); Fabricius, Entomol. System, ii, 40 sq. ; Credner, 
Joel, p. 201 sq. ; Thomson, Land and Book , ii, 102 sq. ; 
Tristram. Nat. Hist, of the Bible , p. 300 sq. ; Wood, Bible 
Animals, p. 590 sq. ; Haekett. Jllustra. of Script, p. 97 ; 
Serville, Monograph in the Suites a. Bujfon ; Fiseher, Or- 
thoptera Enropceci; Suicer, Thesaurus, i, 109, 179; Gu- 
therr. De Yictn Johannis (Franc. 1785); Kathleb, A kri- 
dotheologie (Hanover, 1748); Kawlinson, Five Ancient 
Monarchies, ii, 299, 493 ; iii, 144. 

Lod (1 Chron. viii, 12; Ezra ii, 32; Nell, vii, 37; xi, 
35). See Lyuda. 

Lo-de'bar (Ileb. Lo-Debar / “CT xb, no pasture, 
2 Sam. xvii, 27, Sept. A tocafictp; written “'.21 lb in 2 
Sam. ix, 4, 5, Septuag. A lufiafidp), a town apparently in 
Gilead, not far from Mahanaim.the residence of Ammiel, 
whose son Maehir entertained Mephibosheth, and after- 
wards sent refreshments to David (2 Sam. ix, 4, 5; xvii, 
27 ). It is probably the same with the place (see Be- 
laud, Pahcst. p.875) called Debik (or rather Lulbir ', 


“OTb, Josh. xiii, 20; Sept. Af/3tp, Vulg. Dabir ; for the 
b is not a prefix, but a part of the name [sec Keil’s Com- 
ment. ad loc.], which should probably be pointed “C^lb^ 
Lodebar'), on the (north-eastem) border of Gad, but in 
which direction from Mahanaim is uncertain, perhaps 
north-west (in which general direction the associated 
names appear to proceed), and not far from et-Tayibeh. 

Lodenstein, Jonoous vox, a noted Dutch theo- 
logian, was born at Delft in 1020. He studied under 
Voetius at Utrecht, and under Coeeeius and Amesius at 
Franeker, and became preacher at Zoetemer in 1044 ; at 
Sluys, in Flanders, in 1050, and at Utreeht in 1052— in 
all of which places lie used every exertion to revive the 
spirit of practical piety among his countrymen, whom 
I great prosperity had rendered worldly-minded and in- 
different. When, in 1072, the country was threatened 
I by the invasion of the French under Louis XIV, he pro- 
claimed it a judgment of the Lord, and called oil them 
to repent. He found many followers. In 1GG5 he ceased 
to administer the Lord’s Supper, from conscientious scru- 
ples. Laying great stress on purity of life and of heart, 
he feared lest he might administer it to some unworthy 
to receive this sacred ordinance. The number of his 
adherents gradually increased, and they spread over the 
whole Netherlands, but they never separated from the 
Reformed Church like the'Labadists. The effect of Lo- 
denstcin’s doctrines in Holland was like that following 
Spener’s labors afterwards in Germany. lie died pastor 
of Utreeht in 1077. He wrote Verfullenes Christ enthum 
(published after his death by J. Hofmann), Beforma- 
tionsspiegel (to be found also in Arnold’s Kirchen u.Ket- 
zerhistorie), and a number of hvmns, etc. — Uctzog,Beal- 
Encyklop. x, 450. (J.N.P.) 

Lodge (properly some form of the verb pb, lun, or 
“pS, lin, to stay over night, avXt^opai, etc.). See Ixx. 
In Isa. i, 8, the “ lodge in a garden” (ttlsib’T, melunah', a 
i lodging-place, rendered “ cottage” in Isa. xxiv, 20) sig- 
! nifies a shed or lodge for the watchman in a garden ; it 
I also refers to a sort of hanging bed or hammock, which 
travellers in hot climates, or the watchmen of gardens 
or vineyards, hang on higli trees to sleep in at night, 
probably from the fear of wild beasts (Isa. xxiv, 20). 
The lodge here referred to was a little temporary hut 
J consisting of a low framework of poles, covered with 
boughs, straw, turf, or similar materials, for a shelter 
from the heat bv day and the cold and dews by night, 
for the watchmen that kept the garden, or vineyard, 
during the short season while the fruit was ripening 
(Job xxvii, 18), and speedily removed when it had 
served that purpose. It is usually erected on a slight 
artificial mound of earth, with just space sufficient for 
I one person, who, in this confined solitude, remains con- 
stantly watching the ripening crop, as the jackals dur- 
ing the vintage often destroy whole vineyards, and 
likewise commit great ravages in the gardens of cucum- 
bers and melons. This protection is also necessary to 
i prevent the depredations of thieves. To see one of these 
miserable sheds standing alone in the midst of a field or 
on the margin of it, occupied by its solitary watcher, 
often a decrepit or aged person, presents a striking im- 
I age of dreariness and loneliness (llaekett’s Illustra, of 
! Scripture, p. 102). See Cottage. 

Lodge, Nathan, a Methodist Episcopal minister, 
was bom in Loudon County, Va., August 20, 1788; -was 
converted in 1804, entered the Conference at Baltimore 
in 1810, and died Nov. 27, 1815. He was a very zeal- 
ous and useful minister, and many souls were converted 
through his preaching. He was greatly lamented by 
bis people, among whom he was suddenly cut down. — 
M brutes of Conferences, i, 278. 

Lodge, Robert, a member of the Society of 
Friends, was born at Masliam, Yorkshire, about 1030. 
He was a religious youth, and became a Friend about 
1000. lie preached and suffered for the Quaker cause 
in Ireland. On July 15. 1G90, he died, assuring bis 


LODUR 


488 


LOGIC 


friends . li Blessed be God, I have heavenly peace.” See 
Janney, 1 list, of Friends, ii, 434. 

Lodur, one of the three Norse divinities (Odin and 
Haner), who, walking at the sea-shore, created the first 
pair of men. See Loki. 

Loffler, Friedrich Simon, a German Protestant 
theologian, nephew of the celebrated philosopher Leib- 
nitz, was born at Leipzic Aug. 9, 1609, and was educated 
at the university of his native place. In 1689 he be- 
came inagister of philosophy and bachelor of divinity. 
In 1095 he was appointed pastor at Probstheida, and 
served his people until 1745, when, on account of age, 
he was made emeritus preacher. lie died in 1748. lie 
wrote Specimen exeges. s. de operariis in vinea: — JDiss. 
de litter is Bellerophonteis ; etc. 

Loffler, Josias Friedrich Christian, a noted 
German Protestant theologian, was born at Saalfeld Jan- 
uary 18, 1752. Having lost his father in 1763, he was 
educated in the orphan asylum and at the University 
of Ilalle. In 1774 he went to Berlin, where he made 
the acquaintance of Teller, and in 1777 became minis- 
ter of one of the churches of that city. He now made 
himself known as a writer by translating Souverain’s 
renowned work on the Platonism of the fathers. In 
1778 he went to Silesia as chaplain of a Prussian regi- 
ment, but returned at the end of a year to Berlin, where 
he resumed his office, devoting also part of his time to 
educational pursuits. In 1783 he beeame professor of 
theology at Frankfort-on-the-Oder. and minister of the 
principal church of that city. Here his rationalistic 
views made him many enemies. In 1787 he was ap- 
pointed general superintendent at Gotha, but entered 
on this office only in the following year. The Uni- 
versity of Copenhagen conferred on him the degree of 
D.D. in 1792. lie died February 4, 1816. Loffler pub- 
lished a number of separate sermons, dissertations, and 
tracts, and was after 1803 the editor of the continuation 
of Teller’s Magazin fur Prediger. See Doring, Die 
deutsch. Kanzelredner des 18 and 19 Jahrh . p. 223 ; Her- 
zog. Rcal-FncgHopddie, viii, 451. 

Loft aligah ', vTTtQtgov), the upper chamber, 

e. g. of a private house (1 Kings xvii, 19; Acts xx, 9). 
Such rooms were either over the gate (2 Sam. xix, 1) 
or built on the fiat roof (2 Kings xxiii, 12), and were 
especially used for prayer, conference, or public meet- 
ings. See Chamber ; House; Poof. 

Loftus, Dudley Field, an Irish lawyer, noted as 
a learned Orientalist, was bom at Ilathfarnham, near 
Dublin, in 1618. He rose to the position of master in 
Chancery and a judge of the Prerogative Court. He 
translated the Ethiopic New Testament into Latin for 
Walton’s Polyglot; also published translations from the 
Syriac into Latin and English, lie died in 1695. See 
Wood, . 1 then. Oxon. ; Harris’s edition of Ware’s Ireland ; 
Lodge’s Peerage of Ireland. 

Loftus, William Kennett, an English arche- 
ologist, was born at live in 1820. He was a zealous 
traveller and diseoverer, and explored the sites of sev- 
eral ancient cities on the Euphrates and Tigris. In 
1857 he published a work entitled Travels and Re- 
searches in Chcddea and Susiana: also an aceount of 
Some Excavations at \Carka, the Erech of Ximrod, and 
Shushnv , the Palace of Esther, in 1849-52. lie died in 
185s. To the Biblical student Loftus’s work is of spe- 
cial importance. See Thomas’s Diet. Riog. and Mgthol. 
s. v. 

Log log, prob. a deep cavitg, basin ; Sept, kotu- 
\}j, Vulg. sextarius), the smallest liquid measure (e. g. 
of oil) among the Hebrews (Lev. xiv, 10. 12, 15, 21, 24), 
containing, according to the rabbins (see Carpzov. Ap- 
parat. p. 685), the twelfth part of a “ iiix,”,or six eggs, 
i. c. nearly a pint. See Measure. 

Logan, David Swift, a Presbyterian minister, 
was born at Pittsburgh, Pa., in 1834. His literary ed- 


1 ncation was commenced in the academy of Beaver, and 
was continued in Jefferson College (class of 1854). In 
1857 he entered the Western Theological Seminar}', and, 
after completing the regular theological course, was li- 
censed by the Presbytery of Alleghany City, and after- 
wards ordained as an evangelist bv the Presbytery of 
Steubenville, and for two years preached in the churches 
of New Philadelphia and Urichville, Ohio. He next 
labored in the Presbyterian Church of Tiffin, Ohio, until 
ill health obliged his return to his home in Bridgewa- 
ter, Pa., where he died, Sept. 15, 1864. Air. Logan was 
endowed with a well-balanced nature; no single faculty 
was cultivated at the expense of the rest, lie had 
method, promptness, assiduity, thoughtfulness; he was 
an earnest preacher and a faithful pastor. See Wilson, 
Presbyterian Historical Almanac, 1865, p. 97. (J. L. S.) 

Logan, John, a noted Scottish divine, was born at 
Fala, in the county of Edinburgh, in 1748. Though 
the son of a farmer, he was early destined to the cleri- 
cal profession, and was educated in the University of 
Edinburgh. Upon graduation he became tutor to Sir 
John Sinclair. In 1773 he was licensed as a preacher 
in the Established Church of Scotland, and was shortly 
after appointed minister at Leith, where he remained 
until 1785, when he removed to London, retaining by 
agreement a part of his clerical income, for the purpose 
of devoting himself altogether to literary labors. He 
had established quite a reputation as a sacred poet. 
Logan, if not a learned divine or a very profound think- 
er, was a man of much eloquence, and a highly pop- 
ular preacher. But his poetical endowments, strongly 
lyrical in their tendency, were the highest he possessed ; 
and, unfortunately, he was tempted to apply these in 
a path where he was ill calculated to shine, and the 
adoption of which proved fatal not only to his profes- 
sional usefulness, but to his happiness. In 1783 he 
printed and caused to be acted in Edinburgh a tragedy 
called Runnamede, which had been rehearsed at Covent 
Garden, but refused a license by the lord chamberlain. 
This publication brought on him the anger of his Pres- 
byterian associates; and these and other annoyances, 
aggravated by a hereditary tendency to hypochondria, 
drove him to intoxication for relief, lie died in Lon- 
don Dec. 28, 1788. llis friends, Drs. Blair, Kobertson, 
and Hardy, published a volume of his sermons in 1790, 
and a second in 1791. These sermons long enjoyed very 
great popularity, and have been several times reprinted. 
They are among the most eloquent that the Scottish 
Church has produced. A third edition of his poems, 
with an account of his life, appeared in 1805 ;* and the 
poems are included in Dr. Anderson’s collection. 8ome 
of his hymns are annexed to the psalmody of the Scot- 
tish Church. See English Cyclopedia, s. v. 

Logic. This term, derived from the Greek Ao'yof, 
\oynci), has been the subject of numerous definitions. 
By different authors and schools it has been defined as 
the art of convincing, the art of thinking, the art of dis- 
covering truth, the right use of reason, the science and 
art iff reasoning, the science of deductive thinking, the 
science of the laws of thought as thought, and the sci- 
ence of the laws of discursive thought. These specimen 
definitions indicate in some degree the diverse concep- 
tions of the subject which have prevailed at different 
periods and in different circles. Aristotle, whom Sir 
William Hamilton extravagantly calls the author and 
finisher of the general science under consideration, had 
no single name for it. He treated of its principal parts 
as analytic, apodeictic. and topic . In the latter he in- 
cluded the dialectic of Plato and the sophistic of the 
Sophists. Notwithstanding the honor credited to Aris- 
totle, he himself says that Zeno the Eleatic was the in- 
ventor of dialectics. 

Thus we are taken back to the early Greek philoso- 
phers for the first formal discussions of what is now uni- 
versally denominated Logic. They, in successive gen- 
erations, developed with more or less clearness its prin- 


LOGIC 


489 


LOGIC 


cipal elements. Socrates illustrated induction ; Euclid, 
deduction. Plato treated of mental images as the re- 
sults of sensation, of notions as the product of the un- 
derstanding, and of ideas as the product of reason. Aris- 
totle formulated syllogisms, and defined their principal 
laws. He taught analysis, lie devised a system of 
categories. He enumerated the five predicables, genus, 
species, difference, property, and accident. In short, he 
reduced to a system the fragmentary discoveries in the 
philosophy of mind of those who had gone before him, 
and embodied them in works destined to exert a great 
intinence upon after ages. Like many other great men, 
Aristotle was but indifferently appreciated by his con- 
temporaries. Even after his death, his logical system 
produced but little influence upon his countrymen the 
Greeks. Several of the Christian fathers, however, give 
evidence of having profited by its study, and of de- 
siring to use the knowledge they had thus acquired in 
propagating the truth of Christianity. Justin Martyr, 
Tatian, Athenagoras, Clement, and others, both used and 
defended such dialectics as they had learned in the Gre- 
cian schools. On the other hand, as the same style of 
dialectics had been closely identified with the pernicious 
vagaries of heathen philosophy, Tertullian, Ireiuvus, Ar- 
nobius, and Lactantius considered its use as unfavorable 
to the interests of Christianity, and destructive of true 
science and wisdom. Augustine also wrote in the same 
spirit against the academicians. 

Nevertheless, speculative studies held a relative prom- 
inence in the learning of Greece and Pome during the 
early Christian centuries; and when, owing to the bar- 
barian irruptions, learning and civilization declined, di- 
alectical science remained in more general cultivation 
than almost any other of the higher species of knowl- 
edge. Having its subject matter in the human mind, 
it was not dependent for perpetuity upon those external 
circumstances which influenced the conditions of gen- 
eral literature. Boethius, who has been called the last 
of the ancient philosophers, and the connecting link be- 
tween the classical and the mediaeval age, made a trans- 
lation of Aristotle’s categories into Latin. His contem- 
poraries of the Gth century. Cassiodorus, Capella, and Isi- 
dore of Seville, together with several Byzantine writers, 
e. g. George Pachymera, Theodorus Metacliita, and Mi- 
chael Psellus, formed meagre eompendiums of logic and 
rhetoric, without any clear distinction between the two. 
These manuals superseded or rather substituted the use 
of the ancient authors on both these subjects, and, im- 
perfect as the}' were, became the oracles of that long 
and dismal period in which the trivium (grammar, log- 
ic, and rhetoric) and quadrivium (music, arithmetic, 
geometry, and astronomy) were the chief topics of study 
and instruction. The ignorance consequent upon such 
a condition of things continued for the long period of 
five centuries without material variation. 

In the latter part of the lltli century commenced a 
period of literary awakening known to history as the 
first sera of scholasticism. Sec Scholasticism. This 
movement was characterized by attempts to construct 
systems of theology on the traditional basis with strict 
dialectical form and method. Paris was the chief seat 
of the movement. Anselm, aii abbot at Bee in 1078, 
and late in life an archbishop of Canterbury, made the 
first vigorous attempt in harmony with logical forms, 
on the basis of credo ut intelligam. Abelard opposed 
kim. on the principle that understanding should precede 
faith. This was the period of Nominalism and Realism, 
and also of the foundation of universities. Among the 
most prominent of the great names of this period is that 
of Roscclinus of Compeigne, who is celebrated as having 
been the first to revive the question of the reality of 
universal ideas, and William of Champeaux, who open- 
ed a school of logic in Paris in 1109. The fame of the 
latter was soon eclipsed by that of Peter Abelard, who 
was able to invest logical disputation with such fascina- 
tions as to make it the favorite occupation of the most 
intelligent minds for generations following. 


The 13th century is counted as the second period of 
scholasticism, during which the leading dialecticians 
were Bonaventura, Albertus Magnus, Thomas Aquinas, 
and Duns Scotus. During this period scholasticism 
reached its climax. The 14th century, as the third pe- 
riod of scholasticism, witnessed its sensible decline un- 
der the protracted but bitter wranglings of the Thomists 
(Realists) and Scotists (Nominalists). 

Notwithstanding an attempt by the Medici of Flor- 
ence to revive the Platonic philosophy in opposition to 
that of Aristotle, the latter prevailed in the chief uni- 
versities of Europe, and the corruptions of it which had 
been countenanced by scholasticism began to pass away 
under the influence of more intelligent discussion. In 
the 1 Gth century, after the invention of printing, the 
logical and philosophical works of the Stagirite were is- 
sued in a purer text and more accurate versions, and 
largely engaged public criticism. 

I he authority of Aristotle had been so long supreme 
in the continental universities, and the union between 
what passed for his philosophy and the errors of the 
Church of Rome had been so long established, that it 
was only natural for Luther and Mclanethon, at the be- 
ginning of the Reformation, to inveigh strongly against 
the Aristotelian logic and metaphysics. As time passed 
on, however, it became apparent that the work of the 
Reformers had largely to be done through the agency 
of that same Aristotelian logic. Melancthon was not 
slow to perceive this, and subsequently became an ac- 
knowledged follower of Aristotle as to dialectics, and 
even influenced Luther to retract some of his severer ut- 
terances. He introduced into the University of Witten- 
berg, to which Protestant Germany looked up, a scheme 
of dialectics and physics founded upon the Aristotelian 
theory. He also imitated the Stagirite philosopher by 
teaching logic with constant reference to rhetoric. The 
advocacy and inlluence of Melancthon secured the pre- 
ponderance of the Aristotelian dialectics in the Protes- 
tant schools of Germany for more than a century. 

About the middle of the lGth century a formidable 
opposition to the authority of Aristotle sprang up at the 
University of Paris, under the leadership of Peter Ra- 
mus, a scholar of great natural acuteness, and of an in- 
trepid, though somewhat arrogant spirit. He published 
his Institutiones Lialecticee in 1543. His system, found- 
ed with much ingenuity on the writings of Plato, not- 
withstanding violent opposition, prevailed so far as to 
greatly weaken the influence of the Aristotelian philos- 
ophy. The heads of the university, alarmed at this in- 
novation, made complaint against Ramus to Parliament. 
The king himself interfered, and appointed a public trial 
of the rival systems of logic. As might have been ex- 
pected, a majority of the judges favored the established 
system. Ramus was consequently ordered to desist from 
teaching, and an order passed for the suppression of his 
book. That order was subsequently removed, and Ra- 
mus again became popular as a teacher. He treated 
logic as merely the art of arguing, and was very severe 
on the dry and tedious formalities of the schoolmen. 
His system embraced invention and proofs, and thus 
blended with rhetoric. In 1551, through the influence 
of the cardinal of Lorraine, Ramus became royal pro- 
fessor of rhetoric and philosophy, in which capacity he 
made many proselytes. Having adhered to the Hu- 
guenot party, he was killed in the massacre of St. Bar- 
tholomew. But lie had already travelled and taught in 
Germany, where his system found no little favor. In 
Italy it secured a few disciples, but many more in France, 
England, and Scotland. Andrew Melville introduced 
the logic of Ramus at Glasgow, and it ultimately be- 
came popular in all the Scottish universities. The log- 
ical writings of the remainder of the 16th century, and 
somewhat later, were tilled with the Ramist and anti- 
Ramist controversy, which, though of little permanent 
importance, doubtless prepared the way for a better com- 
prehension of the true principles and processes of logic 
hi later periods. 


LOGIC 


490 


LOGIC 


In the 17th century the writings of lord Bacon formed 
another epoch in the history of logic. See Bacon. 
Logie, according to lord Bacon, comprised the sciences 
of invention, judging, retaining, and delivering the con- 
ceptions of the mind. We invent or discover new arts 
and arguments. We judge by induction or syllogism, 
and we may improve memory by artificial modes. The 
first book of the Xorum Oryanvm developed his celebra- 
ted ami peculiar division of fallacies, viz. iilola t?ibu. s’, 
idola speeds, ulolafori , and idola theatrL The second 
book sought to apply the principles of induction to the 
interpretation of nature. Although, from a defective 
knowledge of natural phenomena incident to his times, 
the author’s illustrations were far from perfect, and al- 
though many logicians have disputed the correctness of 
his principles, it cannot be questioned that the Baconian 
logic and method of study exerted a powerful influence 
upon his own and after times in stimulating thought 
and discovery. The remaining authors of the 17th 
century whose writings influenced the study and meth- 
ods of logic were Des Cartes, Arnauld, author of Id Art 
de raiser, and Locke, of England. Probably the most 
influential treatise on the direct subject was Arnauld’s 
A rt of Thinking, commonly called the Tort-Royal Logie. 
It attacked the Aristotelian system, and, being written 
in a modem language, had the advantage over the heavy 
Latinitv of previous books. In this respect it became 
an example to subsequent writers, who, from the begin- 
ning of the 18tli century, were numerous if not influen- 
tial. But, with all that was written respecting it, the 
study of logic failed to command general attention. It 
had few attractions for the popular mind, and its special 
devotees were seldom able to place it in successful com- 
petition with philosophy, natural science, and general 
literature. Although prescribed in every system of aca- 
demic study, and at once the agency and topic of cease- 
less wrangling among professed scholars, yet its influ- 
ence upon human life and public opinion was infinitesi- 
mally small. 

The limits of this article do not admit of a detailed 
notice of all the logicians and logical systems of modern 
times, but only of allusion to a few of the most influen- 
tial. In Germany, more than in all other countries, the 
study of logic has within the last hundred years assumed 
new phases and developed new doctrines, more especial- 
ly in connection with the various systems of idealistic 
philosophy. Of that philosophy Immanuel Kant [see 
Kant] may be considered the inaugurator, and his flrst 
philosophical production commenced with the study of 
logic. As early as 17G2 he published a treatise on the 
“False Subtlety of the Four Syllogistic Figures,” in 
which he maintained that only the flrst is pure, and the 
others ratiociniu hgbridu . From this point he went, on 
developing his system, till in 1781 he published his Krit- 
ik of Pure Reason, to which in 1790 he added his Kritik 
of i he Judgment. Kant claimed to have subjected the 
human mind to a new analysis, from which he deter- 
mined the three comprehensive functions of sense, un- 
derstanding, and reason. His general scheme is sum- 
med up as follows : 

I. Doctrine of the transcendeutal elements of knowledge. 

A. Transcendental a*sthetics. 

B. Transcendental logic. 

a. Tra u seen den tal analytics. 

b. Transcendental dialectics. 

II. The transcendental method. 

Not to mention the numerous defenders and modifiers 
of the Kantian system, we pass to G. W. F. llegel [see 
II i:< ;il], the publication of whose Wissenschaft tier Logik 
in INI 2 ( marks another epoch in German metaphysics. 
Hegel employed the term logic in a very extended 
sense. Not confining it to abstract forms of thought 
and the laws of ideas, he considered it the science of the 
self-suflicient and self-determining idea — the science of 
truth and reality. From his fundamental principle that 
thought and substance are identical, it followed that 
what is true of one is true also of the other, and that 
the laws of logic are ontological. His system claimed 


to develop the idea of the absolute by antagonisms 
through all its successive stadia. With him the pri- 
mary element of logic consisted in the oneness of the 
subjective and objective. Instinctive knowledge oidy 
regards the object without considering itself. But con- 
sciousness, besides the former, contains a perception of 
itself, and embraces, as three stages of progress, con- 
sciousness, self-consciousness, and reason. Pure logic, 
according to Hegel, is divided into, 1. The logic of be- 
ing; 2. The logic of qualified nature; 3. The logic of 
the idea. 

In 1825, Richard Whately, afterwards archbishop of 
Dublin, published an article in the Encyclopaedia Metro - 
politana, which, having been expanded and printed as 
his Elements of Logic, was soon after extensively adopt- 
ed as a text-book both in England and America. This 
publication has justly been considered as constituting 
an aura in the study of logic in English-speaking coun- 
tries. The principles of Kant’s Kritik of Pure Reason 
were not extensively introduced into Great Britain until 
after 183G, when Sir William Hamilton began Ids lectures 
in the University of Edinburgh. See Hamilton. Al- 
though Hamilton took opposite ground to Whately in 
reference to the essential character of logic, yet both 
were admirers and exponents of the Analytic Aristotle. 
Thus the reawakened taste for logical studies during 
the current century arose from a restoration, by different 
methods, of the old logic which had come down from the 
early ages, and survived all the opposition and ridicule 
of the modern centuries. It is worthy of especial note 
that none of the systems put forth by Ramus, Descar- 
tes, Locke, or Condillac, and their several modifiers, has 
been able to stand the test of time like that of the old 
philosophers and schoolmen. This fact may be accept- 
ed as proving that the syllogism indicates substantially 
the process which takes place in all minds in the act of 
reasoning. Notwithstanding this small demonstration, 
and a few other points of general concurrence, the sci- 
ence of logic, which has been the subject of human 
study for more than two thousand years, remains still 
1 incomplete. Many of its principles and processor are 
i yet in continued and active dispute. Since Whately 
and Hamilton, Mr. John Stuart Mill lias written an 
elaborate work in which he depreciates the syllogism 
and magnifies induction. But his theories in reference 
to both bear the stamp of Comte’s empirical positivism. 

The chief logical discussion of the present day re- 
I voices around the *• New Analytic of Logical Forms,” or 
the quantification of the predicate introduced by Sir 
William Hamilton. This new analytic, which is chiefly 
valuable for its enlargement of the hitherto narrow 
I sphere of formal logical praxis, is an emanation from 
the metaphysics of Kant, being grounded upon certain 
principles of the Kritik of Pure Reason. Its theory, 
although illustrated by an ingenious system of notation, 
was left in a somewhat crude state by Hamilton, but has 
been ably elaborated by Mansel and Thomson, of Eng- 
land, and Bowen and Mahan, of America. While these 
writers seem to think that they have attained the end 
of all logical perfection, Dr. M‘Cosh, of Princeton, charges 
their whole system with fundamental error in presup- 
posing “that there are'forms in the mind which it im- 
poses on objects as it contemplates them.” To explode 
this error is the avowed object of M*Cosh’s recent trea- 
tise, in which, while he falls back for confirmation upon 
the old logic, he claims to unfold laws which were not 
noticed by the old logicians. The characteristic of his 
work is a more elaborate treatment of the notion than 
j has taken place since the publication of the Port-Royal 
Logic. Thus logic seems destined to pass down to com- 
ing centuries as it has descended from the past, a sub- 
j jeet of endless debate, but one from which each sticcess- 
! ive generation derives its advantage in the very process 
t of debate. 

I See Ilallam’s Literature o f Europe ; Blakey’s Histor- 
ical /Sketch of Logic; Kant’s Kritik ; llegel’s 1 1 'issen- 
| schuft tier Logik; Whately s Elements of Logic ; iSir 


LOGOS 


491 


LOGOS 


William Hamilton’s Lectures on Logic ; Hansel's Prole- 
gomena Logica ; Thomson’s Laics of Thought; Elements 
of Logic , by II. I\ Tappan, by W. D. Wilson, by C. Iv. 
True, by H. C’oppee, bv J. K. Boyd, by II. N. Day, by 
A. Sch uylcr, by L. II. Atwater ; System of Logic, by John 
Stuart Mill; Science of Logic, by Asa Mahan ; Formal 
Logic, by James M‘Cosh. (I). P. K.) 

Logos (A oyoQ, a word, as usually rendered), a spe- 
cial term in Christology, in consequence of its use as 
such by the apostle John, especially in the opening ver- 
ses of his Gospel. We base the former part of our arti- 
cle on the subject upon the brief but lucid exposition 
found in Bengel’s Gnomon (Amer. edit, by Profs. Lewis 
and Vincent, p. 53G sq.). 

1. Rendering. — The general meaning of Logos in ev- 
ery such connection is the Word, said symbolically 
of the law-giving, creative, revealing activity of God. 
This is naturally suggested here by the obvious refer- 
ence to Gen. i, 1,3. 

Many have seen in this term but a bold personifica- 
tion of the wisdom or reason of God, as in Prov. viii, 22. 
But this sense of Logos does not occur in the New Test., 
and is excluded by the reference to the history of crea- 
tion. Besides, the repeated “with God” (verses 1, 2) 
compels us to distinguish the Logos from God ; the 
words “became flesh” (ver. 14) cannot be said of an at- 
tribute of God; and the Baptist’s testimony, verse 15, in 
direct connection with this introduction (compare also 
such sayings of Christ as in ch. viii, 58; xvii, 5), show 
clearly that John attributes jxrsonal pre-existence to the 
Logos. Similarly, every attempt to explain away this 
profound sense of Logos is inadequate, and most are un- 
grammatical. See Wisdom. 

Thus the fundamental thought of this introduction is, 
that the original , all-creating, all-quickening, and all-en- 
lightening Logos, or personal divine icord, became man in 
Jesus Christ. See Incarnation. 

2. Origin and History of the Idea. — (1.) John uses 
the term Logos without explanation, assuming that his 
readers know it to bear this sense. Accordingly, we 
And this conception of it not new with him, but a chief 
element in the development of the Old-Test, theology. 
In the Mosaic account, God’s revelation of himself in 
the creation was, in its nature, spirit (Gen. i, 2), in con- 
trast with matter, and in its form, a word (Gen. i,4), in 
contrast with every involuntary materialistic or panthe- 
istic conception of the creative act. The real signifi- 
cance, under this representation, of the invisible God’s 
revelation of himself by speech beeame the germ of the 
idea of the Logos. With this thought all Judaism was 
pervaded ; that God does not manifest himself immedi- 
ately, but mediately; not in his hidden, invisible es- 
sence, but through an appearance — an attribute, emana- 
tion, or being called the angel of the Lord (Exod. xxiii, 
21, etc.), or the trord of the Lord. Indeed, to the latter 
arc ascribed, as his work, all divine light and life in na- 
ture and history; the law, the promises, the prophecies, 
the guidance of the nation (compare Psa. xxxiii, 6, 9; 
evii, 20; exlvii, 18; exlviii, 8; Isa. ii, 1.3; Jer. i, 4, 11, 
13, etc. Even such poetic personifications as Psa. exlvii, 
15; Isa.lv, 11, contain the germ of the doctrinal person- 
ality of the Word). See Angel. 

(2.) Another important element of Hebrew thought 
was the wisdom of God. The consideration of it be- 
came prominent only after the natural attributes of God 
— omnipotence, etc. — had long been acknowledged. The 
chief passages are Job xxviii, 12 sq. ; Prov. viii and ix. 
Even the latter is a poetic personification: hut this is 
based on the thought that Wisdom is not shut up at 
rest in God, but active and manifest in the world. It is 
viewed as the one guide to salvation, comprehending all 
revelations of God, and as an attribute embracing and 
combining all his other attributes. This view deeply 
influenced the development of the Hebrew idea of God. 
At that stage of religious knowledge and life, Wisdom, 
revealing to pious faith the harmony and unity of pur- 
pose in the world, appeared to be his most attractive 


and important attribute — the essence of his being. One 
higher step remained ; but the Jew could not yet see 
that God is love. 

(3.) In the apocryphal books of Sirach (chap, i and 
xxiv) and Baruch (iii, and iv, 1-4), this view of Wisdom 
is developed yet more clearly and fully. The book of 
Wisdom (written at least B.C. 100) praises wisdom as 
the highest good, the essence of right knowledge and 
virtue, and as given by God to the pious who pray for it 
(ch. vii and viii) ; see especially vii, 22 sq., where Wis- 
dom has divine dignity and honors, as a holy spirit of 
light, proceeding from God, and penetrating all things. 
But this book seems rather to have viewed it as anoth- 
er name for the whole divine nature than as a person 
distinct from God. And nowhere does it connect this 
Wisdom with the idea of Messiah. It shows, however, 
the influence of both Greek and Oriental philosophy on 
Jewish theology, and marks a transition from the Old- 
Test. view to that of Philo, etc. See Wisdom, book of. 

(4.) In Egypt, from the time of Ptolemy I (B.C. 300), 
there were Jews in great numbers, their head-quarters 
being at Alexandria (Philo estimates them at a million 
in his time, A.D. 50), and there they gradually came un- 
der the influence of the Egyptian civilization of that 
age, a strange mixture of Greek and Oriental customs 
and doctrines. See Alexandrian Schools. Aristob- 
ulus, about 150 B.C., seems to have endeavored to unite 
the ancient doctrines of Wisdom and the Word of God 
with a form of Greek philosophy. This effort, the lead- 
ing feature of the Jewish- Alexandrian school, culmina- 
ted in Philo, a contemporary of Christ, who strives to 
make Judaism, combined with and interpreted by the 
Platonic philosophy, do the work of the idea of Messiah, 
affording by the power of thought a complete substitute 
for it. This attempt to harmonize heathen and Jewish 
elements, while it led in him to a sort of anticipation of 
certain parts of Christian doctrine, explains how he him- 
self vacillates between opposite and irreconcilable views. 
See Platonism. 

(5.) Philo represents the absolute God as hidden and 
unknown, but surrounded by his powers as a king by his 
servants, and, through these, as present and ruling in 
the world. (These powers, cvrdfuic, are, in Platonic 
language, ideas ; in Jewish, angtls.') These are different 
and innumerable ; the original principles of things; the 
immaterial world, the type of which the material is an 
image. The two chief of these in dignity are the 0fo£, 
God, the creative power, and the K vpioc, Lord, or gov- 
erning power of the Sciiptures. But all these powers 
are essentially one, as God is one ; and their unity, both 
as they exist in God and as they emanate from him, is 
called the Logos. Hence the Logos appears under two 
relations : as the reason of God, lying in him — the di- 
vine thought; and as the outspoken word, proceeding 
from him, and manifest in the world. The former is, in 
reality, one with God’s hidden being; the latter com- 
prehends all the workings and revelations of God in the 
world, affords from itself the ideas and energies by which 
the world was framed and is upheld, and, filling all 
things with divine light and life, rules them in wisdom, 
love, and righteousness. It is the beginning of crea- 
tion ; not unoriginated, like God, nor made, like the 
world, but the eldest son of the eternal Father (the 
world being the younger); God’s image; the creator 
of the world; the mediator between God and it; the 
highest angel; the second God; the high-priest and 
reconciler. 

(6.) Liicke concludes that, sueh being the develop- 
ment of the doctrine of the Logos when John wrote, al- 
though there is no evidence that he borrowed his views 
from Philo, yet it is impossible to doubt the direct his- 
torical connection of his doctrine with the Alexandrian. 
Meyer thinks that if we suppose John’s doctrine entire- 
ly unconnected with the Jewish and Alexandrian phi- 
losophy, we destroy its historic meaning, and its intelli- 
gibleness for its readers. It must be admitted that the 
term Logos seems to be chosen as already associated in 


LOGOS 


492 


LOIIE 


many minds with a class of ideas in some degree akin 
to the writer’s, and as furnishing a common point of 
thought and interest with those speculative idealists 
who constantly used it while presenting them with new 
truth. 

(7.) But any connection amounting to doctrinal de- 
pendence of John upon Philo is utterly contrary to the 
tenor of Philo's own teaching; for he even loses the 
crowning feature of Hebrew religion, the moral energy 
expressed in its view of Jehovah’s holiness, and with it 
the moral necessity of a divine teacher and Saviour. 
He becomes entangled in the physical notions of the 
heathen, forgets the wide distinction between God and 
the world, and even denies the independent, absolute 
being of God, declaring that, were the universe to end, 
God would die of loneliness and inactivity. The very 
universality of the conception, its immediate working 
on all things, would have excluded to Philo the belief 
that the whole Logos, not a mere part or effluence of 
his power, became incarnate in Christ. “Heaven and 
earth cannot contain me,” cries his Logos, “ how much 
less a hum in being .” On the whole, it is extremely 
doubtful whether Philo ever meant formally to repre- 
sent the Logos as a person distinct from God. All the 
titles he gives it may be explained by supposing it to 
mean the ideal world, on which the actual is modelled. 
At most, we can say that he goes beyond a mere poetic 
personification, and prepares the way for a distinction 
of persons in the Godhead. See Philo. 

(8.) John’s connection with the doctrines of the later 
Jews, though less noticed, is at least as important as that 
with Philo. In the apocryphal books, as we have seen, 
the idea of the Logos was overshadowed by that of the 
divine Wisdom; but it reappears, prominently and def- 
initely, in the Targums, especially that of Onkelos. 
These were written, indeed, after John’s Gospel (Onke- 
los, the earliest, wrote not later than the ‘2d century 
A.D.), yet their distinguishing doctrines certainly rest 
upon ancient tradition. They represent the Word of 
God, the Memrah, or Dibur, *11 m, as the per- 

sonal self-revealed God, and one with the Shekinah, 
n^Dw', which was to be manifested in Messiah. But 
it would be absurd to claim that John borrowed his idea 
of Messiah from the Jews, who in him looked for, not a 
spiritual revelation of God in clearer light, to save men 
from sin by suffering and love, but a national deliverer, 
to gratify their worldly and carnal desires of power; 
not even for the divine 1 Vord become Jlesh, and dwell- 
ing among men, but for an appearance, a vision, a mere 
display, or, at most, an unreal, docetic humanity. 

(0.) The contrast between John’s Logos and Philo’s 
appears in several further particulars. The Logos here 
is the real personal God, the Word; who did not begin 
to be when Christ came, but mas originally, before the 
creation, “ with God, and was God.” He made all things 
(ver. 3). Philo held to the original independent exist- 
ence of matter, the stuff, 6\ij, of the world, before it was 
framed. John’s Logos is holy light, which shines in 
moral darkness, though rejected by it. Philo has no 
such height of mournful insight as this. This Logos 
became man in the person of Christ, the Son of God. 
Philo conceives of no incarnation. Thus John’s lofty 
doctrine of the Messiah is not in any way derived from 
Jewish or Gnostic speculations, but rests partly on pure 
Old-Testament doctrine, and chiefly on what lie learned 
from Christ himself. 1 lis testimony to this forms the 
historical part of his Gospel. 

3. Theological Hearing of the Term. — The word “Lo- 
gos” is therefore evidently “employed by the evangelist 
John to designate the mediatorial character of our Hc- 
deemer, with special reference to his revelation of the 
character and will of the Father. It appears to be used 
as ail abstract fur the concrete, just as we find the same 
writer employing light for enlightener , life for life-giver, 
etc.; so that it properly signifies the speaker or inter- 
preter } than which nothing can more exactly accord 


with the statement made (John i, 18), ‘No man hath 
seen God at any time: the onlv-begotten, who is in the 
bosom of the Father, hath declared him,’ i. e. communi- 
cated to us the true knowledge of his mind and charac- 
ter. That the term is merely expressive of a divine at- 
tribute, a position which has been long and variously 
maintained by Socinians, though abandoned as untena- 
ble by some of their best authorities, is in total repug- 
nance to all the circumstances of the context, which 
distinctly and expressly require personal subsistence in 
the subject which it describes, lie whom John styles 
the Logos has the creation of all things ascribed to him ; 
is set forth as possessing the country and people of the 
Jews; as the only-begotten (Son) of the Father; as as- 
suming the human nature, and displaying in it the at- 
tributes of grace and truth, etc. Such things could 
never, with the least degree of propriety, be said of any 
mere attribute or quality. Nor is the hypothesis of a 
personification to be reconciled with the universally ad- 
mitted fact that the style of John is the most simply 
historical, and the furthest removed from that species 
of composition to which such a figure of speech proper- 
ly belongs. To the Logos the apostle attributes eter- 
nal existence, distinct personality, and strict and proper 
Deity — characters which he also ascribes to him in his 
first epistle — besides the possession and exercise of per- 
fections which absolutely exclude the idea of derived 
or created being” ( Buck, s. v.). See Christology. 

4. Literature. — The following are the principal mono- 
graphs on this subject: Sandius, Be Ao yip (in his In - 
terp. Paradox, Amsterd. 1G70) ; Saubert, l)e voce Adyo£ 
(Altdorf, 1687) ; Carpzov, Be Aoyig Philonis (Helmstadt, 
1749); Bryant, Philo's Aoyoc (1797); Upham, Letters 
on the Logos (Boston, 1828) ; Bucher, Johann. Lehre vom 
Logos (Schaffh. 1856). For others, see Danz, Worter- 
buch, s. v. ; Darling, Cyclopwdia, col. 1059 ; Lange’s Com- 
mentary (Am. ed., In trod, to John’s Gospel). Comp, also 
the Meth.Quar. Review, July and Oct. 1851 ; Jan. 1858; 
Christian Examiner, Jan. 1863 ; A m. Presb. Review, Jan. 
1840; July, 1864; Stud. u. Kiit. 1830, iii, 672; 1833, ii, 
355 ; 1868, ii, 299. See John, Gospel of. 

Logotheta (XoyoBerjjg, q. d. chancellor’) is the ti- 
tle given in the Greek Clmreh to the member of the 
ecclesiastical courts holding the imperial seal to be ap- 
pended to their edicts. See Greek Church. 

Loguo is, in the mythology of the Caribbeans, the 
name of the first man, who descended from his celestial 
abode to the soft, shapeless mass of which the earth was 
formed by his creative power, lie first imparted to it 
shape and motion ; the sun rendered it dry and hard. 
Loguo, after his death, reascended to heaven. Sec Yoll- 
mer, Mythol. 1 Vorterb. s. v. 

Lohdius, Carl Friedrich, a German theologian, 
was born at Griinberg, near Waldheim, Dec. 13, 1748, 
and was educated at the University of Leipsie, where, 
in 1774, he obtained the degree of A.M. and the privi- 
lege of lecturing on theology. He became soon after 
morning preacher at the university. In 1780 he ac- 
cepted a call to Grimma as dean, and in 1782 to Dres- 
den. lie died there August 4, 1809. Of his scholarly 
productions we only mention Bdineatur imago doctrime 
de condltione animi post mortem eo. quo Christus et A pos- 
tal i vixerunt, sieculo, diss. i et ii (Lipsia?, 1790, 4to). See 
During, Gelehrte Theol. Beutschlands , s. v. 

Lohe, Johann Konrad Wilhelm, a German Lu- 
theran minister, was born at Fiirth, in Bavaria, Feb. 17, 
1808, and was educated at the University of Erlangen, 
which he entered in 1826. After serving at various 
places as minister of Lutheran churches, he settled in 
1837 at Neuendettelsau as pastor of a flourishing Church. 
Zealously devoted to the cause of his Master, he studied 
the ways and means of promoting the Christian religion 
among the masses of the German people, and in 1849 
founded to this end a society for Inner A fissions (q. v.), 
and in 1854, following the example of the immortal 
Fliedner (q. v.), of Kaiserswerth, established a Deacon- 


LOHESII 


493 


LOLLARDS 


esses’ Institute [see Deaconess], which in our day is 
known in nearly all the civilized world. Lobe labored 
here faithfully and successfully until his death, Jan, 2S, 
1872. lie wrote Der evangelisclie Geistliche (2d edition, 
Stuttg. 18GG, 2 vols. 8vo) : — Lebenslanf der heilig. Magd 
Gottes aus dem Pfarrstande (3d ed. Nuremb. I860, 8vo) : 
— Geistliche r Tageslavf (3d ed. Nuremb. 1870, 8vo) : — 
A us der Geschkhte d. Diet kon issenansta 1 1 Neuendettelsau 
(Nuremb. 1870, 8vo) ; etc. See Schem, Deutsch-A mer - 
ikan. Conv. Lexicon, vi, 580. 

Loliesh. See IIal-loiiesh. 

Loin (usually in the dual, chcilatsa'yim , as 

the seat of strength, spoken of as the place of the girdle, 
Job xxxviii, 3 ; xl, 7 ; Isa. v, 27 [“reins,” xi, 5] ; xxxii, 
11 ; or as a part of the body generally, Job xxxi, 20; 
Jer. xxx, G [so the Chald. plur. Dan. v, G] ; by 

euphemism for the generative power, Gen. xxxv, 11; 1 
Kings viii, 19; 2 Chron.vi, 9; also mothna'yim, 

as the seat of strength, Gr. oatpvg, which are the other 
terms properly so rendered, and refer to that part of the 
body simply; but kesalim ', Psa. xxxviii, 7, 

means the Jlanks , as elsewhere rendered, prop, the in- 
ternal muscles of the loins, near the kidneys, to which 
the fat adheres; while put in Gen. xlvi, 2G; 

Exod. i, 5; comp. Judg. viii, 30, by euphemism for the 
seat of generation, properly signifies the thigh, as else- 
where rendered, being plainly distinguished from the 
true loin in Exod. xxviii, 42), the part of the back and 
side between the hip and the ribs, which, as being, as it 
were, the pivot of the body, is most sensibly affected by 
pain or terror (Deut.xxxiii, 1 1 ; Jobxl,lG; Psa. xxxviii, 
7; lxix, 23; Isa. xxi, 3; Jer. xxx, G; Ezek. xxi, G; 
xxix. 7 ; Dan. v, G; Nah. ii, 1, 10). This part of the 
body was especially girt with sackcloth, in token of 
mourning (Gen. xxxvii, 34; 1 Kings xx, 31,32; Psa. 
Ixvi, 11 ; Isa. xx, 2; xxxii, 11; Jer. xlviii, 37; Amos 
viii, 10). The term is most frequently used with allu- 
sion to the girdle which encompassed this part of the 
body, i. q. the waist; especially in the phrase to “gird 
up the loins,” i. e. prepare for vigorous effort, either lit- 
erally (1 Kings xviii, 4G; 2 Kings iv, 29; ix, 1; Prov. 
xxxi, 17), or ol'tener as a metaphor borrowed from the 
loose and flowing dress of Orientals, which requires to 
be gathered closely at the waist, or even to have the 
skirts tucked up into the belt, before engaging in any 
exertion or enterprise (Job xxxviii, 3; xl, 7 ; Jer. i, 17; 
Luke xii, 35; 1 Pet. i, 13). See Girdle. 

Lo'i’s (Awi'c, peril, agreeable'), the grandmother of 
Timothy, not by the side of his father, who was a Greek, 
but by that of his mother. Hence the Syriac has “thy 
mother's mother.” She is commended by the apostle 
Paul for her faith (2 Tim.i, 5); for, although she might 
not have known that the Christ had come, and that Je- 
sus of Nazareth was he, she yet believed in the Messiah 
to come, and died in that faith. Ante A.D. G4. See 
Timothy. 

Loki or Loke, in Scandinavian mythology, is the 
principle of evil, an impious, mischievous wretch, au- 
thor of all intrigue, vice, and crime; father of the most 
abominable monsters, of the wolf Eenris. the midgard 
snake, and Hela (blue Hel), the goddess of death : the 
“spirit of evil,” as it were, mingling freely with, yet 
essentially opposed to the other inhabitants of the Norse 
heaven, very much like the Satan of the book of Job. 
He is called the son of the giant Farbante, and is mar- 
ried to the giantess Angerbode. Sometimes he is called 
Asa-Loki, to distinguish him from Utgarda-Loki, a king 
of the giants, whose kingdom lies on the uttermost 
bounds of the earth ; but these two are occasionally con- 
founded. It is quite natural, considering the character 
of Loki, that at a later period he should have become 
identified with the devil of Christianity, who is called 
in Norway to the present day Lnake. See Vollmer, My- 
th ol. Wurterb. s. v. ; Chambers, Cyclop, s. v.; Weinhold, 


Die Sagen r, Loki in Haupt, Zeitschrift fur deutsches 
Alterth. vol. vii ; Thorpe, North. Mythol. vol. i (see In- 
dex) ; and the excellent article in Thomas, Biogr. and 
Mythol. Diet. (Pliila. 1872), s. v. 

Lokman is represented in the Koran and by later 
Arabian tradition as a celebrated philosopher, contem- 
porary with David and Solomon, with whom he is said 
to have frequently conversed. lie was, we are told, an 
Arabian of the ancient tribe of Ad, or, according to an- 
other account, the king or chief of that tribe; and, when 
his tribe perished by the Soil el-Arim, he was preserved 
on account of his wisdom and piety. Other accounts, 
drawn mostly from Persian authorities, state that Lok- 
mnn was an Abyssinian slave, and noted for his personal 
deformity and ugliness, as for his wit and a peculiar tal- 
ent for composing moral fictions and short apologues. 
He was considered to be the author of the well-known 
collection of fables, in Arabic, which still exist under 
his name. There is some reason to suppose that Lok- 
man and TEsop were the same individual, and this view 
is of late gaining ground. See the excellent articles in 
the English Cyclop, s. v. ; Chambers, Cyclop, s. v. ; and 
Ilammer-Purgstall, Liter aturgesch. der Araber, i, 31 sq. 

Lollards or Lol(l)hards, originally the name of 
a monastic society which arose at Antwerp about 1300, 
and the members of which devoted themselves to the 
care of the sick and dying with pestilential disorders 
(see Cellites), was afterwards applied to those who, 
during the closing part of the Utli and a large part of 
the succeeding century, were credited with adhering to 
the religious views maintained by Wickliffe (q. v.). 

Origin of the Name. — Great diversity of opinion ex- 
ists among scholars on the origin of the name Lollard . 
Some have supposed that there existed a person of such 
a name in Germany, who, differing in many points from 
the Church of Rome, made converts to his peculiar doc- 
trines, and thus originated an independent sect about 
1315 (see Gen. Biog. Diet. art. Lollard, Walter), and for 
this heretical step was burned alive at Cologne in 1322, 
It is more than probable, however, that this leader re- 
ceived his name from the sect than gave a name to it, 
just as in the Prognosticate of Johannes Lychtenberger 
(a work very popular in Germany towards the close of 
the 15th century) great weight is attached to the pre- 
dictions of one Reynard Lollard (Reynhardus Lolhardus), 
who was, no doubt, so called from the sect to which he 
belonged. Others believe that it was applied to the 
Cellites because of their practice of singing dirges at 
funerals — the Low-German word fallen or lullen signi- 
fying to sing softly or slowly. Another derivation of 
the word is that which makes it an epithet of reproach. 
In papal bulls and other documents it is used as synon- 
ymous virtually with lollia, the tares commingled with 
the wheat of the Church. In this sense we meet with 
it (A.D. 1382) even before Wickliffe's death. Still an- 
other suggestion comes from a correspondent of “Notes 
and Queries” (March 27, 1852), who, quoting from a pas- 
sage of Heda’s history, cites a statement to the effect 
that bishop Florentius de Wevelichoven “caused the 
bones of a certain Matthew Lollaert to be burned, and 
his ashes to be dispersed,” etc. The correspondent re- 
marks that from a note on this passage, where reference 
is made to Rrateolus and Walsingham, it is evident that 
Heda is speaking of the founder of the sect of the Lol- 
lards. The name Lollaert would, of course, indicate that 
the name of the English sect was derived from a Dutch 
heretic, buried at Utrecht, and well known in the neigh- 
boring region. With much more reason the origin of 
the word Lollard has been traced of late to the Latin 
lollardns , by a comparison of the Later English Lollard 
with the old English loller, used by Chaucer and Lange- 
land. Says Whitaker (in his edition of Piers Plate - 
man, p. 154 sq.) : “Any reader of early English knows 
that Lollard is the late English spelling of the Latin 
lollardns. Rut what is lollardus? It is a Latin spell- 
ing of the old English toiler, used by Chaucer and 


LOLLARDS 


494 


LOLLARDS 


Langeland. The real meaning of loller is one who lolls 
about, a vagabond; and it was equally applied, at first, 
to the Wiekliffites and to the begging friars .... [Beg- 
hnins (q. v.)]. But, before long, loller was purposely 
confused with the Latin lolium , by a kind of pun. The 
derivation of loller from to loll rests on no slight au- 
thority. It is most distinctly discussed and explained, 
and its etymology declared by no less a person than 
Langcland himself, who lived at the time it came into 
use.” 

English Lollards. — Whatever be the derivation of 
the word Lollard, certain it is that by this name alone 
t he followers of John Wickliffe (q. v.) were always desig- 
nated, who, in the early stage of the reformatory move- 
ments of the bold English churchman (about A.D. 13G0), 
consisted of the “ Poor Priests” (q. v.), a class called to- 
gether by Wickliffe to carry the glad tidings of the 
Gospel into the remotest hamlets, and to counteract the 
influence of the begging friars (see Beghards), who 
were then strolling over the country, preaching instead 
of the Word the legends of the saints and the history of 
the Trojan War (compare D’Aubigne, Hist, of the Ref- 
ormation , v, 91 sq.). For some time the mendicant or- 
ders, which had flrst entered England in the early part 
of the preceding century, had been the object of attack, 
both by the people and the clergy, for their rapacious 
and shameless conduct. Indeed, so much wa's the coun- 
try disturbed by the violence and vices of swarms of 
these sanctimonious vagabonds that the ancient records 
often speak of their arrest. Wickliffe’s opposition to 
such a class of persons could not but have secured him 
the general respect and commendation of the people. 
Not so, however, when, to counteract the influence of 
the mendicants, he instituted the “Poor Priests,” who, 
not content with mere polemics, preached the great mys- 
tery of godliness, and became so greatly the favorites of 
the people that the clergy were threatened to be left 
without any attendants at their churches, preference be- 
ing shown to the poor priests, preaching in the Holds, 
in some church-yard, or in the market-places. It was 
not, however, until after Wickliffe’s appointment to the 
University of Oxford that any of the doctrines whi. li 
the Lollards as a sect afterwards maintained, and which 
caused his prosecution by the papists, were advocated 
and propagated. It is true, even as early as 1357, Wick- 
liffe had published a work against the covetousness of 
Pome ( The last Age of the Church), and in 13G5 had 
vindicated Edward Ill’s resistance to the claim of Ur- 
ban V of the arrears of the tribute granted to the pa- 
pacy by king John (see Urban Y; England); but it 
was not until (in 1372) he had taken the degree of D.L)., 
anil entered upon his work at Oxford University by able 
and emphatic testimony against the abuses of the pa- 
pacy, that he drew upon himself the enmity of the Eng- 
lish prelates, and, in consequence, came to stand forth 
the advocate of reform and the leader of a movement 
for this purpose. Nor did the success of his course 
slacken in the least after his withdrawal from the uni- 
versity and his retirement to the small parish of Lut- 
terworth. Everywhere those persons who had come 
under his influence or been converted by his writings 
were busily engaged in disseminating the doctrines 
wdiich he taught. II is followers were to be found 
among all classes of the population. Some, like the 
duke of Lancaster, lord Percy, and Clifford, may have 
been attached to Wickliffe’s views mainly bv their po- 
litical sympathies, but the great mass of his adherents 
were such upon religious grounds. The examinations 
of those who, during the generation that followed his 
death (1381), were arrested or punished as heretics, indi- 
cate the common doctrinal position which they almost 
uniformly maintained. It was substantially identical 
with that taken by Wickliffe in his writings. The su- 
preme authority of the Scriptures in religions matters, 
the rejection of iransubstantiation, the futile nature of 
pilgrimages, auricular confession, etc., the impiety of 
image-worship, the identification of the papal hierarchy 


with Antichrist, the entire sufficiency of Christ as a 
Saviour, without the need of priestly offices in the mass, 
or any elaborate ceremonial — such were the points upon 
which they were pronounced heretical, and, as such, per- 
secuted and condemned. 

Up to 1382, through the events of the time, the great 
schism of the papacy, the indignation excited in Eng- 
land by papal encroachments, the scandalous conduct of 
many among the prelates and elcrgv, Wickliffe, as well 
as his followers, had been left comparatively unmolest- 
ed, and he himself even escaped altogether. Not so, 
however, his followers, who were, near the time of his 
death, rapidly augmenting all over England. The tes- 
timony of Knighton and Walsingham indicates the rapid 
spread of Wickliffe’s opinions, though there may be some 
exaggeration in the remark of the former to the effect 
that “nearly every other man in England was a Lol- 
lard.” In 1382, however, more decided action was taken 
on the part of the ecclesiastics, and resulted in the con- 
vening of a council by archbishop Courtney. By it ten 
of Wickliffe’s articles were condemned as heretical, and 
twenty-four as erroneous. The archbishop issued his 
mandate, forbidding any man, “ of what estate or condi- 
tion soever,” to hold, teach, preach, or defend the aforesaid 
heresies and errors, or any of them, or even allow them 
to be preached or favored, publicly or privately. Each 
bishop and priest was exhorted to become an “inquisi- 
tor of heretical pravitv,” and the neglect of the man- 
date was threatened with the severest censures of ex- 
communication. This measure took effect at Oxford, 
where the chancellor, Robert Kvgge, was inclined to fa- 
vor Wickliffe’s opinions, and the proctors, John Hunt- 
man and Walter Dish, were in sympathy with him. A 
sermon by Philip Reppyngdon, which they had allowed, 
and in which Wickliffe’s views were defended, subjected 
them to suspicion. They were summoned before the 
archbishop, and with some difficulty escaped on sub- 
mission. The chancellor was required to put Wickliffe’s 
adherents to a purgation or cause them to abjure, pub- 
lishing before the university the condemnation of his 
conclusions. 11 is reply was that he durst not do it for 
fear of death. “ What !” exclaimed the archbishop, “ is 
Oxford such a nestler and favorer of heresies that the 
catholic truth cannot be published ?” At the same time, 
by the archbishop’s authority, Nicholas Hereford, Phil- 
ip Reppyngdon, John Ashton, and Lawrence Bedemcn, 
whose names were associated with Wickliffe’s, were de- 
nied the privilege of preaching before the university, 
and suspended from every scholastic act. The chancel- 
lor himself was addressed as “somewhat inclined and 
still inclining to the aforesaid conclusions so condemn- 
ed,” and, under pain of the greater excommunication, he 
was enjoined to permit no one in the university to teach 
or defend the obnoxious doctrines. The injunction of 
the archbishop was enforced by the command of the 
royal council. 

In the early months of 1382 the king had favored, 
the persecution of heretics. On the petition of the 
archbishop, he had allowed him and his suffragans “to 
arrest and imprison, either in their own prisons, or any 
other if they please, all and every such person and per- 
sons as shall either privily or openly preach or main- 
tain” the condemned conclusions. The persons thus ar- 
rested might, moreover, be detained “ till such time as 
they shall repent them and amend them of such errone- 
ous and heretical pravilies.” The officers and subjects 
of the king were also required to obey and humbly at- 
tend the archbishop and his suffragans in the execution 
of their process. But the king declined to interfere. 
Even this, however, did not satisfy the archbishop. The 
excommunicated Hereford had escaped from prison, and 
the prelate, disappointed of his victim, asked the king 
to issue letters for his apprehension. On Ashton's trial 
in London, the citizens broke open the doors of the con- 
clave, forcing the archbishop to complete his process 
elsewhere. But popular sympathy was weak to resist 
the organized efforts of a powerful hierarchy, largely oc- 


LOLLARDS 


495 


LOLLARDS 


cupying the most responsible posts of government, and 
bold enough (Hannay’s Rep. Gov.) to forge or interpo- 
late parliamentary records, of which they had the con- 
trol. Some of the accused, like Reppyngdou and Here- 
ford, recanted, and became the most virulent persecu- 
tors of their former sympathizers. Others, according 
to Walden, who mentions William Swinderby, Walter 
Brute, William Thorpe, and others, whose names figure 
in Fox’s “Martyrs,” tied the realm. If Swinderby was 
one of the refugees, he soon returned. It is doubtful 
whether he or his associates went farther than to Wales 
or Scotland. In 1389 he was arraigned before the bish- 
op of Lincoln, and charged with heresy. Forced to re- 
cant, he withdrew to the diocese of Hereford. Here he 
was again arrested as a “truly execrable offender of the 
new sect vulgarly called Lollards.” The issue, so far 
as episcopal authority was concerned, could not remain 
doubtful. Swinderby was found guilty, pronounced a 
heretic, and to be shunned by all. From this sentence 
he appealed to the king and council. 

We have no subsequent record of Swinderby. Foxe 
supposes him to have been burned in 1399. In 1393, 
Walter Brute, another Lollard, a layman, was arrested, 
and, after a tedious trial, was forced to recant. In 1395 
the alarm of heresy was again sounded. There was an 
apprehension that Parliament would take some action 
in behalf of the persecuted Lollards. A bull of Boni- 
face IX was issued, inciting the bishop of Hereford 
against the obnoxious sect, and urging him to stimu- 
late the orthodox zeal of the king. The king was at 
the time absent in Ireland, but Tiudale states that intel- 
ligence of what had transpired was sent him, and his 
immediate return, with a view to repress the boldness 
of the Lollards, was strenuously urged. Nor was the 
king backward in responding to the petitions of the 
archbishop and the exhortations of the pope. Reciting 
his former commission to the bishops and their suffra- 
gans, giving them authority to arrest and imprison, he 
extended this authority, by which the bishop of Hereford 
was allowed to arrest William Swinderby and Stephen 
Bell, who had tied to the borders of Wales; while sev- 
eral of the leading members of Parliament were direct- 
ed to have it proclaimed, wherever they thought meet, 
that no man of any condition within the said diocese 
should, under pain of forfeiture of all lie had, “make 
or levy any conventicles, assemblies, or confederacies by 
any color,” and that, if any one should transgress this 
rule, he should be seized, imprisoned, and safely kept 
till surrendered to the order of the king and council. 

During this time, while special attention was drawn 
to the danger apprehended from Parliament, the Lol- 
lards were spreading their doctrines in other parts of 
the kingdom. At Leicester and its neighborhood they 
had made such progress that several of their leaders, 
eight of whom are mentioned by Foxe by name, were 
denounced to the archbishop on his visitation as here- 
tics. They were summoned the next day to appear 
before him and answer to the charge. But they “ hid 
themselves away and appeared not.” They were there- 
fore publicly denounced as excommunicate in several of 
the parish churches. Nor was this all. The whole 
town of Leicester, and all the churches in the same, 
were interdicted so long as any of the excommunicated 
should remain within the same, and “till all the Lol- 
lards of the town should return and amend from such 
heresies and errors, obtaining at the said archbishop’s 
hands the benefit of absolution.” 

The compact between the leading representatives of 
the ecclesiastical and civil power which marked the ac- 
cession of llenry IV to the throne was soon sealed by 
parliamentary legislation. To prevent the spread of 
the Lollards, and to suppress their meetings, which were 
described as confederacies to stir up sedition and insur- 
rection (Crabb’s History of English Law , p. 334), it was 
ordained that if persons, sententiallv convict, refused to 
abjure their opinions, such persons were to be left to the 
secular arm. In such cases evidence was to be given 


to the diocesan or his commissary, and the sheriff, may- 
or, and bailiff were, after sentence promulgated, to re- 
ceive them, and in a high place, before the people, to 
cause them to be burnt. The law did not remain a 
dead letter. It was not long before a victim was found. 
The ecclesiastics were only too zealous for an example 
that might strike terror among the people, and espe- 
cially the Londoners, who were “not right believers in 
God, nor in the traditions of their forefathers; sustain- 
ed of the Lollards, depravers of religious men, with- 
holders of tythes,” etc. The victim selected was “ one 
William Sautre, a good man and a faithful priest, in- 
flamed with zeal for true religion,” who in the Parlia- 
ment of 1401 required that he might be heard for the 
commodity of the whole realm. The suspicions of the 
bishops were excited, and he was summoned before the 
ecclesiastical court. Ills views were in substance those 
of the Lollards. He was at first induced to recant, but 
after his previous trial before the bishop of Norwich was 
known, as well as his submission and subsequent re- 
lapse, there was no disposition to show him mercy. By 
the king’s order, “in some public and open place within 
the liberties of the city” of London, he was “committed 
to the fire.” So bold a measure, not frequent in Eng- 
lish history, naturally territied the Lollards. They kept 
themselves secret from the eyes of the bishops. To the 
king they could no longer look with confidence or the 
hope of relief. The son of Wickliffe’s patron had be- 
come the tool of the bishops. His usurped power was 
sustained by their alliance. As the hopes of relief from 
the burdens of taxation which had been inspired by the 
promises made at his accession began to die out, his pop- 
ularity waned. Complaints were heard from various 
quarters. The old partisans of Richard II began to 
murmur, and, to retain his throne in security, Henry 
IV was compelled to throw himself more and more into 
the arms of the Church, and concede everything which 
the prelates might demand. The “cruel constitution” 
of archbishop Arundel was the fitting ecclesiastical coun- 
terpart of the civil statute that legalized the burning 
of the Lollards. It forbade any one to preach, “ whether 
within the Church or without, in English,” except by 
episcopal sanction. Schoolmasters and teachers were 
to intermingle with their instructions nothing contrary 
to the determination of the Church. No book or trea- 
tise of Wiekliffe was to be read in schools, halls, hospi- 
tals, or other places whatsoever. No man hereafter, by 
his own authority, should translate any text of the 
Scripture into English or any other tongue, by way of a 
book, tract, or treatise. No one should presume to dis- 
pute upon articles determined by the Church contained 
in the decrees, decretals, etc. Every warden, provost, 
or master of every college, or principal of every hall 
within the University of Oxford, was, at least once ev- 
ery month, to inquire diligently in the, college with 
which he was connected whether any scholar or inhab- 
itant thereof had proposed or defended anything con- 
trary to the determinations of the Church, and the fail- 
I ure of duty in this respect was to be visited by depriva- 
I tion, expulsion, and the greater excommunication. 

But all the precautions of the bishops and the se- 
' verity of persecuting laws were ineffectual to suppress 
the hated opinions. Fox narrates the examination of 
William Thorpe (1407) and the burning of John Badbv 
(1409). The latter event seems to have created sym- 
pathy for the Lollards on the part of the Commons. In 
the eleventh year of Henry IV (1410) they prayed that 
persons arrested under the obnoxious statute might be 
bailed and make their purgation, and that they might 
be arrested by none but sheriffs and lay officers. This 
petition, however, did not secure the royal approval. 
The influence and support of the Church would doubt- 
less have been lost to the king if he had yielded to the 
wishes of the Commons. Other measures which they 
proposed, designed to set limits to ecclesiastical usurpa- 
tion, while they gave unequivocal evidence of the un- 
changed spirit of the nation, met with little more success; 


LOLLARDS 


496 


LOLLARDS 


In 1413 Henry IV was succeeded by his son, Henry I 
V. The change, however, did not open any brighter ' 
prospect to the persecuted Lollards. The beginning I 
of tliis reign was signalized by a new triumph of the 
Church. The king surrendered his friend, Sir John Old- 
castle, lord Cobh am, to the machinations of his perse- 
cutors. He was arrested, imprisoned, arraigned before 
the archbishop and his assessors, pronounced a heretic, 
and excommunicated. II is offence was regarded as of 
the most aggravated character. He was not only him- 
self hereticaily inclined, but he had emphwedhis wealth 
and influence to support Lollard preachers, and tran- 
scribe and disperse heretical books. So powerful and 
bold was the organized conspiracy of the priesthood 
against him that the king did not venture to interfere 
in his behalf. He was abandoned to his fate, but by 
some means escaped from prison, and only some years 
later was arrested, and subjected to the tardy but sure 
vengeance of his persecutors. It was not only by his 
surrender of lord Cobham that the new monarch signal- 
ized his subservience to the interests of the hierarchy. 
In liis first Parliament a law was enacted against the 
Lollards, who were considered as the principal disturb- 
ers of the peace not only of the Church, but of the whole 
kingdom, uniting, as the preamble of the act states, in 
confederacies to destroy the king and all other estates 
of the realm. Henee all magistrates, from the chancel- 
lor to the sheriffs of cities and towns, were required, on 
entering office, to take an oath that they would use 
their whole power and diligence to destroy all heresies 
and errors, commonly called lollardies, and assist the 
ordinaries and their commissaries as often as required 
bv them. It was moreover enacted “that whatsoever 
they were that should read the Scriptures in the mother 
tongue (which was then called Wickliffe’s learning) 
should forfeit land, cattle, body, life, and goods from 
their heirs forever, and so be condemned for heretics to 
God, enemies to the crown, and most arrant traitors to 
the land.” No sanctuary or privileged ground within 
the realm, though permitted to thieves and murderers, 
should shelter them. In case of relapse after pardon 
they should be hanged as traitors against the king, and 
then burned as heretics against God. 

The terror inspired by such executions and enact- 
ments drove many into exile. They fled, says Fox, 
“into Germany, France, Spain, Portugal, and into the 
wilds of Scotland, Wales, and Ireland, working there 
many marvels against their false kingdom too long to 
write.” It was, of course, the most distinguished mem- 
bers of the sect who had most to apprehend, and who 
were the first to lice. Those who remained behind be- 
longed very largely to tlie middle or the lower class. 
From time to time we meet with the name of some 
more eminent offender, and, from the precautions taken 
by their persecutors, we may form some idea of the con- 
tinued energy as well as existence of the Lollards. Lech- 
ler, in the Zeitschrift fur /list. Theol. (1853, vol. iv), has 
traced the evidences of their presence and influence in 
England down to the date of the Lutheran Reformation. 
The precious legacy of the Lollard faith was transmit- 
ted, along with MS. translations of the Scriptures and 
Lollard books, from generation to generation ; and among 
the English martyrs, just before as well as after the 
commencement of the 1 {( formation, there were several 
who might most appropriately he denominated Lollards, 
The prevalence of their views as late as the middle of 
the 15th century is attested by the elaborate effort 
which Reginald Peacock, successively bishop of St. 
Asapli and of Chichester, made to refute them. His 
earlier years had been spent in London, in the work of 
instruction, and here he had become familiar with the 
work of the Lollards, and the arguments by which they 
were maintained. With great ingenuity, and’ with a 
commendable patience, he undertook their refutation, 
giving to this method the decided preference over chains, 
prison, and the stake. Convicted at length himself of 
holding heretical opinions, and removed from the epis- 


copal office, he spent the last three years of his life in 
prison, and by some, although unwarrantably, was re- 
garded as a Lollard. On some points his views, indeed, 
approximated to those of the hated sect, but his writ- 
ings derive their historical value from the exhibition 
which they make of the doctrines maintained by the 
Lollards, or “ Bible-men,” as be sometimes calls them, 
and the evidence which they afford of their extensive 
acceptance. Here we see that for nearly two lull gen- 
erations the same doctrinal views which had been ac- 
cepted by the immediate followers of Wickliffe were still 
retained by their successors, and during the two gener- 
ations which followed they underwent no material 
change. Thus, when the English Reformation of the 
lGth century commenced, it derived a new impulse from 
the earlier Lollard movement which it was destined to 
absorb into itself. Nor is it a mere fancy which has led 
writers like Lechler to assert an important and vital 
connection between the Lollardism of the loth and the 
Puritanism of the lGtli century. (E. II. G.) 

Scottish Lollards. — Lollardism was by no means con- 
fined to the southern portion of the British Islands. It 
penetrated also into Scotland, and in the real home of 
the Culdees (q. v.) — the land where a simple and prim- 
itive form of Christianity had been established, while 
among her southern neighbors Rome presented a vast 
accumulation of superstitions, and was arrayed 'in her 
well-known pomp — received the countenance of those 
whose position and influence were well calculated to aid 
in its dissemination among a people that had freely im- 
bibed the spirit of religious reformation so prevalent 
among the English in the 14th century, especially in 
the reign of Richard II, at the time of the passage of 
the statute of preemumre (A.D. 1389). More particu- 
larly rapid was the spread of the reformatory spirit in 
Scotland in the western districts, those of Kyle, Garrick, 
and Cunningham, and hence the surname for the Scotch 
Lollards, Lollards of Kyle , as they were oftentimes call- 
ed. The clergy, aware of the danger that threatened 
their state of profligacy and ease, at last, in the begin- 
ning of the 15th eentury, made open war upon these si- 
lent antagonists. The first to suffer from the persecu- 
tion which they inaugurated was a certain John Resby, 
an English priest who had fled northward from perse- 
cution, and in the land of refuge also was fast making 
converts to his cause. The leading authority and influ- 
ence in the land was at this time the see of St. Andrews 
(compare Dean Stanley’s Lectures on the Kccles. History 
of Scotland , p. 45), over which bishop Henry Wardlaw 
was now presiding. By his interference Resby was tried 
before Dr. Laurence de Lindoris, afterwards professor of 
common law at St. Andrews, and on his refusal to re- 
tract bis views about the supremacy of the pope, au- 
ricular confession, transubstantiation, etc., was burnt at 
Perth in 1405 or 1407. According to Pinkerton, such a 
scene was unknown before in Scotland. The burning 
of Resby is given in the twentieth chapter of the fif- 
teenth book of the Scoticlu'onicon. Still these opinions 
continued to extend, especially in the south and west 
of Scotland. The regent, Robert, duke of Albany, was 
known to be opposed to the Lollards; and though king 
James I was by no means blind to prevailing abuses in 
the Church, an act of Parliament was passed during his 
reign, in 1425, b\ r which bishops were required to make 
inquisition in their dioceses for heretics, in order that 
they might undergo condign punishment. This act 
was soon to be put in force. In 1433 another victim 
lor the stake was secured in the person of Paul Craw or 
Crawar, a physician of Prague, who had sought refuge 
from persecution in Scotland. As he made no secret of 
his Lollard or Hussite opinions, lie was arraigned before 
Lindoris and condemned to the flames. After this time 
we hear but little of Lollardism for quite a long period. 

With the closing years of the century, however, to 
judge from the energy of the papists, it must have been 
apparent again in a more prominent manner, and from 
this period dates one of the severest of religious perse- 


497 


LOMENIE 


LOMBARD (US) 

cutions. In 1494, Robert Blacater, the first archbishop 
of Glasgow, sought to display his zeal for the Church 
by a wholesale attack on the pious followers of Lollard- 
ism. Accordingly, thirty suspected persons, both male 
and female, were summoned before the king (James IV) 
and the great council. Among them were Reid of Bar- 
skimming, Campbell of Ccssnock, Campbell of Newmills, 
Shaw of Polkemmet, Helen Chalmers, lady Polkillie, and 
Isabel Chalmers, lady Stairs. According to Knox {His- 
tory of the Reformation , p. 2), their indictment contained 
thirtv-four different articles, which he informs us are 
preserved in the Register of Glasgow. Among the chief 
of these were, that images, relics, and the Virgin are 
not proper objects of worship ; that the bread and wine 
in the sacrament are not transubstantiated into the 
body and blood of Christ; that no priest or pope can 
grant absolutions or indulgences; that masses cannot 
profit the dead; that miracles have ceased; and that 
priests may lawfully marry. Providentially for the 
Lollards of Kyle, king James IV, “ a monarch who, with 
all his faults, had yet too much of manliness and can- 
dor to permit his judgment to be greatly swayed by the 
malignity of the prelates,” declined to be a persecutor 
of any of his people for such moderate reason, and dis- 
missed the prisoners with an admonition to beware of 
new doctrines, and to content themselves with the faith 
of the Church. It is by many believed, however, that 
one particular reason why king James IV abstained from 
indicting any punishment on these Lollards of Kyle was 
their influence and the wide spread of the doctrines they 
adhered to, and that “divers of them were his great fa- 
miliars” (compare Lea, Hist. Sacerdotal Celibacy, p. 508 ; 
Iletherington, Hist. Ch. of Scotland, i, 34 sq.). 

Literature. — Much information concerning the Lol- 
lards may be derived from the lives of Wickliffe by 
Lewis, Le Bas, and especially Vaughan. Fox, in his 
Martyrology , often presents very disconnected docu- 
ments exceedingly valuable. Walsingham (Chronica), 
Knighton, and Walden have contributed important evi- 
dence, although by no means favorable, which subse- 
quent writers have used. The fuller histories of Eng- 
land, as Rapin, for instance, present some leading facts 
concerning the Lollards in connection with contempo- 
rary political movements. The most satisfactory ac- 
count of the later Lollards is found in articles by Lech- 
ler in the Ilistor. Zeitschrift for 1853 and 1854. He has 
given citations from works hitherto unpublished, which 
he examined in the libraries of the English universities. 
See also Wilkins, Concilia Magnce Britannicee (London, 
1737, iii) ; Turner, History of England during the Middle 
Ages; Weber, Gesch.d. Kirchen Ref in Grossbritannien 
(1856), vol. i ; Neander, Ch. History, v, 141 sq. ; Milman, 
Hist . of Lat. Christianity, \ ii, 404 sq. ; Mosheim, Eccles. 
Hist. 13th cent, p.323; 14th cent. p. 381, 392, etc. ; 15th 
cent. p. 438 sq. ; Shoberlv, Persecutions of Popery, i, 135 
sq. ; Ullmann, Reform, before the Reformation, ii, 11, 14; 
Ebrard, Kirchen nnd Dogmengeseh. ii, 360, 450, 462 sq. ; 
Gillett, Life and Times of John Iluss , i, 370 sq., 628, In- 
dex for Wickliffe ; Punchard, Hist, of Congregationalism 
(N. Y. 1865, 2 vols. 12mo), i, 237 sq. ; Butler (C. INI.), Ec- 
cles. Hist, second series (Philadel. 1872, 8vo), p. 365 sq., 
378, 381 sq., 388 ; Lea, Hist, of Sacerdotal Celibacy, p. 379 
sq.; Reichel, Hist, of the Roman See in the Middle Ages, 
p. 571 sq. ; Studien u. Kritiken, 1845, iii, 594 sq. ; 1848, i, 
169 sq. ; Chr. Rev. vol. viii ; Christ. Remem. 1853 (Oct.), 
p. 415 ; Ladies' Repos. 1870 (Sept.), p. 189 sq. 

Lombard(us), Peter, a very noted scholastic the- 
ologian, derived his name from the province in which he 
was born, near Novara, in Lombardy, about the opening 
of the 12th century. He studied at Bologna, Rheims, 
and afterwards at Paris. Here he acquired a great rep- 
utation, was made first professor of theology in the uni- 
versity, and subsequently (in 1159) appointed bishop. 
He died in the French capital in 1164. Lombardus was 
considered one of the best scholars of his day, and a zeal- 
ous priest. His principal work, Sententiamm libri qua- 
'wor, is a collection of passages from the fathers, of 
V.-Ii 


which he attempted to conciliate the apparent contra- 
dictions, somewhat in the manner in which Gratian at- 
tempted it in his Decret. He may be considered as the 
first author who collected theological doctrines into a 
complete system, and, whatever the faults of his work, 
it is the foundation of scholastic theology, and shows 
much care and system. It became the text-book in the 
schools of philosophy, obtained lor him the title of 
“Master of Sentences” ( Magister Sententiaium), and 
placed him at the head of the scholastic divines. The 
work was first published at Venice (1477, fol.) in four 
parts, each divided into different headings. After his 
death, one of the propositions contained in it (“ Christus, 
secundum quod est homo, non est aliquid”) was con- 
demned by pope Alexander III. Thomas Aquinas and 
others have written commentaries on the book. He 
also wrote Commentaire sur les Psaumes (Paris, 1541, 
fob): — Commentaire sur les Epitres de St. Paul (1537, 
fob). Ilis complete works were published at Nurem- 
berg in 1478, and at Basle in 1486. An able editor was 
found in Aleaume, who published Peter the Lombard’s 
works at Louvain in 1546. The best edition of the Sen- 
tences is by Antoine Ghenart (Louvain, 1567, 4to). See 
Herzog, Real-Encyklop. s. v.; Neander, Hist, of Christian 
Dogmas (Bohn’s edit.), vol. ii (see Index) ; Hefele, Con- 
ciliengesch. v, 545, 639, 785; Reuter, Alexander III, vol. 
iii ; Dupin, Nouv. Biblioth. des antiq. Ecclesiastiques, xvi, 
45 sq. ; Wetzer und Welte, Kirchen-Lexikon , vi, 583 sq. 
(J. ILW.) 

Lombards. See Longobardi. 

Lombardy is the name given to that part of North- 
ern Italy which formed the “ nucleus” of the kingdom 
of the Longobardi (q. v.). Incorporated in 774 into 
the Carlovingian possessions, it became an independent 
kingdom again in 843, though it was not entirely sev- 
ered from the Frankish monarchy until 888. It new 
consisted of the 'whole of Italy north of the Peninsula, 
with the exception of Savoy and Venice. In 961 it was 
annexed to the German empire, and its territory there- 
after gradually lessened by the formation of several 
small but independent duchies and republics. Through- 
out the Middle Ages the Lombards were compelled to 
league together with their neighbors to retain their in- 
dependence from the German emperors. The assump- 
tions of Frederick Barbarossa they successfully defeated 
in 1176, and so also those of Frederick II. But by in- 
ternal dissensions they were gradually weakened, and 
in 1540 Spain finally took possession of Lombardy, and 
held it until about 1706, when it fell to Austria, and 
was designated “Austrian Lombard)".” In 1796 it be- 
came part of the Cisalpine republic, but in 1815 it was re- 
stored to Austria, and annexed politically to the newly- 
acqnired Venetian territory under the name of the Lom- 
bardo-Venetian kingdom. This union was dissolved in 
1859 by the Italian War, Lombardy, with the exception 
of the Venetian territory (finally also given to Italy in 
1866), falling to the new kingdom of Italy. There is 
now no political division called Lombardy, the country 
having been parcelled out into the provinces of Berga- 
mo, Brescia, Como, Cremona, Milan, Pavia, and Son- 
drio. Its total area was 8264 English square miles, with 
a population, at the time of its overture to the kingdom 
of Italy, of nearly three and a quarter millions, mostly 
Roman Catholics. See Italy. 

Lombroso, Jacob, a noted Jewish writer and rab- 
bi of Spanish descent, flourished in Venice, Italy, in the 
first half of the 17th century. He published in 1639 a 
beautiful edition of 4he Old Test, in Hebrew, with val- 
uable comments, and a Spanish translation of the most 
difficult passages, entitled PT13 Sp (a Handful 

of Quiet). He also wrote a polemic against Christianity. 
See Jost, Gesch. des Judenth. u. s. Sekten , iii, 227 ; Fiirst, 
Biblioth. Judaica, ii, 254. 

Lomenie de Brienxe, Ivhexne Charles de, a 
very celebrated French prelate, was born at Paris in 


LOMUS 


488 


LONGEVITY 


1727. lie renounced his primogeniture and the rig- 
ors of military glory for the easy honors of the Church, 
and became a great and powerful opponent of the Brot- 
estants. Promoted in 1763 to the archbishopric of Tou- 
louse, he aspired, it would seem, to the part of a Maza- 
rin or a Richelieu in the state, without possessing either 
the ability or the unscrupulous daring necessary to it. 
Upon the coronation of Louis XVI in 1775, he took par- 
ticular pains to strike against the Protestants, but it was 
not until 1787 that he gained prominence in state af- 
fairs. In this year, after figuring in a commission for 
the reform of the clergy, and coquetting with the phi- 
losophy of D’Alembert and the encyclopaedists, he be- 
came a member of the Assembly of Notables, and, hav- 
ing headed the party by whom the administration of 
Calonne was overthrown, he succeeded that unfortunate 
as minister, adopted his plans, and proved himself just 
as incapable of executing them. An excited contest 
arose between the king and Parliament, and resulted in 
the dismissal of the latter by force of arms. In 1788 he 
was made prime minister, and was also promoted to the 
rich archbishopric of Sens. In 1791 he was offered a 
cardinal’s hat, but, knowing the opposition of the peo- 
ple against the clergy, he declined this distinction. In 
July, 1788, he was compelled by the dissatisfaction of 
the people to proceed to the Convocation of the states- 
general for the month of May following, and on the 24th 
of August he retired to private life. lie resided for a 
time at Nice, but the cardinal’s hat which Pius VI be- 
stowed on him he now gratefully accepted. lie was 
one of those who took the oath as a constitutional bish- 
op, on account of which lie was deprived of the cardi- 
nal’s hat. He was nevertheless arrested February 15, 
1794, and died of apoplexy the same night. See Heroes , 
'Philosophers, and Courtiers of the Time of Louis XVI 
(London, 18G3, 2 vols. 12mo) ; Lacroix’s Pressense, Re- 
ligion and the Reign of Terror , p. 43, 124 ; Droz, Hist, du 
r'eqne de Louis XVI ; Ilocfcr, Xouv. Biog. Gener. xxxi, 
532 sq. (J.H.W.) 

Lomus, in Hindi! mythology, is the first created be- 
ing, formed bv Brahma when he commenced to exist. 
He immediately concluded to devote himself only to the 
contemplation of divine things, and, in order to be un- 
disturbed, buried himself in the ground. This pleased 
the gods so much that they loaded him with favors, in- 
creased and fixed his power and piety, and assured him 
a duration of life surpassing even that of Brahma (q.v.). 
Lomus, said to be twenty miles long, and covered with 
hair all over, draws out a hair after the lapse of each 
cycle Brahma has gone through, and dies only after the 
last hair is drawn. See Vollmer, Mythol. Worterb . s. v. 
(C.B.) 

Lon, Johann Michael, a German Protestant jurist 
and theologian, was born at Frankfort-on-the-Main in 
1G95. lie studied jurisprudence at Marburg, became 
soon known as an essayist on questions of morals, phi- 
losophy, and theology, which lie treated with great ease 
and brilliancy, although occasionally inaccurate in his 
statements, and was finally appointed president of the 
Council of Lingen and Tecklenburg. He died in 1776. 
He is especially known for his efforts to bring abont a 
union of the different Christian churches, or, at least, of 
the evangelical denominations. He sought to unite 
them all into one, to carry out indifferent ism towards 
dogmatics to its full extent. With this object in view, 
he wrote, under the name of Gottlob von Friedenheim, 
Evangelischer Friedenstempel nach d.Art d.crsten Kirche 
(1724): — Von Vereinigung d. Protestanten (1748) :—Die 
einzig wahre Religion (1750). These works brought 
him into a long controversy with Hoffmann, Weickh- 
mann, Brenner, etc., and his attempts at establishing a 
union proved fruitless. — llerzog, Rea l- Enc yktopddie, viii, 
452 ; l’ierer, U nicer sal- L ex cfcon , x, 4G3. >(J. N. P.) 

London Missionary Society. See Mission- 
ary Societies. 

Long, Jacques Le. See Le Long. 


Long, Roger, D.D., an English divine, noted as 
an astronomer, was born in Norfolkshire in 1680, and 
was educated at Pembroke Hall, Cambridge University, 
and became M.A. in 1733. lie was honored with the 
chair of astronomy by his alma mater in 1749, and 
shortly after secured the rectory of Bradwell. lie died 
Dec. 16, 1770. Besides his Sermons (1728 sq.), he pub- 
lished and is best known as the author of a Treatise on 
Astronomy (2 vols. 4to; vol. i, 1742 ; vol. ii, 17G4). See 
Allibone, Diet . of Bi'it. and American Authors , ii, s. v.; 
Thomas, Biog. and Mythol. Diet. s. v. 

Long, Thomas, an English Nonconformist, was 
born at Exeter in 1621. He was educated at Exeter 
College, and about 1GG0 became prebendary of Exeter 
cathedral, from which he was ejected in 1688 for refus- 
ing to take the oath to William and Mary. He died in 
1700. Mr. Long published a Vindication of the Primitive 
Christians in Point of Obedience to their Prince (1683): — 
Answer to Locke’s frst Letter on Toleration (1689) : — Vox 
Cleri on A Iterations in the Liturgy (1690) ; and a Review 
of Dr. Walker’s Account of the Author of E ikon Basilike. 
See Wood, A then. Oxon. ; Thomas, Dictionary of Biogra- 
phy and Mythology, s. v. 

Long Brothers, The Four. Among the leading 
men of the spiritualists, the four “ Long Brothers” must 
not be overlooked : Dioscorus, Ammonius, Eusebius, and 
Euthymius, who were as distinguished by their influ- 
ence as they were eminent in stature. The secret of 
their power was in their inflexible honesty, combined 
with hearty and unflinching faith in the system of their 
choice. See each name. 

Longevity. The Biblical narrative plainly as- 
cribes to many individuals in the earlier history of the 
race lives far longer than what is held to be the present 
extreme limit, and we must therefore carefully consider 
the evidence upon which the general correctness of the 
numbers rests, and any independent evidence as to the 
length of life at this time. The statements in the Bible 
regarding longevity may be separated into two classes — - 
those given in genealogical lists, and those interspersed 
with the relation of events. 

1. To the former class virtually belong all the state- 
ments relating to the longevity of the patriarchs before 
Abraham. These, as given by Moses in the Hebrew 
text, are as follows : 


Adam 

Years. 

.Gen. v, 5 93C 

Shem i 

Years. 

Gen. xi, 10, 11 600 

Seth 

.. “ S 

912 

Arphaxad 

“ 12, 13 

43S 

Enos 

. “ 11 

905 

Sal ah 

“ 14,15 

433 

Cain an 

,. “ 14 

910 

Eber 

“ 16,17 

464 

Mahalaleel . . 

.. “ 17 

895 

Peleg .... 

“ IS, 19 

239 

Jared 

,. “ 20 

9G2 

Ren 

“ 20, 21 

239 

Enoch 

. “ 23 

365 

Serng .... 

“ 22,23 

230 

Methuselah . 

.. “ 27 

969 

Nahor. 

“ 24, 25 

148 

La meek 

,. “ 31 

777 

Terah .... 

“ 32 

205 

Noah 

“ix, 29 

950 

Abraham. 

“ xxv, 7 

175 


Infidelity has not failed, in various ages, to attack 
revelation on the score of the supposed absurdity of as- 
signing to any class of men this lengthened term of ex- 
istence. In reference to this, Josephus (Ant. i. 3, 3) re- 
marks: “Let no one, upon comparing the lives of the 
ancients with our lives, and with the few years which 
we now live, think that what we say of them is false, 
or make the shortness of our lives at present an argu- 
ment that neither did they attain to so long a duration 
of life.” When we consider the compensating process 
which is going on, the marvel is that the human frame 
should not last longer than it does. Some, however, 
have supposed that the years above named are lunar, 
consisting of about thirty days; but this supposition, 
with a view to reduce the lives of the antediluvians to 
our standard, is replete with difficulties. At this rate, 
the whole time from the creation of man to the flood 
would not be more than about 140 years; and Methuse- 
lah himself would not have attained to the age which 
many even now do, whilst many must have had chil- 
dren when mere infants ! Moses must therefore have 
meant solar , not lunar years — averaging as long as 
ours, although the ancients generally reckoned twelve 


LONGEVITY 


499 


LONGEVITY 


months, of thirty days each, to the year. “Nor is 
there,” observes St. Augustine ( De Civ. Dei, xv, 12), 
“any care to be given unto those who think that one 
of our ordinary years would make ten of the years of 
these times, being so short ; and therefore, say they, 900 
years of theirs are 90 of ours — their 10 is our 1, and their 
100 our 10. Thus think they that Adam was but 20 
years old when he begat Seth, and he but 20^ when he 
begat Enos, whom the Scriptures call (the Sept, ver.) 
205 years. For, as these men hold, the Scripture di- 
vided one year into ten parts, calling each part a year; 
and each part had a sixfold quadrate, because in six 
days God made the world. Now G times G is 3G, 
which, multiplied by 10, makes 3G0 — i. e. twelve lunar 
months.” Abarbanel, in his Comment, on Gen . v, states 
that some, professing Christianity, had fallen into the 
same mistake, viz. that Moses meant lunar , and not so- 
lar years. Ecclesiastical history does not inform us of 
this fact, exeept it be to it that Lactantius refers (ii, 12) 
when he speaks of one Varro : “ The life of man, though 
temporary, was yet extended to 1000 years ; of this Var- 
ro is so ignorant that, though known to all from the 
sacred writings, he would argue that the 1000 years of 
Moses were, according to the Egyptian mode of calcu- 
lation, only 1000 months !” 

That the ancients computed time differently we learn 
from Pliny (Hist. Nat. vii), and also from Scaliger (De 
Emend. Temporum , i) ; still this does not alter the case 
as above stated (see Heidegger, De Anno Patriarcka- 
rum , in his Hist. Patr. Amst. 1G88, Ztir. 1729). 

Hut it is asked, if Moses meant solar years, how came 
it to pass that the patriarchs did not begin to beget 
children at an earlier period than they are reported to 
have done ? Seth was 105 years old, on the lowest cal- 
culation, when he begat Enos, and Methuselah 187 when 
Lantech was born ! St. Augustine (i, 15) explains this 
difficulty in a twofold manner by supposing, 1. Either 
that the age of puberty was later in proportion as the 
lives of the antediluvians were longer than ours, or, 2. 
That Moses does not record the first-born sons but as the 
order of the genealogy required, his object being to trace 
the succession from Adam, through Seth, to Abraham. 

While the Jews have never questioned the longevity 
assigned by Moses to the patriarchs, they have yet dis- 
puted. in many instances, as to whether it was common 
to all men who lived up to the period when human life 
was contracted. Maimonides (More Nebochim , ii, 47) 
takes this view. With this opinion Abarbanel, on Gen. 
v, agrees; Nachmanides, however, rejects it, and shows 
that the life of the descendants of Cain must have been 
quite as long as that of the Sethites, though not noticed 
by Moses ; for only seven individuals of the former filled 
iip the space which intervened between the death of 
Abel and the flood, whereas ten of the latter are enu- 
merated. We have reason, then, to conclude that lon- 
gevity was not confined to any peculiar tribe of the 
ante or post tliluvian fathers, but was vouchsafed, in gen- 
eral, to all. Irenneus (Adversus Hceret. v) informs us 
that some supposed that the fact of its being recorded 
that no one of the antediluvians named attained the 
age of 1000 years, was the fulfilment of the declaration 
(Gen. iii), “ In the day thou eatest thereof thou shalt 
surely die;” grounding the opinion, or rather conceit, 
upon Psa. xc, 4, namely, that God’s day is 1000 years. 

As to the probable reasons why God so prolonged the 
life of man in the earlier ages of the world, and as to 
the subordinate means by which this might have been 
accomplished, Josephus says (Ant. 1. c.) : “ For those an- 
cients were beloved of God, and lately made by God 
himself; and because their food was then fitter for the 
prolongation of life, they might well live so great, a 
number of years ; and because God afforded them a lon- 
ger time of life on account of their virtue and the good I 
use they made of it in astronomical and geometrical dis- I 
coveries, which would not have afforded the time for 
foretelling the periods of the stars unless they had lived 
GOO years; for the great year is completed in that in- | 


terval.” To this he adds the testimony of many cele- 
brated profane historians, who affirm that the ancients 
lived 1000 years. In the above passage Josephus enu- 
merates/bttr causes of the longevity of the earlier patri- 
archs. 1. As to the first, viz., their being dearer to God 
than other men, it is plain that it cannot be maintained ; 
for the profligate descendants of Cain were equally long- 
lived, as mentioned above, with others. 2. Neither can 
we agree in the second reason he assigns; because we 
find that Noah and others, though born so long subse- 
quently to the creation of Adam, yet lived to as great 
an age, some of them to a greater age than he did. 3. . 
If, again, it were right to attribute longevity to the su- 
perior quality of the food of the antediluvians, then the 
seasons, on which this depends, must, about Moses’s 
time — for it was then that the term of human existence 
was reduced to its present standard— have assumed a 
fixed character. But no change at that time took place 
in the revolution of the heavenly bodies, by which the 
seasons of heat, cold, etc., are regulated ; hence we must 
not assume that it was the nature of the fruits they ate 
which caused longevity. 4. How far the antediluvians 
had advanced in scientific research generally, and in as- 
tronomical discovery particularly, we are not informed ; 
nor can we, place any dependence upon what Josephus 
says about the two inscribed pillars which remained 
from the old world (see A nt. i, 2, 9). We are not, there- 
fore, able to determine, with any confidence, that God 
permitted the earlier generations of man to live so long 
in order that they might arrive at a high degree of 
mental excellence. From the brief notices which the 
Scriptures afford of the character and habits of the ante- 
diluvians, we should rather infer that they had not ad- 
vanced very far in discoveries iu natural and experi- 
mental philosophy. See Antediluvians. We must 
suppose that they did not reduce their language to al- 
phabetical order; nor was it necessary to do so at a 
time when human life was so prolonged that the tra- 
dition of the creation passed through only two hands to 
Noah. It would seem that the book ascribed to Enoch 
is a work of postdiluvian origin (see Jurieu, Cr it. Hist .’ 
i, 41). Possibly a want of mental employment, togeth- 
er with the labor they endured ere they were able to 
extract from the earth the necessaries of life, might 
have been some of the proximate causes of that degen- 
eracy which led God in judgment to destroy the old 
world. If the antediluvians began to bear children at 
the age on an average of 100, and if they ceased to do 
so at GOO years (see Shuckford’s Connect, i, 36), the world 
might then have been far more densely populated than 
it is now. Supposing, moreover, that the earth was no 
more productive antecedently than it was subsequently 
to the flood, and that the antediluvian fathers were ig- 
norant of those mechanical arts which so much abridge 
human labor now, we can easily understand how diffi- 
cult they must have found it to secure for themselves 
the common necessaries of life, and this the more so if 
animal food was not allowed them. The prolonged life, 
then, of the generations before the flood would seem to 
have been rather an evil than a blessing, leading as it 
did to the too rapid peopling of the earth. We can 
readily conceive how this might conduce to that awful 
state of things expressed in the words, “And the whole 
earth was filled with violence.” In the absence of any 
well-regulated system of government, we can imagine 
what evils must have arisen: the unprincipled would - 
oppress the weak, the crafty would outwit the unsus- 
pecting, and, not having the fear of God before their 
eyes, destruction and misery would be in their ways. 
Still we must admire the providence of God in the lon- 
gevity of man immediately after the creation and the 
flood. After the creation, when the world was to be 
peopled by one man and one woman, the age of the 
greatest part of those on record was 900 and upwards. 
But after the flood, when there were three couples to re- 
people the earth, none of the patriarchs exeept Shem 
reached the age of 500, aud only the first three of hij 


LONGINUS 


500 


LONGLEY 


line, viz. Arphaxad, Sclah, and Eber, eame near that 
age. which was in the first century after the flood. In 
the second century we do not find that any attained the 
age of 2 10; and in the third century (about the latter 
end of which Abraham was born), none, except Terah, 
arrived at 200, by which time the world was so well 
peopled that they had built cities, and were formed into 
distinct nations under their respective kings (see Gen. 
xv; see also Usher and Petavius on the increase of 
mankind in the first three centuries after the Hood). 

2. The statements as to the length of the lives of 
Abraham and his nearer descendants, and some of his 
later, are so closely interwoven with the historical nar- 
rative, not alone in form, but in sense, that their general 
truth and its cannot be separated. Abraham’s age at 
the birth of Isaac is a great fact in his history, equally 
attested in the Old Testament and in the New. Again, 
the longevity ascribed to Jacob is confirmed by the 
question of Pharaoh and the patriarch’s remarkable an- 
swer, in which he makes his then age of 130 years less 
than the years of his ancestors (Gen. xlvii, 9), a minute 
point of agreement with the other chronological state- 
ments to be especially noted. At a later time, the age 
of Moses is attested by various statements in the Penta- 
teuch, and in the New Test, on St. Stephen’s authority, 
though it is to be observed that the mention of his hav- 
ing retained his strength to the end of his 120 years 
( Deut. xxxiv, 7) is, perhaps, indicative of an unusual lon- 
gevity. In the earlier part of the period following we 
notice similar instances in the case of Joshua, and, in- 
fcrentiallv, in that of Othniel. Nothing in the Bible 
could be cited against this evidence, except it be the 
common explanation of Psa. xc (csp. ver. 10), combined 
•with its ascription to Moses (see title). 

That the common age of man has been the same in 
all times since the world was generally repeopled is 
manifest from profane as well as sacred history. Plato 
lived to the age of 81, and was accounted an old man; 
and those whom Pliny reckons up (vii,48) as rare ex- 
amples of long life may for the most part be equalled in 
modern times. It must be observed, however, that all 
the supposed famous modern instances of very great 
longevity, as those of Parr, Jackson, and the old count- 
ess of Desmond, have utterly broken down on examina- 
tion, and that the registers of countries where records of 
such statistics have been kept prove no greater extreme 
than about 110 years. We may fortunately appeal to 
at least one contemporary instance. There is an Egyp- 
tian hieratic papyrus in the Ilibliotheque at Paris bear- 
ing a moral discourse by one Ptah-hotp, apparently eld- 
est son of Assa (B.C. cir. 1910-1800), the fifth kiiig of 
the fifteenth dynasty, which was of shepherds. Sec 
Egypt. At the conclusion, Ptah-hotp thus speaks of 
himself: “ 1 have become an elder on the earth (or in 
the land) ; I have traversed a hundred and ten years of 
life by t lie gift of the king and the approval of the el- 
ders, fulfilling my duty towards the king in the place of 
favor (or blessing)*’ ( Facsimile d'un Papyrus Egyptian, 
par E. Prisse d’A venues, pi. xix, lines 7, 8). The natu- 
ral inferences from this passage are, that Ptah-hotp 
wrote in t lie full possession of his mental faculties at 
the age of 110 years, and that his father was still reign- 
ing at the time, and therefore had attained the age of 
about 130 years, or more. The reigns assigned bv Ma- 
netho to the shepherd-kings of this dynasty seem in- 
dicative of a greater age than that of the Egyptian sov- 
ereigns (Cory, Ancient Fragments, 2d cd., p. *114. 136).— 
Kitto: .Smith. See Chronology. 

Longinus, Dionysius Cassius, a noted Greek phi- 
losopher and rhetorician, was born probably in Syria, 
and flourished in the 3d century of our am He* was 
educated at Alexandria under Ammonius and Origen, 
and became an earnest discijdc of Platonism. To ex- 
pound this system and to teach rhetoric, he opened a j 
school at Athens, anti there soon acquired a great repu- 
tation. Ilis knowledge was immense, and to him was 
first applied the phrases, ofteii repeated since, ‘‘a living | 




library” and “ a walking museum.” His taste and crit- 
ical acuteness also were no less wonderful. He was 
probably the best critic of all antiquity. Flourishing in 
an age when Platonism was giving place to the semi- 
Oriental mysticism and dreams of Neo-Platonism, Lon- 
ginus stands out conspicuously as a genuine disciple of 
the great master. Clear, calm, rational, yet lofty, he 
despised the fantastic speculations of Plotinus (q. v.). In 
the latter years of his life he accepted the invitation of 
Zenobia to undertake the education of her children at 
Palmyra ; but, becoming also her prime political adviser, 
he was beheaded as a traitor, by command of the em- 
peror Aurclian, A. I). 273. Longinus was a heathen, 
but generous and tolerant. Of his works, the only one 
extant (in parts only) is a treatise, nqoi "Y\p ovg (On 
the Sublime). There are many editions of it ; those by 
Moms (Leips. 1769), Toupius (Oxford, 1778; 2d edition, 
1789; 3d edit., 1806),Weiske (Leipsic, 1809), and Egger 
(Paris, 1837) being among the best. Translations have 
been made of it into French by Boileau, into German by 
Schlosser, and into English by W. Smith. See Knhn- 
ken, Dissertatio de Vita et S 'criptis Longini (1776); 
Smith, Diet. o/Gr. and Rom. Biog. s. v. ; Chambers, Cy- 
clop. s. v. 

Longley, Charles Thojias, D.D., the last pri- 
mate of all England, was born in Westmeathshire in 
1794, and was educated at Westminster and Christ 
Church, Oxford, where he distinguished himself as a 
first-class scholar in classics. After graduating, he re- 
mained for some time connected with the university as 
college tutor, censor, and public examiner. He became 
perpetual curate of Cowley in 1823, and rector of West 
Tythcrley in 1827, and head master of Harrow School 
in 1829. In 1836 he was appointed bishop of Ripon, 
and in 1856 was translated to Durham, in 1860 to the 
archbishopric of York, and in 1862 to that of Canter- 
bury. Over this see, by virtue of which he was primate 
of the Church of England, and first of all the Anglican 
bishops of the world, he presided until his death, October 
27, 1868. “ Archbishop Longley belonged ecclesiasti- 

cally to the old school of ‘moderate’ Establishment di- 
vines, but in the last three years of his administration 
his amiable temper, co-operating with his instinctive 
hvper-conservatism, led him to temporize with the reck- 
less and audacious policy of bishop Wilberforce and the 
High-Anglicans, and he became a most inadequate stand- 
ard-bearer for the English Church in her supreme hour. 
Incapable of bold and persistent action, the latter por- 
tion of his primacy was marked by a series of disastrous 
vacillations and blunders. He first gave his counte- 
nance to the bishop of Capetown in his revolutionary 
action in South Africa, and then withdrew that counte- 
nance. In an interval of reason he encouraged lord 
Shaftesbury to introduce his anti-ritualistic resolutions, 
and then he shiveringly withdrew his approval when 
they came up for action." The most important event 
during his administration was the so-called ‘•Pau-An- 
glican” Synod, a meeting of all the bishops of the 
Church of England and the churches in communion 
with her, convened in 1867, a measure instigated, it is 
said, by bishop Wilberforce (q. v.), to stop the tide of 
ritualism, and to bring about, if possible, a union with 
the Greek Church (see Appleton’s Annual Cyclop. 1867, 
p. 42 sq.). In this synod the archbishop of Canterbury 
proved entirely untrustworthy. Himself inclining to- 
wards ritualism, he moderately rebuked the Ritualists 
in public, while privately he favored their promotion, 
and was instrumental in their appointment to colonial 
bishoprics. He was decidedly a High-Churchman, and, 
though in person amiable, devout, dignified, and court- 
eons, he showed, in his disastrous primacy, how unfitted 
are mere moderation, and a desire simply for compro- 
mise and peace, to guide the Church in times when her 
foundations are assailed. We will only add that arch- 
bishop Longley died as he had lived, a man of profoundly 
pious feeling that fell a little too much into formula. 
He referred to words of Hooker’s some three or four 


LOXGOBARDI 


501 


LOXGOBARDI 


days before bis death as containing the faith in which 
lie “ wished to die” — words expressive of his sense of 
guilt and his faith in Christ’s blood to cleanse him from 
that guilt. See London Spectator , 18G8, Oct. 31, p. 1272 ; 
N. Y. Tribune , Oct. 21), 1868. (J. H. W.) 

Longobardi (otherwise called Lombards), a Teu- 
tonic people of the Suevic race, who maintained a do- 
minion in Italy from A.D. 5G8 to 774. 

The name Lombards is derived from the Latin Longo - 
bardi or Langobardi, a form in use since the 12th centu- 
ry, and generally supposed to have been given in refer- 
ence to the long beards of this people ; although some 
derive it rather from a word^anto or barte, which sig- 
nifies a battle-axe. 

The first historical notices present them as a people 
small in number, having their original seat on the west 
side of the Lower Elbe, in a territory extending some 
sixty miles southward from Hamburg. They advanced 
into Moravia and Hungary, the abode of the Rugi, be- 
fore 500, and conquered the ITeruli, and w r ere invited 
by Justinian to the neighborhood of the Danube in 
the year 52G. They afterwards crossed into Panno- 
nia, where, though at first in alliance with the Gepkke, 
they subsequently (A.D. 5GG or 5G7) subdued the peo- 
ple, yielding in turn to the Avars, and in 569 crossed 
the Alps into Italy under Alboin, having been invited 
thither by Narses, as it is said, out of revenge against 
the province and the emperor. This was fourteen years 
after the overthrow of the Gothic kingdom, and the ex- 
hausted state of the country left Northern Italy an easy 
prey. The Goths were Arians, and religious differences 
with both the Roman and Greek churches went far to 
prevent the acceptance of their rule, and the establish- 
ment at that time of a united government in Italy, for 
the want of which the country has so many centuries 
suffered. The Lombards succeeded no better in secur- 
ing entire dominion. They, however, extended their 
power, establishing the duchies of Frioul, Spoleto, and 
Benevento, until only the districts of Rome and Naples, 
the southern extremity of the peninsula, Venice, and 
the east coast from the Po to Ancona, with Ravenna as 
the city of the exarchs, remained under the power of 
the Greek emperor. The conduct of the Lombards as 
conquerors has been severely characterized on the au- 
thority of early writers of the Romish Church. Gregory 
the Great, in his epistles and dialogues, draws a fright- 
ful picture of their oppressions, as does Paulus Diaco- 
nus of the unquestionably lawless sway of the thirty- 
five dukes, who were the only rulers in the interregnum 
after the death of Cleph, till, by the threatening ap- 
proach of the Franks, they were compelled to elect a 
king in the person of Autharis. Now for the first time 
(584-590) an orderly constitution was established. Pau- 
lus Diaconus speaks with great praise of the new state 
of things. “Wonderful was the state of the Lombard 
kingdom : violence and treachery were alike unknown ; 
no one was oppressed, no one plundered another; thefts 
and robberies were unheard of ; the traveller went wher- 
ever he would in perfect security” (Paul. Diac. iii, 1G). 

A general idea of their political constitution may be 
found in the edict of king Rothari (G3G-G52), a kind of 
Bill of Rights, which was promulgated Nov. 22, 643, 
and is memorable as having become the foundation of 
constitutional law in the Germanic kingdoms of the 
Middle Ages. It was revised and extended by subse- 
quent Lombard kings, but subsisted in force for several 
centuries after the Lombard kingdom had passed away. 
The edict recognises, as among all German nations, 
three classes — th o, free, the semi-free, and slave or vas- 
sal, Among the free were the nobiles. The army se- 
cured the national unity, civil officers being regarded 
as rendering military service. The king was elective, 
and among the dukes he represented the nation. He was 
commander of the army, head of all police power, chief 
judge, and general ward. There were courtiers of va- 
rious ranks. The dukes were also called judges, or ju- 
dices civitatis. Under each judex were many local, judi- 


cial, police, and military authorities. The cities chosen 
by the dukes severally as their residences were centres 
of the Lombard government. There would seem to be 
but little room for the old Roman municipal constitu- 
tions. Concerning the relation of the Lombard rule to 
the continuance of the Roman law and the rights of the 
conquered people there are differences of opinion. Un- 
der the Goths the former laws and customs remained 
largely unaffected; but it has been maintained (as by 
Leo) that under the Lombards the personal liberty, 
right of property, and municipal constitutions of the 
conquered people were abolished. The subject was 
much discussed by the Italians in the last century; and 
in this century the historians Savigny, Leo, Bandi di 
esme, Fossati, Troya, Bethmann-Hollweg, etc., present 
conflicting or somewhat varied views. The Lombard 
laws themselves give but little precise information on this 
point. The Romans at least lost all united nationality. 
Roman law seems to have been first distinctively brought 
into use under Luitprand. The feeling of enmity which, 
for a long time at least, existed between the people and 
their conquerors, was increased by religious differences, 
and on this account the new power was specially obnox- 
ious to the authorities of the Roman Church. A state 
of war generally prevailed between the two powers. 
The Church writers are constant and bitter in their 
complaints of Lombard impiety and oppressions — at least 
during the earlier period of their dominion — in the wast- 
ing of churches and monasteries, and the treatment of 
ecclesiastics. The Lombard clergy themselves, how- 
ever, do not seem to be charged as active participants 
in these deeds. Gregory the Great discerns in the 
times signs of the approaching judgment. “ What is 
happening in other parts of the world,” he says, “we 
know not; but in this the end of all things not merely 
announces itself as approaching, but shows itself as act- 
ually bogmi” (Dial. iii). Such representations of the 
spirit and course of the conquerors must be taken with 
considerable qualification. Still more untrustworthy are 
the accounts given, especially by Gregory, of numerous 
miraculous interferences in behalf of the true faith. 

The Lombards were Arians. Unlike the Franks, 
who became by religious sympathy the natural defend- 
ers of the pope, they, with the Goths, Vandals, Bur- 
gundians, and Suevians, had been converted to Chris- 
tianity, about the end of the 5th century, by Arian mis- 
sionaries. Such was the case with the German tribes 
generally on the lower Danube. But there were among 
them many, some of whom entered Italy, who were still 
heathens, and worshipped their gods Odin and Freia 
south of the Alps. There were probably also some 
Catholic Pannonians and Noricans who, with their bish- 
ops, had joined the expedition. The first influence ex- 
erted by Rome for the conversion of the Lombards was 
through the wife of Alboin, a niece of Clovis, who was 
a good Roman Catholic, and had been enjoined by the 
bishop of Treves to convert her husband from his Arian 
heresy. Theodolinda of Bavaria also exerted a like in- 
fluence upon her husband Autharis, and under his reign 
the Catholic faith made considerable progress. On the 
death of Autharis (590), Theodolinda married Agilulf, 
and under his government also she continued to labor 
for the advancement of the Catholic Church, hoping 
thereby to refine the manners of her own people. The- 
odolinda persuaded Agilulf to restore a portion of their 
property and dignities to the Catholic clergy, and to have 
his own son baptized according to the Catholic rites — 
an example which was followed by multitudes. Her 
brother Gundwald, duke of Asti, she influenced to build 
the magnificent Basilica of St.John the Baptist at Mon- 
za, near Milan, in which in subsequent times was kept 
the Lombard crown, called the Iron Crown; indeed, she 
improved any and every opportunity to advance the in- 
terests of the Catholics, and thus hastened the success- 
ful establishment of their religion among the Lombards. 
Gregory the Great (590-G04), founder of the papacy, 
maintained frequent correspondence with the queen in 


LOXGOBARDI 


502 


LOXGUEVAL 


a friendly relation, similar to that existing between 
Gregory VII and the countess Matilda. On the occa- 
sion of the baptism of her children she received a pres- 
ent from Gregory. Earlier he bad sent her four Books 
of Dialogues , »* because he knew that she was true to 
the faith in Christ, and strong in good works” (raul. 
Diac. iv, 5). 

If the Roman Church had met with material losses 
by the Lombard invasion, it now gained much for the 
power of the papacy in the more complete dependence 
with which all parts of Italy began to look to Rome for a 
common defence of their faith. Rome became a certain 
centre of national life through the diffused power of its 
bishops, and what the Roman Empire had lost by arms 
the Roman Church was to regain by peaceful means. 
After Gregory’s death Agilulf received the monk Co- 
lumban with great favor, and allowed him to settle 
w here he would. At Milan he w'rote against Arianism. 
He founded the powerful monastery of Bobbia, which 
was subsequently very influential in the conversion of 
the Lombards. Grundeberg, daughter of Theodolinda, 
married successively the kings Ariow'akl and Rotharis. 
Under the latter there was a Catholic and Arian bishop 
in each city. Aribert (653-661), the son of duke Gun- 
duald, w'as the first Catholic king. Dollinger says of 
him, ‘‘Rex Iloribertus, pius et catholieus, Arrianorum 
abolevit hteresem et Christ ianam fidem fecit crescere.” 
The Lombards became now enthusiastic churchmen ; 
many monasteries and churches v r ere founded and rich- 
ly endowed. There was always, however, a certain de- 
gree of independence manifest among them. At the 
Lateral] Council of 640, summoned by Martin I, Milan 
and Aquileia w'ere not represented. A certain patri- 
archal and metropolitan prerogative w'as allowed the 
pope, w'ith a due reservation of national liberty. In 
the latter half of the 7th century internal contests for 
the Lombard crowm secured a greater degree of attach- 
ment to the Church, while the disputes of Rome wfith 
Constantinople brought the Lombards to the defence of 
the former. In the 8th century the powerful king Luit- 
prand (713-35), w ho raised the Lombard kingdom to its 
highest prosperity, sought anxiously to complete the 
conquest of all Italy, and before 8U0 it may be said that 
the national unity of Italy was complete. Each subject 
w'as called a Lombard. See Luitprand. The Church 
w'as subject to the state. Though its clergy and bish- 
ops obtained increasing power, it w'as not of a political 
character as in France. The bishops w ere subject to the 
king, and the inferior clergy to the subordinate judges. 
The bishops w'ere chosen by the people. The cloisters 
w'ere subject to magisterial pow'er. But the prospect 
looming up before the popes of soon becoming themselves 
subject to the rule of the barbaric Lombards, they now 
entered upon that Machiavelian policy which they long 
incessantly pursued, of laboring to prevent a union of all 
I talv under one government, in order to secure for them- 
selves the greater pow'er in the midst of contending par- 
ties. This, with the disputes which arose concerning the 
success on to the Lombard throne, led to the downfall 
of the Lombard kingdom w'ithin no long time after it 
had reached its utmost greatness. Gregory III, in his 
distress, fixed his gaze on the youthful greatness of a 
transalpine nation, the Franks, to afford him the nec- 
essary assistance in the struggle now ensuing. The 
movement against the Lombards was initiated at the 
election of Zachary, by discarding the customary form 
of obtaining the consent of the exarchate’s authority, 
at this time vested in the Lombard king; and Ste- 
phen II made way for Pepin, after having anointed him 
to the patriciate , i. e. the governorship of Rome, to make 
war upon Aistulf, the successor of Luitprand. Natu- 
rally enough, Pepin’s military successes were all turned 
to the advantage of the pope in securing to him the ex- 
archate and Pentapolis. New' causes of hostility be- 
tween the Frank and Lombard monarehs arose when 
Charlemagne sent back to her father his wife, the daugh- 
ter of the Lombard king Desiderins (754-774). In the 


autumn of 773 Charlemagne invaded Italy, and in May of 
the following year Pavia w'as conquered, and the Lom- 
bard kingdom was overthrow n. In 803 a treaty between 
Charlemagne, the western, and Nicephorus, the eastern 
emperor, confirmed the right of the former to the Lom- 
bard territory, with Rome, the Exarchate, Ravenna, Is- 
tria, and part of Dalmatia; while the Eastern empire 
retained the islands of Venice and the maritime tow'ns 
of Dalmatia, with Naples, Sicily, and part of Calabria. 
See Turk, Die Longobarden und i hr Yolksrecht (Rost. 
1835) ; Flegler, Das Konigreich der Longobarden in I fal- 
len (Leipz. 1851) ; Abel, Der Untergang d. Longobarden- 
reichs in Italien (Gott. 1858) ; Leo, Gesch. d. ital. Staaten 
(1829), vol. i ; Hautlevillo, Hist. des Communes Lombardes 
depuis leur origine jusqu'a la fm du x Hi Si'ecle (Paris, 
1857), vol. i ; Reichel, Roman See in the Middle Ages , p. 
50 sq. ; Milman, Hist, of Latin Christianity, i, 472 ; ii, 39 
sq. See Lombardy. (E. B. O.) 

Longobardi, Niccoi.b, a Jesuit missionary, was 
bom in Switzerland in 1565. He w'ent to China as mis- 
sionary in 1596. and died in 1655 at Pekin. He w r rote 
De Confucio ejusque Doctrina Tractatus. See Leibo- 
ritz’s uotes to a recent edition. See Iloefer, Nouv. Biog. 
Gene rale, s.v. 

Longuerue, Louis du Four, abbe de, an eminent, 
learned French ecclesiastic, born at Charleville Jan. 6, 
1652, was the son of a Norman nobleman. When but 
four years old he w r as generally know'll as a learned 
prodigy. At fourteen he understood several Oriental 
languages, and undertook to get a complete knowledge 
of the holy Scriptures by making diligent study of the 
fathers and of the Jew'ish and Christian commentators. 
The Sorbonne, w'hicli he sometimes visited, only gave 
I him a distaste for scholastic theology; he preferred to 
reconstruct positive theology from the original, after the 
manner of P. Petan, where he found more exactness and 
stability. In 1674 he w r as provided with the abbotship 
of St. Jean-du-jard, near Melon, and in 1684 with that 
of Sept-Fontaines, in the diocese of Rheims. After re- 
ceiving orders he entered the Seminar}' of St. Magloire, 
and shut himself up there in complete solitude for fif- 
teen years. When he re-entered the w'orld he opened 
his house to learned men, and kept up with them a 
j regular correspondence, and manifested a great eager- 
ness to instruct those who consulted him. Longuerue 
consecrated his w'hole life to labor; he knew no other 
rest except that of change of occupation. No part 
of the domain of learning w'as strange to him, but he 
much preferred history. His constitution and memory 
w'ere good. In conversation he w'as lively, satirical, 
critical, humorous, and cynical. He took no part in 
religious controversy. He died in 1732. Among his 
W'orks of interest to us are Traite d'un auteur de la com- 
munion Romaine touchant la transubstantiation, oil il fait 
roir que selon les prineipes de son Eglise ce dogme ne pent 
etre tin article defoi (London, 1686) ; — Dissertations tou- 
chant les Antiqnites des Chaldeens et des Egypt lens (in 
the Lettres choisies of Richard Simon) : — Dissertation 
sur le passage de Flavius Josephs en faveur de Jesus- 
Christ (in the Bibl. ancienne et moderns of Le Clerc, vii, 
237-288); — Remarques sur la vie du cardinal 1 Volsey 
contraires a ceux qui out ecrit contre sa reputation (in 
the Me moire de Litterat. of P. Desmolets). See Iloefer, 
Xouv. Biog. Generate, s. v. ; Thomas, Diet. ofBiogr. and 
Mythol. s. v. ; General Biographical Dictionary, s. v. 

Longueval, Jacques, a learned French Jesuit, was 
born in the suburbs of Pcronne March IS, 1680. At the 
age of nineteen he entered the Society of Jesus, and af- 
terwards taught rhetoric and theology in different col- 
leges of his order. On account of a violent work pub- 
lished upon th.e religious quarrels of the period, he was 
first exiled, but later received permission to reside at the 
house of professed Jesuits in Paris. He died January 
11, 1735. Among his published works are Traite du 
Bchisme (Brussels, 1718) [a Refutation of this work w r as 
published in the same year by Meganek] : — Dissertation 


LORD 


LONSDALE 503 


stir les Miracles (Paris, 1730, 4to): — Ilistoire cle VEglise 
Gallicane (Paris, 1730-1749, 18 vols. 8vo) ; Longueval 
wrote only the first eight volumes, reaching the year 
1138; the others have been written by Fontenay, Bru- 
moy, and Berthier. The work has been reprinted at 
Nimes (1782) and at Paris (1825). Longueval is also 
the author of the greater part of the Reflexions Morales , 
an appendix to the Nouveau Testament of P. Lallemant. 
See Iloefer, Nouv. Biog. Gene rale, s.\\; Thomas, Diet, of 
Biogr . and Mythol. s. v. ; Fontenay, Eloge de Longueval , 
in V Ilistoire Gallicane, vol. ix. 

Lonsdale, John, D.D., a distinguished English 
prelate, was born at Newmillerdam, near Wakefield, Jan- 
uary 17, 1788, and was the son of the Rev. John Lons- 
dale, vicar of Durfiekl and incumbent of Chapelthorpe. 
Young Lonsdale entered Eton College at the age of 11, 
and completed his studies finally at King’s College, 
Cambridge, where he got nearly all the prizes, and took 
the B.A. in 1811. He then studied law for a time, but 
changing for theology, he was ordained priest in 1815. 
Shortly after he was made examining chaplain to arch- 
bishop Sutton and assistant preacher at the temple. 
In 1821 he was appointed to the office of Christian ad- 
vocate to Cambridge University, and in the follow- 
ing year domestic chaplain to the archbishop of Can- 
terbury. From 1831 to 1843 he was prebendary of St. 
Paul’s; from 1839 to 1843, principal of King’s College, 
London, and rector of Southficet, Kent. He was also 
archdeacon of Middlesex during 1842 and 1843, and 
was for some time chaplain at Lincoln's Inn. In 1844, 
finally, he -was appointed, by Sir Robert Peel, bishop of 
Lichfield. He died at Erdeshall Castle, Staffordshire, 
Oct. 19, 1867. Bishop Lonsdale was greatly celebrated 
in the English pulpit ; while yet in the infancy of his 
ministry, two courses of his university sermons, as well 
as several occasional discourses, were asked for and re- 
ceived by the public (London, 1820,1821). In 1849 he 
published, with archbishop Hale, a volume of Annota- 
tions on the Gospels (see II ale). He is spoken of as “ a 
man of remarkable humility, averse to controversy, and 
never willing to enter into a public discussion of great 
questions in theology, from the belief that others were 
better qualified than he to handle them; but, withal, he 
was unflinching in his adherence to what he believed to 
be right.” He was greatly beloved, not only by his own 
Church, but by the Dissenters also. See Appleton’s 
Ann. Cyclop. 1867, p. 451 ; Am. Ch. Rev. 1868, p. 675. 
Looking-glass. See Miuiior. 

Loop (only in the plural r'\X5b,lnlaoth', windings ; 
Sept. dytcvXai, Vulg. ai&ulce), an attachment or knotted 
“ (1 J e ” probably of cord, corresponding to the knobs or 
“taclies” (D^D^J?) in the edges of the curtains of the 
tabernacle for joining them into a continuous circuit, 
fifty to a curtain, and formed of blue material (Exod. 
xxvi, 4, 5, 10, 1 1 ; xxxvi, 11, 12, 17). Sec Tabernacle. 

Loos ( Callidius ), Cornelius, a German Roman 
Catholic theologian, was born at Gornla, Holland, in 
1546, and was educated at Louvain. lie entered the 
priesthood, and was made doctor of theology at Mentz, 
where, in a sojourn of several years, he composed most 
of his works. He afterwards became archbishop of 
Treves; but, on account of his opinions upon magic, pub- 
lished in a book styled De vera et falsa magia (1592), 
he was forced to remove from his diocese, though he 
retracted his heretical views. lie went to Brussels, and 
there exercised the humble functions of vicar of the par- 
ish. He was soon accused of falling back into his old 
opinions, and was arrested and imprisoned. lie was 
about to be accused a third time, when he died at Brus- 
sels, Feb. 3, 1595. Loos was very zealous against Prot- 
estants, Among his works the following are of theo- 
logical and general interest : Dcfensio adversus Chr. 
Eranckcmum cceterosque sectaries panis adorationem ini- 
pie asserentes (Mayenee, 1581): — Thuribuhun anrenni 
sanctarum precat ionum (ibidem, 1581) :—Illustrium Ger- 


manics Scriptorum Catalogus (ibidem, 1581) : — Ecclesice 
Yenatus (Cologne, 1585) : — Annotationes in Ferum su- 
per Joannem, often reprinted. See Sweert, A thence Bel- 
gicce ; Foppens, Biblicth. Belgica ; Martin Delrio, Dis- 
quisit. mugicce, liv. v ; Bayle, Diet. Hist, et C?'it. (Callld- 
ius); Niceron, Memoir es ; Paquot, Memoires ; Iloefer, 
Nouv. Biog. Generate , s. v. 

Lope de Vega. See Vega. 

Lope de Vera y Alarcan, a Christian convert 
to Judaism, suffered martyrdom for his apostasy by the 
hands of the inquisitors’ tribunal of Spain. The de- 
scendant of a noble Spanish family, he had, while a stn- 
dent at Salamanca, interested himself in the study of 
Jewish literature and Judaism, and finally made a pub- 
lic confession of his belief in Judaism as the only re- 
vealed religion. lie "was imprisoned at Valladolid, and, 
persisting in his decision, was condemned to death at 
the stake, July 25, 1644. He was at the time of his 
death only about twenty-five years old, and had suffered 
imprisonment for nearly five years. See Griitz, Gesch. 
der Juden, x, 101. 

Loqtii, Martin. See Taborites. 

Lorance, James Houston, a Presbyterian minis- 
ter, was born at Mount Pleasant, Tenn., June 1, 1820. 
He was educated in Princeton College, N. J., and in di- 
vinity in the Princeton Theological Seminary (class of 
1846), and was licensed by New Brunswick Presbytery, 
commenced active work at AVhitesville, Ala., and sub- 
sequently was ordained by Palmyra Presbytery as pas- 
tor at Hannibal, Mo. He removed to Courtland, Ala., 
in 1851, and there continued his pastoral labors until his 
death, June 1, 1862. Mr. Lorancc was an able and em- 
inent preacher, pleasing and affable in manners, and firm 
but not obstinate in his conscientious attachment to the 
doctrines and polity of the Church of his fathers. See 
Wilson, Presb. IJist. Aim. 1867, p. 444. (J. L. S.) 

Lord is the rendering in the A. V. of several Heb. 
and Greek words, which have a very different import 
from each other. “ Lord” is a Saxon word signifying 
ruler or governor. In its original form it is hlaford, 
which, by dropping the aspiration, became laford , and 
afterwards, by contraction, lord. 

1. pnrp, Yehorah', Jehovah, the proper name of the 
God of the Hebrews, which should always have been 
retained in that form, but has almost invariably been 
translated in the English Bible by Lord (and printed 
thus in small capitals), after the example of the Sept. 
(K vpiog) and Vidg. (Dorn inns'). See Jeiiovaii. 

2. *j‘nx, addn f , one of the early words (hence in the 
early Phoenico-Greek Adonis) denoting the most abso- 
lute control, and therefore most fitly represented by the 
English word lord, as in the A. V. (Sept. Kvpiog, Vulg. 
dominus ). It is not properly a divine title, although 
occasionally applied to God (Psa. cxiv, 7 ; properly with 
the art. in this sense, Exod. xxiii, 13), as the supreme 
proprietor (Josh, iii, 13) ; but appropriately denotes a 
master, as of slaves (Gen. xxiv, 4, 27 ; xxxix, 2, 7), or 
a king, as ruler of subjects (Gen. xlv, 8; Isa. xxvi, 13), 
a husband, as lord of the wife (Geu. xviii, 12). It is 
frequently a term of respect, like our Sir, but with a 
pronoun attached (“my lord”), and often occurs in the 
plural. See Master. 

A modified form of this word is Adonay' (^“ntt ; Sept. 
Ki'/oioc, lord, master), “ the old plural form of the noun 
'■(’‘HSJ, adon, similar to that with the suffix of the first 
person, used as the pluralis excellent ice, by way of dig- 
nity, for the name of Jeiiovaii. The similar form with 
the suffix, is also used of men, as of Joseph’s master (Gen. 
xxxix, 2, 3 sq.), of Joseph himself (Gen. xlii, 30, 33; so 
also Isa. xix, 4). The Jews, out of superstitious rever- 
ence for the name Jehovah, always, in reading, pro- 
nounce A donai where Jehovah is written, and hence the 
letters rr.PP are usually written with the points be- 
longing to A donai, Jeiiovaii.’ The view that the word 


LORDLY 


504 


LORD 


exhibits a plural termination without the affix is that 
of Gesenius ( Thesaur . s. v. ",11), and seems just, though 
rather disapproved by professor Lee {Lex. in ',11 S). The 
latter adds that ‘our English Bibles generally translate 
nirr by LORD, in capitals; when preceded by ",1lS<n, 
they translate it God; when niXSU, tzabaoth, follows, 
by Loud, as in Isa. iii, 1, ‘ The Lord, the Lord of Hosts.’ 
The copies now in use arc not, however, consistent in 
this respect” (Kitto). “ In some instances it is difficult, 
on account of the pause accent, to say whether Adonai 
is the title of the Deity, or merely one of respect ad- 
dressed to men. These have been noticed by the Maso- 
rites, who distinguish the former in their notes as ‘holy,’ 
and the latter as ‘profane.’ (See Gen. xviii, 3; xix, 2, 
18; and compare the Masoretie notes on Gen. xx, 13; 
Isa. xix. 4)” (Smith.) See Adonai. 

3. K vpiog, the general Greek term for supreme mas- 
tery, whether royal or private ; and thus, in classical 
Greek, distinguished from Of oc, which is exclusively 
applied to God. The ‘‘Greek K vpiog, indeed, is used 
in much the same way and in the same sense as Lord. 

It is from Ki’poc, authority, and signifies ‘master’ or 
‘possessor.’ In the Septnagint, this, like Lord in our 
version, is invariably used for ‘Jehovah’ and ‘Adonai;’ 
while Bfoi;, like God in our translation, is generally re- 
served to represent the Hebrew ‘Elohim.’ Knptoc in 
the original of the Greek Testament, and Lord in our 
version of it, are used in much the same manner as in 
the Septuagint; and so, also, is the corresponding title, 
Dominus , in the Latin versions. As the Hebrew name 
Jehovah is one never used with reference to any but 
the Almighty, it is to be regretted that the Septuagint, 
imitated by our own and other versions, has represented 
it by a word which is also used for the Hebrew ‘Ado- 
nai,’ which is applied not only to God, but, like our 
* Lord,’ to creatures also, as to angels (Gen. xix, 2 ; Dan. 
x, 1G, 17), to men in authority (Gen. xlii, 30, 33), and 
to proprietors, owners, masters (Gen. xlv, 8). In the 
Xew Testament, Kuptoc, representing ‘Adonai,’ and both 
represented by Lord, the last, or human application of 
the term, is frequent. In fact, the leading idea of the 
Hebrew, the Greek, and the English words is that of an 
owner or proprietor, whether God or man; and it occurs 
in the inferior application with great frequency in the 
Xew Testament. This application is either literal or 
complimentary : literal when the party is really an 
owner or master, as in Matt, x, 24 ; xx, 8 ; xxi, 40 ; Acts 
xvi, 1G, 19; Gal. iv, 1, etc.; or when he is so as having 
absolute authority over another (Matt, ix, 38; Luke x, 
2), or as being a supreme lord or sovereign (Acts xxv, 
2G) : and complimentary when used as a title of address, 
especially to superiors, like the English Master , Sir; 
the French Sieur, Monsieur; tlic German Herr , etc., as , 
in Matt, xiii, 27; xxi, 20; Mark vii, 8; Luke ix, 54” 
(Kitto). See Winer, De voce K vpioQ (Erlang. 1828). 

4. ba'al, master in the sense of domination, ap- 
plied to only heathen deities, or else to human relations, 
as husband, etc., and especially to a person skilled or 
chief in a trade or profession (like the vulgar boss). 
To this corresponds the Greek deoTrorgg, whence our 
“despot.” See Baal. 

The remaining and less important words in the orig- 
inal, thus rendered in the common Bible (usually with- 
out a capital initial), are: gebir prop, denoting 

physical strength or martial prowess; “lb, sar, a title 
of nobility; shalish', a military officer (see Cap- 

tain); and "|“D, se'ren, a Philistine term; also the 
Chakl. mare', an official litle (hence the Syriac 
mar, or bishop) ; and nth, a general name —prafect, \ 
with its reduplicate rabrtban', and its Greek 

equivalent pafii3ovi, “ ItabbonV' 

Lordly occurs in the A, V. only in the expression 
ko. se'phel addirim', boicl a/* [the] nobles, i. 


e. a large vessel fit to be used for persons of quality 
(Judg. v, 25). See Dish. 

Lord, Benjamin, D.D., a Congregational minister, 
w r as born in 1G93 at Saybrook, Conn., graduated at Yale 
College in 1714, was chosen tutor in 1715, was ordained 
pastor Xov. 20, 17 L7, in Xorwich, and there preached 
until his death, March 31, 1784. He was made a mem- 
ber of Yale College corporation in 1740, and remained 
such till 1772. Dr. Lord published True Christianity ex- 
plained and exposed, wherein are some Observations re- 
specting Conversion (1727 ) : — Two Sermons on the Ne- 
cessity of Regeneration (1737 ): — Believers in Christ only 
the true Children of God, and born of him alone, a ser- 
mon (1742 ): — God glorified in the Works of Providence 
and Grace: a remarkable Instance of it in the various 
and signal Deliverances that evidently appear to be 
icrought for Mercy Wheeler, lately restored from extreme 
Impotence and Confinement (1743); and several occa- 
sional sermons. — Sprague, Annals, i, 297. 

Lord, Daniel Minor, a Presbyterian minister, 

! was born April 9, 1800, at Lyme, Conn., and was educa- 
ted at Amherst College and at the Theological Seminary 
at Princeton, X. J., and in April, 1834, was licensed by 
the Second Presbytery of Long Island, and subsequently 
ordained at Southampton. In 1835 the Presbytery dis- 
missed him to the Suffolk South Association. Soon 
after he became pastor of the Boston Mariners’ Church. 
In August, 1848, he became the first pastor of the Shelter 
Island Church, where he remained until his death, Aug. 
2G, 1861. Mr. Lord published The History of Pitcairn's 
Island; also various articles on The moral Claims of 
Seamen stated and enforced, and for several years was 
editor and almost sole writer and publisher of a review, 
in which he ably, logically, and clearly discussed pro- 
found theological questions. See Wilson, Presb. llist. 
Almanac , 1863, p. 305. (J. L. S.) 

Lord, Eleazer, an American theological writer, 
was born in 1798. With an excellent preparatory edu- 
cation, improved by close study to such a degree that 
in 1821 Dartmouth College, and in 1827 Williams, con- 
ferred on him the honorary degree of A.M., he devoted 
a portion of his time during an active business life as a 
merchant, president of an insurance company, and for 
some years of the Erie Railway Company, to the study 
of theological science. In 1866 he received from the 
University of Xew York the degree of LL.D. Blind- 
ness saddened his latter years, but his treasured learn- 
ing comforted him. lie died at Piermont, X. Y., June 
3, 1871. 

Lord, Isaiah, a Methodist Episcopal minister, was 
born in Pharsalia, Chenango County, X. York, July 16, 
1834, was converted at the age of sixteen, and, join- 
ing the Methodist Episcopal Church, at once began to 
preach. In 1854, while employed as a teacher, his gen- 
tle bearing and godly admonitions led many to the 
cross and salvation. In 1855 he joined the Oneida Con- 
ference, and labored in the following places with accep- 
tability and success: Summer Hill, Harford, Borodino, 
Smyrna, Union Valley, Amber, Freeville, East Homer, 
and Georgetown, where he died Aug, 21, 1870. “ He was 
a man of stern integrity and sterling worth, fully com- 
mitted to all the great moral enterprises of the day. . . . 
His mission was lovingly and fearlessly executed. Ilia 
piety was deep and real, and his death was but the be- 
ginning of everlasting life.” — Conf. Minutes, 1871. 

Lord, James Cooper, a philanthropic Xew York 
merchant and iron manufacturer of our day, deserves a 
place here for his great efforts to advance the interests 
of his fellow-men. He founded in 1860 “The First 
Ward Industrial School;” later, a free reading-room, a 
library, and erected two churches for the benefit of his 
workingmen and their neighbors, lie died Feb. 9, 1869. 

Lord, Jeremiah S., D.D., a Reformed (Dutch) 
minister of note, was born at Brooklyn, X. York, about 
1817, and was educated at Union College, class of 1836. 


LORD 


505 


LORD’S DAY 


He entered the ministry in 1843 at Montville, N. J., 
where he labored until 1847, when he assumed the 
charge of the Keformed Church of Criggstown, N. Jer- 
sey. In tbe year following, however, he accepted a 
call from the Keformed Church in Harlem, and there 
he labored until his death, April 2, 18G9. “ Few minis- 
ters of our denomination,” says the Intelligencer (April 8, 
18G9), “were more highly esteemed by their brethren, 
or enjoyed in a higher measure the confidence and af- 
fection of their people, than did this most excellent 
brother. The Lord blessed him in his work, and gave 
him many souls as seals to his ministry. . . . His 
preaching was characterized by great earnestness and 
solemnity. The love of Christ in the gift of himself 
was the central theme of his discourses. His style was 
clear, compact, and persuasive. His was indeed a most 
usefid life, and his example of faithfulness, earnest zeal, 
and self-sacrificing devotion to the duties of his high 
and holy calling is a rich legacy to all his surviving 
brethren in the ministry.” 

Lord, John King, a Congregational minister, was 
born March 22, 1819, at Amherst, N. II. He graduated 
at Dartmouth College in 1863, entered the ministry in 
1841, and was ordained pastor in Hartford., Vt., Novem- 
ber, 1841, where he remained three years. October 21, 
1848, he was installed pastor in Cincinnati, Ohio, where 
he died, July 13, 1849. A volume of his sermons was 
published in 1850. — Sprague, Annals, ii, 761. 

Lord, Nathan, D.D., LL.D., an eminent American 
divine and educator, was born at South Berwick, Me., 
Nov. 28, 1793; was educated at Bowdoin College (class 
of 1809), and studied theology at Andover Theological 
Seminary, where he graduated in 1815. After quitting 
the college he acted as assistant in Phillips Exeter Acad- 
emy. Now a theologian, he at once entered the active 
work of the ministry as pastor of the Congregationalists 
at Amherst. N. H., the only church lie ever served. He 
remained with his people until 1828, when he was called 
to the responsible position of president of Dartmouth 
College, where he remained until his death in 1870. 
Possessed of the highest attainments of scholarship, 
great executive ability, a winning address, equanimity 
of temper, remarkable “ firmness of character and devo- 
tion .to principle, and unwearied application to labor. Dr. 
Lord made Dartmouth College one of the most popular 
of our higher educational institutions: 1824 students 
were graduated from its halls during his presidency. 
As a theologian he was. like Edwards, Hopkins, and Bel- 
lamy, of the school advocating a strictly liberal interpre- 
tation of prophecy, but he has left us few T remains in 
print. He occasionally contributed to our theological 
quarterlies, and published several sermons and essays. 
The following deserve notice: Letter to the Rev. David 
Dana, D.D., on Pro f. Park's Theology of New England 
(Xeu' Engl. 1852) ; On the Millennium (1854) ; and Letters 
to Ministers of the Gospel of all Denominations on Slavery 
(1854-5), in which he defended the institution of slavery 
as sanctioned by the Bible, thereby greatly provoking 
opposition and criticism from Northern divines. Sec 
Drake, Diet. A mer. Biog. s. v. ; New A mer. Cyclop, s. v. ; 
also the A nnual for 1870. 

Lord, Nathan L., a Baptist missionary and phy- 
sician, was born in Norwich, Conn., in December, 1821, 
was educated at the Western Reserve College (class of 
1847), and, after completing a theological course, was 
employed for a time as agent and financial secretary of 
the college. Having decided to devote himself to the 
missionary work, he was ordained in October, 1852, and 
sailed with his wife for Ceylon. After six years of faith- 
ful labor, the failure of his health compelled him to re- 
turn to this country, where he remained nearly four years, 
during a portion of which time he performed with great 
acceptance the duties of a district secretary of the Board 
of Missions in the southern districts of the West. He 
also attended several courses of medical lectures, receiv- 
ing the degree of M.D. at Cleveland, Ohio. In 1863 he 


sailed with his wife and children for the Madura Mis- 
sion of the American Board of Commissioners of Foreign 
Missions, but the climate of India proving unfavorable 
to his health, he returned in June, 1867. He died Jan. 
24, 1868. 

Lord’s Day. The expression so rendered in the 
Authorized English Version ( iv ry Kvpuudj i/ptpg) oc- 
curs only once in the New Testament, viz,, in Rev. i, 10, 
and is there unaccompanied by any other words tending 
to explain its meaning. It is, however, well known 
that the same phrase was, in after ages of the Christian 
Church, used to signify the first day of the week, on 
which the resurrection of Christ was commemorated. 
Hence it has been inferred that the same name was giv- 
en to that day during the time of the apostles, and was 
in the present instance used by St.John in this sense, 
as referring to an institution well known, and therefore 
requiring no explanation. This interpretation, howev- 
er, has of late been somewhat questioned. It will be 
proper here, therefore, to discuss this point, as well as 
the early notices of this Christian observance, leaving 
the general subject to be treated under Sabbath. In 
doing this, we avail ourselves of the articles in the dic- 
tionaries of Kitto and Smith. 

I. Interpretation of the Phrase 11 Lord's Day ” in the 
Passage in question. — The general consent both of Chris- 
tian antiquity and of modern divines has referred it to 
the weekly festival of our Lord's resurrection, and iden- 
tified it with “ the first day of the week,” on which he 
rose, with the patristical “eighth day,” or “day which 
is both the first and the eighth” — in fact, with ?) tov 
'RX iov *H ptpa, the “Solis dies,” or “Sunday” of every 
age of the Church. On the other hand, the following 
different explanations have been proposed. 

1. Some have supposed St.John to be speaking, in 
the passage above referred to, of the Sabbath, because 
that institution is called in Isaiah Iviii, 13, by the Al- 
mighty himself, “ My holy day.” To this it is replied : 
If St. John had intended to specify the Sabbath, he 
would surely have used that word, which was by no 
means obsolete, or even obsolescent, at the time of his 
composing the book of the Revelation. It is added, 
that if an apostle had set the example of confounding 
the seventh and the first days of the week, it would 
have been strange indeed that every ecclesiastical wri- 
ter for the first five centuries should have avoided any 
approach to such confusion. They do avoid it ; for. as 

I 2dfij3arov is never used by them for the first day, so 
Kvptaia'i is never used by them for the seventh day. 
See Sabbatii. 

2. A second opinion is, that St.John intended by the 
“ Lord’s day” that on which the Lord’s resurrection was 
annually celebrated, or, as we now term it, Easter day. 
On this it need only be observed, that though it was 
never questioned that the weekly celebration of that 
event should take place on the first day of the hebdom- 
adal cycle, it was for a long time doubted on what day 
in the annual cycle it should be celebrated. Two 
schools, at least, existed on this point until considerably 
after the death of St. John. It therefore seems unlikely 
that, in a book intended for the whole Church, he would 
have employed a method of dating which was far from 
generally agreed upon. It is to be added that no pa- 
tristieal authority can be quoted, either for the interpre- 
tation contended for in this opinion, or for the employ- 
ment of i) K vptaKt) Tl pi pa to denote Easter day. See 
Easter. 

3. Another theory is, that by “the Lord’s day” St. 
John intended “ the day of judgment,” to which a large 
portion of the book of Revelation may be conceived to 
refer. Thus, “ 1 was in the spirit on the. Lord’s day” 
(iytvofujv tv TTVfvpari tv tij KvptaKy ’Rpipq) would 
imply that he was rapt, in spiritual vision, to the date 
of that “great and terrible day,” just as St. Paul repre- 
sents himself as caught up locally into Paradise. Now, 
not to dispute the interpretation of the passage from 
whicli the illustration is drawn (2 Cor. xii, 4), the abet- 


LORD’S DAY 


50G 


LORD’S DAY 


tors of this view seem to have put out of sight the fol- 
lowing considerations. In the preceding sentence St. 
John had mentioned the place in which he was writing 
— Patnios — and the causes which had brought him thith- 
er. It is but natural that he should further particular- 
ize the circumstances under which his mysterious work 
was composed, by stating the exact day on which the 
revelations were communicated to him, and the employ- 
ment, spiritual musing, in which he was then engaged. 
To suppose a mixture of the metaphorical and the lit- 
eral would be strangely out of keeping. Though it be 
conceded that the day of judgment is in the New Test, 
spoken of as ’H too K vptov 'Hpepa, the employment of 
the adjectival form constitutes a remarkable difference, 
which was observed and maintained ever afterwards 
(comp. 1 Cor. i, 8, 14 ; v, 5 : 1 Thess. v, 2 ; 2 Thess. ii, 2 ; 
Luke xvii, 24; 2 Pet. iii, 10). There is also a critical 
objection to this interpretation, for yiveodai iv gpipq is 
not =diem agere (comp. Rev. iv, 2). This third theory, 
then, which is sanctioned by the name of August i, must 
be abandoned. 

4. As a less definite modification of this last view we 
may mention, finally, that others have regarded the 
phrase in question as meaning simply “ the day of the 
Lord,” the substantive being merely exchanged for the 
adjective, as in 1 Cor. xi, 20: icvpiaKov dsiTrv on, “the 
Lord’s Supper,” which would make it merely synony- 
mous with the generally expected temporal appearance 
of Christ on earth: y) yjpepa tevpiov, “the day of the 
Lord” (l Thess. v, 2). Such a use of the adjective be- 
came extremely common in the following ages, as we 
have repeatedly in the fathers the corresponding ex- 
pressions Dominican crucis, “ the Lord’s cross Domin- 
ica? nativitatis, “ the Lord’s nati city” (Tertullian, De Idol. 
p. 5) ; Xoyiwv KvpiaK&v (Eusebius, Uistor . Eccles . iii, 9). 
According to their view, the passage would mean, “ In 
the spirit I was present at the day of the Lord,” the 
word “day” being used for any signal manifestation 
(possibly in allusion to Joel ii, 31 \ as in John viii, 56: 
“Abraham rejoiced to see my day.” The peculiar use 
of the word y)pepa, as referring to a period of ascenden- 
cy, appears remarkably in 1 Cor. iv, 3, where di'Spw- 
7 rivfjs y'lpfpag is rendered “ man’s judgment.” Never- 
theless, this interpretation, besides the objection of its 
vagueness as a date, is clogged with all the ditheulties 
that attach to the preceding one. 

All other conjectures upon this point may be permit- 
ted to confute themselves, but the following cavil is too 
curious to be omitted. In Scripture the lirst day of the 
week is called y) pia aafificiTuiv, in post-scriptural writ- 
ers it is called y) Kvpiciia) * Hpepa as well; therefore 
the book of Revelation is not to be ascribed to an apos- 
tle, or, in other words, is not part of Scripture. The 
logic of this argument is only surpassed by its boldness. 
It says, in effect, because post-scriptural writers have 
these two designations for the first day of the week, 
therefore scriptural writers must be confined to one of 
them. It were surely more reasonable to suppose that 
the adoption by post-scriptural writers of a phrase so 
pre-eminently Christian as y) Kvpiaici)' Hpepa to denote 
the first day of the week, and a day so especially mark- 
ed, can he traceable to nothing else than an apostle’s use 
of that phrase in the same meaning. 

H. Early Notices of this Christian Observance. — Sup- 
posing, then, that t) Kvpiaici) 'Hpepa of St.John is the 
Lord’s clay, as now applied to the first, day of the mod- 
ern week, we have to inquire here. What do we gather 
from holy Scripture concerning that institution? How 
is it spoken of by early writers up to the time of Con- 
stantine? What change, if any, was brought upon it 
by the celebrated edict, of that emperor, whom some 
have declared to have been its originator? 

I. Scripture says very little concerning^, but that 
little seems to indicate that the divinely-inspired apos- 
tles, by their practice and by their precepts, marked the 
first day of the week as a day for meeting together to 
break bread, for communicating and receiving instruc- 


tion, for laying up offerings in store for charitable pur- 
poses, for occupation in holy thought and prayer. The 
first day of the week so devoted seems also to have been 
the day of the Lord’s resurrection, and therefore to have 
been especially likely to be chosen for such purposes by 
those who “preached Jesus and the resurrection.” 

The Lord rose on the first day of the week (r£ piq 
aajij3dru}v), and appeared, on the very day of bis rising, 
to his followers on five distinct occasions — to Maty Mag- 
dalene, to the other women, to the two disciples on the 
road to Emmaus, to St. Peter separately, to ten apostles 
collected together. After eight days (pe0‘ ijpipag qktio), 
that is, according to the ordinary reckoning, on the first 
day of the next week, he appeared to the eleven (John 
xx, 26). lie does not seem to have appeared in the in- 
terval — it may be to render that day especially notice- 
able by the apostles, or it may be for other reasons. 
But, however this question he settled, on the day of Pen- 
tecost, which in that year fell on the first day of the 
week (see Bramhall, Disc, of the Subbath and Lord's 
Day, in Works, v, 51, Oxford edition), “they were all 
with one accord in one place,” had spiritual gifts con- 
ferred on them, and in their turn began to communicate 
those gifts, as accompaniments of instruction, to others. 
At Troas (Acts xx, 7), many years after the occurrence 
at Pentecost, when Christianity had begun to assume 
something like a settled form, St. Luke records the fol- 
lowing circumstances : St. Paul and his companions ar- 
rived there, and “abode seven days, and upon the first 
day of the week, when the disciples came together to 
break bread, Paul preached unto them.” Prom the state- 
ment that “ Paul continued his speech till midnight,” it 
has been inferred by some that the assembly commenced 
after sunset on the Sabbath, at which hour the first day 
of the week had commenced, according to the Jewish 
reckoning (Jahn’s Bibl. Antiq . § 398), which would hard- 
ly agree with the idea of a commemoration of the res- 
urrection. But further, the words of this passage, ’Ej/ 
de t y fuq tu) v (ra/3/3dre>aq avvyyyfievwv rwr paSnyrdv 
tov tcXaaat dprov .... have been by some considered 
to imply that such a weekly observance was then the 
established custom ; yet it is obvious that the mode of 
expression would be just as applicable if they had been 
in the practice of assembling daily. Still the whole aim 
of the narrative favors the reference to what is now 
known as Sim day. In 1 Cor. xvi, 1,2, St. Paul writes 
thus: “Now concerning the collection for the saints, as 
I have given order to the churches in Galatia, even so 
do ye : Upon the first day of the week, let every one of 
you lay by him in store, as God hath prospered him, 
that there be no gatherings when I come.” This direc- 
tion, it is true, is not connected with any mention of pub- 
lic worship or assemblies on that day. But this has 
naturally been inferred; and the regulation has been 
supposed to have a reference to the tenets of the Jewish 
converts, who considered it unlawful to touch money on 
the Sabbath (Yitringa, De Synagogd , translat. by Ber- 
nard, p. 75-167), In consideration for them, therefore, 
the apostle directs the collection to be made on the fol- 
lowing day, on which secular business was lawful ; or, 
as Coceeius observes, they regarded the day “non ut 
festum, sed ut tpyaaipov” (not as a feast, but as a work- 
ing day; Yitringa, p. 77). Again, the phrase pia tu> v 
( rajSlSariov is generally understood to be, according to 
the Jewish mode of naming the days of the week, the 
common expression for the first day. Yet it has been 
differently construed by some, who render it “upon one 
of the days of the week” (Tracts for the Times, ii, 1, 16). 
In Hcb. x, 25, the correspondents of the writer are de- 
sired “not to forsake the assembling of themselves to- 
gether, as the manner of some is, but to exhort one an- 
other,” an injunction which seems to imply that a reg- 
ular day for such assembling existed, and was well 
known; for otherwise no rebuke would lie. Lastly, in 
the passage given above, St.John describes himself as 
being in the Spirit “on the Lord’s day.” 

Taken separately, perhaps, and even all together, these 


LORD’S DAY 


507 


LORD’S DAY 


passages seem scarcely adequate to prove that the dedi- 
cation of the first day of the week to the purposes above 
mentioned was a matter of apostolic institution, or even 
of apostolic practice. But, it may be observed, that it 
is, at any rate, an extraordinary coincidence, that almost 
as soon as we emerge from Scripture we find the same 
day mentioned in a similar manner, and directly asso- 
ciated with the Lord’s resurrection; and it is an ex- 
traordinary fact that we never find its dedication ques- 
tioned or argued about, but accepted as something equal- 
ly apostolic with confirmation, with infant baptism, with 
ordination, or at least spoken of in the same way. As 
to direct support from holy Scripture, it is noticeable 
that those other ordinances which are usually consider- 
ed scriptural, and in support of which Scripture is usu- 
ally cited, are dependent, so far as mere quotation is 
concerned, upon fewer texts than the Lord’s day is. 
Stating the ease at the very lowest, the Lord’s day has 
at least “probable insinuations in Scripture” (Bp. San- 
derson), and so is superior to any other holy day, wheth- 
er of hebdomadal celebration, as Friday ill memory of 
the crucifixion, or of annual celebration, as Easter day 
in memory of the resurrection itself. These other days 
may be, and are, defensible on other grounds, but they 
do not possess anything like a scriptural authority for 
their observance. If we are inclined still to press for 
more pertinent scriptural proof, and more frequent men- 
tion of the institution, for such we suppose it to be, in 
the writings of the apostles, we must recollect how little 
is said of baptism and the Lord’s Supper, and how vast 
a difference is naturally to be expected to exist between 
a sketch of the manners and habits of their age, which 
the authors of the holy Scriptures did not write, and 
hints as to life and conduct, and regulation of known 
practices, which they did write. 

2. On quitting the canonical writings we turn natu- 
rally to Clement of Borne. He does not, however, di- 
rectly mention “the Lord’s day,” but in 1 Cor. i, 40, he 
says, 7 rdvra rdZiL ttoihv cxpdXoptv, and he speaks of 
djpioptvoi Kaipol Kai wpat, at which the Christian 7 rpoa- 
tyopai Kai Xtirovpyiai should be made. 

Ignatius, the disciple of St.John {ad. Magn. c. 9), 
contrasts Judaism and Christianity, and, as an exempli- 
fication of the contrast, opposes <safifiariZ,iiv to living 
according to the Lord’s life {Kara n)v Kvpian)v £wi)r 
ZdlVT(Q). 

The epistle ascribed to St. Barnabas, which, though 
certainly not written by that apostle, was in existence 
in the earlier part of the 2d century, has (c. 15) the fol- 
lowing words : “We celebrate the eighth day with joy, 
on which, too, Jesus rose from the dead.” 

A pagan document now comes into view. It is the 
well-known letter of Pliny to Trajan, written (about A. 
D. 100) while he presided over Pont ns and Bith vnia. 
“The Christians (says he) affirm the whole of their 
guilt or error to be that they were accustomed to meet 
together on a stated day {stato die), before it was light, 
and to sing hymns to Christ as a god, and to bind them- 
selves by a saeramentnm , not for any wicked purpose, 
but never to commit fraud, theft, or adultery; never to 
break their word, or to refuse, when called upon, to de- 
liver up any trnst; after which it was their custom to 
separate, and to assemble again to take a meal, but a 
general one, and without guilty purpose” {Kpist. x, 97). 

A thoroughly Christian authority, Justin Martyr, 
who flourished A.D. 140, stands next on the list. lie 
writes thus: “On the day called Sunday {ry rov ?)\/ou 
Xsyopivy ypioa) is an assembly of all who live either 
in the cities or in the rural districts, and the memoirs 
of the apostles and the writings of the prophets are 
read.” Then he goes on to describe the particidars of 
the religious acts which are entered upon at this assem- 
bly. They consist of prayer, of the celebration of the 
holy Eucharist, and of collection of alms. He after- 
wards assigns the reasons which Christians had for 
meeting on Sunday. These are, “ because it is the 
First Day, on which God dispelled the darkness {to 


vkotoq) and the original state of things {ryv vXyv), and 
formed the world, and because Jesus Christ our Saviour 
rose from the dead upon it” {Apol. i, 67). In another 
work {Dial. c. Tryph .) he makes circumcision furnish a 
type of Sunday. “ The command to circumcise infants 
on the eighth day was a type of the true circumcision 
by which we are circumcised from error and wickedness 
through our Lord Jesus Christ, who rose from the dead 
on the first day of the week {ry pa (t oaftfidrujv ) ; there- 
fore it remains the chief and first of days.” As for 
<ja/3/3ar<£f<n, he uses that with exclusive reference to 
the Jewish law. He carefully distinguishes Saturday 
(>/ KpoviKij), the day after which our Lord was cruci- 
fied, from Sunday (?) ptrd ti)v KpoviKt)v prig ianv 1) 
rot) 'H Xiov 1) pi pa), upon which he rose from the dead. 
If any surprise is felt at Justin’s employment of the 
heathen designations for the seventh and first days of 
the week, it may be accounted for thus. Before the 
death of Hadrian, A.D. 138, the hebdomadal division 
(which Dion Cassius, writing in the 3d century, derives, 
together with its nomenclature, from Egypt) had, in 
matters of common life, almost universally superseded 
in Greece, and even in Italy, the national divisions of 
the lunar month. Justin Martyr, writing to and for 
heathen, as well as to and for Jews, employs it, there- 
fore, with a certainty of being understood. 

The strange heretic, Bardesanes, who, however, de- 
lighted to consider himself a sort of Christian, has the 
following words in his book on “ Fate,” or on “ the Laws 
of the Countries,” which he addressed to the emperor 
M. Aurelius Antoninus: “What, then, shall we say re- 
specting the new race of ourselves who are Christians, 
whom in every country and in every region the Messiah 
established at his coming ; for, lo ! wherever we be, all 
of us are called by the one name of the Messiah, Chris- 
tians; and upon one day, which is the first of the week, 
we assemble ourselves together, and on the appointed 
days we abstain from food” (Cureton’s Translation ). 

Two very short notices stand next on our list, but 
they are important from their casual and unstudied 
character. Dionysius, liskop of Corinth, A.D. 170, in a 
letter to the Church of Borne, a fragment of which is 
preserved by Eusebius {Eccles. Hist, iv, 23), says, n) v 
ayptpov ovv KvpiaKtjV dyiav ijpspav hyydyoptv, iv 
y di’tyi'wpfv vputv ryv hraJToXijv. And Melito, bish- 
op of Sardis, his contemporary, is stated to have com- 
posed, among other works, a treatise on the Lord’s day 
(o Trtpi rijg KvpiaKyg Xoyog). 

The next writer who may be quoted is Irenreus, bish- 
op of Lyons, A.D. 178. He asserts that the Sabbath is 
abolished; but his evidence to the existence of the 
Lord’s day is clear and distinct {De Orat. 23 ; De Idol. 
14). It is spoken of in one of the best-known of his 
Fragments (see Beaven’s Irena us, p. 202). But a rec- 
ord in Eusebius (v, 23, 2) of the part whieh he took in 
the Quarta-Deciman controversy shows that in his time 
it was an institution beyond dispute. The point in 
question was this : Should Easter be celebrated in con- 
nection with the Jewish Passover, on whatever day of 
the week that might happen to fall, with the church- 
es of Asia Minor, Syria, and Mesopotamia, or on the 
Lord’s day, with the rest of the Christian world? The 
churches of Gaul, then under the superintendence of 
Irenrpus, agreed upon a synodical epistle to Victor, bish- 
op of Borne, in which occurred words somewhat to this 
effect: “The mystery of the Lord’s resurrection may 
not be celebrated on any other day than the Lord’s day, 
and on this alone should we observe the breaking off of 
the paschal fast.” This confirms what was said above, 
that while, even towards the end of the 2d century, tra- 
dition varied as to the yearly celebration of Christ's res- 
urrection, the weekly celebration of it was one upon 
which no diversity existed, or was even hinted at. 

Clement of Alexandria, A.D. 194, comes next. One 
does not expect anything very definite from a writer of 
so mystical a tendency, but he has some things quite to 
our purpose. In his Strom, (iv, 3) he speaks of n)v dp - 


LORD’S DAY 


503 


LORD’S DAY 


\iyovov im'fpav, Ttji' Tip ovn civuttcivoiv i}p.Cov,Ti)v ci) 
Kai 7 rpioTijv rip ovTt 0wrti£ ykrtotv, k. r. X., words which 
bishop Kaye interprets as contrasting the seventh day 
of t lie Law with the eighth day of the Gospel. As the 
same learned prelate observes, “ When Clement says that 
the Gnostic, or transcendental Christian, does not pray 
in any fixed place, or on any stated days, but through- 
out his whole life, he gives us to understand that Chris- 
tians in general did meet together in fixed places and 
at appointed times for prayer.” Hut we are not left to 
mere inference on this important point, for Clement 
speaks of the Lord’s day as a well-known and customary 
festival (Strom, vii), and in one place gives a mystical 
interpretation of the name (Strom, v). 

Tertullian, whose date is assignable to the close of 
the 2d century, may, in spite of his conversion to Mon- 
tanism, be quoted as a witness to facts. He terms the 
first day of the week sometimes Sunday (Dies Solis), 
sometimes Dies Dominicus. lie speaks of it as a day 
of joy (“Diem Solis lsetitiae indulgemus,” Apol. c. 16), 
and asserts that it is wrong to fast upon it, or to pray 
standing during its continuance (“Die Dominico jejuni- 
11 m nefas ducimus, vel de genictdis adorare ,” De Cor. c.3). 
Even business is to be put off, lest we give place to the 
devil (“ Differentes etiam negotia, lie quem Diabolo lo- 
cum demus,” De Orat. c. 13). 

Origen contends that the Lord’s day had its superi- 
ority to the Sabbath indicated by manna having been 
given on it to the Israelites, while it was withheld on 
the Sabbath. It is one of the marks of the perfect 
Christian to keep the Lord’s day. 

Minucius Felix (A.D. 210) makes the heathen inter- 
locutor, in his dialogue called Octavius, assert that the 
Christians come together to a repast “on a solemn day” 
(solenni die). 

Cyprian and his colleagues, in a synodical letter (A.D. 
253), make the Jewish circumcision on the eighth day 
prefigure the newness of life of the Christian, to which 
Christ’s resurrection introduces him, and point to the 
Lord’s day, which is at once the eighth and the first. 

Commodian (circ. A.D. 290) mentions the Lord’s day. 

Victorinas (A.D. 290) contrasts it, in a very remark- 
able passage, with the Parasceve and the Sabbath. 

Lastly, Peter, bishop of Alexandria (A.D. 300), says 
of it, “ We keep the Lord’s day as a day of joy, because 
of him who rose thereon.” 

The results of our examination of the principal writ- 
ers of the two centuries after the death of St. John may 
be thus summed up. The Lord’s day (a name which 
has now come out more prominently, and is connected 
more explicitly with our Lord’s resurrection than be- 
fore) existed during these two centuries as a part and 
parcel of apostolical, and so of scriptural Christianity. 
It was never defended, for it was never impugned, or, at 
least, only impugned as other things received from the 
apostles were. It was never confounded with the Sab- 
bath, but carefully distinguished from it (though we i 
have not quoted nearly all the passages by which this 
point might be proved). It was not an institution of 
severe sabbatical character, but a day of joy (yop/m- 
ovvif) and cheerlulness (tvippoavvif). rather encouraging 
than forbidding relaxation. Religiously regarded, it 
was a day of solemn meeting for the holy Eucharist, 
for united prayer, for instruction, for almsgiving; and 
though, being an institution under the law of liberty, 
work does not appear to have been formally interdicted, 
or rest formally enjoined, Tertullian seems to indicate 
tli at the character of the day was opposed to worldly 
business. Finally, whatever analogy may be supposed 
to exist between the Lord’s day and the Sabbath, in no 
passage that has come down to us is the fourth com- 
mandment appealed to as the ground of the obligation 
to observe the Lord's day. Ecclesiastical writers reiter- 
ate again and again, in the strictest sense of the words, 

“ Let no man, therefore, judge you in respect of an holi- 
day, or of the new moon, or of the Sabbath days” (Col. 
Li, 16). Nor, again, is it referred to any sabbatical foun- 


dation anterior to the promulgation of the Mosaic econ- 
omy. On the contrary, those before the Mosaic tera are 
constantly assumed to have had neither knowledge nor 
observance of the Sabbath. As little is it anywhere as- 
serted that the Lord’s day is merely an ecclesiastical in- 
stitution, dependent on the post-apostolic Church for its 
origin, and by consequence capable of being done away, 
should a time ever arrive when it appears to be no lon- 
ger needed. 

If these facts be allowed to speak for themselves, they 
indicate that the Lord’s day is a purely Christian insti- 
tution, sanctioned by apostolic practice, mentioned in 
apostolic writings, and so possessed of whatever divine 
authority all apostolic ordinances, and doctrines (which 
were not obviously temporary", or were not abrogated by 
the apostles themselves) can be supposed to possess. 

3. But, on whatever grounds “ the Lord’s day” may be 
supposed to rest, it is a great and indisputable fact that 
four years before the (Ecumenical Council of Nicaea, it 
was recognised by Constantine, in his celebrated edict, 
as “ the venerable Day of the Sun.” The terms of the 
document are these : 

u Imperator Constantinus Aug. Hdpidio. 

“Omnesjudices urbanreque plebes etcunctarnm artinm 
offieia venerabili Die Solis quiescant. Ruri tameu positi 
agrorum cultural liberd licenterque inserviaut, quoniam 
frequenter evenit ut non aptius alio die frumeuta sulcis 
aut vinete scrobibus mandentnr, ne occasione moment! 
pereat eommoditas ecelesti provisione eoncessa.”— Dat. 
Non. Mart. Crispo II ct Constantino II Coss. 

Some have endeavored to explain away this docu- 
ment by alleging, 1st. That “Solis Dies” is not the Chris- 
tian name of the Lord’s day, and that Constantine did 
not therefore intend to acknowledge it as a Christian 
institution. 2d. That, before his conversion, Constan- 
tine had professed himself to be especially under the 
guardianship of the sun, and that, at the very best, he 
intended to make a religious compromise between sun- 
worshippers, properly so called, and the worshippers of 
the “Sun of Righteousness,” i. e. Christians. 3dly. That 
Constantine’s edict was purely a calendarial one, and 
intended to reduce the number of public holidays, “Dies 
Nefasti” or “Feriati,” which had, so long ago as the 
date of the “Actiones Yerrime,” become a serious im- 
pediment to the transaction of business; and that this 
was to be effected by choosing a day which, while it 
would be accepted by the paganism then in fashion, 
would, of course, be agreeable to the Christians. 4thly. 
That Constantine then instituted Sunday for the first 
time as a religions day for Christians. The fourth of 
these statements is absolutely refuted, both by the quo- 
tations made above from writers of the 2d and 3d cen- 
turies, and by the terms of the edict itself. It is evi- 
dent that Constantine, accepting as facts the existence 
of the “ Solis Dies,” and the reverence paid to it by some 
one or other, does nothing more than make that rever- 
ence practically universal. It is “ venerabilis” already, 
i It is probable that this most natural interpretation 
would never have been disturbed had not Sozomen as- 
serted, without warrant from either the Justinian or the 
Theodosian Code, that Constantine did for the sixth day 
of the week what the codes assert that he did for the 
first (Eccles. Ilist. i,8 ; comp. Eusebius, Vit. Const, iv, 18). 
The three other statements concern themselves rather 
with what Constantine meant than with what he did. 
But with such considerations we have little or nothing 
to do. He may have purposely selected an ambiguous 
appellation. He may have been only half a Christian, 
wavering between allegiance to Christ and allegiance to 
Mithras. lie may have affected a religious syncretism. 
He may have wished his people to adopt such syncre- 
tism. He may have feared to offend the pagans. lie 
may have hesitated to avow too openly his inward lean- 
ings to Christianity, lie may have considered that 
community of religions days might lead by-and-by to 
community of religious thought and feeling. He may 
have had in view the rectification of the calendar. But 
all this is nothing to the purpose. It is a fact, that in 


LORD’S PRAYER 


509 


LORD’S SUPPER 


the year A.D. 321, in a public ediet, which was to apply 
to Christians as well as to pagans, he put especial honor 
upon a day already honored by the former — judiciously 
calling it by a name which Christians had long employ- 
ed without seruple, and to which, as it was in ordinary 
use, the pagans could scarcely object. What he did for 
it was to insist that worldly business, whether by the 
functionaries of the law or by private citizens, should 
be intermitted during its continuance. An exception, 
indeed, was made in favor of the rural districts, avow- 
edly from the necessity of the ease, covertly, perhaps, to 
prevent those districts where paganism (as the word 
pagus would intimate) still prevailed extensively from 
feeling aggrieved by a sudden and stringent change. It 
need only be added here that the readiness with which 
Christians acquiesced in the interdiction of business on 
the Lord’s day affords no small presumption that they 
had long considered it to be a day of rest, and that, so 
far as circumstances admitted, they had made it so long 
before. 

Were any other testimony wanting to the existence 
of Sunday as a day of Christian worship at this period, 
it might be supplied by the Council of Nietea, A.D. 325. 
The fathers there and then assembled make no doubt 
of the obligation of that day — do not ordain it — do not 
defend it. They assume it as an existing fact, and only 
notice it incidentally in order to regulate an indifferent 
matter— the posture of Christian worshippers upon it 
(Cone. Nic. canon 20). 

Chrysostom (A.D. SCO) concludes one of his Homilies 
by dismissing his audience to their respective ordinary 
occupations. The Council of Laodieea (A.I). 364), how- 
ever, enjoined Christians to rest (oxoXd^eiv) on the 
Lord’s day. To the same effect is an injunction in the 
forgery called the Apostolical Constitutions (vii, 24), and 
various other enactments from A.D. GOO to A.D. 1100, 
though by no means extending to the prohibition of all 
secular business. 

See Pearson, On the Creed , ii, 341, edit. Oxf. ; Jortin, 
Remarks on Rccles. Ilist. iii, 236 ; Baxter, On the Divine 
Appointment of the Lord's Day, p. 41, ed. 1671 ; Ilessev, 
Bampton Lecture for I860; Gillillan, The Sabbath , p. 8. 
See Sunday. 

Lord’s Prayer, the common title of the only form 
given by Jesus Christ to his disciples. Matthew inserts 
it as part of the Sermon on the Mount (Matt, vi, 9-13) ; 
nor is it inappropriate to the connection there, for the 
general topic of that part of the discourse is prayer. 
Luke, however, explicitly assigns the occasion for its 
delivery as being at the request of the diseiples (Luke 
xi, 2-4) ; and we cannot reasonably suppose either that 
they had forgotten it, if previously given them, or that 
our Lord woidd not have referred to it as already pre- 
scribed. The following analysis exhibits its compre- 
hensive structure: 


Gkada- 

Pro- 

logue. 

Body of the Prayer. 

[Epilog 

UE. 

TIONS. 

Address. 

Homage. 

Petition*. 

Doxology. 

General. | 

C/iria- ( 
tia it. { 

Ra- 

Hallowed be 

Give us this 

for thine ' 


ther 

of 

US, 

thy name ! 

Thy kingdom 
come 1 

day our needful 
bread ; 

and forgive us 
our debts, as we 
forgive our debt- 
ors ; 

is the 
kingdom, 
and the 
power, 

^ for- 
ever. 

Consum- f 

who art 

Thy will be done 

and lead us not 

and the 


/nation. ( 

in heaven, 

on earth, as it is 
in heaven ! 

into temptation, 
but deliver us 
from evil : 

glory, 

1 




Attestation. 

— Amen.] 




The closing doxology is omitted by Luke, and is proba- 
bly spurious in Matthew, as it is not found there in any 
of the early MSS. The prayer is doubtless based upon 
expressions and sentiments already familiar to the Jews ; 
indeed, parallel phrases to nearly all its contents have 
been discovered in the Talmud (see Seliottgen and 
Liglitfoot, s. v.). This, however, does not detract from 
its beauty or originality as a whole. The earliest ref- 
erence found to it, as a liturgical formula in actual use, 
is in the so-called Apostolical Constitutions (q. v.), which 


give the form entire, and enjoin its stated use (vii, 44), 
but solely by baptized persons, a rule which was after- 
wards strictly observed. The Christian fathers, espe- 
cially Tertullian, Cyprian, and Origen, are loud in its 
praise, and several of them wrote special expositions or 
treatises upon it. Cyril of Jerusalem is the first writer 
who expressly mentions the use of the Lord’s Prayer at 
the administration of the holy Eucharist ( Cateck . Myst. 
v). St. Augustine has also alluded to its use on this 
solemn oeeasiou (Horn, lxxxiii). The Ordo Romanus 
prefixes a preface to the Lord’s Prayer, the date of which 
is uncertain. It contains a brief exposition of the prayer. 
All the Boman breviaries insist upon beginning divine 
serviee Avith the Lord’s Prayer; but it has been satisfac- 
torily proved that this custom Avas introduced as late as 
the 13th century by the Cistercian monks, and that it 
passed from the monastery to the Church. The aneient 
homiletical Avritings do not afford any trace of the use 
of the Lord’s Prayer before sermons (see Kiddle, Man- 
ual of Christian Antiquities). Its absurd repetition as 
a Pater Noster (q. v.) by the Romanists has perhaps led 
to an undue avoidanee of it by some Protestants. In all 
liturgies (q. v.) of course it occupies a prominent place, 
and it is usual in many denominations to recite it in 
public sendees and elseAvhere. That it Avas not de- 
signed, hoAvever, as a formula of Christian prayer in 
general is evident from tAvo facts: 1. It contains no al- 
lusion to the atonement of Christ, nor to the offiees of 
the Holy Spirit; 2. It Avas neA T er so used or cited by the 
apostles themseh'es, so far as the eAddenee of Holy Writ 
goes, although Jerome (A di\ Pelay. iii, 3) and Gregory 
(Epp. vii, Ixiii) affirm that it A\'as used by apostolical 
example in the consecration of the Eucharist. The lit- 
erature of the subject is very copious (see the Christ. Re- 
membrancer, Jan. 1862). Early monographs are cited by 
Volbeding, Index Proyrammatum, p. 33 sq., 131. Among 
special recent comments on it avc may mention those of 
Bocker (Loud. 1835), Anderson (ibid. 1840), Manton (ib. 
1841), IioAvsell (ibid. 1841), Duncan (ibid. 1845), Kenna- 
Avay (ibid. 1845), Prichard (ibid. 1855), EdAvards (ibid. 
1860), and Denton (ib. 1864; N. Y, 1865). See Prayer. 

Lord’s Supper, the common English name of an 
ordinance instituted by our Saviour in commemoration 
of his death and sufferings, being one of the two sacra- 
ments unWersally observed by the Christian Church. 

I. Name.— It is called ‘-the Lord’s Supper” (tcvpiaKov 
hbzvov) in 1 Cor. xi, 20 because it Avas instituted at 
supper-time. Synonymous Avith this is the phrase “ the 
Lord’s table” (rpc'areZa K vpiov, 1 Cor. x, 21), Avhere Ave 
also find the name “the cup of the Lord” ( 7 ror//piou Ku- 
piov ). Many neAv terms for it Avere early introduced in 
the Church, among Avhieh the principal are Communion 
( Koiviovia , a festival in common), a term borroAved from 
1 Cor. x, 16, and Eucharist (E vxccpioria and ivXoyia), 
“ a giving of thanks,” because of the hymns and psalms 
which accompanied it. Among the many other Greek 
and Latin names applied to the Lord’s Supper, but for 
Avhieh Ave have no exaet equWalent, Ave mention YiW£- 
ig, “ a collection” (for celebrating the Lord’s Supper), 
Attrovpyia (Liturgy, q. a'.), Mvorijpiov (Sacrament, q. 
v.), Missa (Mass, q. v.), etc. See Eucharist. 

II. Biblical Notices . — 1. Oriyinal Accounts. — The in- 
stitution of this sacrament is recorded by MattheAv 
(xxvi, 26-29), Mark (xiv, 22-25), Luke (xxii, 19 sq.), 
and by the apostle Paul (1 Cor. xi, 24-26), Avhose Avords 
ditfer very little from those of his companion, Luke ; 
and the only difference between MattheAv and Mark 
is, that the latter omits the Avords “for the remission 
of sins.” There is so general an agreement among 
them all that it Avill only be necessary to reeite the 
Avords of one of them : “Noav, Avhen the eA’en Avas come, 
he sat down Avith the tAvelve” to eat the Passcwer which 
had been prepared by his direction, “and as they Aver* 
eating, Jesus took bread, and blessed it, and brake it, and 
gave it to the disciples, and said, Take, eat; this is my 
body. And he took the eup, and ga\*e thanks, and gave 
it to them, saying, Drink ye all of it, for this is my 


LORD'S SUPPE1 


510 


LORD’S SUPPER 


blood of the New Testament, which is shed for many 
for the remission of sins” (Matt, xxvi, 20, 26-28). Its 
institution “ in remembrance" of Christ is recorded only by 
Luke and Paul. John does not mention the institution 
at all, but the discourse of Jesus in chap, vi, 51-59 is re- 
ferred by many interpreters to the Lord’s Supper. Paul 
warns the Corinthians (1 Cor. x, 16-21) that they can- 
not partake of the Lord's table and at the same time eat 
of the pagan sacrifices, because (verse 19) “the things 
which the Gentiles sacrifice they sacrifice to devils, and 
not to God;” and in another part of his first epistle (xi, 
27-29), that “whosoever shall eat this bread and drink 
this cup of the Lord unworthily, shall be guilty of the 
body and blood of the Lord; but let a man examine 
himself, and so let him eat of that bread and drink of 
that cup; for he that eateth and drinketh unworthily 
eateth and drinketh damnation to himself, ,not discern- 
ing the Lord's body.” Other passages of the New Test, 
are referred by many exegetical writers to the Lord’s 
Supper, but they establish no new point concerning the 
Biblical doctrine. They will be examined, however, in 
detail in this connection (using for this purpose chiefly 
the summary given in Smith’s Diet, of the Bible , s. v.). 

2. Paschal Analogies. — This is an important inquiry 
iii the discussion of the history of that night when Je- 
sus and his disciples met together to eat the Passover 
(Matt, xxvi, 19; Mark xiv, 16; Luke xxii, 13). The 
manner in which the paschal feast was kept by the Jews 
of that period differed in many details from that origin- 
ally prescribed by the rules of Exod. xii. The multi- 
tudes that came up to Jerusalem met, as they could find 
accommodation, family by family, or in groups of friends, 
with one of their number as the celebrant, or “ proclaim- 
ed’ of the feast. The ceremonies of the feast took place 
in the following order (Lightfoot, Temple Service , xiii ; 
Mej'er, Comm, in Matt, xxvi, 26). (1.) The members 

of the company that were joined for this purpose met in 
the evening and reclined on couches, this position being 
then as much a matter of rule as standing had been orig- 
inally (comp. Matt, xxvi, 20, avkutiTo ; Luke xxii, 14; 
and John xiii, 23, 25). The head of the household, or 
celebrant, began by a form of blessing “ for the day and 
for the wine,” pronounced over a cup, of which he and 
the others then drank. The wine was, according to 
rabbinic traditions, to be mixed with water; not for any 
mysterious reason, but because that was regarded as the 
best way of using the best wine (comp. 2 Macc. xv, 39). 
(2.) All who were present then washed their hands; this 
also having a special benediction. (3.) The table was 
then set out with the paschal lamb, unleavened bread, 
bitter herbs, and the dish known as Chardseth (PD'HO), 
a sauce made of dates, figs, raisins, and vinegar, and de- 
signed to commemorate the mortar of their bondage in 
Egypt (Buxtorf, Lex. Chald. col. 831). (4.) The cele- 

brant first, and then the others, dipped a portion of the 
bitter herbs into the Charoseth and ate them. (5.) The 
dishes were then removed, and a cup of wine again 
brought. Then followed an interval which was allowed 
theoretically for the questions that might be asked by 
children or proselytes, who were astonished at such a 
strange beginning of a feast, and the cup was passed 
round and drunk at the close of it. (6.) The dishes be- 
ing brought on again, the celebrant repeated the com- 
memorative words which opened what was strictly the 
paschal supper, and pronounced a solemn thanksgiving, 
followed by Psa. cxiii and cxiv. (7.) Then came a sec- 
ond washing of the hands, with a short form of blessing 
as before, and the celebrant broke one of the two loaves 
or cakes of unleavened bread, and gave thanks over it. 
All then took portions of the bread and dipped them, 
together with the bitter herbs, into the Charoseth. and 
ate them. (8.) After this they ate the flesh of the 
paschal lamb, with bread, etc., as they liked; and, after 
another blessing, a third cup, known especially as the 
“cup of blessing.” was handed round. (9.) This was 
succeeded by a fourth cup, and the recital of Psa. cxv- 


cxviii, followed by a prayer, and this was accordingly 
known as the cup of the Ilallel, or of the Song. (10.) 
There might be, in conclusion, a fifth cup, provided that 
the “great Ilallel” (possibly Psa. cxx-cxxxvii) was 
sung over it. See Passover. 

Comparing the ritual thus gathered from rabbinic 
writers with the N. T., and assuming («) that it repre- 
sents substantially the common practice of our Lord's 
time, and (b) that the meal of which he and his disci- 
ples partook was really the Passover itself, conducted 
according to the same rules, we are able to point, though 
not with absolute certainty, to the points of departure 
which the old practice presented for the institution of 
the new. To (1.) or (3.), or even to (8.), we may refer 
the first words and the first distribution of the cup (Luke 
xxii, 17, 18) ; to (2.) or (7.), the dipping of the sop (\//w- 
fiiov) of John xiii, 26; to (7.), or to an interval during 
or after (8.), the distribution of the bread (Matt, xxvi, 
26 ; Mark xiv, 22 ; Luke xxii, 19 ; 1 Cor. xi, 23, 24) ; to 
(9.) or (10.) (“ after supper,” Luke xxii, 20), the thanks- 
giving, and distribution of the cup, and the hymn with 
which the whole was ended. It will be noticed that, 
according to this order of succession, the question 
whether Judas partook of what, in the language of a 
later age, would be called the consecrated elements, is 
most probably to be answered in the negative. 

The narratives of the Gospels show how strongly the 
disciples were impressed with the words which had giv- 
en a new meaning to the old familiar acts. They leave 
unnoticed all the ceremonies of the Passover, except 
those which had thus been transferred to the Christian 
Church and perpetuated in it. Old things were passing 
away, and all things becoming new. They had looked 
on the bread and the wine as memorials of the deliver- 
ance from Egypt. They were now told to partake of 
them “ in remembrance” of their Master and Lord. The 
festival had been annual. No rule was given as to the 
time and frequency of the new feast that thus super- 
vened on the old, but the command, “Do this as oft as 
ye drink it” (1 Cor. xi, 25), suggested the more contin- 
ual recurrence of that which was to be their memorial 
of one whom they would wish never to forget. The 
words, “ This is my body,” gave to the unleavened bread 
a new character. They had been prepared for language 
that would otherwise have been so startling by the teach- 
ing of John (vi, 32-58), and they were thus taught to 
sec in the bread that was broken the witness of the 
closest possible union and incorporation with their Lord. 
The cup, which was “ the new testament” ( eia0i)io /) “ in 
his blood,” would remind them, in like manner, of the 
wonderful prophecy in which that new covenant had 
‘been foretold (Jer. xxxi, 31-34), of which the crowning 
glory was in the promise, “I will forgive their iniquity, 
and I will remember their sin no more.” llis blood 
shed, as he told them, “for them and for many,” for 
that remission of sins which he had been proclaiming 
throughout his whole ministry, was to be to the new 
covenant what the blood of sprinkling had been to that 
of Moses (Exod. xxiv, 8). It is possible that there may 
have been yet another thought connected with these 
symbolic acts. The funeral customs of the Jews in- 
volved, at or after the burial, the administration to the 
mourners of bread (comp. Jer. xvi, 7, “ neither shall they 
break bread for them in mourning,” in marginal reading 
of A.Y.; Ewald and Ilitzig, ad loc.; Ezek. xxiv, 17; 
Dos. ix, 4; Job. iv, 17), and of wine, known, when thus 
given, as “ the cup of consolation.” May not the bread 
and the wine of the Last Supper have had something 
of that character, preparing the minds of Christ’s disci- 
ples for his departure by treating it as already accom- 
plished ? They were to think of his body as already 
anointed for the burial (Matt, xxvi, 12; Mark xiv, 8; 
John xii, 7), of his body as already given up to death, 
of his blood as already shed. The passover meal was 
also, little as they might dream of it, a funeral feash 
The bread and the wine were to be pledges of consola- 
tion for their sorrow, analogous to the verbal promises 


LORD’S SUITER 


511 


LORD’S SUPPER 


of John xiv, 1, 27; xvi, 20. The word SiaQtjicr} might 
even have the twofold meaning which is connected with 
it in the Epistle to the Hebrews. 

May we not conjecture, without leaving the region 
of history for that of controversy, that the thoughts, 
desires, emotions of that hour of divine sorrow ana com- 
munion would be such as to lead the disciples to crave 
earnestly to renew them? Would it not be natural that 
they should seek that renewal in the way which their 
Master had pointed out to them ? From this time, ac- 
cordingly, the words “ to break bread” appear to have 
had for the disciples a new significance. It may not 
have assumed, indeed, as yet, the character of a distinct 
liturgical act; but when they met to break bread, it was 
with new thoughts and hopes, and with the memories 
of that evening fresh on them. It would be natural 
that the Twelve should transmit the command to oth- 
ers who had not been presen t,jyad seek to lead them to 
the same obedience and the "Same blessings. The nar- 
rative of the two disciples to whom their Lord made 
himself known “ in breaking of bread” at Emmaus (Luke 
xxiv, 30-35) would strengthen the belief that this was 
the way to an abiding fellowship with him. 

3. Later N- T. Indications. — In the account given by 
the writer of the Acts of the life of the first disciples at 
Jerusalem, a prominent place is given to this act, and to 
the phrase which indicated it. Writing, we must re- 
member, with the definite associations that had gather- 
ed round the words during the thirty years that follow- 
ed the events he records, he describes the baptized mem- 
bers of the Church as continuing steadfast in or to the 
teaching of the apostles, in fellowship with them and 
with each other, and in breaking of bread, and in pray- 
ers (Acts ii, 42). A few verses further on, their daily 
life is described as ranging itself under two heads : (1.) 
that of public devotion, which still belonged to them as 
Jews (“continuing daily with one accord in the Tem- 
ple”) ; (2.) that of their distinctive acts of fellowship : 
“breaking bread from house to house (or ‘privately,’ 
Meyer), they did eat their meat in gladness and single- 
ness of heart, praising God, and having favor with all 
the people.” Taken in connection with the account 
given in the preceding verses of the love which made 
them live as having all things common, we can scarcely 
doubt that this implies that the chief actual meal of 
each day was one in which they met as brothers, and 
which was cither preceded or followed by the more sol- 
emn commemorative acts of the breaking of the bread 
and the drinking of the cup. It will be convenient to 
anticipate the language and the thoughts of a somewhat 
later date, and to say that apparently they thus united 
every day the Agape, or feast of love, with the celebra- 
tion of the Eucharist. So far as the former was con- 
cerned, they were reproducing in the streets of Jerusa- 
lem the simple and brotherly life which the Essenes 
were leading in their seclusion on the shores of the Dead 
Sea. It would be natural that, in a society consisting 
of ‘many thousand members, there should be many places 
of meeting. These might be rooms hired for the pur- 
pose, or freely given by those members of the Church 
who had them to dispose of. The congregation assem- 
bling in each place would come to be known as “ the 
Church” in this or that man’s house (Korn, xvi, 5, 23 ; 1 
Cor. xvi, 19; Col. iv, 15; Philem. ver. 2). When they 
met, the place of honor would naturally be taken by one 
of the apostles, or some elder representing him. It 
would belong to him to pronounce the blessing (tvXoyia') 
and thanksgiving (fuyrtjoior/a), with which the meals 
of devout Jews always began and ended. The materi- 
als for the meal would be provided out of the common 
funds of the Church or the liberality of individual mem- 
bers. The bread (unless the converted Jews were to 
think of themselves as keeping a perpetual passover) 
would be such as they habitually used. The wine 
(probably the common red wine of Palestine, Prov. xxiii, 
31) would, according to their usual practice, be mixed 
with water. Special stress would probably be laid at 


first on the office of breaking and distributing the bread, 
as that which represented the fatherly relation of the 
pastor to his flock, and his work as ministering to men 
the word of life. But if this was to be more than a 
common meal, after the pattern of the Essenes, it would 
be necessary to introduce words that would show that 
what was done was in remembrance of their Master. 
At some time before or after the meal of which they 
partook as such, the bread and the wine would be given 
with some special form of words or acts, to indicate its 
character. New converts would need some explanation 
of the meaning and origin of the observance. What 
would be so fitting and so much in harmony with the 
precedents of the paschal feast as the narrative of what 
had passed on the night of its institution (1 Cor. xi, 23- 
27) ? With this there would naturally be associated (as 
in Acts ii, 42) prayers for themselves and others. Their 
gladness would show itself in the psalms and hymns 
with which they praised God (Heb. ii, 4G, 47 ; James v, 
13). The analogy of the Passover, the general feeling 
of the Jews, and the practice of the Essenes may pos- 
sibly have suggested ablutions, partial or entire, as a 
preparation for the feast (Ileb. x, 22; John xiii, 1-15; 
comp. Tertull. de Orat. c. xi ; and, for the later practice 
of the Chnrch, August. Serm. eexliv). At some point 
in the feast, those who were present, men and women 
sitting apart, would rise to salute each other with the 
“ holy kiss” (1 Cor. xvi, 20 ; 2 Cor. xiii, 12 ; Clem. Alex. 
Pcedagog. iii, c. 11 ; Tertull. de Orat. c. 14; Justin Mart. 
ApoL ii). Of the stages in the growth of the new wor- 
ship we have, it is true, no direct evidence, but these 
conjectures from antecedent likelihood arc confirmed by 
the fact that this order appears as the common element 
of all later liturgies. Jl 

The next traces that meet us arc in 1 Cor., and the 
fact that wc find them is in itself significant. The com- 
memorative feast has not been confined to the personal 
disciples of Christ, or the Jewish converts whom they 
gathered round them at Jerusalem. It has been the 
law of the Church’s expansion that this should form 
part of its life everywhere. Wherever the apostles or 
their delegates have gone, they have taken this with 
them. The language of St. Paul, we must remember, is 
I not that of a man who is setting forth a new truth, but 
j of one who appeals to thoughts, words, phrases that are 
familiar to his readers, and we find accordingly evidence 
of a received liturgical terminology. The title of the 
“cup of blessing” (1 Cor. x, 16), Hebrew in its origin 
and form (see above), has been imported into the Greek 
Church. The synonyme of “the cup of the Lord” (1 
Cor. x, 21) distinguishes it from the other cups that be- 
longed to the Agape. The word “ fellowship” (/cotuw- 
vta') is passing by degrees into the special signification 
of “communion.” The apostle refers to his own office 
as breaking the bread and blessing the cup (1 Cor. x, 
16). The table on which the bread was placed was the 
Lord’s table, and that title was to the Jew, not, as later 
controversies have made it, the antithesis of altar (5v- 
cnaoTripiov), but as nearly as possible a synonyme (Mai. 
i, 7, 12 ; Ezek. xli, 22). But the practice of the Agapb, 
as well as the observance of the commemorative feast, 
had been transferred to Corinth, and this called for a 
special notice. Evils had sprung up which had to be 
checked at once. The meeting of friends for a social 
meal, to which all contributed, was a sufficiently familiar 
practice in the common life of Greeks of this period, and 
these club-feasts were associated with plans of mutual 
relief or charity to the poor (comp. Smith’s Diet, of Gr. 
and Rom. Antiq. s. v. Eranoi). The Agapk of the new 
society would seem to them to be such a feast, and 
hence came a disorder that altogether frustrated the ob- 
ject of the Church in instituting it. Kicher members 
came, bringing their supper with them, or appropriating 
what belonged to the common stock, and sat down to 
consume it without waiting till others were assembled 
and the presiding elder had taken his place. The poor 
were put to shame, and defrauded of their share in the 


LORD’S SUPPER 


512 


LORD’S SUPPER 


feast. Each was thinking of his own supper, not of 
that to which we now tint! attached the distinguishing 
title of “ the Lord’s Supper.” When the time for that 
came, one was hungry enough to be looking to it with 
physical, not spiritual craving; another so overpowered 
with wine as to be incapable of receiving it with any 
reverence. It is quite conceivable that a life of excess 
raid excitement, of overwrought emotion and unrestrain- 
ed indulgence, such as this epistle brings before us, may 
have proved destructive to the physical as well as the 
moral health of those who were affected by it, and so 
the sickness and the deaths of which Paul speaks (1 
Cor. xi, 30), as the consequences of this disorder, may 
have been so, not by supernatural infliction, but by the 
working of those general laws of the divine government 
which make the punishment the traceable consequence 
of the sin. In any case, what the Corinthians needed 
was to be taught to come to the Lord’s table with great- 
er reverence, to distinguish (diaKptvttv) the Lord’s body 
from their common food. Unless they did so, they 
would bring upon themselves condemnation. What was 
to be the remedy for this terrible and growing evil he 
does not state explicitly. He reserves formal regula- 
tions for a later personal visit. In the mean time, he 
gives a rule which would make the union of the Agape 
and the Lord’s Supper possible without the risk of profa- 
nation. They were not to come even to the former 
with the keen edge of appetite. They were to wait till 
all were met, instead of scrambling tumultuously to help 
themselves (l Cor. xi, 33, 34). In one point, however, 
the custom of the Church of Corinth differed apparently 
from that of Jerusalem : the meeting for the Lord's Sup- 
per was no longer daily (1 Cor. xi, 20,33). The direc- 
tions given in 1 Cor. xvi, 2 suggelt the constitution of a 
celebration on the flrst day of the week (compare Just. 
Mart. A pol. i, (17 ; Pliny, Ep. ad Traj .). The meeting at 
Troas was on the same day (Acts xx, 7). 

The tendency of this language, and therefore, proba- 
bly, of the order subsequently established, was to sepa- 
rate what had hitherto been united. We stand, as it 
were, at the dividing point of the history of the two 
institutions, and henceforth each takes its own course. 
The Agape, as belonging to a transient phase of the 
Christian life, and varying in its effects with changes in 
national character or forms of civilization, passes through 
many stages; becomes more and more a merely local 
custom, is found to be productive of evil rather than of 
good, is discouraged by bishops and forbidden by coun- 
cils, and finally dies out. Traces of it linger in some of 
the traditional practices of the Western Church. There 
have been attempts to revive it among the Moravians 
and other religious communities, but in no considerable 
body does it survive in its original form. See Love- 
Feast. On the other hand, the Lord’s Supper also has 
its changes. The morning celebration takes the place 
of the evening. New names— Eucharist, Sacrifice, Altar, 
Mass, Holy Mysteries— gather round it. New epithets 
and new ceremonies express the growing reverence of 
the people. The mode of celebration at the high altar 
of a basilica in the 4th century differs so widely from 
the circumstances of the original institution that a care- 
less eye would have found it hard to recognise their 
identity. Speculations, controversies, superstitions, crys- 
tallize round this as their nucleus. Great disruptions 
and changes threaten to destroy the life and unity of 
the Church. Still, through all the changes, the Sup- 
per of the Lord vindicates its claim to universality, and 
bears a permanent testimony to the truths with which 
it was associated. 

In Acts xx, 11 we have an example of the way in 
which the transition may have been effected. The dis- 
ciples at 1’roas meet together to break bread. The 
hour is not definitely stated, but the fact that Paul’s 
discourse was protracted till past midnight, and the 
mention of the many lamps, indicate a later time than 
that commonly fixed for the Greek Sihrvov. If we are 
not to suppose a scene at variance with Paul’s rule 


in 1 Cor. xi, 34, they must have had each his own sup- 
per before they assembled. Then came the teaching 
and the prayers, and then, towards early dawn, the 
breaking of bread, which constituted the Lord’s Supper, 
and for which they were gathered together. If this 
midnight meeting may be taken as indicating a common 
practice, originating in reverence for an ordinance which 
Christ had enjoined, we can easily understand how the 
next step would be (as circumstances rendered the mid- 
night gatherings unnecessary or inexpedient) to trans- 
fer the celebration of the Eucharist permanently to the 
morning hour, to which it had gradually been approxi- 
mating. Here also in later times there were traces of 
the original custom. Even when a later celebration 
was looked on as at variance with the general custom 
of the Church (Sozomen, sit pro) it was recognised as 
legitimate to hold an evening communion, as a special 
commemoration of the original institution, on the Thurs- 
day before Easter (Augustine, Ep. 118; ad Jan. c. 5-7); 
and again on Easter eve, the celebration in the latter 
case probably taking place “very early in the morning, 
while it was yet dark” (Tertullian, ad Uxor, ii, c. 4). 

The recurrence of the same liturgical words in Acts 
xxvii, 35 makes it probable, though not certain, that 
the food of which Paul thus partook was intended to 
have, for himself and his Christian companions, the 
character at once of the Agape and the Eucharist. The 
heathen soldiers and sailors, it may be noticed, are said 
to have followed his example, not to have partaken of 
the bread which he had broken. If we adopt this ex- 
planation, we have in this narrative another example 
of a celebration in the early hours between midnight 
and dawn (comp. v. 27, 39), at the same time, i. e. as we 
have met with in the meeting at Troas. 

All the distinct references to the Lord’s Supper which 
occur within the limits of the N. T. have, it is believed, 
been noticed. To find, as a recent writer has done 
( Christian Remembrancer , April, 1SG0), quotations from 
the Liturgy of the Eastern Church in the Pauline Epis- 
tles involves (ingeniously as the hypothesis is support- 
ed) assumptions too many and bold to justify our ac- 
ceptance of it. Extending the inquiry, however, to the 
times as well as the writings of the N. T., we find reason 
to believe that we can trace in the later worship of the 
Church some fragments of that which belonged to it 
from the beginning. The agreement of the four great 
families of liturgies implies the substratum of a common 
order. To that order may well have belonged the He- 
brew words Hallelujah, Amen, Hosanna, Lord of Saba- 
oth; the salutations “Peace to all,” “Peace to thee;” 
the Sursum Corda (rmo KapUtag), the Tri- 

sagion, the Kyrie Eleison. We are justified in looking 
at these as having been portions of a liturgy that was 
really primitive; guarded from change with the tenaci- 
ty with which the Christians of the 2d century clung to 
the traditions (the 7 raoadomig of 2 Thess. ii, 15; iii, 6) 
of the first, forming part of the great deposit (jrapaKa- 
Ta$i)icii) of faith and worship which they had received 
from the apostles and have transmitted to later ages 
(comp. Bingham, Eccles. Antiq. bk. xv, ch. vii ; Augusti, 
Christl. Archaol. b. viii ; Stanley on 1 Cor. x and xi). 

III. Ecclesiastical Representations. — The Christian 
Church attached from the first great and mysterious 
importance to the Lord’s Supper. In accordance with 
the original institution, all Christians used wine and 
bread, with the exception of the Ilydroparastatcs (Aqna- 
rii), who used water instead of wine, and the Artotv- 
rites, who are said to have used cheese along with 
bread. The wine was generally mixed with water 
(tepapa), and an allegorical signification was given to 
the mixture of these two elements. In the writings of 
the fathers of the. first three centuries we meet with 
some passages which speak distinctly of symbols, and, 
at the same time, with others which indicate belief in 
a real participation of the body and blood of Christ. 
Ignatius, Justin, and Irenieus laid great stress on the 
mysterious connection subsisting between the Logos and 


LORD’S SUPPER 


513 


LORD’S SUPPER 


(he elements. Tertullian and Cyprian are representa- 
tives of the symbolical aspect, though both occasionally 
call the Lord's Supper simply the body and blood of 
Christ. The symbolical interpretation prevails in par- 
ticular among the Alexandrine school. Clement called 
it a mystic symbol which produces an effect only upon 
the mind, and Origen decidedly opposed those who took 
the external sign for the thing itself. The idea of a 
sacrifice, though not yet of a daily propitiatory sacrifice, 
appears in the writings of Justin and Irenaeus. Cyprian 
says that the sacrifice is made by the priest, who acts 
instead of Christ, and imitates what Christ did. It is 
not quite certain, but probable, that the Ebionites cele- 
brated the Lord’s Supper as a commemorative feast ; the 
mystical meals of some Gnostics, on the contrary, bear 
but little resemblance to the Lord’s Supper. The devel- 
opment of liturgies in and after the third century, and 
the introduction of many mystical ceremonies, showed 
that the fathers generally regarded the Lord’s Supper, 
with Chrysostom, as a “dreadful sacrifice.” They clear- 
ly speak of a real union of the communicants with 
Christ ; some, also, of a real change from the visible el- 
ements into the body and blood of Christ, though most 
of their expressions can be understood both of consub- 
stantiality or of transubstantiation. Theodoret drew a 
clear distinction between the sign and the thing signi- 
fied, while Augustine sought to unite its more profound 
mystical significance with the symbolical. Gelasius, 
bishop of Lome, very decidedly denied “the ceasing of 
the substance and nature of bread and wine.” The no- 
tion of a daily repeated sacrifice is distinctly set forth 
in the writings of Gregory the Great. A violent con- 
troversy concerning the Lord’s Supper arose in the 9th 
century. Paschasius Radbertus, a monk of Corvey, 
clearly propounded the doctrine of transubstantiation in 
his Liber de cor pore et sanguine Domini , addressed to 
the emperor Charles the Bald, between 830 and 832. 
He was opposed by Ilatramnus in his treatise De c or- 
pore et sanguine Domini , which was written at the re- 
quest of the emperor, who drew a distinction between 
the sign and the thing represented by it, between the 
internal and the external. The most eminent theolo- 
gians of the age, as Iiabanus Maurus and Scotus Erigc- 
na, took an active part in the controversy. Herbert (af- 
terwards pope Sylvester II) endeavored to illustrate the 
doctrine of transubstantiation by the aid of geometrical 
diagrams. Toward the middle of the 11th century the 
doctrine of transubstantiation was rejected by Berengar, 
canon of "fours (q. v.), who principally condemned the 
doctrine of an entire change in such a manner as to 
make the bread to cease to be bread. Several synods 
in succession, between 1050 and 1079, condemned his 
views. At one of these synods cardinal Humbert im- 
posed upon Berengar an oath that he believed “ corpus 
et sanguinem Domini non solum Sacramento sed in 
veritate manibus sacerdotum tractari, frangi et fidelium 
dentibus atteri.” Among the scholastics, Lanfranc de- 
veloped the distinction between the subject and the ac- 
cidents. The term transubstantiatio was first used by 
Hildebert of Tours, though similar phrases, as transitio , 
had previously been employed (by Hugo of St. Victor 
and others). Most of the earlier scholastics, and, in par- 
ticular, the followers of Lanfranc, defended both the 
change of the bread into the body of Christ and that of 
the “ accidentia sine subjecto,” both of which were in- 
serted in the Decretum Gratiani (about 1150), and de- 
clared an article of faith bv the fourth Council of Latcran. 
Later, the Scholastics discussed a great many subtle 
questions, such as, Do animals partake of the body of 
Christ when they happen to swallow a consecrated host? 
By the institution of the Corpus-Christi day by pope 
Urban IV (1204), the doctrine of transubstantiation re- 
ceived a liturgical expression. However, a considerable 
time before, it had become a custom in the Latin Church 
that the laitv received the Lord’s Supper only in the 
form of the host. Alexander Hales, Bonaventura, and 
Thomas Aquinas expressly demanded that onlv the 
V.-K k 


priests should partake of the cup. The Hussites de- 
manded the admission of the laity also to a partaking 
of the cup, and the refusal of this demand by the Coun- 
cil of Constance was one of the causes of the Hussite 
War. The doctrine that Christ existed wholly in either 
of the elements (for which doctrine the theologians used 
the expression concomitance') was expressly confirmed by 
the Council of Basle. The number of those who during 
the Middle Ages expressed their dissent from the doc- 
trine of transubstantiation is limited. 

The doctrine of impanation, or a coexistence of Christ’s 
body with the bread, was first advanced by John of Paris, 
who was followed by William Ockham and Durandus de 
Sancto Porciano. Both transubstantiation and impana- 
tion were combated by Wickliffe, who, with Pcrengar of 
Tours, believed it a change from the inferior to the su- 
perior. His views were probably shared by Jerome of 
Prague, while IIuss seems to have believed in transub- 
stantiation. The Leformers of the 16th century agreed 
in rejecting transubstantiation as unscript oral, but they 
differed among themselves in several points. Carlstadt 
believed that the words of institution were to be under- 
: stood ceiKTiKu/g, i. c. that Christ, while speaking to them, 
had pointed at his own body. Zuingle took the word 
“is” (ter/) in the sense of signifies , and viewed the 
Lord’s Supper merely as an act of commemoration, and 
as a visible sign of the body and blood of Christ. (Eco- 
lampadius differed from Zuingle only grammatically, 
retaining the literal meaning of “ is” but taking the 
predicate, “ my body” (ro aCjga gov), in a figurative 
sense. Luther believed it impossible to put any of 
these constructions on the letter of the Scripture, and 
adhered to the doctrine of the real presence of Christ’s 
body and blood in, with, and under the bread and wine 
(consubstantiation). Together with this view he pro- 
fessed a belief in the ubiquity of the body of Christ. 
Calvin rejected the doctrine of the real presence ; but, af- 
ter the precedence of Bucer, Myronius, and others, spoke 
of a real, though spiritual participation of the body of 
Christ which exists in heaven. This participation, 
however, he restricted to the believer, while Luther 
agreed with the Loman Church in maintaining that 
also infidels partook of Christ’s body, though to their 
own hurt. Attempts at mediating between the views 
of Luther and Calvin were early made, and there were 
crypto-Calvinists in the Lutheran, and crypto-Luthcr- 
ans in the Calvinistic churches. But the Lutheran view 
received a dogmatic fixation in the Formula Concordia , 
which shut out any further influence of Calvinism. 
The decline of Lutheran orthodoxy in general caused 
also the Lutheran doctrine of the Lord’s Supper to grow' 
into disuse, and the Protestant theologians generally 
adopted the views either of Calvin or of Zuingle. The 
latter, at length, prevailed. (See the Brit, and, For. Ei\ 
Rev. Oct, 1860; Muller, De Lutheri et Calrini sententice 
de Sacra Cocna, Hal. 1853.) It was, in particular, adopt- 
ed by the Arminian churches, as also by the Socinians. 
In the Church of England there was from the beginning 
a real-presence and a spiritual-presence party, and the 
controversy beUveen them frequently became very hot. 
The real-presence party generally agreed with the doc- 
trine of the Lutheran Church, but some of its writers 
advanced views more resembling those of the Roman 
Church. In the 19th century the High-Church parties 
of the German Lutheran Church, and of the Episcopal 
Church of England, Scotland, and America, revived and 
emphasized again the doctrine of the real presence. 
Under the inliuence of rationalistic theology and specu- 
lative theology a number of new interpretations sprang 
up like mushrooms, and disappeared again just as fast. 
The leading theologians of the United Evangelical 
Church of Germany in the 19th century fell back on the 
doctrine of Calvin, and emphasized the real and objective 
communication of the whole God-man Christ to the be- 
liever, and the same views have become predominant in 
the German Reformed Church of America. Very differ- 
ent from the doctrine of all the larger Christian denom- 


LORD'S SUPPER 


514 


LORD'S SUPPER 


inations ivere the views which some mystic writers of 
the ancient and medheval Church intimated, and which 
were fully developed in the 16th century by Paracelsus, 
and afterwards adopted by the Society of Friends. They 
regard communion as something essentially internal and 
mystical, and deny the Lord’s Supper to be an ordinance 
which Christ desired to have perpetuated. — Lavater, 
Jlistoria controversiie Sacramentarice (Tig. 1672) ; Hos- 
pinianus, Hist. Sacramentaria (Tig. 1602) ; Planck, Ge- 
schichte d. Entstehung , etc., des protest. Lehrbegriffs, ii, 204 
sq., 471 sq.; iii, (l.)376 sq.; iv, 6 sq.; v, (1)89 sq., 211 
sq., (2) 7 sq.; vi,732 sq. See Transubstantiation. 

IV. Form of Celebration. — 1 . The Elements . — {it) At 
the institution of the Lord’s Supper Christ used un- 
leavened bread. The primitive Christians carried with 
them the bread and wine for the Lord’s Supper, and 
took the bread which was used at common meals, which 
was leavened bread. "When this custom ceased, togeth- 
er with the Agape, the Greeks retained the leavened 
bread, while in the Latin Church the unleavened bread 
became common since the 8th century. Out of this 
difference a dogmatic controversy in the 11th century 
arose, the Greek Church reproaching the Latin for the 
use of unleavened bread, and making it heresy. At the 
Council of Florence, in 1439, which attempted to unite 
both churches, it was agreed that either might be used ; 
but the Greeks soon rejected, with the council also, the 
toleration of the unleavened bread, and still maintain 
the opposite ground at the present day. 

4Ve see, from 1 Cor. xi, 24, that in the apostolic 
Church the bread was broken. This custom was dis- 
continued in the Roman Church when, in the 12th and 
13th centuries, the host or holy wafer was cut in a pe- 
culiar way, so as to represent upon it a crucified Saviour. 
Luther retained the wafer, but the Reformed churches 
reintroduced the use of common bread and the breaking 
of it. The same was the case with the Socinians and 
the United Evangelical Church of Germany. In the 
Episcopal Church of England, and the churches derived 
from it, cut pieces of common wheaten bread are given 
into the hands of the communicants. See J. G. Her- 
mann, Hist, convertationum de pane asymo (Lips. 1737) ; 
Marheineke, Das Brod in A bendmahle (Berlin, 1817). 

(5) The second element used by Christ was trine. It 
is not certain of what color the wine was, nor whether 
it was pure or mixed with water, and both points were 
always regarded as indifferent by the Christian Church. 
The use of mixed wine is said to have been introduced 
by pope Alexander I ; it was expressly enacted in the 
12th century by Clement III, and divers allegorical 
significations were given to the mingling of these two 
elements. Also the Greek Church mingles the wine 
with water, while the Armenian and the Protestant 
churches use pure wine. 

The question as to whether the wine originally used 
in the Lord’s Supper was fermented or not, would seem 
to be a futile one in view of the fact, 1. that the unfer- 
mented juice of the grape can hardly, with propriety, be 
called wine at all; 2. that fermented wine is of almost 
universal use in the East; and, 3. that it has invariably 
been employed for this purpose in the Church of all 
ages and countries. But for the excessive zeal of cer- 
tain modern well-meaning reformers, the idea that our 
Lord used any other would hardly have gained the least 
currency. Sec IV ink. 

In accordance with the original institution, both ele- 
ments were used separately during the first centuries, 
but it became early a custom to carry to sick persons 
bread merely dipped in wine. The Maniclioeans, who 
abstained wholly from wine, were strongly opposed by 
teachers of all other parties, and pope Gelasius I, of the 
5th, called their practice grande sacrilegiurn. In the 
10th century it became frequent in the West to use 
only consecrated bread dipped in wine, but it was not 
before the end of the. 13th century that, in accordance 
with the doctrine, rifen developed by the Scholastics, 
that Christ was wholly present hi both bread and wine, 


and that the partaking of the bread was sufficient, the 
Church began to withhold the wine from the laity alto- 
gether. The Waldenses,Wickliffe, IIuss, and Savonarola 
protested against this withdrawal of the cup, and all 
the Protestant denominations agreed in restoring the 
use of both elements. The Greek Church has always 
used the wine for the laity also. See Spitler, Geschichte 
des Kelches im Abendmahl (Lemgo, 1780) ; Schmidt, De 
J atis calicis eucharistid (Helmstadt, 1708). 

2. Consecration and Distribution of the Elements. — To 
“ consecrate” meant in the ancient Church only to set 
apart from common and devote to a sacred use. But, 
by degrees, a magical effect was attributed to conse- 
cration, as was already done by Augustine, and when 
the doctrine of transubstantiation became prevalent in 
the Roman Church, it was supposed that the pronuncia- 
tion of the words “ This is my body ” changed the ele- 
ments into the body and blood of Christ. The formul® 
which were used at the consecration w r ere at first free, 
but afterwards fixed by written liturgies. All liturgies 
contain the words of institution and a prayer; the lit- 
urgy of the Greek Church, moreover, a prayer to the 
Holy Spirit to change the bread and wine into the body 
and blood of Christ. In the ancient Church both ele- 
ments were distributed by the deacons, afterwards only 
the wine; at a later period of the Church, again, both 
elements. According to the Protestant theologians, the 
administration belongs properly to the ministers of the 
Church ; but Luther, and many theologians with him, 
maintained that where no regular teachers can be ob- 
tained, this sacrament may be administered by other 
Christians to whom this duty is committed by the 
Church. 

3. Time and Place. — In the apostolic Church, as we 
have seen, the Lord’s Supper was regularly celebrated 
in the public assemblies, hence in private dwellings, at 
common tables, during the persecutions in hidden places, 
at the sepulchres of the martyrs, and, later, in the church- 
es at special tables or altars. In imitation of its first 
celebration by Christ, it was at first celebrated at night; 
later, it became almost universally connected with the 
morning service. In the primitive Church, Christians 
partook of it almost daily; and when this was made im- 
possible by the persecutions, at least several times a 
week, or certainly on Sundays. In the 5th century many 
theological writers complain of the laxity of Christians 
in the participation of the Lord’s Supper, and afterwards 
several synods had to prescribe that all Christians ought 
to partake of it at least a certain number of times. The 
fourth Synod of Lateran, in 1415, restricted it to once 
a year. The Reformers insisted again on a more fre- 
quent participation, without, however, making any defi- 
nite prescriptions as to the number of times. Many 
of the Protestant states punished those who withdrew 
altogether from it with exile, excommunication, and 
the refusal of a Christian burial. 

4. Persons by whom , and the Maimer in which the 
Lord's Supper is received . — In the primitive Church all 
baptized persons were admitted to the Lord’s Supper; 
afterwards the catechumens and the lapsi were excluded 
from it. Communion of infants is found in an early pe- 
riod, and is still used in the Greek Church. See Zorn, 
Hist, euckarist. infant. (Berl. 1742). To those who were 
prevented from being present at the public service the 
consecrated elements were carried by deacons. Thus it 
was especially carried to the dying as a Viaticum, and 
until the 5th or 6th century it was even placed in the 
mouth of the dead, or in their cotlin (see Schmidt, De 
eucharistia mortuorum , Jena, 1645). 

The apostles received the Lord’s Supper reclining, 
according to Eastern custom. Since the 4tli century 
the communicants used to stand, afterwards to kneel, 
the men with uncovered head, the women covered with 
a long white cloth. 

Since the 4th century a certain order was introduced 
in approaching the communion table, so that first the 
higher and lower clergy, and afterwards the laity came. 


LORD’S SUPPER 


515 


LORENZO 


Tl/S self-communion of the laity is prohibited by all 
Christian denominations. The self-communion of offi- 
ciating clergymen is the general usage in the Roman 
Church, but also permitted and customary in the Epis- 
copal Church, among the Moravians, and with other 
denominations. 

5. Ceremonies in Celebration. — In the Roman Church 
the communicants, after having confessed and received 
absolution, approach the communion table, which stands 
at some distance from the altar, and receive kneeling a 
host from the priest, who passes round, taking the host 
out of a chalice which he holds in his left hand, repeat- 
ing for eacli communicant the words “ Corpus Domini 
nostri Jesu Christi custodiat animam tuam in vitara 
seternam.” The communion service of the Greek Church 
is nearly the same as that of the ancient Church. 

In the Lutheran Church the communion is preceded 
by a preparatory service, confession (q. v.). After the 
sermon the clergyman consecrates the host and the 
wine at the altar. Amid the singing of the congrega- 
tion, the communicants, first the men, then the women, 
step, either singly or two at a time, to the altar, where 
the clergyman places the host in their mouth, and 
reaches to them the cup, using the following or a simi- 
lar formula: “Take, eat, this is the body of our Lord 
and Saviour Jesus Christ ; it may strengthen and pre- 
serve you in the true faith unto life everlasting. Amen. 
Take, drink, this is the blood,” etc. The service is con- 
cluded with a prayer of thanks, and with the blessing. 
During the service frequently candles burn on the altar. 

In the Reformed, Presbyterian, Congregational, Ar- 
minian, etc., churches, the service begins commonly 
with a formula containing the passage 1 Cor. xi. The 
communicants step, in most places singly, to the com- 
munion table, and the broken bread and the cup are 
given into their own hands. In some places they re- 
main sitting in the pews, where the elders carry to them 
bread and wine; in others, twelve at a time sit around 
a table. Private communion of the sick is an exception. 

In the Episcopal Church of England the service of 
the Lord’s Supper is immediately preceded by a general 
confession of sins, which is followed by a prayer of con- 
secration and the words of institution. The clergymen 
first commune themselves, then the communicants, who 
approach without observing any distinction, and kneel 
down at the communion table, receiving the bread 
(which is cut) and the cup into their hands. The same 
service takes place in the Protestant Episcopal Church, 
and substantially in the Methodist churches. 

The Socinians have, on the day before they celebrate 
the Lord’s Supper, a preparation (“discipline”) with 
closed doors, when the preacher exhorts the Church 
members, rebukes their faults, reconciles enemies, and 
sometimes excludes those guilty of grave offences from 
the Church. On the following day, at public service, 
the altar tables are spread and furnished with bread and 
wine. The communicants sit down round the table, and 
take with their hands the bread, which is broken by the 
preacher, and the cup. 

The service of the Moravians approaches that of the 
primitive Church. It is celebrated every fourth Sun- 
day at the evening service, and was formerly connected 
with the Agapre (love feasts), washing of feet, and the 
kiss of peace. 

On the ceremonies in the Eastern churches, see Ritns 
Orientalium , Coptorum , Syrorum, et Armenorum , in ad- 
ministrandis Sacramentis . Ex Assemanis, Kenandotio, 
Trombellio aliisque fontibus authenticis collectos. Edi- 
dit Henricus Denziger, Ph. et S. Th. Doc. et in Univ. 
Wirceburgensi Theol. Dogmat. Prof. (torn, i, London, D. 
Nutt, 18G3). 

. The Literature on the doctrine of the Lord's Sup- 
per is very extensive. A history of the doctrine was 
given by Schulz (Rationalistic), Die chnstliche Lehre 
vom heiligen Abendmahle (2d ed. Leipsic, 1831) ; Ebrard 
(Evangelical), Das Doc/m a vom Abendmahl und seine 
Gesckichte (Frankfort, 1845) ; Kahilis (High Lutheran), 


Die Lehre vom Abendmahle (Leipsic, 1851) ; L. J. Ruek- 
ert (Rationalistic), Das Abendmahl , sein We sen und seine 
Gesehichte in der alien Kirehe (Leipsic, 1856, 2 vols.). 
For many other foreign monographs, see Danz, Wbrier- 
buch , s; v. Abendmahl: Yolbeding, Index, p. 50; Ilase, 
Leben Jesu, p. 104; Malcom, Theol. Index , p. 275. The 
following are the principal English works on the sub- 
ject: Wilberforce (Pnseyite), Doctrine of the Eucharist 
(Loud. 1853), and Sermons on the Iloly Communion (ib. 
1854) ; J. Taylor (in opposition to Wilberforce), True 
Doctrine of the Eucharist (London. 1855) ; Goode (W.), 
X at are of Christ' s Person in the Eucharist (185G) ; Pu- 
sey (E. Ik), Real Presence (1853-7); Freeman, Princi- 
ples of Divine Sendee ; Turton (lip.), Eucharist , and 
Wiseman’s Reply (in ten Essays, 1854). More general 
are Dorner, Doctrine of the Person of Christ (Edinburgh, 
18G4, 5 vols. 8vo), vol. ii, div. ii, p. 1 1 G ; and his Protest. 
Theol. p. 208; llagenbach, History of Doctrines, vol. i. § 
73; Heppe, Dogma die, p. 455 ; Cunningham, Hist. Theol. 

i, 205; ii, 142 sq. ; Auberlen, Dis. Revel, p. 210 sq. ; 
Erown e, Exposition of the XXXIX A id icles. p. G83 sq.; 
Forbes, Explan, of the XXXIX Articles, ii, 40G; Mar- 
tensen, Christian Dogmatics, p.482 sq. ; J. I’ve Smith, 
Christian Theology, p. G8G sq.; P>aur, Dogmengesch. iii. 
10, 247 ; Liddon, Our Lord's Divinity (see Index under 
Eucharist); Miinseher, Dogmengesch. ii, G73 sq. See 
also Ch. of Engl. Quart . 1855, Jan. art. i; Evangel. Rev. 
18GG, p. 3G9 sq. ; Method. Quart. Rev. 1860 (Oct.), p. G48 
sq. ; 1870 (April), p. 301; Jahrb. deutsche Theol. 18G7, 

ii, 21 sq. ; 18G8, vol. i and ii; 1870, vol. iii and iv ; Stud. 
u.Krit. 1841, iii, 715 sq. ; 1839, i, GO, 123; 1840, ii, 389; 
1844, ii, 409; 18G6, ii, 3G2; Ililgenfeld, Zeltschr. 1 1 7s- 
sensch. Theol. 18G7, p. 84 ; Christian Monthly, 1844 (May), 
p. 542; Christian Rememb. 1853 (Oct.), p. 93, 2G3 ; 1867, 
p. 84; Kitto, Journ. Sac. Lit. 1854 (Oct.), p. 102: Dibl. 
Sacra, 1862, art. vi ; 1863, p. 3 ; Mercersb. Rev. 1858. p. 
103 Ch. Revieiv, 1866, p. 11 sq. ; Christian Rev. xl, 193 ; 
Lit. and Theol. Rev. 1836 (Sept.) ; Rapt. Quart. Review, 
1870 (Oct.), p. 497 ; Contemp. Rev. 1868 (July and Nov.) ; 
Eelinb. Rev. 1867 (April), p. 232; Brit. Quart. Rev. 1868, 
p. 113; Princeton Rev. 1848; Brit, and For. Ev. Review, 
1868, p. 431 ; IFcsOh. Rev. 1873, p. 96 sq. An account 
of the mode of the celebration of the Lord’s Supper by 
the various denominations is given by Seheibel, Feier 
des heiligen Abendmahls bei den vcrschiedenen Religions - 
parteien (Breslau, 1824). See Supper, 

Lorenz, Johann Michael, a German theologian, 
was born at Strasburg June 36, 3692. and was educated 
at the university of that city. In 1713 he obtained the 
degree ofA.M.; in 1714 he was appointed preacher in 
his native place; in 1722, professor ordinary of divinity 
at his alma mater. In addition to this, he was appoint- 
ed in 1724 visitor of Williams College; in 1728, morn- 
ing preacher and prebendary of the foundation of St. 
Thomas; in 1734, pastor of the Thomas Church; in 1741, 
vice-president of the ecclesiastical conference. The doc- 
torate in divinity he obtained in 3722. He died Aug. 
13, 1752. By more than fifty Latin dissertations on dog- 
matical and exegetical theology Lorenz gained an hon- 
orable name in theological literature. We only men- 
tion Dissertatio de undone Spirituals, ad 1 Joh. ii, 27 
(Argentorati, 1723, 4to). See Dbring, Gelehrte Theol. 
Deutschlands, vol. ii, s. v. 

Lorenzo or Lorenzetto, Ambrogio and Pietro 
di, two celebrated Italian painters of the 14th century, 
were born at Siena about 1300. They were brothers, 
as we learn from an inscription which was attached to 
their pictures of the “Presentation” and of the “Marriage 
of the Virgin,” destroyed in 1720. The principal of their 
works, which was painted in the Minorite convent at 
Siena, and represented the fatal adventures of some mis- 
sionary monks, has been destroyed. In the first com- 
partment a youth was represented putting on t lie mo- 
nastic costume; in another, the same youth was repre- 
sented with several of his brother monks about to set 
out for Asia, to convert the Mohammedans; in a third, 
these missionaries are already at their place of dcstina- 


LOKETTO 


516 


LORIA 


tion, and are being chastised in the sultan’s presence, 
and are surrounded and mocked by a crowd of scoffing 
infidels; the sultan judges them to be hanged; in a 
fourth the young monk is already hanged to a tree, yet 
he notwithstanding continues to preach the Gospel to 
the astonished multitude, upon which the sultan orders 
their heads to be cut off; the next compartment is 
their ceremonious execution by the sword, and the scaf- 
fold is surrounded by a great crowd on foot and on 
horseback; after the execution follows a great storm, 
which is represented in all the detail of wind, hail, light- 
ning, and earthquake, from all of which the crowd are 
protecting themselves as they best can, and this mira- 
cle. as it was considered, is the cause of many conver- 
sions to Christianity. Of the several pictures by Ara- 
brogio mentioned by Ghiberti only one remains, the 
Presentation of the Virgin in the Temple , in the Seuole 
Begie. Of works by Pietro Lorenzo there is only one 
authenticated work; it is in the Stanza del Pilone, a 
room against the sacristy of the cathedral of Siena, and 
represents, according to Pumohr, some passages from 
the life of John the Baptist, his birth, etc. Vasari men- 
tions many works by Pietro in various cities of Tuscany, 
and attributes to him a picture of the early fathers and . 
hermits in the Campo Santo at Pisa. In 1355 Pietro 
was invited to Arezzo to paint the cathedral, in which 
he painted in fresco twelve stories from the life of the 
Virgin, with figures as large as life and larger, but they i 
have long since perished; they were, however, in good 
preservation in the time of Vasari, who eo mplet el y re- 
stored them. lie speaks of parts of them as superior in 
style and vigor to anything that had been done up to 
that time. — English Cgelop. s. v. See also Vasari, Vite 
de' Pittori , etc. ; Della Valle, Lettere Sane si ; Lanzi, Sto- 
ria Pittorica, etc.; and especially Pumohr, Italienische 
Forsch ungen, in which the two Lorenzetti are treated 
of at considerable length. 

Loretto, properly Loreto (Lauketum), an Italian 
city of some 8000 inhabitants, several miles south of An- 
cona, is renowned simply as a place of pilgrimage. It 
is the site of the celebrated sanctuary of the Virgin 
Mary called the Santa Casa , or Iloly House. The 
church of Santa Casa was built in 1461-1513. The first 
mention of this santa casa is to be found in Flavius 
Bloudirs’s (f 1463) Italia illnstrata. where he says of it, 

“ Celebcrrimum totius Itnline saeellum beataj Virginia in 
Laureto.” 11c mentions the many rich presents which 
were made to the shrine as a proof that “at this place 
the prayers for the intercession of the mother of God 
are granted,” but he says nothing of the origin of the 
place. Pope Paul II (f 1 171) granted indulgences to 
those who visited this shrine, and this example was fol- 
lowed by his successors. Ilaptista Mantuunus, in his 
Redemptoris mnndi mat r is cedes ite Lauretame historia 
(Antwerp, 1576), relates, quoting a history found at the 
shrine itself (and probably written about 1450-80), that 
the house of the Virgin Alary, in which Christ was 
brought up, and which was said to have been discov- 
ered by St. Helena, was, after the total downfall of the 
eountrv, and the destruction of its Christian churches 
bv the Turks in May. 1291. brought by the angels to 
Dalmatia, and four and a half years later to Italy, in 
the neighborhood of Peeanati, and was thence finally 
transferred to its present site. This story is contradict- 
ed by the Church hhtorians of the 14th century them- 
selves, who say that in their day Mary's house at Naz- 
areth was still visited by pilgrims. The houses of Pe- j 
canati resembled each other very much, and the selec- 
tion of the original habitation of the Virgin proved very ; 
difiicult, as private interests became mixed up with it. 

Put now as to the church of the Santa Casa itself. It 
stands near the centre of the town, in a piazza which pos- 
sesses other architectural’ attractions, the chief of which 
are the governor's palace, built from the designs of Iira- 
mante, and a fine bronze statue of pope Sixtus V. The ' 
great central door of the church is surmounted by a 
splendid bronze statue of the Madonna; and in the in- 


terior are three magnificent bronze doors filled with bas- 
reliefs, representing the principal events of scriptural 
and ecclesiastical history. The celebrated Holy House 
stands within. It is a small brick house, with one door 
and one window, originally of rude material and con- 
struction, but now, from the devotion of successive gen- 
erations, a marvel of art and of costliness. It is entirely 
cased with white marble, exquisitely scidptured, after 
Bramante’s designs, by Sansovino, Bandinelli. Giovanni 
Bolognese, and other eminent artists. The subjects of 
the bas-reliefs are all taken from the history of the Vir- 
gin Alary in relation to the mystery of the incarnation, 
as the Annunciation, the Visitation, the Nativity, with 
the exception of three on the eastern side, which are 
mainly devoted to the legend of the Holy House itself 
and of its translation. The rest of the interior of the 
church is rich with bas-reliefs, mosaics, frescoes, paint- 
ings, and carvings in bronze. Of this material, the 
finest work is the font, which is a master-piece of art. 
The Holy House having been at all times an object of 
devout veneration, its treasury of votive offerings is one 
of the richest in the Western world. It suffered severely 
in the French occupation of 1796, but it has since re- 
ceived numerous and most costly accessions. Each of 
the innumerable gold and silver lamps kept burning at 
the shrine is endowed to the amount of several thou- 
sand dollars to secure their being always kept burning. 
The remainder of the wax candles and oil (of which 
some 14,000 pounds are burned annually) is sold as pos- 
sessing sanative virtues, which are also supposed to ac- 
company the use or even the handling of household 
vessels belonging to the shrine. As many as 40,000 
masses have been said there in one year, which also 
adds greatly to the income. Popes Julius H, Sixtus V, 
and Innocent Nil attached indulgences to the pilgrim- 
ages and prayers offered here, but nevertheless the num- 
ber of pilgrims, which was said in 1600 to have reached 
200,000 per annum, fell in the last century to 40,000, 
and in our own day remains at this number. The fres- 
coes of the church are among the finest to be found in 
the world. The name it took from Laureta. a lady on 
whose estate the Santa Casa remained for a while. 

The history of this shrine has been critically examined 
by I\ P. Bergerius, and in 1619 by Prof. Vcrnegger, of 
Strasburg. Its principal champions were Jesuits ; among 
them we would mention Turrianus, Canisins, and Baro- 
nins. Imitations of the Santa Casa have been erected 
in some places, as at Prague, near Augsburg, etc., and, in 
turn, became shrines. — Ilerzog, Real-Encyklop. viii, 489. 

Loria (or Luria) Isaac (by the Jews [Lion], 
the initials of a noted rabbi and 

great expounder of the Cabala (q.v.), was born at Jeru- 
salem in 1534, of a German-Jewish family. His father 
having died when he was a child, he was eared for by a 
rich uncle, and was dedicated to the study of the Tal- 
mud at Cairo. When twenty-four years of age he was 
considered one of the greatest Talmudists of that place. 
Unfortunately, however, Loria became an ardent ad- 
mirer of the mystical writings of the Jews, and espe- 
cially enraptured with the Sohur (q. v.), one of the 
Cabalistic works. The hermit of Cairo was the first to 
bring the intricate and confused system of the Sohar 
into order, unity, and congruitv ; he also made many 
valuable additions. A most remarkable feature of his 
views are the numerous divisions of his psychology, 
with its two sexes. Still, all these theories were, with 
him, only premises to lead on to a more important and 
practical branch in the Cabala, which he called the 
“ world of perfection" (Olain lia-Tikkun). lie also held 
peculiar views on the fall of man. By reason of Adam’s 
original sin, he held, the higher and the infernal souls, 
the good and the evil, came into confusion, and became 
intermixed with each other, a transmigration and sepa- 
ration of souls was thus a necessity. Li addition to this 
he teaches the Snperfatatio. He pretended to have a 
full knowledge concerning the origin, relation, and rand- 


LGRIA 


517 


LORT 


fication of souls; further. to possess the power and faculty 
to compel the spirits of the upper world to take their 
abode in the bodies of living men. in order to reveal to 
them what is going on in the upper world; further, to 
be able to read on every man’s brow in which relation 
liis soul stands to the higher worlds. In Cairo nobody 
interested himself in his mysticism, and he therefore 
emigrated in 1569 to Safet, the cabalistic Jerusalem, 
where the Cabala was esteemed as high as the Bible. 
His superior knowledge, faculties, and gifts gradually 
secured him the favor of the Cabalists, and Loria was 
soon surrounded by troops of young and old Cabalists, 
who came to listen to his new revelations. lie subse- 
quently formed a cabalistic community, who lived to- 
gether apart from the non-Cabalists, and according to 
his prescriptions. After Loria’s death (August, 1572), 
Vital Calabrese became his successor and gathered his 
productions, while another of his disciples, the Italian 
Israel Saruk, propagated his teachings in Europe. In- 
deed, it may be said that the influence of this Cabalist 
extended more or less over all the Jews of the globe, 
and many of them to this very day follow this great 
Jewish mystic in assigning to the Sohar equal value as 
to the Bible. It must be confessed, however, that by 
his influence he also called forth a revival in the Jewish 
communities everywhere, and a reaction in the phari- 
saie, lifeless prayers, while even upon the Christian the- 
osophy, mysticism, and exegetical studies liis influence 
was considerable. See Griitz, Gesch . der Juden , ix, 437 
sq. ; x, 125 ; Jost, Gesch. d. Judenth . iii, 138, 145; Fiirst, 
Biblioth . Jud. ii, 257 sq. 

Loria, Salomo, a noted rabbi, was born at Posen 
in 1510. Gifted with great talents, lie devoted himself 
to a thorough research of Jewish literature. On ac- 
count of his onslaughts on Jewish tradition he became 
involved in manifold controversies with his colleagues, 
and was persecuted; but, though personally disliked on 
account of his inclination to polemics, and not sparing 
even the private characteristics of living authorities, his 
just merits concerning the Talmud were recognised af- 
ter all, and his commentaries on six volumes of the Tal- 
mud are held in high reputation among the Talmudic 
Jews to this very day. lie died in 1573. See Grittz, 
Gesch. d. Juden, ix, 467 sq. ; Fiirst, Bill. Jud. ii, 260 sq. 

Lorin(us), Jean, a Jewish commentator on the 
Scriptures, distinguished in his day as an exegetical 
scholar, was born at Avignon in 1559; taught theology 
at Paris, Rome, and Milan, and died March 26, 1634, at 
Dole. For a list of his works, see Hoefer, jVouv. Biofj. 
Generate, xxxi, 662. 

Lorraine, Charles de Guise, Cardinal of. See 
Guise, Charles. 

Lorsbach, Georg Wilhelm, a German theologian, 
was born at Dillenburg, in the duchy of Nassau, Feb. 29, 
1752. In 1768 he entered the University of Herborn ; 
in 1771 he removed to that of Gottingen, and became 
there an enthusiastic student of the Oriental languages 
under Michaelis. After having finished the academical 
course, he spent four years in private study in his fa- 
ther’s house, preparing himself for the ministry. In 
1778 he became rector at Siegen; in 1786, at the gram- 
mar-school of his native place, and obtained, at the 
same time, the dignity of professor; in 1791, rector at 
the grammar-school of Ilcrborn, and, at the same time, 
professor of Oriental languages at the academy there, 
and in the following year was appointed to lecture at 
the university of that place on history and exegesis. 
In 1793 he became the third professor ordinary of di- 
vinity; in 1794, the second professor and a counsellor 
of the Consistory. Having become famous, by reason 
of his literary contributions, as ail eminent Orientalist, 
lie was, in 1812, called to the University of Jena as pro- 
fessor of Oriental literature. The theological faculty 
of Marburg bestowed on him the degree of doctor of di- 
vinity. He died March 30, 1816. He belongs to the 
few and rare scholars of the ancient languages who 


combined acuteness with extensive learning. De Saey 
places him among the first German Orientalists. He 
published an A rcltic d.moryenlandischen Literatur (Mar- 
burg, 1791-94, 2 bde. 8vo). See Doring, Gclekrte Thtol. 
Deutschlands, vol. ii, s. v. 

Lorsch, Convent of (otherwise Lauresham, Lait- 
resheim, monasterium Laurence use , Laurissense, Lauris- 
sa ), situated four miles from Heidelberg, was established 
about A.D. 764 by countess Wiliiswinda (widow of count 
Rupert, who, by order of Pepin, conducted pope Ste- 
phen back to Rome) and her son Cancor. Its first ab- 
bot is said to have been a near relative of the founders, 
Chrodegang of Metz. The first establishment was on an 
island of the AVesclinitz, dedicated to St. Peter; a sec- 
ond was soon erected on a hill in the neighborhood. 
Charlemagne greatly interested himself in this monas- 
tery, and added to it as endowment Ileppcnheim (in 
January, 773) and Oppenheim (in September. 774). and 
personally attended the consecration. Louis the Pious, 
Lothaire, Louis the German, and Louis III all confirmed 
successively the donations of Charlemagne. Rut one 
of the greatest sources of prosperity for the convent was 
its having received from Rome the relics of St. Nazarius, 
which brought it numberless presents and donations, 
and soon made it one of the most prosperous convents 
at the time. Lorsch also enjoys great literary fame. 
Its monks especially distinguished themselves by their 
literary pursuits, to which the Annales Laureshamenscs 
bear witness. The early part of these annals (7(*>-768) 
is evidently derived from those of the convent of Mtir- 
bacli, which were very popular; but after that time they 
are clearly original, and continue down to 803. Aside 
from the less important Annales Laurissenscs minores, 
we must mention the Annales Laurissenses, formerly 
called flebeji or Loiseliani, which are the most important 
annals of the time. Ranke has lately discovered in 
them the official work of a Carlovingian court historian, 
which was afterwards used by Einhard as the basis of 
the annals bearing his name. Until the lltli century 
the convent enjoyed great prosperity. Then its reverses 
commenced, and, after various struggles, it fell in the 
12th century, till “a plant a pedis usque ad vertieem non 
fuit in eo sanitas.” The moral condition of the Lorsch 
monastery had greatly deteriorated ever since the 11th 
century, and it became necessary to inaugurate a re- 
form. This task was intrusted to archbishop Sifried II 
of Mentz,A.D. 1229. liis successor, Sifried III, however, 
was really the man who completed this task by subject- 
ing the monks to the Cistercian rule, “ut ordo,”*says 
Gregory IX in his brief, “de nigro conversus in album 
purgetur vitiis et virtutibus augeatur."’ By liim also 
were subsequently installed into Lorsch some Pnemon- 
strant canons of the convent of All Saints (diocese of 
Strasburg), and the pope approved it as a new organiza- 
tion Jan. 8, 1248. In the second half of the 16th century 
Lorsch was subjected to the rule of the electoral admin- 
istration. Vainly did the Pnemonstrants appeal to pope 
Alexander VII : the convent retained only the original 
foundation at Mentz and its dependencies. Not until 
after the completion of the treaty of Westphalia (1650) 
was a part of its other possessions restored to it. In 
1651 the Palatinate renewed its claims to the lands of 
the convent, and questioned the propriety of the inde- 
pendence of Lorsch as a separate duchy, with repre- 
sentation in the Diet. The quarrel lasted nearly through 
the whole of the 18th century, but was finally settled in 
1803, when the convent became the possession of the 
house of Hesse-Darmstadt. See Rettberg, K. Geschichte 
L)eutschlands , i, 584 sq. ; K. Dahl, Beschreib. d. Fiirslen- 
thums Lorsch (Darmstadt, 1812, 4to); Codex principis 
olini Laureshamensis, etc., edit. Academ. elector, seient. 
Theodoro-Palatina, vol. iii (Mamih. 1768, 4to) ; Herzog, 
Real-Encyhlof), viii, 490. 

Lort, Michael, D.D., an English theologian, was 
born in 1725 ; entered Trinity College, Cambridge. 1745 ; 
became professor of Greek at Cambridge in 1759 ; rec- 


LO-RUIIAMAH 


518 


LOSS 


tor of St. Matthew, London, in 1771 ; prebendary of St. 
Paul’s in 1780. lie died in 1790. Ilis works were, Pa- 
pers in Archceoloyy, 1777, 79, '87 : — Short Comment on 
the Lord's Prayer , 1790 : — Inquiry Relative to the Au- 
thorship of" The whole Duty of Man and a small vol- 
ume of Sermons. See Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and A mer. 
A uthors , vol. ii, s. v. 

Lo-ruha'mah (Ilcb. Lo-Rucha'mah, ircrn NP, 
not pitied , as it is explained in both contexts, Hos. i, G, 
Sept. 0<»fc Yulg. Absque misericordia , and as 

it is rendered in the Auth.Yers., llos. ii, 23, “ not obtain- 
ed mercy”), the name divinely appointed for the first 
daughter of the prophet Ilosea by the formerly disso- 
lute Gomer, a type of Jehovah’s temporary rejection of 
liis people by the Babylonian captivity in consequence 
of their idolatry (Hos. i,6 ; ii, 23 ; comp, ii, 1). B.C. eir. 
725. See Hosea. 

Losada, Christopher, a martyr to the cause of 
Protestantism in Spain in the 16th century, was, at the 
time of his conversion under the preaching of Dr. Egid- 
ius [see Gil, Juax], an eminent physician and learned 
philosopher. He was chosen pastor of a Protestant 
Church in Seville, which met ordinarily in the house 
of Isabella de Baena, “a lady not less distinguished for 
her piety than for her rank and opulence.” Among 
the members of note in his congregation were Don 
Juan Ponce de Leon, and Domingo de Guzman, and oth- 
ers equally well celebrated. Arrested by the Inquisition 
in consequence of his zeal in diffusing Protestant prill ei- 
ples among his countrymen, neither the prison nor the 
rack availed to make him renounce his convictions, and 
he was consequently condemned to the stake, lie suf- 
fered death at an “ auto-da-fe,” solemnized at Seville 
Sept. 24, 1559, in the square of St. Francis, and attended 
by four bishops, the members of the royal court of jus- 
tice, the chapter of the cathedral, and a great assem- 
blage of nobility and gentry, the occasion of the death- 
penalty on twenty-one apostates from the liomisli be- 
lief. The most distinguished individual aside from Dr. 
Losada was one of his members, Don Juan Ponce de 
Leon, whom we have mentioned above. They both bore 
their trial with admirable Christian patience, commit- 
ting their souls to a faithful Creator. See Fox, Book of 
Martyrs, p. 13G; M'Crie, Reformation in Spain, p. 217, 
300, 307. (J. H. W.) 

Loscher, Johann Kaspar, a German theologian, 
was born at Werden May 8, 1030, and was educated at 
the University of Wittenberg. He flourished succes- 
sively as superintendent of the churches of Sondershan- 
sen (1668), pastor at Erfurt (1G7G), superintendent at 
Zwickau (1679), and then as senior preacher in the 
west Prussian city of Dnntzie. In 1687 he was made 
doctor and professor of theology at his alma mater, and 
he remained there until his death, July 11, 1718. He 
wrote many theological dissertations, of but little value 
in our day. 

Loscher, Valentin Ernst, a distinguished Ger- 
man theologian, was born at Sondershauscn in 1673. lie 
studied at the universities of Wittenberg (where his 
father. Caspar Loscher, was a professor) and Jena, and 
then went on a perigrinatio aeademiea through the 
Netherlands and Denmark, and the cities Hamburg and 
llostoek. In the last-named place lie connected himself 
with the anti-Pietist party, but after his return he de- 
voted himself to historical studies, and delivered lec- 
tures on genealogy and heraldry, as well as on exegesis, 
morals, etc. In 1698 he was appointed superintendent 
by the duke of Weissenfels, and, some time after, began, 
in connection with some friends, the publication of the 
first theological periodical in Germany, the Cnschuldiye 
Xachrivhten von alten u. neuen theoloy. Sachen (20 vols. 
to 1720; continued by Henry Keinhard until 1731). 
This became the organ of the orthodox party in iSax- 
ony, as opposed to the pietism and indifferent ism pre- 
vailing at the time. Ilis sphere of influence was after- 
wards enlarged, first as superintendent ofDelitzseh, and, 


later (1702), as professor in the University of Witten- 
berg. In 1704 he was appointed superintendent of 
Dresden and member of the supreme consistorial court. 
In this position his activity was soon manifested in the 
improved facilities for religious and secular instruction. 
Besides establishing several parish schools, he laid the 
foundation of a seminarium minister'd; at the same time 
he zealously instructed candidates for the ministry, 
preached both on Sundays and w r eek-davs, besides car- 
rying on an extensive correspondence with the princes, 
states, and pastors who held fast to the orthodox faith, 
and opposed, with him, the inroads of pietism and imlil- 
ferentism. lie died Feb. 12,1741. Loscher left a col- 
lection of his letters forming five volumes folio, which 
are preserved in the Hamburg Library. Ilis principal 
w T orks are IJistoria mortuum (part i, 1707 ; pt. iii, 1722) : 
— Die Reformat ionsakt a : — Timotheus Verinus (1718). 
See Herzog, Real-Encykl. s. v. ; Tholuck, Der Geist d. lu- 
therischen Theoloyen Wittenb. (1852); M. v. Engel liardt, 
Valentin Ernst Loscher nach s. Leben u. I Virken (Dorpat, 
1853; 2d edit., Stnttg. 185G); Hurst’s Hagenbach, Ch. 
Hist. 1 8th and 19 th Cent, i, 109 sq., 1 1 G sq., 130. 

Loskiel, George Hexry, a bishop of the Moravian 
Church, celebrated as a preacher, hymnologist, and au- 
thor, was born Nov. 7, 1740, at Angermimde, in Cour- 
land, where his father had charge of a Lutheran parish. 
In early life he joined the Moravians, and studied both 
theology and medicine at their college at Darby, in 
Germany. After practicing medicine for a time, he de- 
voted himself wholly to the ministry, in Holland, Ger- 
many, and Livonia. In 1802 he w r as consecrated a 
bishop, and came to the United States in order to fill 
the ofiice of president of the provincial board which 
governs the Moravian churches in this country. Fail- 
ing health and other circumstances constrained him to 
retire from this position in 1810. Two years later he 
w T as elected into the general board of the Church at 
Berthelsdorf, in Saxony; bnt the war with Great Brit- 
ain and the state of his health prevented him from leav- 
ing America, lie died Feb. 23, 1814, at Bethlehem, 
Pa. Uis two principal works are Geschichte d. Mission 
der Evany. Bi nder miter den Indianern in X. A . (1789), 
translated into English by La Trobe, and published ill 
London (1794), a standard on the Moravian missions 
among the Indians, with a full account of their manners 
and customs, based upon the reports of the missionaries, 
and Et was fiirs Herz an f deni J Veye zur Ewiykeit (B re- 
ligious Meditations for every Day in the Year), a book 
which passed through eight editions (the last in 1848), 
and is still read with great profit by thousands of Chris- 
tians in Germany. See De Schweinitz, Life and Times 
of David Zeisberyer (Phil. a. 1871. 8vo), p. 662 sq. (E. 
dc S.) 

Losner, Ciirtstopiier Friedrich, a German the- 
ologian, noted in the department of exegesis, was born 
at Leipsie in 1734. and was educated at the university 
of that place. He afterwards held a professorship in 
liis alma mater. He died there in 1803. His chief 
work is Observations ad X ovum Test amentum, e Phihme 
Alcxandrino (Leipsie, 1777, 8vo). In this work “the 
force and meaning of words are particularly illustrated, 
together with points of antiquity, and the readings of 
Philo’s text. The light thrown upon the New Test, by 
the writings of Philo is admirably elucidated by Losner” 
(Ilorne). Another valuable production of liis is Obser- 
vations in reliquias rersionis Prorerbiorum Salumonis 
Grwae A quihv, Symmachi el Thcodotionis. 

Loss (prop, some form of the verb arroWr/xi, 
but likewise a frequent rendering of several other lleb. 
and Gr. terms which usually imply an idea of dtnnaye). 
According to the Mosaic law, whoever among the He- 
brews found any lost article (n“ZS<) was required to 
take it to his home, and then endeavor to discover the 
proper owner (Dent, xxii, 1-3). This would, of course, 
particularly apply to stray animals, and Josephus gives 
some special details with respect to money so found 


LOSS 


519 


LOT 


{Ant. iv, .8, 20 ; compare the Mishna, Shekal. vii, 2). In 
case of the abstraction of property while in the posses- 
sion of the finder, the latter had not only to make it 
good, but also to add one fifth of its value, and even to 
make a sin-offering likewise (Lev. vi, 3 sq.). The 
Mishna makes many casuistical distinctions on this sub- 
ject ( Baba Mezia , i, 2), especially with regard to ad- 
vertising i. e. KJjpvTTtiv) the discovered prop- 

erty. — Winer, ii, 651. See Damage. 

Loss, Lewis Homri, a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in Augusta, N. Y., July 1, 1803, and was educated 
at Hamilton College, Clinton, X. Y. (elass of 1828). In 
1829 he was licensed and ordained by Oneida Presby- 
tery, and installed pastor of the Church in Camden, 
Oneida County, X. Y. In the pastoral ofliee he after- 
wards served in Elyria, Ohio ; in Doekford and Chicago, 
111.-, and in Joliet and Marshalltown, Iowa, lie was 
synodical missionary three years to the synod of Peoria, 
111.; also prominent in bringing into existence institu- 
tions of learning, as Beloit College and Kockford Female 
Seminar}", 111. lie died July 10, 1865. Mr. Loss was 
an eminently successful preacher, erecting many church- 
es, and especially prominent in the Sabbath -school 
cause. He always had the fullest confidence of the men 
of the world ; they recognised his worth as a man and 
a citizen. See Wilson, Presb. Hist or. Aim . 1866, p. 217. 
(J. L. S.) 

Lossius, Caspar Friedrich, a German theologian, 
was born at Erfurt Jan. 31, 1753, and was educated at 
the university of that plaee, which he entered in 1770. 
Dissatisfied with the innovations which Bahrdt under- 
took in theology, he removed in 1773 to the University 
of Jena ; and again, not quite satisfied with the ration- 
alistic innovations of the day, he was obliged to ac- 
quire the greater part of his learning by private study. 
In 1774 he became school-teacher at his native place; 
in 1781 dean of Andreas Church, and in 1785 dean to the 
Prediger Church of the same place. He died March 20, 
1817. Lossius was a man of great learning; the liter- 
ature of the Deformation was almost his daily study. 
Having seen the danger which threatened his country, 
both religiously and morally, from the rationalistic inno- 
vations, and from the consequences of the French Devo- 
lution, he dedicated most of his time and talent as a pop- 
ular author to the cause of the faith and principles of 
the fathers of the Deformation. Some of his produc- 
tions passed through several editions in a short time. 
Some were even translated into French, and rescued 
thousands from moral degradation and spiritual destruc- 
tion. A complete list of his works is given by Doring, 
Gelehrte Theol. Deutschl . vol. ii, s. v. 

Lost Tribes. See Captivity; Israel. 

Lot (properly or goraV, icXijpoc, literally 
a pebble, used anciently for balloting; other terms occa- 
sionally thus rendered are or bnn, che'bet , a p>or- 
tion , Dent, xxxii, 9; 1 Chron. xvi, 18; Psa. cv, 11, re- 
ferring to an inheritance; and Aayydpw, to obtain by 
lot, Luke i, 9; John xix, 24), strictly a small stone, as 
used in casting lots (Lev. xvi, 8; Xumb. xxxiii, 54; 
Josh, xix, I; Ezek. xxiv, 6; Jonah i, 7), hence also a 
method used to determine chances or preferences, or to 
decide a debate. The decision by lot was often resort- 
ed to among the Hebrews, but always with the strictest 
reference to the interposition of God. As to the pre- 
cise manner of casting lots, we have no certain informa- 
tion ; probably several modes were practiced. In Prov. 
xvi, 33 we read that “ the lot,” i. e. pebble, ‘‘ is cast into 
the lap,” properly into the bosom of an urn or vase. It 
does not appear that the lap or bosom of a garment worn 
by a person was ever used to receive lots. 

The use of lots among the aneients was very general 
(see Dale, Orae. ethn. e. 14 ; Potter, Greek Antiq. i, 730 ; 
Adams, Rom. Ant. i, 540 sq. ; Smith, Diet, of Class. Ant. 
s. v. Sors) and highly esteemed (Xenoph. Cyrop. i, 6,46), 
as is natural in simple stages of society (Tacit. Germ. 10), 


“ recommending itself as a sort of appeal to the Almighty 
seeure from all influence of passion or bias, and a sort 
of divination employed even by the gods themselves 
(Homer, Iliad, xxii, 209; Cicero, De Uiv. i, 34; ii, 41). 
The word sors is thus used for an oracular response (Cic- 
ero, De Divina , ii, 56). So there was a mode of divina- 
tion among heathens by means of arrows, two inscribed 
and one without mark, fitXopavrtta (Ilos. iv, 12; Ezek. 
xxi, 21; Mauritius, De Sortitione, c. 14, § 4; see also 
Esth. iii, 7 ; ix, 24-32 ; Mishna, Taanith , ii, 10). See 
Divination. Among heathen instances the following 
additional may be cited : 1. Choice of a champion, or of 
priority in combat {11. iii, 316; vii, 171 ; Herod, iii, 108) ; 
2. Decision of fate in battle {11. xx, 209); 3. Appoint- 
ment of magistrates, jurymen, or other functionaries (Ar- 
istot. Pol. iv, 16; Sehol. On A ristoph. Pint. 277 ; Ilerod. 
vi, 109; Xenoph. Cyrop. iv, 5, 55; Demostli. c.Aristog. 
i, 778, 1 ; comp. Smith, Diet, of Class. Antiq. s. v. Dieas- 
tes) ; 4. Priests (zEsch. in Tim. p. 188, Bekk.) ; 5. A Ger- 
man practice of deciding bv marks on twigs, mentioned 
by Tacitus {Germ. 10) ; 6. Division of conquered or col- 
onized land (Thucydides; iii, 50 ; Plutarch, Pericles , 84; 
Boekh, Public Peon, of Ath. ii, 170)” (Smith). 

The Israelites sometimes had recourse to lots as a 
method of ascertaining the divine will (Prov. xvi, 33), 
and generally in cases of doubt regarding serious enter- 
prises (Esth. iii, 7 ; compare Dosenmuller, Morgenl. iii, 
301), especially the following : («.) In matters of par- 
tition or distribution, e. g. the location of the several 
tribes in Palestine (Xumb. xxvi, 55 sq. ; xxxiii, 54; 
xxxiv, 13 ; xxxvi, 2; Josh, xiv, 2; xviii, 6 sq.; xix, 5), 
the assignment of the Levitical cities (Josh, xxi, 4 sq.), 
and, after the return from the exile, the settlement in 
the homesteads at the capital (Xeh. xi, 1 ; compare 1 
Macc. iii, 36). Prisoners of war were also disposed of 
by lot (Joel iii, 3; Xah. iii, 10 ; Obad. 11 ; compare Matt, 
xxvii, 35; John xix, 24 ; compare Xenoph. Cyrop. iv, 5, 
55). (b.) In criminal investigations where doubt exist- 
ed as to the real culprit (Josh, vii, 14; 1 8am. xiv, 42). 
A notion prevailed among the Jews that this detection 
was performed by observing the shining of the stones in 
the high-priest’s breastplate (Mauritius, c. 21, § 4). The 
instance of the mariners casting lots to ascertain by the 
surrendering of what offender the sea could be appeased 
(Jonah i, 7), is analogous; but it is not clear, from Prov. 
xviii, 18, that lots were resorted to for the determination 
of civil disputes, (c.) In the election to an important 
office or undertaking for which several persons appeared 
to have claims (1 Sam. x, 19; Acts i, 26; comp. Ilerod. 

iii, 128; Justin, xiii, 4; Cicero, lerr. ii, 2, 51 ; Aristot. Po- 

lit. iv, 16), as well as in the assignment of official duties 
among associates having a common right (Nell, x, 34), 
as of the priestly offices in the Temple service among 
the sixteen of the family of Eleazar and the eight of 
that of Ithamar (1 Chron. xxiv, 3, 5, 19 ; Luke i, 9), also 
of the Levites for similar purposes (1 Chron. xxiii, 28; 
xxiv, 20-31 ; xxv, 8 ; xxvi, 13 ; Mishna, Tumid , i, 2 ; iii, 
1 ; v, 2 ; Joma, ii, 2. 3, 4 ; Shabb. xxiii, 2 ; Lightfoot. llor. 
Hebr. in Luke i, 8, 9, vol. ii, p. 489). {d.) In military 

enterprises (Judg. xx, 10 ; compare Yal. Max. i, 5, 3). 

In the sacred ritual of the Hebrews we find the use of 
lots but once prescribed, namely, in the selection of the 
seape-goat (Lev. xvi, 8 sq.). The two inscribed tablets 
of boxwood, afterwards of gold, were put into an urn, 
which was shaken, and the lots drawn out {Joma, iii, 9; 

iv, 1). See Atonement, 1 )ay or. Eventually lots came 

into frequent usage (comp, the Mishna, Shaabb. xxiii, 2). 
In later times they even degenerated into a game of 
hazard, of which human life was the stakes (Josephus, 
War, iii, 8, 7). Dice appear to have been usually em- 
ployed for the lot (^ia TpViiifi, to “ throic the die,” 
Josh, xviii, 8; so iTTSl, to east, Josh, xviii, 6; Hi to pi, 
to give, Acts i, 26 ; ^£2, ttitttoj, to fall, Jonah i, 7 ; E2ek. 
xxiv, 7 ; Acts i, 26), and were sometimes drawn from a 
vessel 53!£^,“the lot came forth,” Numb, xxxii. 


LOT 


520 


LOT 


5-4 ; so !135, to “come up ,” Lev. vi, 0; comp. theMishna, 
Jomct, iv, 1), A different kind of lot is elsewhere indi- 
cated in the Mishna ( Joma , ii, 1 ; comp. Lightfoot, Ilor. 
Jlebr . p. 714). A sacred species of lot was by means 
of the Uhlm and Thummim (q. v.) of the high-priest 
(Numb, xxvii, 21; 1 Sam. xxviii, 0), which appears to 
have had some connection with the divination by means 
of the sacerdotal Epuod (1 Sam. xxiii. (>, 9). Stones 
were occasionally employed in prophetical or emblemat- 
ical lots (Numb, xvii, 6 sq. ; Zeeh. xi, 10, 14). See also 
Purtm. Election by lot appears to have prevailed in 
the Christian Church as late as the 7th century (Bing- 
ham, Bedes. A ntiq. iv, 1, 1, vol. i, p. 42G ; Bruns, Cone . ii, 
66). Here also we may notice the use of words heard, 
or passages chosen at random from Scripture. Sortes 
fiibliccp, like the Soi'tes Virgiliance, prevailed among 
Jews, as they have also among Christians, though de- 
nounced by several councils (Johnson, “ Life of Cowley.” 
Works, ix, 8 ; Bingham, Bccl. Antiq. xvi, 5, 3 ; id., vi, 53 
sq. ; Bruns, Cone, ii, 145-154, 166 ; Mauritius, c. 15; Hof- 
mann. Lex. s. v. Sortes). 

On the subject generally, see Mauritius, Be Sortitione 
ap. ret. Ilebneos (Basil, 1692); Chrvsander, Be Sortibus 
(Halle, 1740) ; Benzel, Be Sortibus vet. in his Syntagma 
dissertat. i, 297-318 ; Winckler, Gedanken iiber d. Spuren 
gottl.Providenz in Loose (Hildesheim, 1750); Palaophili, 


Abhandl. v. Gebrauclis d. looses in d. heil. Sdir . in Sem- 
ler’s Hall . Samml. i, 2, 79 sq. ; Junius, Be Soj-te, remedio 
dubias caussas dirimendi (Lips. 1746) ; Eenberg, Be Sor- 
tilegiis (Upsal. 1705) ; Hanovius, Be electione per sortem 
(Gedan. 1743; in German by Tramhohl, Hamb. 1751); 
Bauer, Yormitze Kunst, etc. (Ilildesh. 1750). 

The term “lot” is also used for that which falls to one 
by lot, especially a portion or inheritance (Josh, xv, 1 ; 
J udg. i, 3 ; Psa. exxv, 3 ; Isa. xvii, 14 ; Ivii, 6 ; Acts viii, 
21). Lot is also used metaphorically for poi'tion, or des- 
tiny, as assigned to men from God (Psa. xvi, 5) : “ And 
arise to thy lot in the end of days” in the Messiah’s 
kingdom (l)an. xii, 13; comp, Itev. xx, 6). See Her- 
itage. 

Lot. See Myrrh. 

Lot (Heb. id., a covering, as in Isa. xxv, 7 ; Sept, 
and N. T, A lot, Josephus Aojtoq ; occurs Gen. xi, 27, 31 ; 
xii, 4, 5; xiii, 1-14; xiv. 12, 16; xix, 1-15, 18, 23, 29, 
30, 36; Dent, ii, 9, 19; Psa. Ixxxiii, 8; Luke xvii, 28, 
29, 32; 2 Pet. ii, 7), the son of Ilaran and nephew of 
Abraham (Gen. xi, 27). His sisters were Milcah, the 
wife of Nahor, and Iscah, by some identified with Sarah. 
[In our treatment of the history, we freely avail our- 
selves of the articles in Kitto and Smith.] The follow- 
ing genealogy exhibits the family relations : 


Teraii 

1 

1 

Hagar to Abram to Sarai 

Nahor to Milcah 

1 

Ilaran 

! 

Ishmael. Isaac 

I 

Bethuel 

1 

Lot to wife Milcah to Nahor. 

1 

Esau. Jacob. 

i i 

Kebekah. Laban. 

1 

Daughter Daughter 

1 1 


Leah. Kachel. 

1 1 

Moab. Beu-Ammi. 


By the early death of his father (Gen. xi, 28), he was 
left in charge of his grandfather Terali, with whom he 
migrated to Ilaran, B.C. 2089 (Gen. xi, 31), and the lat- 
ter dying there, he had already come into possession of 
his property when he accompanied Abraham into the 
land of Canaan, B.C, 2088 (Gen. xii, 5), and thence into 
Egypt, B.C. 2087 (Gen. xii, 10), and back again, by the 
way of the Philistines, B.C. 2086 (Gen. xx, 1), to the 
southern part of Canaan again, B.C. 2085 (Gen. xiii, 1). 
Their united substance, consisting chiefly in cattle, was 
not then too large to prevent them from living together 
in one encampment. Eventually, however, their pos- 
sessions were so greatly increased that they were obliged 
to separate, and Abraham, with rare generosity, conceded 
the choice of pasture-grounds to his nephew. Lot avail- 
ed himself of this liberality of his uncle, as he deemed 
most for his own advantage, by fixing his abode at Sod- 
om, that his flocks might pasture in and around that 
fertile and well-watered neighborhood (Gen. xiii, 5-13). 
I Ie had soon very great reason to regret this choice ; for, 
although his flocks fed well, his soul was starved in that 
vile place, the inhabitants of which were sinners before 
the Lord exceedingly. There “lie vexed his righteous 
soul from day to day with the filthy conversation of the 
wicked” (2 Pet. ii, 7). 

Not many years after his separation from Abraham 
(B.C. 208D), Lot was carried away prisoner by Chedor- 
laomer, along with the other inhabitants of Sodom, and 
was rescued and brought back by Abraham (Gen. xiv), 
as related under other heads. See Arrau am ; Cuedor- 
eaomer. This exploit procured for Abraham much ce- 
lebrity in Canaan; and it ought to have procured for 
Lot respect and gratitude from the people of .Sodom, 
who had been delivered from hard slavery and restored 
to their homes on his aecount7 But this does not ap- 
pear to have been the result. 

At length (B.C. 2064) the guilt of “the cities of the 
plain” brought down the signal judgments of heaven 


(Gen. xix, 1-29). Lot is still living in Sodom (Gen. 
xix), a well-known resident, with wife, sons, and daugh- 
ters — married and marriageable. The rabbinical tra- 
dition is that he was actually “judge” of Sodom, and 
sat in the gate in that capacity. (See quotations in 
Otlio, 7>ea\ Bobbin, s. v. Loth and Sodom ah.) But in 
the midst of the licentious corruption of Sodom — the 
eating and drinking, the buying and selling, the plant- 
ing and building (Luke xvii, 28), and of the darker evils 
exposed in the ancient narrative — he still preserves 
some of the delightful characteristics of his wandering 
life, his fervent and chivalrous hospitality (xix, 2, 8), the 
unleavened bread of the tent of the wilderness (ver. 3), 
the water for the feet of the wayfarers (ver, 2), afford- 
ing his guests a reception identical with that which 
they had experienced that very morning in Abraham’s 
tent on the heights of Hebron (comp, xviii, 3, 6). It 
is this hospitality which receives the commendation of 
the author of the Epistle to the Hebrews in words that 
have passed into a familiar proverb, “ Be not forgetful to 
entertain strangers, for thereby some have entertained 
angels unawares” (Heb. xiii, 2). On the other hand, it 
is his deliverance from the guilty and condemned city — 
the one just man in that mob of sensual, lawless wretch- 
es — which points the allusion of St. Peter, to “ the godly 
delivered out of temptations, the unjust reserved unto 
the day of judgment to be punished, an ensample to 
those that after should live ungodly” (2 Pet. ii, 6-9). 
The avenging angels, after having been entertained by 
Abraham, repaired to Sodom, where they were received 
and entertained by Lot. who was sitting in the gate of 
the town when they arrived. While they were at sup- 
per the house was beset by a number of men, who de- 
manded that the strangers should be given up to them, 
for the unnatural purposes which have given a name of 
infamy to Sodom in all generations. Lot resisted this 
demand, and was loaded with abuse by the vile fellows 
outside on that account. They had nearly forced the 


LOT 


521 


LOT 


door, when the angels, thus awfully by their own expe- 
rience convinced of the righteousness of the doom they 
came to execute, smote them with instant blindness, by 
which their attempts were rendered abortive, and they 
were constrained to disperse. Towards morning the an- 
gels apprised Lot of the doom which hung over the 
place, and urged him to hasten thence with his family, 
lie was allowed to extend the benefit of this deliver- 
ance to the families of his daughters who had married 
in Sodom; but the warning was received by those fam- 
ilies with incredulity and insult, and he therefore left 
Sodom accompanied only by his wife and two daugh- 
ters. As they went, being hastened by the augels, the 
wife, anxious for those who had been left behind, or re- 
luctant to remove from the place which had long been 
her home, and where much valuable property was nec- 
essarily left behind, lingered behind the rest, and was 
suddenly involved in the destruction by which — smoth- 
ered and stiffened as she stood by saline incrustations — 
she became “a pillar of salt” (Gen. xix, 1-20). This 
narrative has often been regarded as one of the *• difficul- 
ties” of the Bible. But it surely need not be so. Even 
under the above extreme view of the suddenness of the 
event, the circumstances appear to be all sufficiently ac- 
counted for. In the sacred record the words are simply 
these : “ His wife looked back from behind him, and be- 
came a pillar of salt;” words which neither in them- 
selves nor in their position in the narrative afford any 
serious difficulty, even without the supposition of a mir- 
acle. It is true that, when taken with what has gone 
before, they seem to imply (vers. 22, 23) that the work 
of destruction by fire did not commence till after Lot had 
entered Zoar. The storm, however, may have overtaken 
her in consequence of her delay. Later ages have not 
been satisfied to leave the matter, but have iusisted on 
identifying the “ pillar” with some one of the fleeting 
forms which the perishable rock of the south end of the 
Dead Sea is constantly assuming in its process of de- 
composition and liquefaction (Anderson’s Off. Karr. p. 
180). The first allusion of this kind is perhaps that in 
Wisd, x, 7, where “a standing pillar of salt, the monu- 
ment (pvrjptiov) of an unbelieving soul,” is mentioned 
with the “ waste land that smoketh,” and the “plants 
bearing fruit that never come to ripeness,” as remaining 
to that day, a testimony to the wickedness of Sodom. 
This notion was regarded by the 1 Ionian Catholics as 
scriptural authority that might not be disputed. See 
the quotations from the fathers and others in Hofmann’s 
Lexikon (s. v. Lot), and in Mislin, Lieux Saints (iii,224). 
Josephus also (A??/, i, 11, 4) says that he had seen it, 
and that it was then remaining. So, too, do Clemens 
Komauus ( Ejpist . i, 1 1) and Irenams (iv, 51, 64). So does 
Benjamin of Tudela, whose account is more thau usu- 
ally circumstantial (ed. Asher, i, 72). Ilabbi Petacliia, 
oil the other hand, looked for it, but “did not see it; it 
no longer exists” (ed. Beniseh, p. Cl). The same state- 
ment is to be found in travellers of every age, certainly 
of our own times (see Maundrell, March 30). The ori- 
gin of these traditions relative to this pillar has lately 
been satisfactorily explained by the discovery by the 
American party under Lieut. Lynch of an actual column 
still standing on the south-western shore of the Dead 
Sea, at a place retaining the traces of the name of Sod- 
om in the form of Usdum, of which he gives a pictorial 
sketch, describing it as a round pillar, about forty feet 
high, on a lofty pedestal, standing detached from the 
general mass of the mountain, of solid salt, slightly de- 
creasing in size upwards, and capped with carbonate of 
lime; but, although himself a Catholic, he admits, with 
scientific candor, that it is merely t^ie result of the ac- 
tion of the winter rains upon the rock-salt hills, which 
the cap of limestone has here protected, leaving the sur- 
rounding parts to wash away, till a column has thus 
gradually been carved out (Narrative of Expedition, p. 
307,308). Prof. Palmer also visited this singular object, 
called by the Arabs Bint Sheik Lot , or “ Lot’s [daughter] 
wife.” He describes and gives a view of it as “ a tall 



“Lot’s Wife.” 


isolated needle of rock, which really does bear a curious 
resemblance to an Arab woman with a child upon her 
shoulder. The Arab legend of Lot’s wife differs from 
the Bible account only in the addition of a few frivolous 
details. They say that there were seven cities of the 
plain, and that they were all miraculously overwhelmed 
by the Dead Sea as a punishment for their crimes. The 
prophet Lot and his family alone escaped the general 
destruction. He was divinely warned to take all that 
he had and flee eastward, a strict injunction being given 
that they should not look behind them. Lot’s wife, 
who had on previous occasions ridiculed her husband’s 
prophetic office, disobeyed the command, and, turning 
to gaze upon the scene of tire disaster, was changed into 
this pillar of rock” ( Desert of the Exodus [Harper’s], p. 
396 sq.). The expression of our Lord, “Remember Lot’s 
wife” (Luke xvii, 32), appears from the context to be 
solel} r intended as an illustration of the danger of going 
back or delaying in the day of God’s judgments. From 
this text, indeed, it would appear as if Lot's wife had 
gone back or had tarried so long behind in the desire 
of saving some of their property. Then, as it would 
seem, she was struck dead, and became a stiffened corpse, 
fixed for the time to the soil by saline or bituminous in- 
crustations. The particle of similitude must here, as in 
many other passages of Scripture, be understood, *■ like 
a pillar of salt.” See Nagel, De culpa uxoris Loti (Alt- 
dorf, 1755) ; Distel, De salute uxoris Lothi (Altd. 1721) ; 
Waller, Diss. de statua sal. uxoris Loti (Lipsiie, 1764); 
Wolle, De facto etfato uxoris Loti (Lips. 1730) ; Sehwoll- 
mann, Comm, qua de uxore L. in statuam sal. convcrsa 
dubitatur (Hamburg, 1749); Milom, Stndschr. u. d. Salz- 
sdule in die LX Weib vervandelt worden (Hamb. 1767); 
Cleric; Diss. de statua salina, in his Comment, in Gen. ; 
Tieroff,Zte statua sails (Jen. 1657) ; Muller, idem (Ilelm- 
stadt, 1764); Oedmann, Samml. iii, 145; Bauer, llebr. 
Ceschichte. i, 131 ; Maii Observed, sacr. i, 168 sq. ; 1 1, v. d. 
Hardt, Ephem. philol. p. 67 sq.; Jenisch, Erurter. ziveier 
u'ichtig. Schriftstellen (Hamb. 1761); Miehaelis and llo- 
senmiiller on Gen. xix, 26; Gesenius, Thesaur. //e5.p.72. 

Lot and bis daughters meanwhile had hastened on to 
Zoar (q. v.), the smallest of the five cities of the plain, 
which had been spared on purpose to afford him a ref- 
uge ; but, being fearful, after what had passed, to re- 
main among a people so corrupted, he soon retired to a 
cavern in the neighboring mountains, and there abode 
(Gen. xix, 30). After some stay in this place, the 
daughters of Lot became apprehensive lest the family 
of their father should be lost for want of descendants, 
than which no greater calamity was known or appre- 


LOT 


522 


LOUIS 


bended in those times; and in the belief that, after 
what had passed in Sodom, there was no hope of their 
obtaining suitable husbands, tlie} r , by a contrivance 
which has in it the taint of Sodom, in which they were 
brought up, made their father drunk with wine, and in 
that state seduced him into an act which, as they well 
knew, would in soberness have been most abhorrent to 
him. They thus became the mothers, and he the fa- 
ther, of two sons, named Moab and Ammon, from whom 
sprung the Moabites and Ammonites, so often mention- 
ed in the Hebrew history (Gen. xix, 31-38). With re- 
spect to Lot’s daughters, Whiston and others are unable 
to see any wicked intention in them. He admits that 
the incest was a horrid crime, except under the un- 
avoidable necessity which apparently rendered it the 
only means of preserving the human race; and this jus- 
tifying necessity he holds to have existed in their minds, 
as they appear to have believed that all the inhabitants 
of the land had been destroyed except their father and 
themselves. But it is incredible that they could have 
entertained any such belief. The city of Zoar had been 
spared, and they had been there. The wine also with 
which they made their father drunk must have been 
procured from men, as we cannot suppose they had 
brought it with them from Sodom. The fact would 
therefore seem to be that, after the fate of their sisters, 
who had married men of Sodom and perished with them, 
they became alive to the danger and impropriety of 
marrying with the natives of the land, and of the im- 
portance of preserving the family connection. The force 
of this consideration was afterwards seen in Abraham’s 
sending to the seat of his family in Mesopotamia for a 
wife to Isaac. But Lot’s daughters could not go there 
to seek husbands; and the only branch of their own 
family within many hundred miles was that of Abra- 
ham, whose only son, Islimael, was then a child. This, 
therefore, must have appeared to them the only practi- 
cable mode in which the house of their father could be 
preserved. Their making their father drunk, and their 
solicitous concealment of what they did from him, show 
that they despaired of persuading him to an act which, 
under any circumstances, and with every possible ex- 
tenuation, must have been very distressing to so good a 
man. That he was a good man is evinced by his de- 
liverance from among the guilty, and is affirmed by an 
apostle (2 Pet. ii, 7); liis preservation is alluded to by 
our Saviour (Luke xvii, 18, etc.) ; and in Dent, ii, 9, 19, 
and Tsa. Ixxxiii, 9, liis name is honorably used to des- 
ignate the Moabites and Ammonites, liis descendants. 
This account of the origin of the nations of Moab and 
Ammon lias often been treated as if it were a Hebrew 
legend which owed its origin to the bitter hatred exist- 
ing from the earliest to the latest times between the 
children of Lot'’ and the children of Israel. The hor- 
rible nature of the transaction — not the result of im- 
pulse nr passion, but a plan calculated and carried out, 
and that not once, but twice, would prompt the wish 
that t he legendary theory wore true. But even the 
most destructive critics (as, for instance, Tucli) allow 
that the narrative is a continuation without a break of 
that which precedes it, while they fail to point out any 
marks of later date in the language of this portion ; and 
it cannot be questioned that the writer records it as a 
historical lact. Even if the legendary theory were ad- 
missible, there is no doubt of the fact that Ammon and 
Moab sprang from Lot. It is affirmed in the statements 
of Dent, ii, 9 and 19, as well as in the later document of 
Psa. xxxiii, 8, which Ewald ascribes to the time when 
Nehemiali and his newly-returned colony were suffering 
from the attacks and obstructions of Tobiah the Am- 
monite and Sanballat the Iloronite (Ewald, Dicliter , Psa. 
Ixxxiii). 

This circumstance is the last which the Scripture re- 
cords of the history of Lot, and the time and place of 
his death are unknown. A traditional respect has been 
shown to liis memory (also that of bis wife, who is call- 
ed Edith, [one of his daughters being called 


Plntith, tV’ISlPS], in the tract Pirke Elieser, eh. xxv) 
by the Talmudists (see Otho’s Lex. Rahb. p. 389) and 
Arabs (see llerbelot, Biblioth. Orient, ii, 495); and the 
Mohammedans still point out his grave in the village 
of Beni-Nain, east of Hebron (Robinson, Researches, ii, 
187), For the pretty legend of the repentance of Lot, 
and of the tree that he planted, which, being cut down for 
use in the building of the Temple, was afterwards em- 
ployed for the cross, see Eabricius, Cod. Pseudep. V. T. p. 
428-431. The Mohammedan traditions of Lot are con- 
tained in the Koran, chiefly in chap, vii and xi; others 
are given by D'Herbelot (s. v. Loth). According to 
these statements, lie was sent to the inhabitants of the 
live cities as a preacher, to warn them against the un- 
natural and horrible sins w r hich they practiced — sins 
which Mohammed is continually denouncing, but with 
less success than that of drunkenness, since the former 
is perhaps the most common, the latter the rarest vice 
of Eastern cities. From Lot’s connection with the in- 
habitants of Sodom, bis name is now r given not only to 
the vice in question (Freytag, Lexicon , iv, 13G a), but 
also to the people of the five cities themselves — the Lo- 
thi, or Kaum Loth. The local name of the Dead Sea is 
Bahr Lut — Sea of Lot. See Niemeyer, Charakt. ii, 185 
sq. ; Blanfurs, Le Loti hospitahtate (Jena, 1751); Kbr- 
ner, De indole generorum Lothi (Weissenf. 1755) ; Seiden- 
strueker, in the Schleswig Journal, 1792, vol. vi, and in 
Hencke’s Magaz. iii, G7 sq. ; Bauer, Mgthol. d. llebr, i, 
238 sq. ; Kitto’s Daily Bible Illust. ad loc. 

Lo'tan (Deb. Lotan r , coverer ; Sept. A wrap), 

the first -named of the sons of Seir, the llorite, and a 
petty prince of Idumaea prior to the supremacy of the 
Esauitcs (Gen. xxxvi, 20, 29 ; 1 Chron. i, 38). liis sons 
are mentioned as being Ilori and Hemam or Ilomam, 
and his sister as being named Timna (Gen. xxxvi, 22 ; 1 
Chron. i, 39), by which latter he w T as allied to Esau’s 
oldest son (Gen. xxxvi, 12). B.C. cir. 1927. 

Lothaire of Lorraine. See IIincmar ; Nicho- 
las 1 (pope). 

Lothaire I. See Lotus le D^bonxaiiie ; Pas- 
chal I (jiope). 

Lothaire II, sometimes called Lothaire of Sax- 
ony, succeeded Henry X as emperor of Germany in 1 125. 
Lothaire W'as born in 1075, ami w'as the son of Gebhard, 
count of Arnsberg. He is noted in Cluirch history for 
the part he took in the struggle against Innocent II, 
wdiom lie installed in Rome in 1136, a service for which 
lie w'as rewarded by the papal incumbent with corona- 
tion at Rome (comp, the comments on this act by Lea. 
Studies in Ch. I list . p. 37, note). 1 1 e died in 1 137. — Jaffe, 
Gcsch. des deutschen Reiches unter Lothar von Sachsen 
(1843). See Innocent II. 

Lothasu'bus (Aw3’d<xou/3oc, Vulg. A busthas v. r. 
Sabus), one of tlie supporters of Esdras as he read the 
law' (1 Esd. ix,44); evidently the Hasiiu.w (q. v.) of the 
Ileb. text (Neh. vii, 22). 

Lots, Feast of. See Purim. 

Lot's Wife. See Lot. 

Lotto, Lorenzo, a celebrated Venetian painter of 
the K*th century, is supposed by some to have been a 
native of Bergamo, but by others a native of Venice. 
Lotto lived, besides, at Bergamo, also some time at Tre- 
vigi, at Recanati, and at Loretto, where lie died. His 
works range from 1513 to 1554. Lauzi ventures an 
opinion that Lotto’s best works could scarcely be sur- 
passed by Raffaelle or by Correggio, if treating the. same 
subject. 1 1 is masterpieces are the Madonnas of St. Bar- 
tolomeo and Santo Spirito, at Bergamo. — English Cyclo- 
pedia, s, v. 

Lotus. See Lily. 

Loudun, Convent of. See Grandier. 

Louis (or Luis) de Granada, a Spanish ascetic, 
theologian, and writer, was bom at Granada in 1504. 
In 1524 be joined the Dominicans, in the convent of 


LOUIS I 


523 


LOUIS I 


Santa Cruz of Granada. In 15*29 lie was, on account 
of liis great reputation, transferred to the convent of St. 
Gregory at Valladolid, where he attracted much atten- 
tion by his preaching, lie was afterwards recalled to 
Granada, to reform the convent of Scala Cceli, in the 
Sierra dc Cordova. In the solitude of this convent he 
composed a number of religious works. He next went 
to Cordova as preacher, and became acquainted with 
John of Avila (q. v.), who acquired great influence over 
him. After spending eight years in Cordova, Louis 
went to Badajoz, where he founded a convent, of which 
he was the first abbot. Cardinal Ilenry, infant of Spain 
and archbishop of Ebora, desiring to avail himself of 
Louis’s talents, attached him to his diocese. The queen 
of Portugal vainly offered to make him bishop of Viseu, 
and afterwards metropolitan of Braga; he accepted no 
office whatever, except that of provincial of his order in 
Portugal, which he held for some years, lie finally re- 
tired into the convent of Santa Domingo of Lisbon, and 
devoted the remainder of his life to pastoral duties and 
to writing religious works. He died Dec. 31, 1588. Ilis 
works, a large number of which were translated into 
French, Italian, and German, are very numerous ; among 
them the most important arc, Memorial de la rida Chris- 
tiana (Salamanca, 15GG, 2 vols. 8vo; Barcelona, 1614, 
fol.) : — Simholo de la Fe (Salamanca, 1582, fol. ; often re- 
printed and translated) : — Gvida de Pecadores (Sala- 
manca, 1570, 8vo) : — Compendio de la dottrina Christiana 
(Lisbon, 1564; Madrid, 1595, 4to): — Institucion y reyla 
de lien v ivir para los que empieean a servir a Dios (Bar- 
celona, 15GG, 8vo; Madrid, 1 GIG) : — Lihro de la Or a cion 
y Meditation (Salamanca, 1567, 8vo) : — Collectanea mo- 
ralis Philosophic (Lisbon, 1571, 3 vols. 8vo ; Paris, 1582 ; 
and under the title Loci communes Philosophic moralis , 
Cologne, 1604) : — Rhetorica ecclesiastica (Lisbon, 1576, 
4to), etc. ; and a number of sermons. See Louis Munos, 
La Vida y Virtudes de Luiz de Grenada (Madrid, 1639, 
4to) ; X. Antonio, Bibliotheca IJispana, iv; Quetil and 
Echard, Scriptores onlines Prcedicaivrum , ii ; Tournon, 
J/ommes illustres de Vordre de Saint-Dominique. — Her- 
zog, Rea I- Encyklop. viii, 51 G ; Hoofer, Xouv. Biog, Gene- 
rale, xxxi, 1034 sq. (j. N. P.) 

Louis I (German Ludwig, Latin Ladovicns). called 
“ Le Debonnaire ,” and also “ the Pious," youngest son of 
Charlemagne, was born at Casseneuil A.D. 778. The 
great empire of the West had just been recreated by 
the heroic efforts of Charles, therefore honored with 
the title of “the Great;” but it was not absolutely the 
love of war and conquest, and the honor of his name, 
that had actuated Charles; he rather sought to accom- 
plish what the great Ostrogoth Thcodoric (q. v.) had 
con temj dated, but failed to effect, viz., the union of the 
Christian Ge?'manic nations into one empire . Charle- 
magne, it must be remembered, was eminently “a cham- 
pion of the Church,” and. believing that the conversion 
of the Saxons and other Germanic tribes could be ac- 
complished only by their subjection, he came to dream 
of a union of them all under one imperial head, and 
gratefully he accepted the result in his own coronation 
as “ Charles Augustus” by pope Leo 111, A.D. 800. See 
Charlemagne. But Charlemagne still believed in the 
independence of the imperial crown from the papal 
chair, and manifestly evinced this by one of his latest 
acts. As early as 806 he had made provision for his 
successors by apportioning to his three sons different 
parts of his possessions. To Pepin he gave Italy, to 
Louis, Aquitaine, and to Charles the remainder, consist- 
ing chiefly of German countries; but when, by the de- 
cease of two of these, he saw that upon Louis only would 
centre all the responsibility of an imperial crown, he ! 
called him to his side in 813, when feeling his own end 
approaching, and at Aix-la-Chapclle, on a Sunday, when 
in the cathedral together, caused Louis to place the 
golden crown upon his head, and. thus crowned, present- 
ed his son as the future king of all the Franks, with- 
out first awaiting the anointment of the pope. Xot 
go independent ivas our Louis, who, in the year follow- 1 


ing the event just recorded, by the death of Charle- 
magne, became sole emperor of the West and king of 
France. Thus far the race of the Carlovingians had 
produced consecutively four great men — a rare occur- 
rence in history. With Louis I opened a new a?ra; for, 
though his personal appearance was by no means insig- 
nificant, being of a prepossessing countenance and of a 
strong frame, and so well practiced in archery and the 
wielding of the lance that none about him equalled him, 
“ he w'as w*eak in mind and will, and his surname ‘ the 
Pious’ implies not only that he v*as religious, but prin- 
cipally that he was so easy tempered that it required 
much to displease him.” Or, as Milman puts it: “In 
his gentler and less resolute character religion wrought 
w'ith an abasing and enfeebling rather than ennobling 
influence” (Latin Christianity , ii, 514). A ruler of this 
description was not likely to hold in union the vast em- 
pire of Charlemagne. His first troubles arose with Ber- 
nard, son of Pepin, whom Charlemagne, on the decease 
of his eldest son, had made king of the Italian posses- 
sions. Bernard’s ambition soared higher. He was not 
content with Italy; he desired the mastery over the 
w hole of the imperial lands, and ungratefully conspired 
against his uncle. lie was unsuccessful, however; was 
seized by the imperial troops, and condemned to death. 
Louis was determined to mitigate the lot of Bernard, 
but state interests compelled him to inflict the severe 
punishment of depriving his nephew r of eyesight, which 
was the caus&sliortlv after, no doubt, of his death. This 
conspiracy, as well as sundry other occurrences, made 
Louis feel the necessity of provisions for the succession, 
and, finally deciding in favor of the principle of primo- 
geniture, his son Lothaire was appointed successor. Be- 
sides Lothaire, Louis had tw r o sons, Pepin and Louis. To 
the former of these two he gave Aquitania; to the lat- 
ter Bavaria, Bohemia, and Carinthia. Unfortunately, 
however, for the peace of the family, Louis lost his faith- 
ful companion, the mother of these children, shortly 
after this partition of his possessions, and, marrying a 
second wife, became the father of a fourth son. Charles, 
w hose mother, Judith, conspired in his behalf for a por- 
I tion of the imperial crown. This resulted in 830 in 
a revolt of Lothaire against his father, on the plea of 
the bad conduct of the step-mother. At a diet, how- 
ever, which was held at Aix-la-Chapelle, the father and 
son were reconciled. Xot so happily ended a second 
revolt in 833, when Louis, forsaken by his followers, was 
obliged to give himself up to his son Lothaire, who took 
him as prisoner to Soissons, sent the empress Judith to 
Tortona, and confined her infant son Charles, afterwards 
Charles the Bald, the object of the jealousy of his half- 
brothers, in a monastery. A meeting of bishops w*as 
held at Compiegne, at which the archbishop of Kheims 
presided, and the unfortunate Louis, being arraigned be- 
fore it, w*as found guilty of the murder of his nephew 
Bernard, and of sundry other offences, lie was deposed, 
condemned to do public penance in sackcloth, and w'as 
kept in confinement. This misusage of the emperor 
enraged the youngest son, Louis of Bavaria (840-876), 
“an energetic prince, of lofty stature and noble figure, 
with a fiery eye and a penetrating mind,” and, after se- 
curing the assistance of his other brother, Pepin, in 
the following year, he obliged Lothaire to deliver up 
their father, who, after having been formally absolved 
by the bishops, was reinstated on the imperial throne. 
Xot made wiser by past experience, Louis, listening to 
the selfish counsel of his wife, Judith, now* assigned to his 
fourth son, Charles, the kingdom of Xeustria, or Eastern 
France, including Paris, and, after Pepin's death, Aqui- 
tania also. Lothaire possessed all Italy, with Provence, 
Lyons, Suabia, Austrasia, and Saxony. But Louis of 
Bavaria, who had done most for his father, was favored 
least, and therefore set up his claim for nil Germany as 
far as the IJhine. and. being refused, determined to 
make war agaiqst his father, and invaded Suabia. The 
emperor Louis marched against him, and aho assembled 
a diet at Worms to judge his rebellious son. Mean- 


LOUIS I 


524 


LOUIS I 


time, however, the emperor fell ill, and died on an island 
of the Rhine near Mentz, in June, 840, after sending to 
his son Lothairc the imperial crown, his sword, and his 
sceptre. Of what account this last act of Louis was may 
be inferred from the partition of the dominion. Lo- 
thairc, as emperor, held Italy, Provence, Burgundy, and 
Lorraine. Charles the Bald succeeded his father as king 
of France, and Louis of Bavaria retained all Germany. 
Thus ends the history of this man, whose life, notwith- 
standing his kind disposition, was “ one continued scene 
of trouble and affliction, because he knew not how to 
govern his own house, much less his empire.” 

Of a prince so feeble and dependent as Louis proved 
himself in the affairs of state, we cannot, of course, ex- 
pect the same vigor and determination towards the pa- 
pacy that characterized the reign of Charlemagne, and 
it may be safely said that with the death of the latter 
a new iera opens in the history of the Latin Church. 
Charlemagne had proved an earnest supporter of the 
Church and the papacy, but he had known how to op- 
pose their pretensions. Not so Louis. Ilis feebleness 
and incapacity to govern gave rise to many abuses, or 
gave new life to such as had before been successfully 
repressed. The whole reign of Louis, indeed, abounded 
in political disorders. “ Distraction and weakness,” says 
Neander ( Ch . Hist . iii, 851), “gave many opportunities 
for the Church to interfere in the political strifes,” and 
for it the Church had been anxiously but patiently in 
waiting. With the coronation of Charlemagne the pope ( 
of Borne had transferred his allegiance from the East to 
the West, and thus, by his action, had not only confer- 
red a most doubtful title on Charlemagne, but secured 1 
at the same time a political ascendency of the papacy. 
Under Charlemagne, however, the thunders of the 
Church were controlled by the emperor; but in Louis 
“ the Pious” was found a willing slave, and with rapid 
strides the Romish Church marched onward to establish 
its superiority over the empire. See Papacy. What 
Louis would do for the Church was clearly seen in his 
submissive acts — the master of Europe in 822 a penitent 
before the prelates assembled at the Council of Attignv. 
Here the triumphs of the spiritual power, under the au- 
spices of a rapid progress towards domination, were 
plainly foreshadowed. The hierarchy failed not to dis- 
cover the hour of Louis’s weakness, and day by day new 
laws were proposed and enacted, the ecclesiastical fabric 
enlarged and strengthened, the power of the secular au- 
thority enfeebled and abrogated. Prominent among the 
ecclesiastics who influenced the king to favor the Church 
and her institutions was Wala, abbot of Corbie. What 
Wala (q. v.) advised was worthy of adoption, and he had 
no sooner made his proposals than they became law. 
Thus the granting of monasteries to laymen, and grants 
of Church property at pleasure to the vassals of the crown 
without consent of the bishops, were abrogated, virtu- 
ally making the bishops co-legislators; and by 829 the 
ecclesiastic royal counsellor hesitated not to declare that 
‘•everything depended on keeping the line of demarca- 
tion clearly drawn between the ecclesiastical and the 
civil province, the king and the bishops concerning 
themselves only about the affairs which belonged to 
their respective callings.” Unfortunately, however, the 
concessions which the king was daily "making to the 
clergy gave to the bishops much of the business strictly 
belonging to the. secular authority, and “the scope and 
the danger of the authority thus successively conferred 
upon the Church were most impressively "manifested 
when Louis was deposed by his sons (in 883), . . . and 
Lothairc determined to render impossible the restoration 
of his father to the throne. . . . The people had been in- 
vited by Louis himself, eleven years before, at Attignv, 
to see the bishops sit in judgment on their monarch; 
and the decretals (q. v.) of Siri^ius and Leo I, forbidding 
secular employment and the bearing of arms by any one 
who had undergone public penance, werg not so entirely 
forgotten but that they might be revived. Accordingly, 
when Lothaire returned to France, dragging his captive 


father in his train, he halted at Compiegne, and sum- 
moned a council of his prelates to accomplish the work 
from which his savage nobles shrunk. With unfalter- 
ing willingness they undertook the odious task, declar- 
ing their competency through the power to bind and to 
loose conferred upon their order as the vicars of Christ 
and the turnkeys of heaven. They held the wretched 
prisoner accountable for all the evils which the empire 
had suffered since the death of Charlemagne, and sum- 
moned him at least to save his soul by prompt confes- 
sion and penitence, now that his earthly dignity was 
lost beyond redemption. . . . With that overflowing hyp- 
ocritical unction which is the most disgusting exhibition 
of clerical craft, the bishops labored with him for his 
own salvation, until, overcome by their eloquent exhor- 
tations, he threw himself at their feet, begged the par- 
don of his sons, and implored their prayers in his be- 
half, and eagerly demanded the imposition of such pen- 
ance as would merit absolution. The request was not 
denied. In the church of St. Mary, before the tombs of 
the holy St. Medard and St. Sebastian, the discrowned 
monarch was brought into the presence of his son, and 
surrounded by a gaping crowd. There he threw him- 
self upon a sackcloth, and four times confessed his sins 
with abundant tears, accusing himself of offending God, 
scandalizing the Church, and bringing destruction upon 
his people, for the expiation of which he demanded 
penance and absolution by the imposition of those holy 
hands to which had been confided the power to bind and 
to loose. Then, handing his written confession to the 
bishops, he took off sword and belt, and laid them at 
the foot of the altar, whore his confession had already 
been placed. Throwing off his secular garments, he 
put on the white robe of the penitent, and accepted 
from his ghostly advisers a penance which should in- 
hibit him during life from again bearing arms. The 
world, however, was not as yet quite prepared for this 
spectacle of priestly arrogance and royal degradation. 
The disgust which it excited hastened a counter-revo- 
lution ; and when Louis was restored to the throne, Ebbo 
of Iiheims and St.Agobard of Lyons, the leaders in the 
solemn pantomime, were promptly punished and de- 
graded. Yet the piety of Louis held that the very 
sentence for the imposition of which they incurred the 
penalty was valid until abrogated by equal authority, 
and accordingly he caused himself to be formally rec- 
onciled to the Church before the altar of St. Denis, and 
abstained from resuming his sword until it was again 
belted on him by the hand of a bishop” (Lea, Sttidies in 
Ch. Hist. p. 319-321 ). “ These melancholy scenes,” says 
Milman (Lat. Christianity , bk. v, ch. ii), “concern Chris- 
tian history no further than as displaying the growing 
power of the clergy, the religion of Louis gradually 
quailing into abject superstition, the strange fusion and 
incorporation of civil and ecclesiastical affairs.” For 
six years more Louis the Pious swayed the sceptre of 
the Carlovingian empire, but he did it without power 
— a tool in the hands of contending factions, which at 
his death took lip arms in open warfare, and continued 
their contest until Lothaire had been defeated on the 
field of Fontenay, and peace restored by the division 
of the empire at Verdun. But what is most eventful 
about these transactions in the life and reign of Louis 
the Pious, and leads us to assign them such prominence 
here, is the part which the clergy played in arranging, 
conducting, and accomplishing them, and thus bring- 
ing them under the sanction of religion. This cir- 
cumstance alone is enough to show how the power of 
the Church was growing. But there was another and 
more important circumstance that still more clearly in- 
dicates it. Stephen IV had died, and a successor had 
been chosen who assumed the responsibility of the papal 
chair as Paschal I. Instead of waiting for his confirma- 
tion by Louis, he took immediate possession of the high 
dignity conferred upon him by the Church, and thus 
inaugurated the principle of independence of the pope 
from the emperor. It is true a deprecatory epistle was 


LOUIS VI 


525 


LOUIS XIV 


prudently dispatched from Rome, but the same liberty 
was taken by his successor Eugenius II, who contented 
himself with sending a legate to apprise the emperor 
of his accession, instead of awaiting the imperial sanc- 
tion to the election; and though the 1 tomans were af- 
terwards obliged to bind themselves by oath never to 
consent to the installation of a pope elect until the sanc- 
tion of the emperor had reached Rome, the effort was 
unavailing. Events were hurrying on destined to ren- 
der all such measures futile, and to accomplish the revo- 
lution of European institutions, resulting in the power 
of the priesthood and the irresponsible autocracy of the 
pope (comp. Lea, Studies in Ch. Hist. p. 38-42). 

In the question of image-worship alone, perhaps, it 
can be said that Louis played an independent part. It 
was under his commission that Claudius of Turin la- 
bored in the interests of ieonoclasm, and it was by bis 
influence, also, that Eugenius II was forced to amity to- 
wards the Eastern advocates of ieonoclasm. Compare 
Milman, Latin Christianity , bk, v, chap, ii, A.D. 839, and 
the articles Claudius; Clemens; Iconoclasm. 

The most celebrated acts in the life of Louis worthy 
of special record in our work are his efforts to advance 
the Christian religion by the foundation of two relig- 
ious institutions, viz., the monastery of Corvey and the 
archbishopric of Hamburg. The former he built for la- 
borers among the Saxon colony he had caused to settle 
on the Weser, and it speedily became not only a relig- 
ious centre, but the best school for education in that 
country. The latter furthered the missionary cause 
among the northern nations, especially among the Juts 
[see Jutland], by the zealous labors of Anschar [see 
Ansciiar], generally known as the ‘‘Apostle of the 
North 7 ’ (compare Maclear, Ilist. of Christian Missions in 
the Middle Ayes , chap. xi). The kind treatment which 
Louis afforded to the Jews deserves particular mention. 
He took them under his especial protection, and suffered 
neither nobles nor clergy to do them harm. In this re- 
spect he simply carried out the policy of his father, but 
he certainly improved their condition during his reign 
(comp. Griitz, (Jesch. d. Juden , v, chap, viii ; and our arti- 
cle Jews, vol. iv, p. 908, col. 2). See Funck, Ludwig der 
Fromme (Frkf.-a.-M. 1832); Himlv, Ufl/« et Louis le De- 
honnaire (Par. 1849) ; Milman, Hist, of Lat. Christianity 
(N. Y. 1864.8 vols. 12mo), ii, bk. iv, chap, xii ; Neander, 
Ch. Hist, iii, 351 sq. ; Reichel, Roman See in the Middle 
Ages. ch. iv ; Lea, Studies in Ch. Hist. (see Index); Kolil- 
rausch, Hist, of Germany, ch. v and vi ; Baxmanu, Politik 
der Piipste , i (see Index). (J. II. W.) 

Louis VI, of the Palatinate, was born July 4, 
1539, and succeeded his father, Frederick III, in 157G. 
The late elector had been a strong Calvinist, but Louis 
VI had imbibed Lutheran principles at the court of 
Philibert of Bavaria, and gradually introduced them 
into the country. 

Louis VII, of France, called “ Le Jeune ,” son of 
Louis le Gros, was born in 1119, and succeeded his fa- 
ther in 1137. By nature of a cruel disposition, lie had 
been especially harsh towards disobedient subjects, and, 
under the pretence that he must aid the Church to 
atone for his great sins, he was advised by St. Bernard, 
abbot of Clairvaux, to go on a crusade. Accordingly, 
the king set out, at the head of a large army, in 1147. 
Suger and Raoul, count of Vermaudois, Louis's brother- 
in-law, were left regents of the kingdom. This second 
crusade proved unsuccessful : the Christians were defeat- 
ed near Damascus, and Louis, after several narrow es- 
capes, returned to France in 1149. The repudiation of 
his first wife, Eleanor of Aquitaine, and his marriage 
with Constance of Castile, brought on a war with Hen- 
ry II of England, who had taken Eleanor for his wife. 
The war was, however, unimportant in its consequences. 
In Henry’s controversy with Thomas a Becket. Louis 
YII greatly furthered the cause of Becket (comp. Rob- 
ertson, Becket [London, 1859, sm. 8vo], p. 211 sip, 295). 
He died at Paris in September, 1180. See Itoichel, Ro- 


man See in the Middle Ages. p. 327 sq. ; Milman., History 
of Latin Christianity, bk. viii, ch. vi and ch. viii. (J. 
HAY.) 

Louis IX (or St. Louis) of France (1226-1270), 
was born in Poissy April 25, 1215, and succeeded his fa- 
ther, Louis YIH, when but twelve years of age. his 
mother, Blanche de Castile, acting as regent. Dur- 
ing the minority of the king there was a constant 
struggle between the crown and the feudal lords, head- 
ed by Thibaut, count of Champagne, and the count of 
Brittany. Amid these troubles queen Blanche displayed 
great firmness and ability, and Louis, as soon as lie was 
old enough, by the assistance of those who had remained 
faithtul to the crown, made war against Henry III, king 
of England, who had supported the French refractory 
nobles, and beat the English in 1242 at Tailleburg, at 
Saintes, and at Blayc, but finally made a truce of five 
years with the English sovereigns, at the same time par- 
doning also his rebellious nobles. During an illness Louis 
had made a vow to visit the Holy Land, and in June, 
1248, after having appointed his mother regent, he set 
out for the East with an army of 40,000 men, to conquer 
the Holy Sepulchre. He landed first in Egypt and took 
Damietta, but was made prisoner at the battle of Man- 
soura, and compelled to pay a heavy ransom. He then 
sailed, with the remainder of his army, now only 6000 
strong, to Acre, and carried on the war in Palestine, but 
without success. After the death of his mother (Nov., 
1 1252), he made preparations for his return to France. 
■ At home in 1254, he now applied himself with great 
diligence to the interests of his realm. It was Louis 
IX of France that first gave life to Gallicanism by his 
" Pragmatic Sanction,” which he enacted in 1268. See 
Gallican Church. He also published several useful 
statutes, known as the Etablissements de St. Louis; es- 
tablished a police in Paris, under the orders of a prevot ; 
organized the various trades into companies called con- 
frairks; founded the theological college of La Sor - 
bonne , so called after his confessor; created a French 
navy, and made an advantageous treaty with the king 
of Aragon, by which the respective limits and jurisdic- 
tions of the two states were defined. The chief and al- 
most the only fault of Louis, which was, however, that 
of his age, was his religious intolerance ; he issued op- 
pressive ordinances against the Jews, had a horror of 
heretics, and used to say “ that a layman ought not to 
dispute with the unbelievers, but strike them with a 
good sword across the body.” By an ordinance he re- 
mitted to his Christian subjects the third of the debts 
they owed to Jews, and this “ fer the good of his soul.” 
This same spirit of fanaticism led him (jn July, 1270) to 
undertake, against the wishes of his best friends, anoth- 
er crusade — a crusade the most ignoble, and not the 
least calamitous of all the crusades (q. v.). lie sailed 
for Africa, laid siege to Tunis, and, while there, died in 
his camp of the plague, Aug. 25, 1270. Pope Boniface 
VIII canonized him in 1297. See Histoire de St. Louis 
(edited by Ducangc, with notes, Paris, 1668, folio, Eng- 
lish trans.) ; Petitot, Collection compl. des memoires rela- 
tifs a V histoire de France (Paris, 1824) ; Dissertations et 
rejlexions sur Vhistoire de St. Louis; Le Nain de Tille- 
mont, Vie de St. Louis (ed. J. de Gaulle, Paris, 1846, 5 
vols.); II. L. Seholten, Geschichte Ludwigs IX (Munster, 
1850-1853, 2 vols.) ; E. Alex. Schmidt, Gesch. v. Frank- 
j reich, i, 486 sq. ; K. Rosen, Die pragm. Sanktion, wclche 
unter d. Namen Ludwigs IX v. Frank reich ciuf uns ge- 
kommen ist (Munich, 1853) ; Neander, Church Hist, iv, 
203 sq. ; Reichel, Roman See in the Middle Ages , p. 618 
sq. ; and the works already cited in the article Galli- 
can Church. See also Papacy. 

Louis XIV of France, grandson of Henry IV, 
and third of the Bourbons, was born in 1638. The re- 
gency of his mother, Anne of Austria, controlled by car- 
dinal Mazarin (q. v.), continued during the minority of 
the sovereign. So far, indeed, as the policy of Mazarin 
was concerned, it prevailed until his death in 1661, 


LOUIS XIV 


526 


LOUIS XIV 


when Louis first really assumed for himself the reins of 
government, and indicated the principles of his admin- 
istration. During the minority of its youthful sovereign 
the country had been distracted by civil wars, those of 
the Fronde, partly through Spanish influences, partly 
through an unsatisfied and factions element of the French 
nobility. Perplexing difficulties, moreover, and even ac- 
tual conflicts of the regent and her minister with the 
Parliament and States General, had more than once 
arisen, usually terminating, however, in the triumph of 
the former, Louis himself, in his eighteenth year, dis- 
missing one of these bodies, and forbidding any future 
exercise of some of its most important functions. The 
internal difficulties, so far as due to the hostile policy 
of the Spanish court, were disposed of by the marriage 
of Louis with the infanta Maria Theresa in 1GG0, through 
the skilful management of Mazarin. The effect of these 
troubles, however, was to shape, to some degree, the pol- 
icy of Louis, and to enable him to carry it out success- 
fully. That policy was to avoid all conflict of authori- 
ty by centring all power in the person of the sovereign. 

The administration of Louis, extending over a peri- 
od of great significance in the secular condition and 
history of Europe, concerns ns here in view of its prin- 
ciples and results religiously and ecclesiastically; for, 
while it may be said that one of the grand objects of 
this administration was to supersede Austria as the par- 
amount Catholic sovereignty of Europe, it sought this 
end in connection with the destruction and diminution 
of Protestantism, not only in France, but elsewhere. 
To enable us to consider his policy as it affected the re- 
ligions condition of France and Europe, the course of 
his civil and military administration must, however, be 
first examined. 

Louis's civil policy — the consolidation of all power 
in the bands of the sovereign, detaching the crown from 
its alliance with all the legislative, judicial, and muni- 
cipal institutions— he himself has best interpreted for 
us. “ The worst calamity vdiich can befall any one of 
our rank,” is his language to the dauphin, “ is to be re- 
duced to that subjection in which the monarch is obliged 
to receive the law from his people. ... It is the will of 
God that every subject should yield to his sovereign im- 
plicit obedience. ... 1 am the state !” These assertions 
of supreme prerogative are put forth, indeed, in connec- 
tion with a recognition of accountability to the divine 
Source from which such powers arc derived; but below 
him there was no accountability, no limitation to the 
action of his royal vicegerent. Consistently with this 
theory was the operation of his internal administration. 
The first and most effective instrument for the carrying 
out of such policy was a thorough military organization. 
This was perfected to a degree hitherto unknown, among 
its new features the most effective to the end proposed 
being the emanation of all commissions, promotions, and 
distinctions from the king; doing away altogether with 
the possibility of the existence of such a balance of pow- 
er as had previously been maintained, and rendering 
impossible all limitation of prerogative. The States 
General — the great central legislative representation of 
the clergy, nobles, and commons— ceased to exist. The 
provincial states, having a more limited function of the 
same nature, shared the same fate. The Parliaments, 
from registering, protecting, and partly legislative bod- 
ies, became simply judicial tribunals to exeeutc, under 
the forms of law, the decrees of a royal master. That 
in the thorough working out of this system Louis ex- 
hibited rare administrative ability cannot be denied. 
That he possessed the peculiar capacity of selecting ef- 
ficient subordinates is no less manifest. That, more- 
over, under his rule there was a great evolution of ad- 
ministrative, military, and literary capacity \s equally 
undoubted. Not so salutary or favorable were the re- 
sults, however. Louis’s policy eventually broke down 
the resources of the country; and it set in operation cer- 
tain tendencies, which only worked themselves out in 
the crash of the French Revolution. 


But this concentration of all power in the person of 
the sovereign had in view the carrying out of an ex- 
ternal as well as an internal policy. “ Self-aggrandize- 
ment,” to use his own words, “ is at once the noblest 
and most agreeable occupation of kings,” and this he 
did not always pursue under the real requirements of 
truth and right. “ In dispensing with the strict ob- 
servance of treaties, we do not,” said he, “violate them; 
for the language of such instruments is not understood 
literally; it is conventional phraseology, just as wc use 
complimentary expressions in society.” These two sen- 
tences are the text, of which the internal policy of -Lou- 
is may be regarded as constituting the commentary. 
1 1 is reign, counting from the death of Mazarin, was 
characterized by four great wars, occupying altogether 
forty-two years, or seven ninths of its continuance. The 
first of these was his attack upon Spanish Flanders, and 
this in violation of the treaty of the Pyrenees, made at 
his marriage, by which all claim of inheritance, in right 
of his wife, to Spanish territory was solemnly renounced. 
Out of this contest, at first opposed, but afterwards (1670) 
assisted by England, for a long time varying in success- 
es, but, on the whole, to the advantage qf France, Louis, 
by the treaty of Nimeguen, 1G7S, came forth with the 
possession of a large addition of territory, a part of 
which was the duchy of Lorraine, and to which he af- 
terwards added Strasburg, then a free German city — 
possessions which remained a part of France until re- 
stored to Germany by the war of 1870. Next, to pro- 
voke a war of nine or ten years’ duration was his claim 
for his sister, the duchess of Orleans, to a portion of the 
Palatinate, enforced by an invasion of the territory in 
question. To repel this movement the League of Augs- 
burg was formed, consisting of the emperor of Germany, 
the kings of Spain, Denmark, and Sweden, the duke of 
Savoy, and eventually of the king of England. This war, 
characterized by the devastation of the Palatinate and 
the sack of Heidelberg, terminated with the Peace of 
Ryswick, 1 G07. leaving Louis without a navy, his finances 
embarrassed, his people impoverished, and many of them 
suffering from actual starvation. But by far the great- 
est contest was provoked by Louis’s claim for his family 
to the succession of the crown of Spain, for which there 
were three competitors — Louis, the emperor Leopold, and 
the elector of Bavaria. Through the influence of the 
pope and of the Spanish nobility, Louis had succeeded 
in procuring the succession for his grandson, the dtike of 
Anjou. To this Holland, under threat of invasion, had 
been forced to accede ; and William of England, unable 
to secure the co-operation of Parliament in the way of 
resistance, was obliged to pursue the same course. Le- 
opold, however, began hostilities, and in a short time 
England, Holland, and Denmark united with him in the 
Second Alliance, and the conflict only ended in 1713 
with the Peace of Utrecht, leaving the duke of Anjou 
upon the throne of Spain, but at the expense to France 
of the damage and humiliation of many defeats, and 
the loss of many colonies, besides a distinct provision 
against the union of France and Spain under the same 
monarch. During this last contest, moreover, with ex- 
ternal enemies, there had been an internal war destroy- 
ing the national resources, that of the Camisards in the 
Cevennes, infuriated and maddened by religious perse- 
cution into rebellion. See Camisauds. 

Louis's religions and ecclesiastical policy is exhibited 
in connection with his treatment of the national Church, 
and its central head, the papacy; his action with refer- 
ence to a division of sentiment among different portions 
of this national Church; and, last of all, in his treat- 
ment of his Protestant subjects. As to the national 
Church, it may be said that he found the machinery of 
ecclesiastical despotism made to his hands, in the con- 
cordat of Leo X and Francis I, already mentioned. His 
peculiarity consisted in the skill with which such ma- 
chinery was worked, the thoroughness and extent of 
its operation. The “liberties of the Gallican Church,” 
which usually meant the liberty of the monarch to con- 


LOUIS XIV 


527 


LOUIS XIV 


trol all temporalities, and to fleece all classes of the ben- 
efleed clergy without dividing the wool with the pope, 
was energetically asserted during the reign of Louis. 
His effort was to free the national Church from the con- 
trol of the papacy; through his appointments, to make 
it subservient to his general policy. II is treatment of 
the pope, especially in connection with the question of 
the privilege of the French ambassador at Rome, was 
harsh and overbearing; and although compelled, in 1691, 
to yield in certain assertions of prerogative, it but slight- 
ly affected the exercise of his ecclesiastical supremacy, 
llis bishops were, many of them, learned, able, and elo- 
quent. There was a higher standard, both of literary 
taste and of ecclesiastical propriety, than in reigns pre- 
ceding. Their writings constitute this period, in some 
respects, one of the most brilliant in the history of the 
Church of France. But these writings contain no vig- 
orous protest against the vices and cruelties of their 
royal master, and many of them are implicated in the 
support of his most flagrant cruelties and acts of oppres- 
sion. It was perfectly understood that no other course 
would be tolerated. His own account to Massillon of 
the effect prodnced upon him by his court preachers 
will enable us to understand the character of their 
preaching. “I have heard a great many speakers in 
my chapel, and I have been very well pleased with 
them ; when I hear you, I am displeased with myself” 
But the unfavorable testimony of this one faithful wit- 
ness, and of at least one other not less faithful, Fe'ne- 
lon, could not counteract the flattery of so many others. 
The difficulty with the Jansenists constitutes, perhaps, 
one of the most striking illustrations of this despotic 
policy in ecclesiastical and religious matters. In this 
contest between Jesuitism and a purer form of Roman- 
ism, the pope, and, through the pope and the Jesuits, 
Louis, became a party. See Jansenius. 

It is, however, in the course pursued towards his 
Protestant subjects that the policy of Louis maybe rec- 
ognised; that the ecclesiastical and religious history of 
his reign has an interest altogether unique and peculiar, 
namely, the position of the Huguenots and Dissenters, 
holding, under the law, certain legal privileges — among 
others, the exercise of freedom, not only of religious 
opinion, but of worship. The old-fashioned orthodox 
practice of extermination by fire and sword had been 
already tried, more than once, without success. At the 
close of every such unsuccessful effort, terms had been 
made insuring them conditions of existence. Prior to 
the Edict of Nantes, such terms constituted rather* a 
truce than a peace; and when the contesting parties 
had rested a little, the truce ended and the conflict was 
renewed. This, however, was not the case with the 
Edict of Nantes, which really constituted a peace, and 
was more favorable to the Huguenots than any preced- 
ing arrangement; and, although containing in it some 
objectionable features, became to the Protestants the 
charter of their existence. They and the Catholics, 
under different ecclesiastical laws, were alike under the 
law of the land — enjoyed its sanctions, lived under its 
protection. Louis, whose great doctrine was uniform- 
ity and submission in all things, therefore proposed for 
himself the task, not of violating this great compact 
with his Protestant snbjeets, but of doing away with the 
necessity of its existence by bringing them all within 
the national Church. Urged forward in this attempt 
by his mistress, Madame de Maintenon, wholly under 
the control of the Jesuits, and by the latter themselves, 
on the plea that by such a course lie would merit the 
forgiveness of. heaven for the many sins of his youth, 
especially his illicit connection with Madame de Mon- 
tespan, two great agencies were immediately set in 
operation to the attainment of this result — those of 
bribery and intimidation. Conversions were sought by 
purchase, or by appeals to the interests Or ambition of 
the parties concerned. Special provision was made for 
the purchase of such conversions by a fund collected of 
one third of the profits of all ecclesiastical benefices, and 


placed in the hands of a Huguenot renegade, to be used 
for this purpose. The matter went so far that there 
was a regular scale of prices for converts of different 
grades, and large successes were published as the result 
of this mode of operation. To cut off the temptation 
of relapse, so as to insure the price of a second conver- 
sion, an edict was issued condemning all relapsed per- 
sons to banishment for life and confiscation of their 
property. With these efforts, moreover, which only 
reached the weak and worthless, was combined the 
other element of harassment and intimidation. Com- 
missions of Romish clergy were instituted, sometimes 
upon their own motion, sometimes upon popular com- 
plaint. and with the well-understood approval of court 
officials, to investigate the legal titles of churches of 
the Huguenots, which for the purpose had been called 
in question. One infelicity in the position of the Prot- 
estants, even under the Edict of Nantes, was that which 
was connected with what may be called the Church ter- 
ritorial system. They were territorially in the dioceses 
of Romish bishops, in the parish limits of Romish priests, 
in some indefinite manner regarded as in their pastoral 
charge, and these annoying questions of Church prop- 
erly could thus be easily started. The result, in many 
cases where these titles were called in question, was a 
long, vexatious litigation, ending in the decision that it 
was imperfect, and that the church bnilding should be 
shut up and demolished. The decisions of the sover- 
eign were well known, and loyalty, ambition, and inter- 
est alike found their expression and exercise through 
these agencies in the rank of proselytisra. 

As, however, these proved insufficient to the attain- 
ment of the desired end, and the law still guaranteed 
the legal existence of the as yet unconverted Protes- 
tants, more vigorous steps were taken prior to the final 
one in the direction of annoyance and severity. With- 
out, therefore, revoking the existing law, it was sub- 
verted by new ediets of the most vexatious and harass- 
ing character. Many of these may be found detailed 
under the article Huguenots. 

There was, however, another form of operation in this 
effort of exterminating Protestantism by conversion. 
Human wickedness, in this effort, found out the way to 
commit a new crime. This new' crime, unique and pre- 
eminent in the achievements of malicious ingenuity, 
had to be described by a new r name, and the w’orld thus 
heard for the first time of the Dragonnade — the dra- 
gooning of people out of one religion into another. The 
process tvas that of quartering soldiers — Romanists, of 
course, the bigotry of the Romanist being combined 
with the brutality of the soldier — in the families and 
houses of Protestants. The commanders w’ere instruct- 
ed to quarter them on Protestant families, and to keep 
them there until the families w’ere brought over to the 
Catholic faith, and then to transfer them to others of 
the same character and for the same object. As the 
army employed for this purpose was a large one, so 
w'hole districts at once were subjected to this intolerable 
annoyance and oppression. Multitudes, of course, yield- 
ed ; and where they subsequently recanted their act of 
weakness, they became subject to banishment and con- 
fiscation. The suffering involved may be more easily 
imagined than described. “The dragoons,” says one 
who passed through it, “fixed their crosses to their 
musquetoons, so as the more readily to compel their 
hosts to kiss them ; and if the kiss was not given, they 
drove the crosses against their stomachs and faces. 
They had as little mercy for the children as for the 
adults, beating them w ith these crosses or with the flats 
of their swords, so violently as not seldom to maim 
them. The wretches also subjected the women to their 
barbarities: they whipped them, they disfigured them, 
they dragged them by the hair through the mud or 
along the stones. Sometimes they would seize the la- 
borers on the highway, or when following their carts, 
and drive them to the Romish churches, pricking them 
like oxen with their own goads to quicken their pace.” 


LOUIS XIV 


528 


LOUVARD 


If, in any case, those outrages were resisted, and there 
was anything like a Protestant gathering, the result was 
a massacre. The mere collection of such population, to 
indicate that they were not all carried over to the na- 
tional Church, was thus treated. Upon the assumption, 
therefore, that these agencies, after having operated for 
four or rive years, had accomplished their intended pur- 
pose; that Protestantism, to an}' calculable degree, had 
ceased to exist, in 1G85 the Edict of Nantes, as no longer 
of any use or necessity, was abrogated. To proclaim 
the falsehood and cruelty of this pretence, and the pro- 
ceedings based upon it, they were followed by enact- 
ments against the non-existent Protestantism (see vol. 
iv, p. 390, col. 1). The only privilege left to the Prot- 
estants was the permission of enjoying their religion in 
private. The non-intent of this concession was best 
exhibited by the declaration of an ordinance of Louis 
himself thirty years later (1715), “ that every man who 
had continued to reside in France after the revocation 
of the Edict of Nantes in 1085 had given conclusive 
proof that he was a Catholic, because only as a Catholic 
he would have been allowed to dwell there, and, there- 
fore, if any man persisted in Protestantism, he must be 
treated as a relapsed heretic. In other words, if such 
a one emigrated in 1G85 as a Protestant, he was con- 
demned to the galleys. If he did not, he was regarded 
as a Catholic, and at any subsequent period could be 
proceeded against for his Protestantism as a relapsed 
Catholic.” 

Within five months after his ordinance against Prot- 
estants just mentioned the career of Louis terminated. 
To use the language of another, “He was an infirm and 
aged man. He had survived his children and his 
grandchildren. He had been overwhelmed by the vic- 
tories of Eugene and Marlborough, lie was oppressed 
with debt. He was hated by the people who had idol- 
ized him, and was compelled to listen to the imlig- 
nant invectives which the whole civilized world poured 
forth against his blind and inhuman persecutions. He 
died declaring to his spiritual advisers that, being him- 
self ignorant of ecclesiastical questions, he had acted un- 
der their guidance and as their agent in all that he had 
done against either the Jansenists or the Protestant 
heretics, and on those his spiritual advisers he devolved 
the responsibility to the Supreme Judge.” There can 
he no question that in many cases the persecuting policy 
of Louis was quickened by the influence of Madame de 
Maintenon and her ecclesiastical advisors; that in many 
cases his subordinate agents pursued courses of outrage 
and crucify exceeding his intentions; that such men as 
Bossuet, Arnauld, Flechier, and the whole Gallican 
Church, in approving this policy, identified themselves 
with it in its guilt and in its consequences; but, after 
all, it was essentially his policy. It was the carrying 
out in ecclesiastical the autocratic principle enunciated 
with reference to civil matters. The concentration of 
all power in the hands of the sovereign required that 
he should be not only the State, but the Church. 

Louis dying Sept. 1, 1715, was succeeded by bis great- 
grandson, Louis XV. His son the dauphin and his eldest 
grandson died at an earlier period. Some of his children, 
the fruit of an adulterous connection with Madame dc 
Montespan, were legitimized during his lifetime, but the 
act was annulled after liis death. In regard to other 
children from similar connections no such action was 
taken. After the death of his first wife he privately 
married Madame de Main tenon. The works of Louis 
arc contained in six volumes. They arc occupied with 
instructions for his sons, and with correspondence bear- 
ing upon the. history of his times, llis reign may be 
regarded as one of the most brilliant in the annals of 
French literature. In the department of theological 
and controversial literature this was peculiarly the case, 
while in that of pulpit eloquence there was an array of 
talent and genius beyond parallel. 

Literature. — Voltaire, Siecle de Louis XIV; Pellisson, 
His to ire de Louis XI V ; Dangeati, Journ . de la cour de 


Louis XIV; Lettres de Madame de Maintenon ; Larrey, 
Hist, de France sous k R'erjne de Louis XIV; CLpctigue, 
Louis XIV son Gouvcrnement , etc. (1837, 0 vols. 8vo), 
James, Life and Times of Louis XIV (Bohns ed., Loud. 
1851, 2 vols. 12mo); Smedley, Hist. Ref. Rcl. in France 
(N. Y. 1834, 3 vols. 3 8mo) ; Barnes’s Felice, I list . Protest. 
France (Loud. 1853, 12mo); Ilagenbaeh, Kircliengesch. 
v, 80 sq. ; Stoughton, Eccles. Hist. Engl. (Ch. of Bestora- 
tion, sec Index in vol. ii); Hasc, Ch. Hist, (sec Index); 
Banke, Hist. Papacy, ii, 272 sq., 293; Student's France 
(Harper’s), p. 410 sq.; Velise, Mem. of the Court of A us~ 
tria , ii, 14 sq. : Quart. Rev. (Loud.), 1818 (July); Brit, 
and For. 7?ei\1844, p. 470 sq. See also the references 
in the articles France and Huguenots. (C. W.) 

Louse. See Lice. 

Louvard, Francois, a French Jansenistic theolo- 
gian of the Benedictine order, was born in Chamgene- 
teux in 1GG1, entered the convent of Saint Mclaine, in 
Brittany, in 1079, and studied sacred and profane lit- 
erature. In 1700 he was transferred to the convent of 
St. Denis, near Paris, to devote himself to the study 
of the text of St. Gregory Nazianzen. In 1713 pope 
Clement XI published the memorable bull ■■ Unigem- 
tns.” The ecclesiastics of St.Maur all silently opposed 
it except Louvard, who openly denounced it, and was 
therefore greatly censured by P. le Tellier as one dis- 
obeying the apostolic decrees. He was exiled to Cor- 
bie, in the diocese of Amiens, but here also he frankly 
pronounced his opposition to the bull, and he was sent 
into confinement in the monastery of Landcvcnce, in 
Brittany. In 1715, on the death of Louis XIV, Louvard 
was restored to the monastery of St. Denis. In 1717, 
several bishops and two monks, one of them Louvard, 
called a meeting of the opponents of the bull, and be- 
came so troublesome even to the government that Louis 
XV exiled some of them, and published an edict that 
whosoever recommenced the controversy should be 
treated as a rebel to the public peace. Louvard pro- 
tested. lie had been the first of his order to oppose the 
bull; now, almost all the Benedictines were on his side; 
and, receiving no reply, he renewed his appeal with the 
four bishops in 1720. On complaint to the general of 
the order Louvard was specially interrogated, and, be- 
ing found thoroughly bent on both present and future 
opposition, lie was exiled to Tuffe. Here he wrote new 
polemics, preached, and taught the simple inhabitants 
that there was a difference between the holy religion of 
P. Qnesncl and the manufactured heresies of the disci- 
ples of Loyola. In 1723 he was transferred to Cormori, 
diocese of Tours. Here he continued proselyting. The 
general of his order offered to forgive him all the past 
if he would cease. He refused, and had to be placed in 
the monastery of St.Laumer, at Blois; but, still continu- 
ing his opposition, he was removed to the monastery of 
St. Giklas de Bois, in Brittany. Louvard persisting in 
his attacks on the Jesuits, the latter brought charges 
against him as plotting against the state, and he was 
imprisoned in the castle of Nantes m 1728. Here he 
published a manifest against his accusers, ami was there- 
fore transferred to the Bastile in the same year. In 
1734 a left re de cachet , signed by the king, transferred 
him to the monastery of Babais, diocese of Meaux. But 
Louvard, continuing in his former course, was to be re- 
arrested. Apprised of this, he made his escape to the 
Carthusian monastery of Sclionau, in Holland, where he 
died in April, 1739. Among his numerous works the 
following are of special importance: Lett re eontenant 
quelques Remarques sur les (Euvres de St. Gregoire de 
Xazianze , in the Nouvelks de la Republique des Lettres , 
vol.xxxiii (1704) : — Prospectus none edit it mis opermn S. 
Gregorii (1708) : — (Euvres de St. Gregoire (1778-1840); 
— De la Xeeessite de VA pptl des eglises de France aufu- 
tur Concile general (1717): — Lett re an Cardinal de Xo- 
ailles, pour prouver a eette eminence que la constitution 
Vnigenitus n'est recevable en aueune fagon (1718) : — Re- 
lation abregee de V Imprisonnement de dom Louvard 
(1728). See D. Tassin, Hist. Litter, de la Congregation 


LOYE 


529 


LOYE 


de St. Maur; D. Clemencet, Preface de V Edition des 
CEuvres du St. Gregoire de Nazianze ; B. Hareau, Ilist. 
Litter, du Maine , ii, 175; Hocfer , Nouv. Biog. Generate , 
xxxii, 28 sq. 

Love (prop. JlStlS:, ciyam]) is an attachment of 
the affections to any object, accompanied with an ar- 
dent desire to promote its happiness: 1, by abstaining 
from all that could prove injurious to it; 2, by doing all 
that can promote its welfare, comfort, or interests, 
whether it is indifferent to these efforts, or whether it 
appreciates them. This is what Kant calls jwactical 
love, in contradistinction from j)athological love, which 
is a sort of sensual self-love, and a desire for community 
in compliance with our own feelings. In reality, love 
is something personal, emanating from a personal being 
and directed towards another, and thus its moral or 
immoral character is determined by the fact of its being 
called forth by the real worth of the personality towards 
which it is directed, or by the physical appearance of 
the latter, or by the advantages it may offer. 

In the Christian sense, as we find it spoken of in the 
Word of God, love is not merely a peculiar disposition 
of the feelings, or a direction of the will of the creature, 
though this also must have its root in the creative prin- 
ciple, in God. God is love, the original, absolute love 
(1 John iv, 9). As the absolute love, he is at once sub- 
ject and object, i. e. he originally loved himself, had com- 
munion with himself, imparted himself to himself, as also 
we see mention made of God’s love before the creation of 
the world, the love of the Father towards the Son (John 
xvii, 24). Derived from this love is the love which 
calls into being and preserves his creatures. Creatures, 
that is, existences which come from God, arc through 
him and for him; not having life by themselves, but 
immediately dependent upon God; existing by his will, 
and consequently to be destroyed at his will; created 
in time, and consequently subject to time, developing 
themselves in it to the full extent of their nature ac- 
cording to God’s thoughts, with the possibility of de- 
parting therefrom, which it were impossible to suppose 
of God, the eternally real and active idea of himself. 
In regard to the creature, the divine love is the will of 
God to communicate to it the fulness of his life, and 
even the will to impart, according to its receptive fac- 
ulty, this fulness into something which is not himself, 
yet which, as coming from God, tends also towards God, 
and finds its rest in him, and its happiness in doing his 
will. But, as emanating from an active God, this love, 
with all its fulness, can only be directed towards a sim- 
ilarly organized and consequently personal creature, con- 
scious of its relation to God and of himself as its end, 
possessing in itself the fulness of created life (micro- 
cosm). 

It must, then, be man towards whom this divine love 
is directed as the object of God’s delight, created after 
his image. This love is manifested in the earnestness 
of the discipline (commands and threats, Gen. i i, 17) 
employed to strengthen this resemblance to God, to 
educate man as a ruler by obedience, as also by the 
intercourse of God with man; and, after the fall, by 
the hope and confidence awakening promises, as well as 
in the humiliating condemnation to pain, labor, and 
death. All these contain evidences of love, of this will 
of God to hold man in his communion, or to restore him 
to it. At the bottom of it lies an appreciation of his 
worth, namely, of his inalienable resemblance to God, 
of the imparted divine breath. This appreciation is also 
the foundation of compassionate love, for it is only on 
this ground that man is worthy of the divine affection. 
But it is also the ground which renders him deserving 
of punishment. For punishment, this destiny of evil, 
which is felt as a hinderancc of life, is in one respect an 
expiation, i. e. a retrieving of God’s honor, being incurred 
by that disregard of the value of this communion with 
God, and consequently of the real life, which must be 
considered as injurious to the life of man, and leading 
him to ruin ; on the other hand, it is inducement to con- 
V. — L l 


version, as this consequence of sin leads man to recog- 
nise the restoration of this disturbed relation to God as 
the one thing needful and desirable. Punishment con- 
sequently proceeds in both cases on the assumption of 
the worth of man in the eye of God, and is a proof of it. 
Hence the anger of God, as manifested by these punish- 
ments, is but another form of his love. It is a reaction 
of rejected love which manifests itself in imparting suf- 
fering and pain on the one who rejects it, proving there- 
by that its rejection is not a matter of indifference to it. 
This love may not be apparent at first sight, but it is 
clearly revealed in God’s conduct towards all mankind, 
as well towards the heathen as towards the chosen peo- 
ple. God allowed the heathen to walk in their own 
ways (Acts xiv, 17) ; he allows them to fall into all man- 
ner of evil (Rom. i, 21 sq.) in order to bring them to a 
sense of their misery and helplessness as well as of their 
guilt. But at the bottom of this anger there is still 
love, and this is clearly shown in the fact that he mani- 
fested himself to them in their conscience, and also took 
care of them (Acts xiv, 17 ; xvii, 25 sq.). But, if this 
love is thus evinced towards the heathen, it is still more 
clearly manifested towards the chosen people, the fact 
of their choice being itself a manifestation of that love 
(Deut. vii. G sq.), which is further shown both in the 
blessings and punishments, the anger and the mercy, of 
which they were the objects. Holiness and mercy are 
the chief characteristics of the divine love as manifested 
towards Israel; the one raising them above their weak- 
nesses, their evils, and their sins; the other understand- 
ing these failings, and seeking to deliver and restore 
them. But in both also is manifested the constancy of 
that love, its faithfulness ; and the exactitude with which 
it adheres to the covenant it had itself made evinces its 
righteousness by saving those who fear God and obe} r 
his commandments. Both holiness and mercy are, for 
the moral, religious consciousness, harmonized in the 
expiatory sacrifice, in a figurative, typical manner in 
the O. T., and in a real, absolute manner in the N. T. 
The divine right in regard to fallen humanity is main- 
tained, the death penalty is paid, but in such a manner 
that the chief of all, the divine Son of man, who is also 
Son of God, suffers it for all, of his own free will, and 
out of love to man, in accordance with the wishes of his 
Father. Thus the curse of sin and death is removed 
from humanity, and the possibility of a new existence 
of righteousness and felicity restored. 

The New Covenant is therefore the full revelation of 
the spirit and object of the divine love. The incarna- 
tion of the Son of God is the revelation of God himself, 
and leads to his self-impartation by the Holy Spirit. 
Hence the eternal love discloses itself as being, in its 
inner nature, the love of the Father for the Son, aud of 
the Son for the Father by the Holy Ghost, which pro- 
ceeds from both, and is the fulness of the love that 
unites them, whence we can say that God is love; as 
also, in its manifestation, it is the divine love towards 
fallen creatures, which is the will to restore their perfect 
communion with God by means of the all-sutheient ex- 
piatory sacrifice of the God-man, and the communica- 
tion of the Holy Spirit, by which both the Father and 
the Son come to dwell in the hearts of men, thus form- 
ing a people of God’s own, as was postulated, but not yet 
realized in the O. T. The love of God in man, there- 
fore, is the consciousness of being loved by God (Rom. 
v, 5), resulting in a powerful impulse of love towards 
the God who lias loved us first in Christ (1 John iv, 19), 
and an inward and strong affection towards all who are 
loved by God in Christ (1 John iv, 11); for the divine 
love, even when dwelling in man, remains all-embra- 
cing. This love takes the form of a duty (1 John iv, 11), 
but at the same time becomes a gradually strengthening 
inclination. And this is the completion or the ripening 
of the divine love in man (iv tovtoj reTtXuojrai), that 
it manifests itself in positive results for the advantage 
of others. 

We find the beginning and examples of this love un- 


LOVE 


530 


LOVE FAMILY 


der the old dispensation where mention is made of desire 
after God, joy in him, eagerness to serve him, zeal in do- 
ing everything to please and honor him. The inclination 
towards those who belong to God, the holy communion 
of love in God, that characteristic feature of the N. T., 
is also foreshadowed in the O. T. by the people of God, 
who are regarded as one in respect to him, and whose 
close, absolute communion with God is represented by 
the image of marriage. This image is still repeated in 
the N. T., nevertheless in such a manner that the union 
is represented as not yet accomplished; for, though 
Christ is designated as the bridegroom and the Church 
as the bride, the wedding is made to coincide with the 
establishment of his kingdom. Thus considered, the 
love of God and thotfurtheranec of the love of God are 
still a figurative expression. God wants the whole 
heart of his people: one love, one sacrifice, exclusively 
directed towards him, so that none other should exist 
beside it; and that all inclinations of love towards any 
creature should be comprised in it, derived from it, and 
return to it. On this account his love is called jealous, 
and he is said to be a jealous God. This jealousy of 
God, however, this decided requiring of an exclusive 
submission on the part of his people, is, on the other 
hand, the tenderest carefulness for their welfare, their 
honor, and their restoration. The close connection, in- 
deed the unity of both, is evident. The effect of this 
jealousy of God is to kindle zeal in those who serve 
him, and consequently opposition against all that op- 
poses, or even does not conduce to his service. This is 
a manifestation of love towards God, which love is essen- 
tially a return of his own love, and consequently grati- 
tude, accompanied by the highest appreciation, and an 
earnest desire for communion with him. It includes 
joy in all that serves God, absolute submission to him, 
and a desire to do everything for his glory. The love 
in God, i. e. the love of those who feel themselves bound 
together by that common bond, is essentially of the 
same character; but, from the fact of its being direct- 
ed towards creatures who are afflicted with many fail- 
ings and infirmities, must also include — as distinguish- 
ed from the love towards God — a willingness to forgive, 
which makes away with all hinderances to full commu- 
nion, a continual friendliness under all circumstances, 
consequently patience and gentleness, zeal for their im- 
provement, and sympathy for. their failings and misfor- 
tunes. But as the love of the creative, redemptive, and 
sanctifying God, extending further than merely those 
who have attained to that communion with him, em- 
braces all, so should also the love of those who love 
God. Yet in the divine love itself there is a distinction 
made, inasmuch as God’s love towards those who love 
him and keep his commandments is a strengthening, 
sustaining pleasure in them (John xiv, 21, 23), while 
his love towards the others is benevolence and pity, 
which, according to their conduct, the disposition of 
their hearts, and their receptivity, is either not felt at 
all by them, or only produces pain, fear, or, again, hope, 
desire, etc., but not a feeling of complete, abiding joy. 
So in the love of the children of God towards the human 
race we find the distinction between brotherly and uni- 
versal love (Rom. xii, 10; Ileb. xiii, 1 ; 1 Pet. i, 22; 2 
Pet. i, 7). In both we find the characteristics of kind- 
ness and benevolence, sympathy, willingness to help, 
gentleness, and patience; but in the universal love there 
is wanting the feeling of delight, of an equal aim, a com- 
plete reciprocity, of conscious unity in the one highest 
good. 

Love also derives a special determination from the 
personality, the spiritual and essential organization of 
the one who loves, and also his particular position. It 
manifests itself in friendship as a powerful attraction, a 
hearty sympathy of feelings, a strong desire for being 
together and enjoying a communion of thoughts and 
feelings. In sexual love it is a tender reciprocal attrac- 
tion, a satisfaction in each other as the mutual com- 
plement of life, and a desire for absolute and lasting 


community of existence. Parental, filial, and brotherly 
love can be considered as a branch of this affection. 
Both friendship and love have the full sanction of Chris- 
tian morals when based on the love of God. As wed- 
ded love is an image of the relation between the Lord 
and his people, or the Church (Eph. v, 23 sq.), so pater- 
nal, filial, and brotherly love are respectively images of 
the love of God towards his children, of their love to- 
wards him, and of their love towards each other. All 
these relations may want this higher consecration, and 
yet be well regulated; they have then a moral charac- 
ter. But they may also be disorderly: friendship can 
be sensual, selfish, and even degenerate into unnatural 
sexual connection; sexual love may become selfish, hav- 
ing no other object but the gratification of lust; paren- 
tal love may change to self-love, producing over-indul- 
gence, and fostering the vices of the children ; brotherly 
love can degenerate into flattery and spoiling. Thus 
this feeling, which in its principle and aim should he 
the highest and noblest, can become the most common, 
the worst, and the most unworthy. Both kinds of love 
are mentioned in Scripture. The highest and purest 
tendency of the heart is in the Bible designated by the 
same name as the more natural, immoral, or disorderly 
tendency. The same was the ease among the Greeks 
and Romans: "Epwc, Amor, and 'A<ppocir)], Venus , had 
both significations, the noble and the common; but 
Christianity has in Christ and in his Church the perfect 
illustration and example of true love, whose absolute 
type is in the triune life of God himself. This divine 
love, as it exists in God, and through the divine Spirit 
in the heart of man, together with the connection of 
both, is represented to us in Scripture as infinitely deep 
and pure. We find it thus represented in the Old Tes- 
tament (see Dent, xxxiii, 3; Isa. xlix, 13 sq.; lvii, 17 
sq.; lv,7sq.; Jer.xxxi,20; xxxii,37sq.; Ezek.xxxiv, 
11 sq. ; II os. iii, 2 sq.; Mic. vii, 18 sq.). Then in the 
whole mission of Christ, and in what he stated of his 
own love and of the Father’s, see Matt, xi, 28 ; Luke xv ; 
John iv, 10, 14; vi, 37 sq. ; vii, 37 sq.; ix, 4; x, 12 sq.; 
xii, 35 ; xiii, 1 ; xv, 1*2, 13 ; xvii ; and, for the testimony 
of the apostles, Rom. v, 5 sq.; viii, 28 sq.; xi, 29 sq.; I 
Cor. xiii; Eph. i, 3, 17 sq. ; v, 1 sq. ; 1 John in, 4, etc. 
These statements are corroborated by the testimony of 
Christians in all ages, who have all been witness to this 
love, however much tlieir views may have differed on 
other points. In later times, ethical essays on the sub- 
ject have thrown great light on the nature and modes 
of manifestation of this love; see among them, Daub, 
Syst. d. christl. Moral , ii, 1, p. 310; Marheineke, Syst. d. 
theol. Moral, p. 470 ; Rothe, Theol. Ethik , ii, 350. — Her- 
zog, Real-Encyklop. viii, 388 sq. See Wesley ana, p. 54. 

Love, Christopher, a Presbyterian divine, was 
born at Cardiff, Wales, in 1618 ; entered the active work 
of the ministry in 1644, in London, after which he be- 
came a member of tlie Assembly of Divines. After the 
death of Charles I, to whom lie had previously been op- 
posed, be entered into a plot against Cromwell, for which 
cause lie was executed in August, 1651. Mr. Love was 
the author of a number of sermons and theological trea- 
tises published in 1645-54. As a writer, he was plain, 
impressive, evangelical. See Wild, T rayed y of Chris- 
topher Lore; Neal, Puritans, i, 528; ii, 123 sq. ; Wood, 
A then. Oxon. ; Allibone, Diet . of Brit, and Am. A uthors, 
vol. ii, s. v. 

Love, John M., D.D., an eminent Scotch divine, 
was born at Paisley, Scotland, in 1757. He was one of 
the founders of tiie London Missionary Society. He 
died in 1825. Dr. Love published in 1796 Addresses to 
the People of Otaheite. republished after his death ; also 
2 vols. of jSertnojis and Lectures in 1829; a vol. of Let- 
ters in 1838; 34 Sermons, preached 1784-5, in 1853. See 
Chambers and Thomson, Biogr. Diet, of Eminent Scots- 
men, 1855, vol. v; Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and Am. Au- 
thors, vol. ii, s. v. 

Love Family. See Familists. 


LOYE-FEAST 


531 


LOWE 


Love -feast. In the article Agape (q. v.) the' 
subject has been treated so far as it relates to an in- 
stitution in the early Church. It remains for us here 
only to speak of the love-feast as observed in some Prot- 
estant churches, especially the Methodist connection. 
In a strictly primitive form, the love-feast is observed 
by the Moravian Brethren. They celebrate it on va- 
rious occasions, “ generally in connection with a solemn 
festival or preparatory to the holy communion. Printed 
odes are often used, prepared expressly for the occasion. 
In the course of the service a simple meal of biscuit and 
coffee or tea is served, of which the congregation par- 
take together. In some churches the love-feast con- 
cludes with an address by the minister” (E. de Schwei- 
nitz, Moravian Manual [Philad. 1859, I2mo], p. 161). 
From the Moravians Wesley borrowed the practice for 
his own followers, assigning for its introduction into 
the Methodist economy the following reasons : “ In or- 
der to increase in them [persons in bands (q. v.)] a 
grateful sense of all his [God’s] mercies, I desired that 
one evening in a quarter all the men in band, on a sec- 
ond all the women, would meet, and on a third both 
men and women together, that we might together ‘ eat 
bread,’ as the ancient Christians did, ‘with gladness and 
singleness of heart.’ At these love-feasts (so we termed 
them, retaining the name as well as the thing, which 
was in use from the beginning) our food is only a little 
plain cake and water ; but we seldom return from them 
without being fed not only with the ‘meat which per- 
isheth,’ but with ‘that which endureth to everlasting 
life’ ” (Wesley, Works, v, 183). In the Wesleyan Church 
only members are attendants at love-feasts, and they are 
appointed by or with the eonsent of the superintendent 
{Minutes, 1806). Admission itself is gained only by a 
ticket ; and as it frequently happened that members 
would lend their tickets to strangers, it was enacted in 
1808 that “no person who is unwilling to join our soci- 
ety is allowed to attend a love-feast more than once, 
nor then without a note from the travelling preacher;” 
.... and “ that any person who is proved to have lent 
a society tieket to another who is not in society, for the 
purpose of deceiving the door-keepers, shall be suspend- 
ed for three months” (comp. Grind rod, Lau-s and Regula- 
tions of Wesl. Methodism [Loud. 1842], p. 180). In the 
Methodist Episcopal Church the rule also exists that ad- 
mission to love-feasts is to be had by tickets only (comp. 
Discipline , pt. ii, eh. ii, § 17 [2]), but the rule is rarely, 
if ever observed, and they are frequently attended by 
members of the congregation as well as by the members 
of the Church. By established usage, the presiding el- 
der (and in his absenee only the minister in eharge) is 
entitled to preside over the love-feasts, and they are 
therefore held at the time of the Quarterly Conference. 
See Conference, Methodist. The manner in which 
they are now generally observed among Methodists is 
as follows : They are opened by the reading of the Scrip- 
tures, followed by the singing of a hymn, and then by 
prayer. During and after the dealing out of the bread 
and water, the different members of the congregation so 
disposed relate their Christian experience since the last 
meeting, etc. This is also the occasion for a report of 
the prosperity of the Church on the part of the pastor 
and by rule of Discipline (pt. ii, ch. ii, § 17) ; for the 
report of the names of those who have been received 
into the Church or excluded therefrom during the quar- 
ter; also the names of those who have been received or 
dismissed by certiticate, and of those who have died or 
have withdrawn from the Church. 

Among the Baptists, in their missionary churches 
abroad, they seem to celebrate the real Agape. At Ber- 
lin, Prussia, they are held quarterly, and are made the 
occasion of a general soeial gathering, substituting cof- 
fee and cake for the bread and water; but tills practice 
is by no means general among the communicants of that 
Church. (J.1I.W.) 

Love, Virgins of, a female order in the Bomisli 
Church, called also Daughters of Charity (q. v.), whose 


offiee it is to administer assistance and relief to indigent 
persons confined to their beds by sickness and infirmity. 
The order was founded by Louisa le Gras, and received, 
in the year 1660, the approbation of the pope. — Farrar, 
Eccles. Diet. 

Lovejoy, Elijah F., a Presbyterian minister, 
noted for his anti-slavery activity, was the son of the 
Rev. Daniel Lovejoy, and was born at Albion, Maine, 
Nov. 9, 1802; graduated at Waterville College, Maine, 
September, 1826 ; and taught for a time in St. Louis, 
Mo. In 1832 he was converted, and united with the 
Presbyterian Clinreh, and entered the Theological Sem- 
inary at Princeton, N. J. The following spring lie ob- 
tained license to preach from the Second Presbytery of 
Philadelphia, and began preaching in Newport, R. I., 
and in New York City. In 1833 he established the St. 
Louis Observer, a weekly religious newspaper, in St. 
Louis, Mo. In 1836, on account of a bitter dislike for 
the Observer's opposition to slavery and the prevailing 
principles on divorce, a mob destroyed Mr. Lovejov’s 
printing-office. The same year he removed to Alton, 
111., where he established and maintained by solicited 
contributions “ The Alton Observer.” Continuing in his 
anti-slavery movements, resolutions were passed against 
him, and his press was twice destroyed by a pro-slavery 
mob. While defending a third press near his premises 
at Alton, he was mortally wounded in November, 1837. 

Lovejoy, Owen, a Congregational minister, broth- 
er of the preceding, was born at Albion, Maine, in 1811. 
From 1836 to 1854 he was minister in eharge of a Con- 
gregational Church at Princeton, 111. He was elected 
a member of Congress by the Republicans of the third 
district of Illinois in 1856; was re-elected in 1858, I860, 
anil 1862, and is included among the eminent opponents 
of the slave power. He died at Brooklyn, New York, in 
March, 1864. 

Lovejoy, Theodore A., a Methodist preacher, 
was born at Stratford, Conn., Feb. 18, 1821 ; was convert- 
ed in Brooklyn, N. Y., in 1842, and soon after joined the 
Methodist Episcopal Church. In 1847 he joined the 
New York East Conference, remaining a faithful and 
valued member of the same till his death, at Watertown, 
Conn., June 7, 1867. See W. C. Smith, Sacred Memo- 
ries (New York, 1870), p. 301. 

Loveys, John, a Methodist Episcopal minister, was 
born in Devon County, England, May 7, 1804 ; was con- 
firmed in the Church of England in his youth; in 1825 
was converted, and united with the Wesleyan Metho- 
dists; emigrated to America in 1829; spent one year at 
Cazenovia Seminary, N. Y., and in 1830 entered the 
Black River Conference. In 1834 he was stationed at 
Ogdensburg; in 1836 was made presiding elder on Pots- 
dam District; then preached at Oswego (1839), and va- 
rious other appointments, until his death, Aug. 30, 1849. 
He was a valuable preacher, clear, original, vigorous, 
and devout; an “excellent economist,” a “diligent stu- 
dent,” and a man of large spirit and liberal influence. — 
Minutes of Conferences, iv, 474; Black River Conference 
Memorial, p. 249. 

Low Churchmen, a name for persons who, though 
attached to the system of government maintained in 
the Church of England, or in the Protestant Episcopal 
Church of the United States, as “ the Church,” yet con- 
sider that the ministrations of other churches are not 
to be disregarded. See Latitudinarians. The term 
was primarily applied to those who disapproved of the 
schism made by the Non-jurors, and who distinguished 
themselves by their moderation towards Dissenters. — 
Farrar, -Eccles. Diet. s. v. See Ritualism. 

Lowe, ben-Bezalel, a rabbi and Jewish teacher 
of note, was born probably in Posen about 1525. Of his 
early history but little is authenticated. We find him 
first occupying a position of influence and prominence 
at Prague, where he was best known as “ the learned 
Rabbi Lowe,” towards the close of the 16th century 
(1573). Previous to his coming to Prague he had been 


LOWE 


532 LOWISOIIN 


rabbi over a congregation in Moravia for some twenty 
vears. In 1583 lie was elected chief rabbi of the Jews 
in the Bohemian capital. In 1592 he became chief 
rabbi of Posen and Poland ; he returned, however, in 
1593 to Prague, and there died in 1G09. lie left nineteen 
different works, of which several are yet in manuscript in 
the library of the University of Oxford, England. Be- 
sides his great Talmudical knowledge, which made him 
one of the first authorities of his time, he also enjoyed 
a great reputation as mathematician and philosopher. 
He seems to have also possessed great knowledge of as- 
tronomy and astrology, the favorite studies of the age. 
He was befriended by the renowned Tycho Brahe, as- 
tronomer at the court of the emperor Kudolph II ; and 
the latter also, it is said, honored the rabbi, and at one 
time admitted him to a prolonged audience; indeed, it 
is a well-established fact that his extended knowledge 
and unblemished character secured for himself and the 
Jews of his time happier days, and, like a sunbeam in 
the midst of dark clouds, appears the short period in 
which lie officiated as rabbi in the sad history of the 
Jewish congregation of Prague. lie was opposed to the 
unscientific manner in which the Talmud was studied, 
by hunting after imaginary contradictions and difficul- 
ties (Filpul), and he called into existence new societies 
for a more scientific study of the same. In connection 
with his son-in-law, rabbi Chayim Wahlc, he founded a 
seminary for Talmudical studies. The rabbi’s knowl- 
edge of natural philosophy caused him frequently to 
make experiments, which gave birth to many legends, 
as the ignorant saw in them the supernatural power of 
the Cabalist. A Christian Bohemian historian claims 
for the rabbi the honor of inventing the camera-obscu- 
ra. Sec Griitz, Gesch. d. Juden, ix, 496 sq. ; Sekles,/?cw 2 e 
Jewish Rabbis (v), in the Jewish Messenger (N. V. 1871) ; 
Burst, Biblioth . Judaicu , ii, 266 sq. (J. II. W.) 

Lowe, Joel, ben-Jehudaii Loeb (also called Bril, 
V^nn, from the initials n*P STriPP *Q"l "p, ben-R. 
Jehudah Loeb), a Jewish writer of note, born about 
1740, was a distinguished disciple of Moses Mendels- 
sohn, and afterwards, although a Jew, held a profess- 
orship in the William’s school at Breslau. lie died 
in that city, February 11,1802. Besides many valua- 
ble contributions to Biblical exegesis and literature in 
the Berlin Magazine for the Advancement of Jewish 
Scholarship, entitled Menssef or Sammler (Collector), 
of which he was at one time also editor, lie published 
(1) Commentary on the Sony of Sony s, with an elabo- 
rate Introduction, written conjointly with Wolfssulin, to 
Mendelssohn’s German translation of this book (Ber- 
lin, 1788; republished in Prague, 1803; Lemberg, 1817) : 
— (2) Annotations on Ecclesiastes, also conjointly with 
Wolfssohn, published with Mendelssohn's commentary 
on this book, and Friedliinders’ German translation (Ber- 
lin, 1788): — (3) Commentary on Jonah, with a German 
translation (Berl. 1788) : — (1) Commentary on the Psalms, 
with an extensive introduction (5XTw n r*“"~T “Pad 
C”), containing an elaborate treatise on the musical 
instruments of the ancient Hebrews, as well as on He- 
brew Poetry; published with Mendelssohn’s German 
translation of this book (Berlin, 1785-91) (5) German 
Translation and lleb. Commentary on the Sabbatic and 
Eestical Lessons from the Pentateuch and the Prophets 
[see llAiMiTAii.ui J ( 1 tori. 1790-91):— (6) German Trans- 
lation of the Pentateuch for beginners, preparatory to 
Mendelssohn's version (Breslau, 1818) : — (7) Elementary 
Hebrew Grammar, entitled “,T«bn according to 

logical principles, for the use of teachers (Berlin, 1794; 
republished in Prague, 1803). Of his articles published 
in quarterlies, the following are the most important : 1. 
Notes on Joshua and the Sony of Sonya, in Fichhorn’s 
AUyemeine Bibliothelc (Lei (is. 1789), ii. 183 sq. : — 2. Trea- 
tise on Personification of the Deity and the Sephiroth , ibid. 
(Leips. 1793), v, 378 sq. Sec Fiirst, Biblioth . Ifebraica , 
ii, 268; Steinschneider, Cataloyus Libr. Jlebr. in Bibli- 
otheca Bodlciana, col. 1627 sq. ; Kit to, Cyclopaedia of 


Biblical Literature, s. v. ; Griitz, Gesch. der Juden , xi, 
131 sq. 

Lowell, Charles, D.D., a Unitarian Congregation- 
al minister of note, son of judge John Lowell, to whom 
Massachusetts is indebted for the clause in her Consti- 
tution which abolished slavery, was born in Boston Aug. 
15, 1782, and was educated first at Andover Academy, 
and later at Harvard College, class of 1800. After grad- 
uation he went abroad, and travelled extensively in the 
Old World. At Edinburgh he entered the divinity 
school of the university, and spent there three semes- 
ters. On his return home he studied theology with 
Rev. Dr. Zedckiah Sanger, of South Bridgewater, and 
Rev. David Tappan, professor of divinity at Cambridge, 
and was ordained pastor over the West Church, in Bos- 
ton, Jan. 1,1806. In 1837 his feeble health demanded 
relief, and the Rev. Cyrus A. Bartol was ordained as 
his colleague. Dr. Lowell continued his pastoral con- 
nection until his death (at Cambridge, January 20, 
1861), although lie officiated but occasionally. He was 
remarkable for kindness, integrity, directness and sim- 
plicity of character, and was a most zealous and con- 
sistent opponent of slavery. As a preacher his popu- 
larity was eminent, and lie was almost adored by his 
parishioners. Graceful as an orator, with a voice of un- 
common sweetness, lie preached with such an ardor and 
sincerity that he seemed to his hearers to be almost di- 
vinely inspired. He published some twenty different 
discourses, a volume of Occasional Sermons (Bost. 1856, 
12mo), and a volume of Practical Sermons (1856) : — 
Meditations for the Afflicted , Sick, and Dying ; and De- 
votional Exercises for Communicants . I Ic also contrib- 
uted largely to the periodical literature of his day. 
Among his surviving children are Prof. Lowell, the poet; 
the Rev. Robert Lowell, author of “The New Priest in 
Conception Bay,” a novel of Newfoundland life ; and 
Mrs. Putnam, the well-known writer on Hungarian his- 
tory. See Christian Examiner, 1870, p.389; Thomas, 
Diet, of Bioy. and Mythol. s. v. ; Drake, Diet. .1 m. Bioy . 
s. v. ; Allibone, Did. of Brit, and A m. A uthors, s. v. 

Lowell, John, an American philanthropist, de- 
serves our notice as the founder (in 18*39) of “ the Low- 
ell Institute,” at an expense of $250,000. to maintain 
forever in Boston, his native place, annual courses of 
free lectures on natural and revealed religion, the natu- 
ral sciences, philology, belles-lettres, and art. Mr. Low- 
ell was born May 11, 1799, and was entered student at 
Harvard in 1813; but was compelled already, in 1815, 
by poor health, to seek relief by residence in the Fast. 
He died at Bombay March 4, 1836. He was a superior 
scholar, and possessed one of the best private libraries 
in America. See New American Cyclop, s. v. 

Lower Parts of the Earth (jpX r^rtnrt), 
properly valleys (Isa. xliw 23): hence, by extension, 
Sheof. or the under-world, as the place of departed spir- 
its (Psa. Ixiii, 9 ; Fph. iv, 9), and by meton. any hidden 
place, as the womb (Psa. cxxxix, 15). In the original 
of Fzck. xxvi, 20; xxxii, 18, 24, the words are trans- 
posed, and used in the second sense. 

Lowisohil, Salomon, a Jewish writer of note, and 
really the first Jew who chronicled the history of his 
people in the German tongue, was born at Moor, Hun- 
gary, in 1789, and was truly a self-made man. Amid 
the greatest difficulties he acquired an education, and 
particularly a thorough knowledge of the Hebrew. 
Possessed of great poetical talent, lie wrote 
■p“lvr->, a sort of .1 rs Poetica (Vienna, 1816), The first 
work in which a Jew applied Clio's pencil to the history 
of the. chosen people of God. in a German version, was 
Lowisohn’s Yorlesnnyen iiber die neuere Geschichte der 
Juden (Vienna, 1820. 8 vo). which starts with their dis- 
persion. and dwells at length on the Talmud and its au- 
thors. Unfortunately, however, the young man so well 
endowed to do this work, so auspiciously began, was 
brought to an early grave by disappointment in love. 


LOWMAX 


533 


LOWTH 


He died of broken heart, in his native place, in 1822. I 
See Griitz, Gesch. d. Juden, xi, 453 sq.; Oriental. Liter a- 
turbl. 1840, col. 10 ; Beth El. 1850, p. 72 sq. (J. II. AY.) 

Lowman, Abraham, a Presbyterian minister, 
was born in Indiana County, Pa., in 1835; made an 
early profession of faith, and joined the Associate Rc- 
formed Congregation at Jacksonville, Pa.; entered the 
Theological Seminary of the First Associate Reformed 
Synod (class of 1857); was licensed by the Presbytery 
of Westmoreland, and in 1858 received and accepted a 
call from the Associate Reformed congregation at Brook- 
ville, Pa., but while preparing to enter upon the active 
duties of this charge he suddenly died, Nov. 27, 1858. 
See Wilson, Presb. Ilist. Aim. I860, p. 159. (J. L. S.) 

Lowman, Moses, a learned English dissenting 
divine, was born in London in 1680, and was educated 
at Middle Temple, and subsequently at Leyden and 
Utrecht. In 1710 he became minister of a Presbyte- 
rian congregation at Clapham, Surrey, where he labored 
until his death in 1752. He was eminently skilled in 
Jewish antiquities, and is the author of a learned work 
on the Civil Government of the Hebrews (London, 1740, 
1745, 1816, 8vo) ; of a Paraphrase and Notes o f Revela- 
tion (1737, 1745, 4to ; 1791, 1807, 8vo), of which work 
Doddridge remarked that he had “received more satis- 
faction from it, in regard to many difficulties in that 
book, than he ever found elsewhere, or expected to 
have found at all — Argument from Prophecy in proof 
that Jesus is the Messiah (London, 1733, 8vo), which l)r. 
Leland calls “ a valuable book ;” and Rationale of the 
Ritual of Hebrew Worship (1748, 1816, 8vo). See Prot. 
Biss. May. vol. i and ii ; AUibone, Diet, of British and 
A merican A utho?'s, s. v. 

Lowrie, John Marshall, D.D., a Presbyterian 
divine, was born in Pittsburg, Pa., July 16, 1817, and 
was educated for two years in Jefferson College, Can- 
onsburg, Pa., and afterwards at Lafayette College, Eas- 
ton, Pa. (class of 1840); and then at the Theological 
Seminary at Princeton, N. J. (class of 1842). In April, 
1842, he was licensed by Newton Presbytery, and soon 
after, accepting a call to the churches of Blairstown and 
Knowlton, in Warren County, N. J., he was ordained 
and installed by Newton Presbytery Oct. 18, 1843. In 
1846 he accepted a call to Wellsville, Ohio ; subsequent- 
ly he removed to Lancaster, Ohio, and thence to Fort 
Wayne, Ind., where he labored faithfully until his death, 
Sept. 26, 1867. Dr. Lowrie contributed largely to the 
press, and wrote many precious gems in poetry and 
prose ; he was a man of more than ordinary gifts, a clear, 
vigorous intellect, and sound judgment; he excelled in 
systematic arrangement, clear statement, and forcible 
argument. See Wilson, Presb. Hist. Aim. 1868, p. 115 
sq. (J. L. S.) 

Lowrie, Reuben, a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in Butler, Pa., Nov. 24, 1827, and was educated at 
the University of New York City, where for one year 
he served as tutor; studied theology at Princeton, N. J.; 
afterwards became principal of a presbyterial academy 
in Luzerne County, Pa. ; was licensed by the Luzerne 
Presbytery in 1851, at which time he engaged in the 
work of foreign missions among the Choctaw Indians; 
in 1853 he was ordained, and April 22 sailed as mission- 
ary to Shanghai, China. Here he applied himself to 
the study of the Chinese language, translated the S /toil- 
er Catechism , and a Catechism on the Old-Testament His- 
tory, into this dialect; devoted much time to the com- 
pletion of a Dictionary of the Four Books, commenced 
by his deceased brother; he had also nearly finished a 
Commentary on the Gospel of Matthew in Chinese when 
he died, April 26, I860. Sec Wilson, Presb. Hist. Aim. 
1861, p. 96. (J.L.S.) 

Lowrie, Walter Macon, a Presbyterian mis- 
sionary to China, was born in Butler, Pa., in 1819 (?), 
graduated from Jefferson College in 1837, passed a the- 
ological course at Princeton, was ordained by the Sec- 
ond Presbytery of New York, and entered on his minis- 


terial labors. While passing from Shanghai to Ningpo, 
Aug. 19, 1847, he was thrown overboard by pirates, and 
drowned at sea, about twelve miles from Chapoo, China. 
The date of his embarkation from America is not known, 
but he was in China some time prior to 1842. He was 
a young man of fine powers and large culture, and prom- 
ised much for the Church and the world. His piety was 
of a lofty, self-denying stamp, which made him equal to 
all obstacles, and his career was opening grandly when 
thus suddenly called to his reward. He wrote Letters 
to Sabbath-school Children: — Land of Sinai, or Exposi- 
tion of Isaiah xlix (Phila. 1846, 18mo). A volume of his 
Sennons preached in China was also published (1851, 
8vo). See Pierson, Missionary Memorial, p. 396; New 
York Observer , Jan. 8, 1848 ; Memoirs of W. M. Lowrie 
(New York, Carter and Brothers, 1849) ; Princeton Re- 
view, xxii, 280. 

Low Sunday, the first Sunday after Easter, so 
called because it was customary to repeat on this day 
some part of the solemnity which was used on Easter 
day, whence it took the name of Low Sunday, being cel- 
ebrated as a feast, but of a lower degree than Easter day 
itself. — Eden, Theological Dictionary. 

Lowth, Robert, D.D., a distinguished English 
prelate, and son of William Lowth (q. v.), was born at 
Buriton Nov. 27, 1710. In 1737 he graduated master 
of arts at Oxford University, and in 1741 was elected 
professor of poetry in his alma mater. Entering the 
ecclesiastical order, he was presented with the rectory 
of Ovington, in Hampshire, in 1744. After a four year’s 
residence on the Continent, he was, on his return in 1750, 
appointed by bishop Hoadley archdeacon of Winchester, 

' and three years after to the rectory of East Woodliay in 
Hampshire. It was in this very year that Lowth pub- 
lished his valuable work De Sacra Pocsi Ilebrceorum, 
Pnelectioncs Acadcmicce (Oxon. 1753, 4to ; 2d edit, with 
annot. by Michaelis, Hotting. 1758 ; Oxf. 1763 ; Gutting. 
1768; Oxford, 1775, 1810; with notes by Rosenmiiller, 
Leips. 1815; and last and best, Oxford, 1821, 8vo). An 
j English translation of the first 18 lectures was prepared 
i by Dr. Dodd for the Christian Magazine (1766-67), and 
! of all by Dr. Gregory (Loud. 1787, 1816, 1835, 1839, 1847) ; 
a still more desirable English translation was prepared 
by Prof. Stowe (Andover, 1829, 8vo). “In these mas- 
] tcrly and classical dissertations,” says Ginsbnrg (in Kitto, 
Cycl. ofBibl. Lit . ii, s. v.), “ Lowth not only evinces a deep 
| knowledge of the Hebrew language, but philosophically 
I exhibits the true spirit and characteristics of that poet- 
ry in which the prophets of the O. T. clothed the lively 
oracles of God. It does not at all detract from Lowth’s 
merits that both Abrabanel and Azarialyde Rossi had 
pointed out two centuries before him the same features 
of Hebrew poetry [see Rossi] upon which he expatiates, 
inasmuch as the enlarged views and the invincible ar- 
guments displayed in his handling of the subject are 
peculiarly his own; and his work is therefore justly re- 
garded as marking a new epoch in the treatment of the 
Hebrew poetry. The greatest testimony to the ex- 
traordinary merits of these lectures is the thorough an- 
alysis which the celebrated [Jewish] philosopher Men- 
delssohn, to whom the Hebrew was almost vernacular, 
gives of them in the Bibliothek derschonen Wisscnschaf- 
ten und derfreien Kiinste, vol. i, 1756.” In 1751 Lowth 
received the degree of doctor in divinity from the Uni- 
versity of Oxford by diploma. In 1755 he went to Ire- 
land as chaplain to the marquis of Ilartington, then ap- 
pointed lord lieutenant, who nominated him bishop of 
Limerick, a preferment which he exchanged for a pre- 
bend of Durham and the rectory of Sedgeficld. In 
1766 Dr. Lowth was appointed bishop of St. David’s, 
whence a few months later he was translated to the 
sec of Oxford, and thence, in 1777, he succeeded Dr. 
Tcrrick in the diocese of London. In 1778, only one 
year after his appointment at London, he gave to the 
public his last and greatest work, Isaiah : a new Trans- 
lation, with a preliminary Dissertation, and Notts (13th 


LOWTII 


534 


LOYOLA 


edit. 1842, 8vo). This elegant and beautiful version of 
the evangelical prophet, of which learned men in every 
part of Europe have been unanimous in their eidogiums, 
and* which is alone sufficient to transmit his name to 
posterity, aimed “ not only to give an exact and faithful 
representation of the words and sense of the prophet by 
adhering closely to the letter of the text, and treading 
as nearly as may be in his footsteps, but, moreover, to 
imitate the air and manner of the author, to express the 
form and fashion of the composition, and to give the 
English reader some notion of the peculiar turn and cast 
of the original.” In the elaborate and valuable Prelim- 
inary Dissertation where bishop Lowth states this, he 
enters more minutely than in his former production into 
the form and construction of the poetical compositions 
of the O. T., lays down principles of criticism for the 
improvement of all subsequent translations, and frankly 
alludes to De Rossi’s view of Hebrew poetry, which is 
similar to his own. See Rossi. This masterly work 
soon obtained a European fame, and was not only rap- 
idly reprinted in England, but was translated into Ger- 
man by professor Ivoppe, who added some valuable notes 
to it (Gotting. 1779-81, 4 vols. 8vo). It must not, how- 
ever, be presumed that the work did not meet also with 
opposition, so far as the views of the author could lend 
to difference in opinion; and we incline with Dr. G. B. 
Cheever to the belief that Lowth ’s “only fault as a sa- 
cred critic was a degree of what archbishop Seeker de- 
nominated the * rubies emendandi,' or rage for textual 
and conjectural emendations. The prevalence of this 
spirit in his work on Isaiah was the only obstacle that 
prevented its attaining the name and rank, as classic 
in sacred literature, which has been accorded to the 
Lectures on the Sacred Poetry of the Hebrews' 1 ' 1 (Xorth 
Amer. Rev. xxxi,37G; comp. here Horne, Bibl. Bib. 1839, 
287). On the death of archbishop Cornwallis, the pri- 
macy was offered to Dr. Lowth, a dignity which he de- 
clined on account of his advanced age and family afflic- 
tions. In 17(58 lie lost his eldest daughter, and in 1783 
his second daughter suddenly expired while presiding 
at the tea-table ; his eldest son was also suddenly cut 
off in the prime of life. Bishop Lowth himself died 
Nov. 3, 1787. The other and minor writings of bishop 
Lowth, consisting of (1) Tracts , belonging to his contro- 
versy with bishop Warburton (q. v.), to which a trifling 
difference of opinion on the book of Job gave rise: — (2) 
Life of William of Wyckhum (1758): — (3) Short Intro- 
duction to English Grammar (17(52). The Sermons and 
other Remains of Bishop Lowth were published with an 
Introductory Memoir by the Rev. Peter Hall, A.M. (Lon- 
don, 1834, 8 vo). See Memoirs of the Life and Writings 
of the late Bp. Lowth (Lond. and Gritting. 1787, 8vo) ; 
Blackwood’s Magazine, xxix, 7(55, 902 ; Gentl. Magazine, 
lvii, lviii. etc.; Kitto, Journal of Sac. Lit. i, 94, 295; v, 
373 ; xvii, 138 ; Engl. Cyclop, s. v. ; Darling, Eccles. Biog. 
ii, 1873: Hook, Eccles. Biog. s. v. ; and especially Alli- 
bone, Diet, of Brit, and A in. A uth. vol. ii, s. v. 

Lowtli, Simon, D.D., an English non-juring di- 
vine, was bom in Northamptonshire about 1G30. In 
1G<9 we find him vicar of St. Cosmus, a position of 
which he was deprived in 1G88. He died in 1720. Dr. 
Simon Lowth published Historical Collections concerning 
Ch. A ffairs (Lond. 1G9G, 4to), besides several theological 
treatises (1(572-1704). See Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and 
A mer. A uthors , vol. ii, s. v. 

Lowth, William, I).D., a distinguished English 
divine, father of bishop Robert Lowth, was born in Lon- 
don Sept. 1 1, 1GG1. lie was educated at Merchant Tay- 
lors’ School, whence he was elected to a scholarship at 
St.John’s College, Oxford, in 1G75, when not yet 14 
years old; became INI. A. in 1(583, and B.l). ii\ 1(588. 1 1 is 
Vindication of the Divine Authority of the Old and Xew 
Test. (Lond. IG92; 3d edit, with two sermons, 1821, 12mo), 
in answer to Lc Gere’s attacks on the inspiration of 
Scripture, brought him prominently into notice ; and the 
first to favor him was bishop Mew, of Winchester, who 


had been president of St. John’s College, and well knew 
Lowth’s great attainments. He made him his chap- 
lain, and presented him with a prebendal stall in his 
cathedral at Winchester in 1G9G, and with the living of 
Buriton and Petersfield in 1G99. Dr. Lowth died May 17, 
1732. Though less celebrated as a writer than his son 
Robert, he is generally acknowledged to have been the 
profounder scholar, and might, and no doubt would, have 
attained to as great distinction in the Church as his son 
had he lived as much in the public eye, and, instead of 
serving others in the preparation of their works, gone 
directly before the people himself. So great, indeed, 
was his modesty, that, in an estimate of his scholar- 
ship, we can be just only after a careful inquiry of the 
amount and extent of the assistance he furnished to 
the works of his contemporaries, upon whom Dr. Lowth, 
having carefully read and annotated almost every Greek 
and Latin author, whether profane or ecclesiastical, es- 
pecially the latter, dispensed his stores with a most 
liberal hand. The edition of Clemens Alexandrians, by 
Dr. (afterwards archbishop) Potter; that of Josephus, 
by Hudson; the Ecclesiastical Historians, by Reading 
(Cambridge); the Bibliotheca Biblica, were all enriched 
with valuable notes from his pen. Bishop Chandler, 
of Durham, during the preparation of his Defence of 
Christianity from the prophecies of the Old Testament, 
against the discourse of the ‘‘Grounds and Reasons of 
the Christian Religion,” and in his vindication of the 
Defence” in answer to The Scheme of literal Prophecy 
considered, held a constant correspondence with him, 
and consulted him upon many difficulties that occur- 
red in the course of that work. Many other English 
scholars were also indebted to Dr. William Lowth’s la- 
bors for important aid. But the most valuable part of 
his character was that whiclT least appeared in the 
eyes of the world. His piety, diligence, hospitality, 
and beneficence rendered his life highly exemplary, 
and greatly enforced his public exhortations. Besides 
the Vindication already mentioned above, Dr. Lowth 
wrote Directions for the profitable Reading of the Holy 
Scriptures, etc. (1708, 12mo; 7th edit. Lond. 1799, 12mo), 
an excellent little work, which has gone through many 
editions; and last, but chiefly, A Commentary on the pro- 
phetical Books of the Old Testament, originally published 
in separate portions (1714-1725), and afterwards collect- 
ed in a folio volume as a continuation of bishop Patrick’s 
commentary, and generally accompanying the comment- 
ary collected severally from Patrick, Whitby, Arnald, 
and Lowman (best editions of t lie whole commentary, 
Lond. 1822, G vols. royal 4to; Philad. 18G0, 4 vols. imp. 
8vo). Lowth,” says Ormc (Bibl. Bib.'), “ is one of the 
most judicious commentators on the prophets. lie nev- 
er prophesies himself, adheres strictly to the meaning 
of the inspired writer, and is yet generally evangelical 
in his interpretations. There is not much appearance 
of criticism : but the original text and other critical aids 
were doubtless closely studied by the respectable author. 
It is often quoted by Scott, and .... is pronounced by 
bishop Coutson the best commentary in the English 
language.*’ See Life of Dr. William Lowth, by his son, 
Biog. Brit. ; Churchman's Magazine, 1809 (March and 
April), 781 sq. ; Jones, Christian Biog. s. v. ; Darling, 
Cyclop. Bibl. ii, 1875; Hook, Eccles. Biog. vii, 75; Alli- 
bone, Diet, of Brit, and vl mc-r. A uthors, vol. ii, s. v. ; Kit- 
to, Cyclop, of Bibl. Lit. vol. ii, s. v. 

Loyola, Ignatius or, St., or, with his full Spanish 
name, Don Inigo Lopez de Recalde, the founder of the 
Jesuits, was burn in 1491, in the Castle of Loyola, which 
was situated not far from Azpeytia, in the Spanish prov- 
ince of Guipuscoa. lie was the youngest of the eleven 
children of Don Bertand. Sefior d’Aguez v de Loyola, 
and Martina Saez dc Bahle. His family prided itself 
on belonging to the ancient, pure nobility of the coun- 
try, and was distinguished for chivalric sentiment. Af- 
ter receiving his first instruction in religion from hi3 
aunt, Dona Maria dc Guevara, a fervid Catholic, he be- 
came a page at the court of Ferdinand the Catholic. 


LOYOLA 


535 


LOYOLA 


But Ignatius had too great a desire for glory to be sat- 
isfied with court life, and, following the example of his 
brothers, who served in the army, he resolved to become 
a soldier. During the first campaign in which he took 
part he distinguished himself at the siege of Najara, a 
small town situated on the frontier of Biscaya, the cap- 
ture of which was partly attributed to his bravery. The 
town was given up to pillage, in which he took, howev- 
er, no part. His life at this time, as one of his biogra- 
phers says, was by no means regular; “ being more oc- 
cupied with gallantry and vanity than anything else, he 
generally followed in his actions the false principles of 
the world, and in this way he continued to live until his 
twenty-ninth year, when God opened his eyes.” During 
the siege of Pampeluna, the capital of Novara, by the 
French, he was, on May 20, 1521, severely wounded by a 
cannon ball in both legs. The French, after taking the 
place, honored his courage, and had him transported on 
a litter to his native castle of Lovola, which is not far 
from Pampeluna. As the first operation had not been 
successful, the leg had to be broken again and to be re- 
set anew. The extreme painful ness of this operation 
brought on a fever on the eve of the festival of the apos- 
tles Peter and Paul, which it was thought would prove 
fatal ; but this fever suddenly ceased, and Ignatius as- 
cribed his unexpected recovery to the miraculous aid of 
the prince of the apostles, who, as he states, appeared to 
him in a dream, touched him with his hand, and cured 
him from his fever. But, notwithstanding this belief in 
his miraculous recovery, Ignatius remained imbued with 
a worldly spirit. The recovery proved, however, not 
to be complete, and Ignatius, in order to get fully re- 
stored, had to submit to several other painful opera- 
tions, in spite of all of which his right leg remained con- 
siderably shorter than the other. While his recovery 
was slowly proceeding, he demanded novels for pastime ; 
but as no books of this class were to be found in the cas- 
tle, he received in their stead a Life of Jesus Christ and 
of the Saints. He read this at first without the least 
interest in the subject, and only because no other book 
could be found; but gradually his fiery imagination 
learned how to derive food from this reading, and a de- 
termination sprang up to imitate the spiritual combats 
which he found described in this book, and to excel the 
saints in heroic deeds. For a time the reviving thirst 
of glory, and a strong attachment to a lady of the royal 
court, continued to prove formidable obstacles, but finally 
he fully overcame them, and began the new career upon 
which he had resolved to enter with a pilgrimage to the 
convent of Montserrat, famous for the immense con- 
course of pilgrims from all parts of the world to a mirac- 
ulous picture of the Virgin Mary. To conceal his de- 
sign, he pretended to make a visit to his old friend the 
duke of Najara, and immediately after making the visit 
dismissed his two servants, and took alone the road to 
Montserrat. There, during three successive days, he 
made a general confession of all the sins of his life, and 
took the vow of chastity. Before the picture of the 
Virgin Marv he held a vigil, hung up his sword and 
dagger on the altar, and then repaired to Manresa, a 
small town situated about three leagues from Montserrat, 
and containing a convent of the Dominican order and a 
hospital chiefly for pilgrims. Here he desired to live 
unknown until the pestilence should cease at Barcelona, 
and the opening of the port should allow him to carry 
out his wish of visiting the Holy Land. lie first en- 
tered the hospital, and there practiced the austerest as- 
ceticism, until it became known that he was a nobleman, 
when the number of persons who came to sec him from 
curiosity induced him to hide himself in a neighboring 
cave which was known to few, and which no one had 
yet dared to enter. The horrors of this place, and the 
cruel, unnatural asceticism to which he gave himself up, 
produced a state of mind in which he believed himself 
alternately to be attended by temptations of the devil 
and to be gladdened by visions of the Saviour and the 
holy Virgin. Gradually he began to be settled in his 


mind, and resolved to labor for the conversion and 
sanctification of souls. He began to speak in public on 
religion, and made the first draft of his famous book of 
tlie Spiritual Exercises ( Exereitia Spirit ualia), in the 
composition of which he claims to have had divine aid. 
This book has contributed more than any other to the 
erection of the new papal theocracy which has recently 
been completed by the promulgation of the doctrine of 
papal infallibility. It consists of meditations, which are 
grouped in four divisions or weeks. The first week, af- 
ter an introductory meditation on the destiny of man 
and of all created things, occupies itself with sin, its 
hideousness, and its terrible consequences. The second 
week has for its basis the meditation on the kingdom of 
Christ, who is represented as being in the highest, sense 
of the word the king by the grace of God, whose call to 
the spiritual campaign all men have to obey, and in 
whose service every noble heart will feel itself inspired 
to noble deeds. In a life-picture of Christ it is shown 
how man must prove himself in the war for and with 
Christ. The meditation then turns to the mysteries 
of incarnation, to the childhood of Jesus, and his retired 
life in Nazareth. Here the contemplation of the life of 
Christ is interrupted by the meditation on the two ban- 
ners : the horrid banner of the prince of darkness is un- 
folded by the side of the lovely banner of Christ before 
the eyes of the soul, which is eagerly courted on both 
sides. Returning to the public life of Christ, which is 
now followed step by step, the Exercises prepare the 
mind for finally determining the future course of life. 
During the third week the sufferings and the death of 
t lie Lord are meditated upon, in order to strengthen the 
soul for all the combats which a resolution to lead a re- 
ligious life must entail. The subjects of the fourth week 
are taken from the mysteries of the resurrection and as- 
cension of Christ. The whole is concluded with a med- 
itation on the love of God. The book was for the first 
time printed in Rome in 1548, and on July 31 of the same 
year approved by pope Paul III, and urgently recom- 
mended to the faithful. In the hands of the Jesuits 
this book subsequently became one of the chief instru- 
ments which secured the thoroughly military discipline 
of their order, as well as of their devoted adherents. 

After passing ten months in Manresa, Ignatius, in Jan- 
uary, 1523, embarked at Barcelona for the Holy Land. 
He spent a few days in Rome, then went to Venice, 
where he embarked for .Jerusalem on July 14, and 
arrived there on September 4. It was his wish to re- 
main here, in order to labor for the conversion of the 
people of the East; but the provincial of the Fran- 
ciscan monks, who had been authorized by the popes 
either to retain the pilgrims or to send them home again, 
did not allow him to stay. Accordingly, he had to re- 
turn to Europe, and arrived in Venice in January, 1524. 
In March he was again on Spanish soil, and having be- 
come convinced during his voyage of the importance of 
a literary education for the accomplishment of his plans, 
he entered, although 33 years old, a grammar-school at 
Barcelona, where he studied, in particular, the elements 
of Latin. Two years later he went, with three disciples 
whom he had gained at Barcelona, to the University of 
Alcala, which a short time before had been founded by 
cardinal Ximenes. Here he was, with his companions, 
imprisoned for six weeks, by order of the Inquisition, for 
giving religious instruction without special authoriza- 
tion. After being released, be went, at the advice of the 
archbishop of Toledo, to the University of Salamanca to 
continue his studies. But, when there, he had new diffi- 
culties with the Inquisition ; he resolved to leave Spain, 
and, not accompanied by any of his disciples, went to the 
University of Paris, where he studied from February, 
1528, to the end of March, 1535, and on March 14, 1533, 
obtained the title of master of arts. Here his plan was 
fully matured to establish a society of men who might 
aid him in carrying out his religions ideas. The first 
who was gained for the plan was Pierre Lefevre (Petrus 
Faber), who for some time had been his tutor in his phil- 


LOYOLA 


53G 


LUBIENIETSKI 


osophical studies. The second was Francis Xavier, a I 
young nobleman of Novara. Soon after they were joined 
by the Spaniards Jacob Laincz. Alphonse Salmeron. and i 
Nicholas Alphonse Bobadilla, and the Portuguese Simon ' 
Rodriguez d’Azendo. For the iirst time they were called 
together by Ignatius in July, 1531. On August 15, on 
the festival of the assumption of the Virgin Mary, he 
took them to the church of the Abbey of Montmartre, 
near Paris, where, having received the communion from 
the hands of Lefevre, the only priest in their midst, they 
all, with a loud voice, took the solemn vow to make a | 
voyage to Jerusalem, in order to labor for the conversion 
of the infidels of the lloly Land ; to quit all they had in 
the world besides what they indispensably needed for 
the voyage ; and in case they should find it impossible 
cither to reach Palestine or remain there, to throw them- 
selves at the feet of the pope, offer him their services, 
and go wherever he might send them. As several mem- 
bers of the company had not yet finished their theolog- 
ical studies, it was agreed that they should remain at 
the university until January 25, 1537. Ignatius in the 
meanwhile undertook to labor against the further prog- 
ress of the Reformation in France; his ascetic practices 
soon undermined again his health, and. at the advice of 
his physician, he had to return to his native land, where 
he soon recovered. On Jan. G, 1537, he was met at Ven- 
ice by all his companions, who, after his departure from 
Paris, had been joined by Claude le Jay, Jean Codure, 
and Pasquier Brouet. Two months later all the mem- 
bers of the society were sent by Ignatius to Rome, he 
himself remaining at Venice, as he believed the influen- 
tial cardinal Caralfa (subsequently pope Paul IV) to be 
unfriendly to him. The pope, Paid III. received the 
companions of Ignatius favorably, and gave them per- 
mission to be ordained priests by any bishop of the 
Catholic Church. As the war between Venice and the 
sultan made it impossible for Ignatius to go with his 
companions to Palestine, Ignatius, who had again united 
all the members of the society at Vicenza, resolved to 
go with Lefevre and Lainez to Rome, in order to place 
the services of his society at the disposal of the pope. 
Before separating, Ignatius instructed all his compan- 
ions, in case they were asked who they were, and to 
what society they belonged, to reply that they belonged 
to the Society of Jesus, as they had united for a com- 
. bat against heresy and vice under the banner of Jesus 
Christ. On his journey to Rome, Ignatius claimed to 
have had another vision in the lonely, decayed sanctu- 
ary of Storia, about six miles from Rome, and to have re- 
ceived a direct promise of divine aid and protection. At 
Rome Ignatius succeeded in gaining the entire confi- 
dence of the pope. A charge of heresy and sorcery, 
which a personal enemy brought against him, was easily 
refuted, but it was found more difficult to overcome the 
opposition to his projected order from three cardinals, by 
whose advice the pope was chiefly guided. But, un- 
daunted by this great obstacle, as Helvot ( Histoire des 
Ordres M unastique, ed. Migne, ii, G 13) says, “ lie contin- 
ued his urgent representations with the pope, and re- 
doubled bis prayers to God with all the greater confi- 
dence, as, not doubting the success of his enterprise, he 
promised to God three thousand masses in recognition, 
and thanksgiving for the favor which he hoped to ob- 
tain from his divine Majesty.” The steady progress of 
the Reformation overcame, however, at last the reluc- 
tance of the cardinals, and, by the bull of Sept. 27, 1540, 
Regimiui militant is icclcsiw. the pope gave to the new 
order the papal sanction and the name Society of Jesus. 
At the election of a general of the new order Ignatius 
received a unanimous vote, lie at first declined to ac- 
cept ; but when, at a second election, he was again found 
to be the unanimous choice of his brethren, and when 
his confessor, the Franciscan monk father Theodore, 
urged him not to resist the call of God, he w'as prevailed 
upon to accept. He soon drew up the constitution of 
his order, which, however, did not receive the final sanc- 
tion until after his death. In Nov. 1554, in consequence 


of his failing health, he appointed father Nadal his as- 
sistant. During the following spring he believed him- 
self to have sufficiently recovered to do without this 
support, but during the summer of 155G his health broke 
entirely down, and he died on July 31, 155G. The only 
three wishes which he professed to have, the approba- 
tion of liis order by the Church, the sanction of his book 
of spiritual exercises by the pope, and the promulgation 
of the constitution of his order, were fulfilled. During 
the sixteen years from the foundation of the order until 
the death of Ignatius, the order spread with a rapidity 
rarely equalled in the history of monastic orders. See 
Jesuits. In 1G09 Ignatius was beatified by pope Paul 
V; in 1G22 he was canonized by Gregory XV. The 
A eta Sanctorum for July 31 gives, besides the Commen- 
tarius preerius, two biographies of Ignatius — one by 
Gonzales, based on communications received from Igna- 
tius himself, and another by Ribadeneira. Larger works 
on the life of Ignatius have been written by Ribadenei- 
ra, Maffei, and Orlandini. There is hardly a language 
spoken which has not furnished us a biography of Igna- 
tius; in English we have his life by Isaac Taylor and 
by Walpole. See also Herzog, Real-EncyJdop . vi. 524 ; 
Ranke, Rdm.-Papste, iii, 383; Retrospective Rev. (1824), 
vol. ix ; and the literature in the art. Jesuits. (A. J.S.) 

Lo'zon (Ao;£wi',Vulg. Dedon) , one of the sons of 
“ Solomon’s servants” who returned with Zorobabel (1 
Esd. v, 33) ; the Darkon (q. v.) of the lleb. lists (Ezra 
ii, 56; Nell, vii, 58). 

Lubbert(us), Librand(us), a Reformed clergy- 
man and professor of divinity at Franeckcr, was born at 
Longoworde, Friesland, in 155G, and was educated at 
| Wittenberg University, where he gained great perfec- 
tion in Hebrew. Afterwards he diligently attended the 
lectures at Geneva, and still later went to Neustadt, to 
hear the C’alvinistical professors. Lubbert then entered 
the ministry, and accepted a call to the Reformed Church 
of Brussels; later he removed to Embden. In 1584 he 
went to Friesland as preacher to the governor and depu- 
ties of the provincial states, and also read lectures on di- 
vinity at Franeckcr University, then just opened. He 
received the title of D.D. from Heidelberg University. 
In the controversies concerning the Scriptures, the pope, 

1 the Church, and councils, he wrote against the cele- 
brated divines Bellarmine, Gretserus, Socinus, Arminius, 
Peter Bertius, Vorstius, and Grotius’s rietas Ordinum 
flollandice. He preached zealously, pointedly, and elo- 
quently against all the evils of his times, both in the 
Church and out of it. He observed the statutes severe- 
ly, and sometimes refused rectorships because of the de- 
bauchery of unreformable scholars. He died at Fran- 
eckcr January 21, 1625. 

Lubec, Reformation in. See Hanse Towns (in 
Supplement). 

Lubienietski (Latinized Lubieniecius), Stanis- 
las. of a family greatly distinguished in the Polish So- 
einian controversy, being the most prominent of five 
who have become particularly identified with the So- 
cinian movement in Poland, was bom at Cracow August 
23, 1G23. lie was minister of a Church at Lublin until 
driven out by the arm of power fc?r his opinions in 1G57, 
when all anti-Trinitarians were expelled from Poland. 
He went first to Sweden, and sought the influence of 
the Swedish monarch for the Unitarians, but was sig- 
nally disappointed at the conclusion of peace between 
Sweden and Poland at Oliva. Lubienietski found more 
favor at the court of the Danes; he was obliged, how- 
ever, to quit the capital because of bis able advocacy 
of heretical opinions, and the danger to Lutheranism, 
and he finally settled at Hamburg, where he died May 
18, 1G75. His death is stated to have been caused by 
poison — a fact borne out by the death of his two daugh- 
ters, and the serious illness of his wife, after eating of 
the same dish: but the Hamburg magistracy neglected 
to institute the investigation usual in cases of sudden 
death, liis theological works are numerous, and may 


LUBIM 


537 


LUCA 


be found in Sandius, Bibl. A ntitrin. (Freist. 1684), with 
the exception of the llistoria Reformationis Poltmicce , 
published in 1G85 at Freistadt, with a life prefixed. Of 
his secular works, his Theatnnn Cometicum has a world- 
wide celebrity. See EmjL Cyclop, s. v. ; Krasinski, Hist. 
Ref. in Poland , ii, chap, xiv ; Fock, Der Socinianismus 
(Kiel, 1847). 

Lu'bim (Ueb. Lubim' , CTlA, from the Arab., sig- 
nifying inhabitants of a thirsty land, Nall. iii, 9; “ Lu- 
bims,” 2 Cliron. xii, 3; xvi, 8; also Lubbim', 
“Libyans,’’ Dan. xi,43 ; Sept, everywhere Aij3veg). the 
Libyans, always joined with the Egyptians and Ethio- 
pians ; being “ mentioned as contributing, together with 
Cushites and Sukkiim, to Shishak’s army (2 Chron. xii, 
3); and apparenth r as forming with Cushites the bulk 
of Zerah’s army (xvi, 8); spoken of by Nahum (iii, 9) 
witli Put or Phut, as helping No-Amon (Thebes), of 
which Cush and Egypt were the strength ; and by Dan- 
iel (xi,43) as paying court with the Cushites to a con- 
queror of Egypt or the Egyptians. These particulars 
indicate an African nation under tribute to Egypt, if not 
under Egyptian rule, contributing, in the 10th century 
B.C., valuable aid in mercenaries or auxiliaries to the 
Egyptian armies, and down to Nahum’s time, and a pe- 
riod prophesied of by Daniel, probably the reign of An- 
tiochus Epiphanes [see Antiociius IY], assisting, either 
politically or commercially, to sustain the Egyptian 
power, or, in the last case, dependent on it. These in- 
dications do not fix the geographical position of the Lu- 
bim, but they favor the supposition that their territory 
was near Egypt, cither to the west or south. For more 
precise information we look to the Egyptian monuments, 
upon which we find representations of a people called 
Reiiu or Lcbu (R and L having no distinction in hiero- 
glyphics), who cannot be doubted to correspond to the 
Lubim. These Kebu were a warlike people, with whom 
Menptah (the son and successor of Raineses II) and 
Rameses III, who both ruled in the loth century B.C., 
waged successful wars. The latter king routed them 
with much slaughter. The sculptures of the great tem- 
ple he raised at Thebes, now called that of Mcdinet 
Abfi, give us representations of the Kebu, showing that 
they were fair, and of what is called a Shemitic type, 
like the Berbers and Kabylcs. They are distinguished 
as northern, that is, as parallel to, or north of. Lower 
Egypt. Of their being African there can be no reason- 
able doubt, and we may assign them to the coast of the 
Mediterranean, commencing not far to the westward of 
Egypt. YTe do not find them to have been mercenaries 
of Egypt from the monuments, but we know that the 
kindred Mashawasha-u were so employed by the Bu- 
bastite family, to which Shishak and probably Zerah 
also belonged ; and it is not unlikely that the latter are 
intended by the Lubim, used in a more generic sense 
than Rebu, in the Biblical mention of the armies of 
these kings (Brugsch, Geoyr. Inschr. ii, 79 sq.). We 
have already shown that the Lubim are probably the 
Mizraite Lehabim : if so, their so-called Shemitic phys- 
ical characteristics, as represented on the Egyptian mon- 
uments, -afford evidence of great importance for the in- 
quirer into primeval history. The mention in Mane- 
tho’s Dynasties that, under Neeherophcs, or Nechero- 
ehis, the first Memphite king, and head of the third dy- 
nasty (B.C. cir. 2G00), the Libyans revolted from the 
Egyptians, but returned to their allegiance through 
fear, on a wonderful increase of the moon, may refer to 
the Lubim, but may as probably relate to some other 
African people, perhaps the Naphtuhim, or Phut (Put). 
The historical indications of the Egyptian monuments 
thus lead us to place the scat of the Lubim, or primitive 
Libyans, on the African coast to the westward of Egypt, 
perhaps extending far beyond Cyrenaica. From the 
earliest ages of which we have any record, a stream of 
colonization has fiowed from the East along the coast 
of Africa, north of the Great Desert, as far as the Tillars 
of Hercules. The oldest of these colonists of this region 


were doubtless the Lubim and kindred tribes, particularly 
the M ash awash a-u and Tahen-nu of the Egyptian mon- 
uments, all of whom appear to have ultimately taken 
their common name of Libyans from the Lubim. They 
seem to have been first reduced bv the Egyptians about 
B.C. 1250, and to have afterwards been driven inland 
by the Phoenician and Greek colonists. Now. they still 
remain on the northern confines of the Great Desert, and 
even within it, and in the mountains, while their later 
Shemitic rivals pasture their fiocks in the rich plains. 
Many as are the Arab tribes of Africa, one great tribe, 
that of the Bent ’All, extends from Egypt to Morocco, 
illustrating the probable extent of the territory of the 
Lubim and their cognates. It is possible that in Ezek. 
xxx, 5, Lub, Z&, should be read for Chub, Z*3; but 
there is no other instance of the use of this form : as, 
however, “nb and are used for one people, appar- 

ently the Mizraite Ludim, most probably kindred to the 
Lnbim, this objection is not conclusive. See Cum; 
Ludim. In Jer. xlvi, 9, the A. Y. renders Phut ‘the 
Libyans;’ and in Ezek. xxxviii, 5, ‘Libya’” (Smith). 
See Libya. 

Lubin, Augustin, a French monk, was born in 
Paris Jan. 29, 1G24; was early admitted to the Order of 
Reformed Augustinian monks, became their provincial 
at Bourges, and assistant general at Rome. He died at 
Paris March 7, 1G95. Lubin had a particular knowl- 
edge of all the benefices of France and the abbeys of 
Italy. lie published many learned works on ancient 
and sacred geography; among others, Tabukc Sacrce 
Geographies (Paris, 1G70): — Martyroloyivm Romanian, 
cum tabulis yeoyraphis et not is hist or ids (Paris, 1GG0): 
— Tables yeoyraphiques pour les Vies dcs hommes illustres 
de Plutarguc , dresses sur la traduction tie FAbte Tallt- 
mant (Paris, 1G71): — Clef dv grand Pouille chs Rene fees 
de France , containing the names of the .abbeys, of their 
founders, their situation, etc. (Paris, 1G71); etc. See 
Dupin, A u tears ceclesiast. da dixseptieme siecle ; Journal 
des Savants, 1G95, p. 220. 

Lubin, Eilhard, one of the most learned Protes- 
tants of his time, was born at Wcstersted, in Oldenburg, 
March 24, 155G, of which place his father was minister. 
He was educated first at Leipsic, where he prosecuted 
his studies with great success, and for further improve- 
ment went thence to Cologne. After this he visited the 
several universities of Helmstadt, Strasburg, Jena, Mar- 
purg, and, last of all, Rostock, M’hcre he was made pro- 
fessor of poetry in 1595, and ten years later was advanced 
to the divinity chair in the same university, lie died in 
June, 1G2 1 . One of his works deserves special mention, 
Phosphorus de prima causa (t natura mali, tractatus 
hypermetaphysicus, etc. (Rostock, 159G, and Svo and 
12mo in 1 GOO), in which he established two coeternal 
principles (not matter and a vacuum, or void, as Epicu- 
rus did, but), God and the nihilum, or nothing. ( lod, he 
supposed, is the good principle, and nothing the evil 
principle. He added that sin was nothing else but a 
tendency towards nothing, and that sin had been neces- 
sary in order to make known the nature of good ; and 
he applied to this nothing all that Aristotle says of the 
first matter. He was answered by G rawer, but pub- 
lished a reply entitled Apoloyeticus t quo Alb. Grau:. ca- 
lumniis respond., etc. (Rostock, 1605). lie likewise pub- 
lished the next year, Tractatus tie causa pcccuti, ad 
theoloyos A uyustinte confess ion is in Germania. See Gtn. 
Bioy. Did. s. v. ; Bayle, Hist. Diet. s. v. 

Luca, Giovanni Battista, an Italian prelate, was 
born at Yenosa, Naples, in 1014. He raised himself by 
merit from poverty to the highest stations in the Church. 
He became referendary of the two signatures, and au- 
ditor of pope Innocent XI, who appointed him cardinal 
Sept. 1, 1681. Before entering the Church Luca had 
been a lawyer, and treatises on jurisprudence form the 
greater part of his works. He died at Rome Feb. 5, 
1G83. His Theatrum Veritatis et Justiiice (1697, 7 vols.) 


LUC ANUS 


533 


LUCL1 


treats of canon and civil law, and was very highly es- 
teemed. Among his remaining works are the follow- 
ing: Concilium Tridentium , ex recensione J. Gallimarti 
ct .1 wj. Barbosa, cum notis Cardinalis de Luca (Cologne, 
10G-1). See Tiraboschi, Storia della IAtteratura Itali- 
ana , vol. viii; Migne, Hist, des Cardinanx , in the Ency- 
clop. Ecclesiast.; Hoefer, None. Bioy. Generale, s. v. 

Lucanus or Lucianus, a disciple of Marcion and 
the Gnostics, flourished in the latter part of the second 
century. He denied the reality of the body of Christ, 
as well as the immateriality and immortality of the soul, 
lie regarded the souls of animals as of the same kind 
with those of men, and allowed the resurrection of the for- 
mer. I le is known to have been the author of numerous 
forgeries: among others, the History of the Nativity of 
the Virgin Mary , the Protevanyelion, or History of James, 
the Gospel of Nicodemus. lie seems to have been the 
same heretic who is sometimes called Lucius, Leicius, 
I.eucius, Lentitius, Leontius , Lentius, Seleucus, Charinus, 
Nexocharules, and Leonides. — Farrar, Eccles. Diet. s. v. 
See Sehaff, Ch. Hist, i, 245. See Lucian, St. 

Lucarius, Cyrillus. See Cyril, Lucar. 

Lu 'cas (Aou/cac,Vulg. Lucas), a friend and compan- 
ion of Paul during his imprisonment at Rome (Philem. 
24). A.D. 57. He is doubtless the same as Luke, the 
beloved physician, who is associated with Demas in Col. 
iv, 14, and who remained faithful to the apostle when 
others forsook him (2 Tim. iv, 11), on his first examina- 
tion before the emperor. For the grounds of his iden- 
tification with the evangelist Luke, see the article Luke. 
— Smith, s. v. 

Lucas de Tuy (or Tudensts), a Spanish theologian 
and writer, was born at Leon, where lie became canon 
of St. Isidore, and was afterwards appointed deacon of 
Tuy, in Gallicia. In 1227 he made a journey to Jeru- 
salem, saw pope Gregory IX in Italy, and also the gen- 
eral of the Order of Franciscans. He was appointed 
bishop of Tuy in 1239, and died in 1250. He wrote a 
Chronicle of Spain, extending from 070 to 123G (pub- 
lished by Schott in his Ilisp. III., Francf. 1663, fol., vol. 
iv), and a Vita et historici translations B. Ishlori, which 
is reproduced in the article on that saint in the Acta 
Sanctorum , April 4. The second part of this work, 
which does not at all relate to St. Isidore, is a passionate 
and superficial attack against the Cathari (q. v.); valu- 
able, however, for its information concerning some cus- 
toms of that sect in the south of France and in Spain. 
This part of Lucas’s work was published separately by 
Mariana, under the inappropriate title of Libri tres de 
altera vita fdeique controversiis contra Albiyensium er- 
rores (Ingolst. 1G13, 4to; reprinted in the Biblioth. Pa - 
trnm Maxima, xxv, 188, and in the Bibliotheca Patrum 
of Cologne, xiii, 228). Lucas also rejected as heretical 
the view which afterwards obtained of the three persons 
of the Trinity being of different ages, and asserted, con- 
trarily to the then prevailing notion, that Christ ought 
not to be represented as crucified with the feet crossed, 
but with the two feet side by side, each pierced with a 
separate nail. — Herzog, Reul-Encykl. viii, 553. (J. X. P.) 

Lucas, Franciscus (BuuGENsis),one of the ablest 
of the Roman Catholic theologians of the 16th century, 
was born at Bruges in 1549. lie studied theology at 
Louvain, and became at once celebrated for his knowl- 
edge of the sacred languages and their cognate dialects. 
In 15G2 he was appointed archdeacon and dean of the 
cathedral of St.Omer, and there he remained until his 
death, Feb. 19, 1019. As the fruits of his great scholar- 
ship lie has left us mainly works of value in Biblical 
theology. The following deserve special mention: (1) 
the edition of the Biblia Reyia (brought out In* Plantin, i 
the famous printer of Antwerp, under the auspices of 
Philip II of Spain), which Lucas superintended. But 
the work by which he is principally known is (2) his 
Commentarius in Quatuor Erangclia (Antw. 1 GOG), which 
was completed by Supplementum Commentar. in Luc. et 


Joann. (Antw. 1612, 161G), a commentary of no ordinary 
merit. “ Entirely passing by, or alluding in the brief- 
est manner to the mystical sense, and omitting all doc- 
trinal discussions, he explains clearly and concisely the 
literal meaning, illustrating it frequently from the Greek 
and Latin fathers, as well as from later writers of au- 
thority, though never burdening his pages with lists of 
conflicting authorities. His plan is a simple one, and 
judiciously carried out. He chooses one sense, and that 
the one which the sacred writer appeared to have had 
in view, and briefly expounds and illustrates that, never 
distracting his readers with varying interpretations only 
mentioned to be rejected. Lucas had no mean critical 
ability, and his knowledge of Greek, Hebrew, and Syriac 
was exact and trustworthy. A truly devotional spirit 
breathes through the whole.” (3) Notationes in Sacr. 
Bibl. (Antw. 1580-83), with a careful summary of the 
various readings, which were also appended to the edi- 
tion of the Vulgate that appeared from the press of 
Plantin with Emman. Sa’s notes (Antw. 1G24), under the 
title Fr. Lucre, Roman, correct, in Bibl. Latin, loc. insig - 
niora. (4) Sacrorum Bibliomm Vulgatw, editionis Con- 
cordantire (Antw. 1G0G, 5 vols. fob; best ed. Antw. 1642). 
See Fabricius,///sb Biblioth. p. i and iii ; Dupin, A uteurs 
Ecclesiast. du dix-septi'eme Siecle, cob 1572 ; Simon, Hist. 
Crit. des Versions du Nour. Test. chap, iii ; Hoefer. Nouv. 
Bioy. Generale, vob xxxii, s. v. ; Kitto, Cyclop. Bibl. Lit . 
vob ii, s. v. 

Lucas, Richard, an English clergyman and mor- 
alist, was born in 1648 in Radnorshire, Wales, entered 
Jesus College, Oxford, in 16G4, and, after taking his 
degree, was for some time engaged in teaching, lie 
finally entered the ministry, and became vicar of St. 
Stephen’s, Coleman Street, London, in 1G83. In 1696 
he became prebend of Westminster. Blindness afflicted 
him in his later years, lie died in June, 1715, at Lon- 
don. He published a number of occasional sermons 
(1683-1704; 3d edit. 1710, 2 vols.; 1712-16-17, 3 vols.; 
and 2d ed. 1722, 3 vols.). Among his devotional trea- 
tises the following are highly recommended by such 
critics as lvnox, dean Stanhope, bishop Jebb, Sir Rich- 
ard Steele, and Dr. Doddridge : Inquiry after Happiness 
(1685, 2 vols.)*: — Practical Christianity, or an Account 
of the Holiness which the Gospel enjoins, with the Motives 
to it, etc. (5th edit. 1700; last edit. 1838). See Wood, 
Athen. Oxon.; Allibone, Diet, of Authors, s. v. 

Luce, Abraham, a Presbyterian minister, was born 
at Northville, Long Island, N. Y., March 13, 1791 ; studied 
at Clinton Academy, Easthampton, and afterwards the- 
ology with the Rev. Jonathan Hunting, of Southold, and 
Rev. Dr. Aaron Woolworth, of Bridgehampton, L. I., and 
also with Prof. Porter, of Andover, Mass. In 1812 he was 
licensed by the Long Island Presbytery, and in 1813 was 
ordained pastor of the church at Westhampton. He was 
chosen for three consecutive years to represent the Pres- 
bytery in the General Assembly, and was a great many 
times elected moderator, lie died Oct. 23, 1865. Mr. 
Luce was a man of line abilities, and superior as an ex- 
ecutive officer. He held a high place in the esteem and 
confidence of his ministerial brethren, and was always 
placed first on responsible commissions and committees. 
See Wilson, Presb. Hist. Aim. 1867, p. 311. (J. L. S.) 

Lucernarium (\v\ra\pta), a name given to the 
evening service of the ancient Church, because ere it 
began it was usually dusk, and the place had to be 
lighted up with lamps. See Bingham, Antiqu. Chris- 
tian Church, bk. xiii, ch. ix, § 7. See Hours ; Vespers. 

Lucia, St., a Roman Catholic saint of the 3d or the 
beginning of the 4th century, is said to have been of a 
noble Sicilian family. Her legendary history is as fol- 
lows. Having gone on a pilgrimage with her mother 
to the grave of St, Agatha lor the restoration of the lat- 
ter’s health, ‘she resolved to become a mm. Her mother 
assented, but a young man whom she was engaged to 
marry, angry at her resolution, denounced her as a 
Christian. She acknowledged the truth of the charge 


LUCIAN 


539 


LUCIAN 


when brought before the judges, and was condemned to 
enter a brothel ; but when Paschasius gave the order to 
•take her thence it was found impossible to move her 
from the spot, even though yokes of oxen were employed 
to draw her. Paschasius now attempted to burn her, 
and had boiling pitch and oil poured on her, but in vain ; 
he then rau her through with a sword, when she proph- 
esied the downfall of Diocletian, the death of Maximian, 
and the arrest and death of Paschasius. She died after 
partaking of the body of the Lord, and on the spot a 
church was afterwards erected. Her life is contained 
in Laurentius Servius’s T)e probatis Sanctorum kistoriis, 
Dec. 13, and in a number of martyrologues, but it has 
often been attacked as spurious even by Pomanists, and 
is therefore not found in the Acta Sanctorum. She is 
commemorated on Dec. 13. — Herzog, Reed-EncyHop. 
viii, 436; Wetzer und Welte, Kirchen- Lexicon, s. v. 

Lucian (AovKiavog), a celebrated Greek rhetori- 
cian, the Voltaire of Grecian literature, was born at Sa- 
mosata, a city on the west bank of the Euphrates, in 
the Syrian province of Commagene. XVe possess no 
particulars respecting his life on which any reliance can 
be placed except a few scattered notices in his own 
writings. From these it appears that he was bom about 
the latter end of Trajan's reign (A.D. 53-117), that he 
lived under both the Antonincs, and died about the end 
of the 2d century. Ilis parents, who were in humble 
circumstances, placed him with his maternal uncle, a 
sculptor, in order to learn statuary; but he soon quitted 
this trade, and applied himself to the study of the law. 
He afterwards practiced at the bar in Syria and Greece; 
but, not meeting with much success in this profession, 
he resolved to settle in Gaul as a teacher of rhetoric, 
where he soon obtained great celebrity and numerous 
scholars. He appears to have remained in Gaul till he 
was about fort}’, when he gave up the profession of.rhet- 
oric, after having acquired considerable wealth. During 
the remainder of his life we find him travelling about 
from place to place, and visiting successively Macedonia, 
Cappadocia, Papldagonia, and Bithynia. The greater 
part of bis time, however, was passed in Athens, where 
lie lived on terms of the greatest intimacy with D( mo- 
nax, a philosopher of great celebrity, and where he prob- 
ably wrote most of his works, which principally consist 
of attacks upon the religion and philosophy of his age. 
Towards the latter part of his life he held a lucrative 
public office in Egypt, which was bestowed upon him 
by the emperor Commodus. The account of his being 
tom to death by dogs for his attack on the Christian re- 
ligion rests on no credible authority, and was probably 
invented by Suidas, who appears to have been the ear- 
liest to relate it. 

The writings of Lucian, in the form of dialogue, are 
in a remarkably pure and elegant Greek style, free from 
the false ornaments and artificial rhetoric which char- 
acterize most of the writings of his contemporaries. 
Modern critics have usually given him his lull meed of 
praise for these excellences, and have also deservedly 
admired the keenness of his wit, his great talent as a 
writer, and the inimitable ease and flow of his dialogue ; 
but they have seldom done him the justice he deserves. 
They have either represented him as merely a witty 
and amusing writer, but without any further merit, or 
else they have attacked him as an immoral and infidel 
author, whose only object was to corrupt the minds of 
his readers, and to throw ridicule upon all religion. But 
these opinions appear to us to have arisen from a mis- 
taken and one-sided view of the character of Lucian, 
and an intent to utterly ignore the peculiarities of the 
period in which he flourished. lie seems to us to have 
endeavored to expose all kinds of delusion, fanaticism, 
and imposture; the quackery and imposition of the 
priests, the folly and absurdity of the superstitious, and 
especially the solemn nonsense, the prating insolence, 
and the immoral lives of the philosophical charlatans of 
his day (see his Alexander). Lucian may, in fact, be 
regarded as the Aristophanes of his age, and, like the 


great comic poet, he had recourse to raillery and satire 
to accomplish the great objects he had in view. His 
study was human character in all its varieties, and the 
times in which he lived furnished ample materials for 
his observation. Many of his pictures, though drawn 
from the circumstances of his own days, are true for ev- 
er}* age and country. As an instance of this, we meiu 
tion the essay entitled On those who serve the Great for 
Hire. 11 he sometimes discloses the follies and vices 
of mankind too freely, and occasionally uses expressions 
which are revolting to our ideas of morality, it should 
be recollected that every author ought to be judged by 
his standard of religion and morality. The charac- 
ter of Lucian’s mind was decidedly practical; he was 
not disposed to believe anything without sufficient evi- 
dence of its truth, and nothing that was ridiculous or 
absurd escaped his raillery and sarcasm. The tales of 
the poets respecting the attributes and exploits of the 
gods, which were still firmly believed by the common 
people of his age, were especially the objects of bis sat- 
ire and ridicule in his dialogues and in many other of 
his works. That he should have attacked the Chris- 
tians in common with the false systems of the pagan 
religion will not appear surprising to any one who con- 
siders that Lucian probably never took the trouble to 
inquire into the doctrines of a religion which was almost 
universally despised in his time by the higher orders 
of society, who did, indeed, visit with ridicule all re- 
ligious belief. Says Gibbon (Harpers’ edit, i, 36),“ We 
may be well assured that a writer conversant with the 
world would never have ventured to expose the gods 
of his country to public ridicule had they not already 
been the objects of secret contempt among the pol- 
ished and enlightened orders of society.” Volaterra- 
nus, indeed, affirmed, but without stating his authority, 
that Lucian apostatized from Christianity, and was ac- 
customed to say he had gained nothing by it but the 
corruption of his name from Lucius to Lucianus. So 
also the scholiast on the Peregrinus calls him vapetfta- 
7i]Q) while the scholiasts on the Yeree Histories and oth- 
er pieces frequently apostrophize him in the bitterest 
terms, and make the most far-fetched and absurd charges 
against him of ridiculing the Scriptures. These accusa- 
tions of blasphemy, however, could be made only against 
an apostate, and such, it is now well established, Lucian 
was not. Born of pagan parents, he led the life of a 
pagan philosopher of the 2d century, when, as Gibbon 
tells us, “ the ingenious youth who, from every part, 
resorted to Athens, and the other seats of learning in 
the Roman empire, were alike instructed in even* school 
to reject and to despise the religion of the multitude” 
(i, 36). Lucian is no more amenable to the charge of 
blasphemy than Tacitus or any other profane author, 
who, from ignorance of the Christian religion, has been 
led to vilify and misrepresent it. The charge might be 
urged with some color against Lucian if it could be 
shown that he was the author of the dialogue entitled 
Philopatris. A sneering tone pervades the whole piece, 
which betrays so intimate a knowledge of Christianity 
that it could hardly have been written but by one who 
had been at some time within the pale of the Church. 
Some eminent critics, and among them Fabricius ( Bib - 
lioth. Grcecn , v. 340 [cd. Harles]), have held Lucian ac- 
countable for this production, but it is now pretty gener- 
ally admitted not to be from his pen. (Compare Gesner, 
De JEtate et A uctore Philopatridis , in which it is shown 
that the piece could not have been Lucian's; and many 
considerations are brought forward which render it very 
probable that the work was composed in the reign of 
Julian the Apostate. Compare Neandcr, Church His- 
tory, ii, 80, note 5.) 

The works of Lucian may be divided into, I. Riie- 
tohical. — H ep/' tov hvvTrviov , Somnium sen Vita Luci- 
ani: ‘Hpdcoroc, Herodotus give Action; Ztvttg, Zeuxis 
sive Antiochus; ' Appoint ijq, Ilurmonides; S.Kvdi]Q ij 
Upb ttvog, Scyiha ; Ttttt/oc d BciXautioi’, Hippias seu 
Balneum; IIpotrXaAm »/ Awvvaoc, Bacchus ; IIpocrAa- 


LUCIAN 


540 


LUCIAN 


\ta 7/ 'H paKXijg, Hercules G alliens ; n«pi rov yjXtKrpov 
t) rwv Kvicvutv, De Electro sen Cygnis; Ilfpi tov o’ikov, 
Ve Domo ; I hot rwv Sixpdciov, De Dipscidibus ; T vpav- 
voktovoq , Tyrannicida (perhaps spurious) ; ’ ATTOKypvr- 
topevog, A bdicatus (attributed sometimes to Libanius) ; 
3>dAapt£ 7 rpd)Tog Kai Sevrepog, Phalaris prior et alter; 
M viag iyKutf.nov, Encomium J fusece ; Uarpicog tycib- 
yiov, Patrice Encomium. II. Critical Works. — AtKi] 
<^(j ovftvTiov, Judicium J 'oca Hum ; At^apdvgg, Lcxiphci - 
nes (considered by some as directed against the Onomas- 
ticon of Pollux, by others against Athemeus) ; ITwc tfct 
ioTOpiav avyypatytiv, Quomodo Historia sit conscriben- 
da , the best of Lucian’s critical works; 'VgTopmv c hed- 
( TKotXog , Rhetorum Preceptor; 'YevSoXoyiorpg , Pseudo - 
logista ; AijpooSivovg iyKmpiov, Demosthenis Encomi- 
um (rejected by some as spurious) ; Arevcocro(pioTj)g, 
Pseudosophista (also attacked, and on better grounds 
than the preceding). 111. Biographical Works. — 
’AXUZavdpog 7/ 'Ytveoyavrtg, Alexander seu Pseudo - 
7nantis; AgpuivaKTog (3iog,Vita Demonactis ; and ITtpi 
rijg lleptypipov TtXtvrijg , De Mode Peregrini. This 
last work, containing an account of the life and voluntary 
auto-da-fe of Peregrin us Proteus, a fanatical cynic and 
apostate Christian, who publicly burnt himself from an 
impulse of vainglory about A.D. 1G5, is really, for us, the 
most important work under consideration; for Lucian 
here discharges his satire upon Cynicism and Christi- 
anity. Peregrinus, a perfectly contemptible man, after 
having committed the commonest and grossest crimes 
— adultery, sodomy, and parricide— joins the eredulous 
Christians in Palestine, cunningly imposes on them, soon 
rises to the highest repute among them, and, becoming 
one of the confessors in prison, is loaded with presents 
by them, in fact, almost worshipped as a god, but is after- 
wards excommunicated for eating some forbidden food 
(probably meat of the idolatrous sacrifices), then casts 
himself into the arms of the Cynics, travels about ever}’- 
where in the filthiest style of that sect, and at last, about 
the year 1G5, in frantic thirst for fame, plunges into the 
flames of a funeral pile before the assembled populace 
of the town of Olympia for the triumph of philosophy. 
“Perhaps this fiction of the self-burning,” says Dr. Sehaff 
( Church Ilistoiy, i, 189), “ was meant for a parody on the 
Christian martyrdom, possibly of Polycarp, who about 
that time suffered death by fire at Smyrna. . . . An Epi- 
curean worldling and infidel, as Lucian was, could see 
in Christianity only one of the many vagaries and fol- 
lies of mankind, in the miracles only jugglery, in the 
belief of immortality an empty dream, and in the con- 
tempt of death and the brotherly love of the Christians, 
to which he was constrained to testify, a silly enthusi- 
asm.” A Ye certainly find in Lucian a singular combina- 
tion of impartiality and injustice. AVrongly interpre- 
ting rather than misrepresenting the Christian belief, he 
treats its advocates oftener with a compassionate smile 
than with hatred. He nowhere urges persecution. He 
never calls Christ an impostor, as Celsus does, but a 
‘‘crucified sophist” a term which he uses as often in a 
good as in a bad sense. But then, in the end, both 
the Christian and the heathen religions amount, in his 
view, to imposture; and there is in all his writings, 
says Pressense ( Early Years of Christianity, ii [X. Y. 
1871, 12mo], 451), “scarcely a page which is not an in- 
sult to religion in itself. That by which he is mainly 
distinguished is what may be called his universal impi- 
ety, his contempt of all greatness, goodness, or glory. 
He was the most accomplished disciple of the nil admi- 
rari school,” and hence he has most aptly been termed 
the Voltaire of his day (compare Ilagcnbacli, Kirchen - 
gesch. d. ersten seeks Jahrh. [Leipsic, 18G9] p. IG1). It 
remains a question simply whether in these contemptu- 
ous exhibitions of all religion he aimed merely to satir- 
ize the failings of the advocates of religious belief, or 
whether he actually himself believed nothing. The lat- 
ter must certainly be doubted when we consider his 
expose of Pyrrhonism (q. v.) ; and we arc inclined to 
accept as most just the treatment he lias received at the 


hands of Thomas Dyer, in Smith, Did. of Gr. and Rom. 
Biog. and Mythol. ii, 814, col. ii, based on Lucian’s own 
statement in his 'AXuvg (§ 20), and in his Alexander (§ 
54), where he indignantly spurns the charge of immoral- 
ity brought against him. Mr. Dyer concedes that Luci- 
an was “a hater of pride, falsehood, and vainglory, and an 
ardent admirer of truth, simplicity, and all that is natu- 
rally amiable.” (Comp, however, the dissertations by 
Krebs, De Malitioso Luciani Consilio Religionem Chris- 
tianam scurrili dicacitate vanam et rulicidam reddendi 
[ Opusc. A cad. p. 308 sq.], and Eichstadt, Lucianus num 
scriptis suis adjucare voluerit Religionem Christianam 
[Jena, 1822].) IY. Romances. — Under this head may 
be classed the tale entitled Aovki og 7/ "Ovog, Lucius sire 
A sinus, and the ’AXtjSovg ioTopiac Xoyog a Kai (3\ 
Verce JEstorice. The adventures related in the latter 
work are of the most extravagant kind, but show great 
fertility of invention. It was composed, as the author 
tells us in the beginning, to ridicule the authors of ex- 
travagant tales, including Homer’s Odyssey, the Indica 
of Ctesias, and the wonderful accounts of lambulus of 
the things contained in the great sea. The adventure 
with the robbers in the cave is thought to have sug- 
gested the well-known scene in Gil Bias. That the 
Verce IEistorice supplied hints to Rabelais and Swift is 
sufficiently obvious, not only from the nature and ex- 
travagance of the fiction, but from the lurking satire. 
V. Dialogues. — These dialogues, which form the great 
bulk of his works, are of very various degrees of merit, 
and are treated in the greatest possible variety of style, 
from seriousness down to the broadest humor and buf- 
foonery. Their subjects and tendencies, too, vary con- 
siderably. Still we may divide them into three classes : 
first, those which are more exclusively directed against 
the heathen mythology; next, those which attack the 
ancient philosophy ; and, lastly, those in which both the 
preceding objects are combined, or which, having no 
such tendency, are mere satires on the manners of the 
day, and the follies and vices natural to mankind. In the 
first class may be placed TlpQfnfttvg g KavKaaog, Pro- 
metheus seu Caucasus; 'EodAtoi AictXoyoi, Dei Marini ; 
r Ltvg ’EXeyxopevog, Jupiter Confutaius; Z evg rpaypoog, 
Jupiter Tragmlus, which strikes at the very existence 
of Jupiter ami that of the other deities; tKKXyjaia , 

Deomm Concilium; T« 7 rpbg K povov. Saturnalia. To 
the second class belong B itov irpaoic, Vitarum Audio: 
in this humorous piece the heads of the different sects 
are put up to sale, Hermes being the auctioneer. The 
'AXuvg 7/ ’ Avafiiovvrtg, Piscator seu Reviviscentes, is a 
sort of apology for the preceding piece, and may be 
reckoned among Lucian’s best dialogues; Epporipog is 
chiefly an attack upon the Stoics, but its design is also 
to show the impossibility of becoming a true philoso- 
pher; E uvoi’xog, Eunuchus ; *l>iXoip6vct)g, on the love 
of falsehood natural to some men purely for its own 
sake. Some commentators have thought that the Chris- 
tian miracles were alluded to in § 13 and § 16, but this 
does not seem probable; the Apairirat, Fugitivi, is di- 
rected against the Cynics, by whom Lucian seems to 
have been attacked for his life of Peregrinus; Xvp—6- 
( nor 7/ AaTz&ai, Convirium seu La pit lav, is one of Lu- 
cian’s most humorous attacks on the philosophers. The 
third and more miscellaneous class, containing some of 
his best, includes T ipiov ij yajdi'SpwTzog, Timon, which 
may perhaps be regarded as Lucian’s masterpiece. The 
Natpucoi AiaXoyoi. Dialogi Mortuonm, are perhaps the 
best known of all Lucian’s works. The subject affords 
great scope for moral reflection, and for satire on the 
vanity of human pursuits. Among modern writers, 
these dialogues have been imitated by Fontenellc and 
lord Lyttelton. The l\If j'i7T7ro£ 7/ 'SsKvopavrda, AY- 
cyomantcia, bears some analogy to the Dialogues of the 
Dead: it wants, however, Lucian’s pungency, and Du 
Saul thought that it was written by Menippus himself 
The JKapofnvcxTrog 7/ ’ Yiztpid^eXog. Icaro-Menippus, 
on the contrary, is in Lucian’s best vein, and a master- 
piece of Aristophanic humor. Xdpojp ij tTrioicoTzovpreg , 


LUCIAN 


541 


LUCIAN 


Contemplates, is a very elegant dialogue, but of a graver 1 
turn than the preceding; it is a picture of the smallness 
of mankind when viewed from a philosophic as well 1 
as a physical height. The Kor/t^Aoi'c; »/ Tvpavvog, 
Kut aplus sice Tyrannus , is, in fact, a dialogue of the 
dead. "Oveipog i) ’AAffcrpuam, S omnium scu Gallus, just- 
]y reckoned among the best of Lucian’s. Aig KctTijy o- 
povpevog, Bis Accusatus, so called from Lucian’s being 
arraigned by Rhetoric and Dialogue, is chiefly valuable 
for the information it contains of the author’s life and 
lit era rv pursuits. We may here also mention the Kpo- 
voaoXiov, Crono-Solon , and the ’E7r(<xroAai Kpovacai, 
Epistohe Satu males, which turn on the institution and 
customs of the Saturnalia. Among the dialogues which 
may be regarded as mere pictures of manners, without 
any polemical tendency, may be reckoned "E ptortg; 

* EraipiKoi AtdAoyot, Dialogi Meretricii ; 1 1 Aoto^ f; Eo- 
Xa'i, Xavigium sen rota. Among the dialogues which 
cannot be placed in any of the above three classes are 
the Eiicovtg, Imagines , which some suppose to have been 
addressed to a concubine of Verus, and which Wi eland 
conjectures to have been intended for the wife of Mar- 
cus Antoninus; Y7rtp rwv E Ubviov, Pro Imaginibus , a 
defence of the preceding, with the flattery of which the 
lady who was the subject of it pretended to be displeased. 
T oZaoig, Toxaris , on friendship ; ’ Avd\ap<ng, A nach ar- 
sis, an attack upon the Greek gymnasia; Ilfpi opypae- 
tog, De Salfatione: this piece is hardly worthy of Lu- 
cian, but contains some curious particulars of the art of 
dancing among the ancients. AidXt£ig rrpog 'llaiocov, 
Dissert atio cum Hesiodo, the genuineness of which is 
doubted. AT. Miscellaneous Pieces. — These bear in 
their form some analogy to the modern essay : ITpcif 
tov iiirbvTa npop&tvg a iv Xdyoig, Ad eum qui dixe- 
rut Prometheus es in Verbis ; IDpi Svaiow, IJe Sacrifi - 
ciis, against the absurdities of the heathen worship, and 
especially of the Egyptian. ITfpi t&v itt'i ovv- 

ovroiVyDe Alercede Conduetis ; ’AnoXoyta 7npi run* hri 
p. <jvv., Apologia pro de M ere. Cond.; 'XTrip tov iv rtj 
Trpoaayopevau TTrata/iarog , Pro Lapsu in Sulutando , 
a playful little piece, though containing some curious 
learning. IDpt tt ti>Sovg, De Liictu, in opposition to 
the received opinion concerning the infernal regions. 
ITpog cnraidtvTOV, Aaversus Indocium, is a bitter at- 
tack upon a rich man who thought to acquire a charac- 
ter for learning by collecting a large library. Iltpi tov 
/a) pctCUog TTiGTtvtiv liafioXy, Non temere credendum 
esse Delations. ATI. Poems. — These consist of two 
mock tragedies, XpayoTtocdypa and ’ibcvrrovg, and 
about fifty epigrams, the genuineness of some of which 
is considered doubtful. The following works, which 
have sometimes been ascribed to Lucian, are considered 
by the most eminent critics as spurious : ’ AXkvojv i) 
7Tfpi ]\Urapop(pa>G(ujg, Halcyon sen de Transform atione, 
deemed to be by Leo the Academician ; Iltpi ryg ’Acr- 
TpoXoyiag, De Astrologia ; Ilfpt rqg Svpit/g Seov, De 
Dea Syria ; Kimucdf , Cynicus ; Xapicgpog >] TTf pi icaX- 
Xovg , Charidemus sell de Pidchro ; Nfowv tj mpt Trig 
opvxqg tov T aSpov, A ?ro, sen de Fossione Isthmi. 

It is probable that the greater part of Lucian’s rhe- 
torical pieces, as well as some others, are lost. “ His 
v ritings have a more modern air than those of any other 
classic author; and the keenness of his wit, the richness 
yet extravagance of his humor, the fertility and live- 
liness of his fancy, his proneness to scepticism, and the 
clearness and simplicity of his style, present us with a 
kind of compound between Swift and A'oltaire. There 
was abundance to justify his attacks in the systems 
against which they were directed, yet he established 
nothing in their stead” (Dyer, in Smith, s. v.). 

Editions. — Lucian’s works* were first published (in 
Greek) at Florence in 149G, folio, from rather incorrect 
MSS.; a corrected edition was brought out at A”enice 
by Antoni Francini in 1535 (2 vols. 8vo), very good and 
scarce. The first edition of the Greek text with a Lat- 
in version appeared at Basle in 1563 (4 vols. 8vo), the 
result of the work of several savans : the parts of Eras- 


mus, T. Morns, J. Micyllus, are deserving of praise ; this 
is not the case with that of A r incent Obsopoeus. The 
notes by Sambucus are considered of no account, but 
those of Gilbert Cousin are highly esteemed. In 1730 
the distinguished philologist, Tib. Hemsterhuys, began 
to print his excellent edition ; but dying in 1736, before 
a quarter of it had been finished, the editorship was as- 
signed to J. F. Reitz, a much less capable man : it ap- 
peared at Utrecht in 1743 (4 vols. 4to; republished by 
Schmidt, at Mittau, 1776-1780, 8 vols. 8vo). This edi- 
tion contains a large number of valuable notes; the last 
volume is a lexicon. A muck esteemed edition is that 
of Deux-Ponts, 1789-93, 10 vols. 8 vo, which is a careful 
reprint of Henisterhuys’s edition, the lexicon being re- 
placed by an index, and the 10th volume containing the 
various readings compiled by Belin de Ballu from the 
AISS. in the Royal Library of Paris. In 1800 Schmie- 
der published at Halle a text without translation, with 
various readings compiled from the libraries of F ranee 
and Germany. There were to appear commentaries in 
connection with it, which, however, were not published. 
This edition is much esteemed, although some of the 
various readings are thought to have been collected 
without sufficient care. The edition of Lehmann (Lpz. 
1821-31, 9 vols. 8vo), with a barge number of notes, is of 
great use for the correct understanding of the text. A 
much esteemed edition is that of C. Jacobitz (Lpz. 1837- 
41,4 vols. 8vo); the text was established with the aid 
of the most valuable MSS. and with the greatest care. 
Dindorf published in 1840, at Paris, a Greek text of Lu- 
cian, with a Latin version, but no notes, which forms 
part of the Bibliotheca Grceca , and stands deservedly 
high. Separate pieces of Lucian’s have been often pub- 
lished. 

Lucian has been translated into most of the European 
languages. In French the best editions are by Belin de 
Ballu in 1788 (6 vols. 8vo), and by Eugene Talbot (Par. 
1857,2 vols. 18mo). Among the English versions may 
be named one by several parties, including AAA Moyle, 
Sir 11. Shere, and Charles Blount (Lond. 1711). It was 
several years preparing, and Dryden wrote for it a life of 
Lucian, which is very incorrect. Carr’s version (1773- 
1798, 4 vols. 8vo) is a pretty correct translation, but the 
notes are valueless. The best English version is that 
of Dr. Franklin (Lond. 1780, 2 vols. 4to, and 1781,4 vols. 
8vo), but some of the pieces are omitted. Mr. Tookc’s 
version (London, 1820, 2 vols. 4to) is of little value. In 
1675 Charles Cotton published a burlesque imitation of 
some of the dialogues: it was reprinted in 1686 and 
1751. The best German translation of Lucian has been 
furnished by AATeland (Leips. 1788, 6 vols. 8vo). The 
notes accompanying it are also valuable; but the trans- 
lator left out some pieces which he considered of minor 
interest. Another good translation is by Pauly (Stutt- 
gardt, 1828-1831, 15 vols. 12mo). See, besides the au- 
thorities already quoted, Jacob, Characteristik Lucian's 
v. Samosata (1832) ; Tiemann, Versuck ii . Lucian und 
seine Philosophic (1804): Struve, Specimina ii de sEtate 
et vita Luciani (1829-30) ; Passow, Lucian u. d. Gesch . 
(1854); Tzschirner, Fall des Ileidenthums, i, 315 sq. ; 
Baur, Die drei ersten Jahrhunderte, p. 395 sq.; Donald- 
son, Greek Literature, cli. liv, § 3 and 4 ; Lardncr, IForfa, 
viii, ch. xix : Farrar, Crit. Ilist. Free Thought, p. 48 sq. ; 
Lond. Qu. Rev. 1828; Fraser’s Magazine, 1839 ; Journal 
Sac. Lit. vols. x and xii ; and especially Planck, in Stu - 
dien u.Kritiken, 1851, and in an English version in the 
Biblioth. Sacra, 1853 (April and July); Smith, Diet, of 
Greek and Roman Biogr. and Mythol. iii, 812, and the 
excellent article by Theodor Keini, in Herzog, Peal-En~ 
cyklopadie, viii, 497-504. 

Lucian, St., presbyter of Antioch, and a martyr, is 
said by some to have been born at Samosata, in the Syr- 
ian province of Commagene, about the middle of the 3d 
century. His parents died while he was yet a boy, and, 
left to depend upon his own resources, the twelve-year- 
old lad removed to Edessa, where he was baptized, and 
became a pupil of Macarius, an eminent Biblical schol- 


LUCIAN - 


542 


LUCIFER 


ar. He entered the ministry as a presbyter at Antioch, 
and finally assumed the lead of a theological school, 
which he himself founded. He became greatly cele- 
brated both as an ecclesiastic and as a Biblical scholar, 
and was an ornament of the Christian Church when sud- 
denly cut down by martyrdom, which he suffered A.D. 
312, by order of Maximin, during the reign of Diocletian. 
He was drowned, and was buried at Ilelenopolis, in Bi- 
thynia. Lucian is frequently mentioned by ecclesias- 
tical writers not only as a man of great learning, but 
also as noted for his piety. Eusebius calls him a “ per- 
son of unblemished character throughout his whole life” 
( Hist.Eccl. viii, 13); and Chrysostom, on the anniver- 
sary of Lucian’s martyrdom, pronounced a panegyric 
upon him which is still extant. Jerome informs us, in 
his Catalogue of Ecclesiastical Writers (c. 77), that “ Lu- 
cian was so laborious in the study of the sacred writings 
that in his own time some copies of the Scriptures were 
known by the name of Lucian and we learn from an- 
other part of his works {Pnef. in Paralip. i, 1023) that 
Lucian’s revision of the Septuagint version of the Old 
Test, was generally used in the churches, from Constan- 
tinople to Antioch. Lucian also made a revision of the 
New Testament, which Jerome considered inferior to his 
edition of the Septuagint. There were extant in Je- 
rome’s time some treatises of Lucian concerning faith, 
and also some short epistles ; but none of these have 
come down to us, with the exception of a few fragments. 

There has been considerable dispute among critics re- 
specting Lucian’s belief in the Trinity. From the man- 
ner in which he is spoken of by most of the Trinitarian 
fathers, and from the absence of any censure upon his 
orthodoxy by Jerome and Athanasius, it has been main- 
tained that he must have been a believer in the Catho- 
lic doctrine of the Trinity; but, on the other hand, Epi- 
phanius, in his Anchoret (xxxv, vol. ii, p. 40, D), speaks 
of the Lucianists and Arians as one sect; and Fhilostor- 
gius (who lived about 425, and wrote an account of the 
Arian controversy, of which considerable extracts are 
preserved by Photius) expressly says that Eusebius of 
Nicomedia, and many of the principal Arians of the 4th 
century, were disciples of Luciau; yet this does not 
prove that their Arian principles were derived from Lu- 
cian’s teachings. It is nevertheless probable that Lu- 
cian’s opinions were not quite orthodox, since he is said, 
by his contemporary Alexander (in Theodoret, Ilist. Eccl. 
i, c. 4, p. 15, B), to have been excluded from the Koman 
Catholic Church by three bishops in succession, for ad- 
vocating the doctrines of Paul of Samosata. Indeed, 
it was from Lucian’s school at Antioch that the great 
teacher of Arianism (q. v.), Arms of Alexandria, came. 
According to Epiphanius, Lucian was originally a follow'- 
er of Marcion, but finally formed a sect of his own, known 
as Lucianists, agreeing, however, in the main with the 
jMarcionit.es (q. v.). Like the latter, the Lucianists con- 
ceived of the Demiurgos, or Creator, as distinct from the 
perfect God, o ayaSug, “ the good one ;” and described 
the Creator, who was also represented as the judge, as o 
ciuaioQy “ the just one.” Besides these two beings, be- 
tween whom the commonly received attributes and of- 
fices of God were divided, the Lucianists reckoned a 
third, o Troi'ijpoQ, “the evil one.” Together with the 
Marcionites, they condemned marriage, and, according 
to some, though rather questionable authorities, they 
even denied the immortality of the soul, asserting it to 
be material, and to be followed by an entirely new sub- 
stance (tertium quiddam). See ‘Gnosticism. Lucian 
himself, however, repented of his heresy, and returned 
to the Koman Catholic communion before his death. 
It was probably on the occasion of his return to the or- 
thodox fold that he gave to the Church his Confession 
of Faith, which is mentioned by Sozomen (IHshEccles. 
iii, 5), and given at length by Socrates (///,< Eccles. ii, 
10), and which was promulgated by the semi-Arian or 
Eusebian Synod of Antioch, A.D. 341 (compare Smith, 
Diet, of Ok, and Rom. Biog. ii, 81 1 , col. 1 ; Bull, Def. Fid. 
Xicccn. ii, 13, § 4-8). See Lucan us. 


There have been three other persons of the name of 
Lucian connected with the history of the Church : one 
suffered martyrdom in 250; the second was the first 
bishop of Beauvais ; and the third w’rote, about 415, a 
letter on the whereabouts of the body of St. Stephen. 
See, besides the authorities already quoted, Tillemont, 
il/ e moires, v, 474 ; Ceillier, Ilist. des A ut. Sac. 1. c. ; Cave, 
Hist, litt . ad ann. 294 ; Fabricius, Bibl. Grceoa , iii, 715 sq. ; 
Herzog, Rea l-Encyklopadie, viii, 504 sq.; English Cgclo- 
pcedia , s. v. 

Lucianists or Lucanists, a sect so called from 
their founder. See Lucanus. 

Lucidus, a presbyter in the Gallic Church in the 5th 
century, w r as one of the most distinguished members of 
the ecclesiastical party which in that period defended 
the doctrines of St. Augustine against Semi-Pclagian- 
ism then greatly preponderating in the Church. The 
view’s of Lucidus are to be ascertained from the w’orks 
resulting from the controversy between himself and 
Faustus of liieg, who obliged him to recant. The laiter 
wrote against Lucidus his Faust i Rejensis epistola ad 
Lucidum , and the recantation of Lucidus — probably pos- 
terior to the Synod of Arles, 475, as indicated by the 
expression, “ Juxta praidicandi recentia statuta coneilii 
damno vobiscum sensum ilium,” etc. — is entitled Lnculi 
errorem emendantis Ubellus ad episcopos. In some re- 
spects Lucidus, indeed, had gone further than St. Au- 
gustine himself, especially in regard to predestination, 
allowing no free agency to man, and making all the 
workings of human conscience to be but the effects of 
the immediate and gratuitous influence of God. Such, 
at least, is the accusation W’hicli was brought against 
him at the Council of Arles. The text of his recanta- 
tion is to be found in all the Bibl. Patr. and in the col- 
lections of councils. See I list. Litt. de la France, ii, 454; 
IMansi, vii, 1008 sq. ; Bibl. PP. edit, ii, vol. iv, p. 875; 
"NViggers, A ugust. u. Pelag. ii, 225, 329, 34G; Schrdckh, 
Kirchengesch. xviii, 148 sq.; Gfrorer, Kirchengesch. vol. 
ii, pt. ii. (J.N.P.) 

Lu'cifer (Ileb. Ifeglel', Sept, o 'Four <popog), 

a w'ord that once occurs in the English Version in the 
lines, 

“How art thou fallen from heaven, 

O Lucifer , son of the morning ! 

How r art thou cut down to the ground, 

Which didst weaken the nations !” 

(Isa. xiv, 12). It is taken from the Vulgate, w’hich un- 
derstood the Hebrew’ w’ord to be the name of the morn- 
ing star, and therefore rendered it by the Latin name 
of that star, Lucifer, i. e. “light-bringing.” The deri- 
vation has been supposed to be from V?n, halal', to 
shine. The same word here translated “Lucifer,” how- 
ever, occurs also in Ezek. xxi, 12 [17], as the impera- 
tive of yalaV , “ to howl,” “to lament,” and is there 

rendered “howl.” Some take it in the same accepta- 
tion in the above passage, and w’ould translate, “Howl, 
son of the morning!” But to this the structure of the 
verse is entirely opposed, for the parallelism requires the 
second line to refer entirely to the condition of the star 
before it had fallen, as the parallel member, the fourth 
line, does to the state of the tree before it was cut down. 
Hence the former derivation is to be preferred, namely, 
“brilliant,” “splendid,” “illustrious,” or, as in the Sep- 
tuagint, Vulgate, the rabbinical commentators, Luther, 
and others, “brilliant star;” and if Ileylel, in this sense, 
u r as the proper name among the Hebrews of the morn- 
ing star, then “ Lucifer” is not only a correct but beau- 
tiful interpretation, both as regards the sense and the 
application. That it was such is probable from the fact 
that the proper name of the morning star is formed by 
a w'ord or w’ord s expressive of brilliance, in the Arabic 
and Svriae, as well as in the Greek and Latin (see Ge- 
senius, Commentar. ad loc.). Tertullian and Gregory 
the Great understood this passage of Isaiah in reference 
to the fall of Satan; in consequence of which the name 
Lucifer has since been applied to Satan, and this is now 


LUCIFER 


543 


LUCIUS 


the usual acceptation of the word. But Dr. Henderson, 
who in his Isaiah renders the line “Illustrious son of 
the morning!” justly remarks in his annotation: “The 
application of this passage to Satan, and to the fall of 
the apostate angels, is one of those gross perversions of 
Sacred Writ which so extensively obtain, and which 
are to be traced to a proneness to seek for more in any 
given passage than it really contains, a disposition to 
be influenced by sound rather than sense, and an im- 
plicit faith in received interpretations.” The scope and 
connection show that none but the king of Babylon is 
meant. In the figurative language of the Hebrews, a 
star signifies an illustrious king or prince (Numb, xxiv, 
17 ; compare Rev. ii, 28 ; xxii, 16). The monarch here 
referred to, having surpassed all other kings in royal 
splendor, is compared to the harbinger of day, whose 
brilliancy surpasses that of the surrounding stars. Fall- 
ing from heaven denotes a sudden political overthrow — 
a removal from the position of high and conspicuous 
dignity formerly occupied (comp. Rev. vi, 13 ; viii, 10). 
— Kit to. Delitzscli adopts the same view (Comment. 
ad loc.). “ In another and far higher sense, however, 
the designation was applicable to him in whom promise 
and fulfilment entirely corresponded, and it is so applied 
by Jesus when he styles himself ‘ The bright and morn- 
iug Star’ (Rev. xxii, 16). In a certain sense it is the 
emblem also of all those who are destined to live and 
reign with him (Rev. ii, 28)” (Fairbaim). See Star. 

Lucifer, bishop of Cagliari, in Sardinia, sumamed 
Calaritanus, a noted character in ecclesiastical history, 
the founder of an independent sect known as Lucife - 
nans, flourished about the middle of the 4th century. 
At the Council of Milan, held in 354, he appeared as 
, joint legate with Eusebius ofVercelli from pope Liberi- 
lis, and here he displayed great opposition to the Arian 
believers. He refused to hold any communion with the 
clergy who had, during the reign of Constantius, con- 
formed to the Arian doctrines, although it had been de- 
termined in a synod at Alexandria, in 352, to receive 
again into the Church all the Arian clergy who openly 
acknowledged their errors, and was, in consequence, im- 
prisoned for a time, and finally banished. He took up 
his residence in Syria, but here also became involved in 
disputes, and greatly increased the disorders which agi- 
tated the Church at Antioch by his ordination of Pauli- 
nas as bishop in opposition to Meletius. Disapproved 
and ignored by his former friends and associates, he re- 
tired in disgust to his native island, and there founded 
an independent sect, whose distinguishingtenct was that 
no Arian bishop, and no bishop who had in any measure 
yielded to the Arians, even although he repented and 
confessed his errors, could enter the bosom of the Church 
without forfeiting his ecclesiastical rank; and that all 
bishops and others who admitted the claims of such 
persons to a full restoration of their privileges became 
themselves tainted and outcasts — a doctrine which, had 
it been acknowledged at this period in its full extent, 
would have had the effect of excommunicating nearly 
the whole Christian world. Lucifer died during the 
reign of Valentinian, about A.D. 370. 

The number of Luciferians is believed to have been 
always small; Theodoret says that the sect was extinct 
in his day (Hist. Eccles. ill, c. 5, p. 128, D). Their opin- 
ions, however, excited considerable attention at the time 
when they were first promulgated, and were advocated 
by several eminent men; among others, by Faustinas, 
Marcellinus, and Hilarius Diaconus. Jerome wrote a 
work in refutation of their doctrines, which is still ex- 
tant. Augustine remarks, in his work on Heresies (c. 
lxxxi),that the Luciferians held erroneous opinions con- 
cerning the human soul, which they considered to be of 
a carnal nature, and to be transfused from parents to 
children. Compare the article Novatiaxs. 

Lucifer himself is acknowledged by Jerome and Ath- 
anasius to have been well acquainted with the Scrip- 
tures, and to have been exemplary in private life, but 
he appears to have been a man of violent temper and 


I great bigotry. His writings were first published entire 
by Johannes Tillius, bishop of Meaux (Paris, 1568, 8 vo), 
and were dedicated to pope Pius Y : Two Books ad- 
dressed to the Emperor Constantius in Defence of Atha- 
nasius: — On Apostate Kings: — On the Duty of having 
no Communion with Heretics: — On the Duty of dying for 
the Son of God: — On the Duty of showing no Mercy to 
those who sin against God; and a short Epistle to Flo- 
rentius. The best edition, however, is by the brothers 
Coleti (Venet. 1778, fob). See Schonemann, Bibliotheca 
Patr. Lat. i, § 8 ; Xeander, Ch. History , ii, 396 sq. ; Mos- 
heim, Eccles. History , bk. ii, cent, iv, pt. ii, chap, iii, § 20 ; 
j Milman, Hist, of Christianity, ii,'428 sq., 438, 457; Walch, 

I Gesch. d. Ketzereien (Lpz. 1766), iii, 388 sq. ; Smith, Diet, 
of Gk. and Rom. Biog. and Mythol. vol. ii, s. v. (J. 1 1.W.) 

Luciferians (I.) is the name of a sect founded by 
Lucifer of Cagliari (q.v.), which originated as follows; 
In 360 the Arians of Antioch had chosen Meletius of 
Sebaste, formerly a Eusebian, but afterwards an adhe- 
rent of the Nicene Confession, their bishop. But his in- 
augural discourse convinced them of their mistake about 
his views, and they deposed him after the lapse of only 
a few days. Meletius was next chosen bishop of the 
Homoousian congregation at Antioch. The appoint- 
ment of one who had been an Arian was, however, re- 
sisted by a part of the people, headed by Paulinus, a 
presbyter. Athanasius and the Synod of Alexandria, 

A. D. 362, used every influence to heal this schism. But 
Lucifer of Cagliari, whom the synod for this purpose de- 
puted to Antioch, took the part of the opposition, and 
ordained Paulinus counter-bishop. "What next followed 
has been narrated under Lucifer. A comparison of this 
sect with the English Puritans is made by Punchard, 
Hist, of Congregationalism, i, ch. iii. 

(II.) The same name was afterwards applied to some 
heretics of the Middle Ages, who were accused of ad- 
dressing prayers to the devil (Lucifer). It was particu- 
larly applied to fourteen of these heretics who were 
burned alive at Tangerm Linde, in Prussian Saxony 
(1336), by order of the elector of Brandenburg, influ- 
enced by the representations of the superior of the Fran- 
ciscans. These heretics were probably Fratricelli (q. v.). 

Lucifugae, or Lucifugax xatio, Light-haters ; a 
term of reproach given to the early Christians, because 
in times of persecution they frequently held their as- 
semblies at night, or before the break of day. — Farrar, 
Eccles. Dictionary. 

Lucilla. See Doxatists. 

Lu'cius (Atikioe v. r. Aoi'/aog), a Roman consul 
(viraroQ 'P ojyataji>'), who is said to have written the 
letter to Ptolemy (Euergetes) which assured Simon I 
of the protection of Rome (B.C. cir. 139-8; 1 Macc. xv, 
10, 15-24). The whole form of the letter — the mention 
of one consul only, the description of the consul by the 
pnenomen, the omission of the senate and of the date 
(comp. Wernsdorf, Defde Macc. § cxix) — shows that it 
cannot be an accurate copy of the original document ; 
but there is nothing in the substance of the letter which 
is open to just suspicion. Josephus omits all mention 
of the letter of “Lucius” in his account of Simon, but 
gives one very similar in contents (Ant. xiv, 8, 5), as 
written on the motion of Lucius Valerius in the ninth 
(nineteenth) year of llyrcanus 11; and unless the two 
letters and the two missions which led to them were 
purposely assimilated, which is not wholly improbable, 
it must be supposed that he has been guilty of a strange 
oversight in removing the incident from its proper place. 

The imperfect transcription of the name has led to 
the identification of Lucius with three distinct persons : 
(1.) [Lucius] Furius Philus (the lists, Clinton, Fasti Hell. 
iii, 114, give P. Furius Philus), who was not consul till 

B. C. 136, and is therefore at once excluded. (2.) Lucius 
Gecilius Metellus Calvus, who was consul In B.C. 142, 
immediately after Simon assumed the government. On 
this supposition it might seem not unlikely that the an- 
swer which Simon received to an application for protec* 


LUCIUS 


544 


LUCIUS I 


tion, which he made to Rome directly on his assump- 
tion of power (comp. 1 Mace, xiv, 17, 18) in the consul- 
ship of 31 etellus, has been combined with the answer to 
the later embassy of Numenius (l Maec. xiv, 24; xv, 
18). (3.) Rut the third identification with Lucius Cal- 

purnius Piso, who was consul B.C. 139, is most probably 
correct. The date exactly corresponds, and, though the 
pnenomen of Calpurnius is not established beyond all 
question, the balance of evidence is decidedly against 
the common lists. The Fasti Capitolini are defective 
for this year, and only give a fragment of the name of 
Popillius, the fellow-consul of Calpurnius. Cassiodorus 
(Chron.), as edited, gives Cn. Calpurnius, but the eye of 
the scribe (if the reading is correct) was probably mis- 
led by the names in the years immediately before. On 
the other hand, Valerius Maximus (i, 3) is wrongly 
quoted from the printed text as giving the same prteno- 
nien. The passage in which the name occurs is in re- 
ality no part of Valerius Maximus, but a piece of the 
abstract of Julius Paris inserted in the text. Of elev- 
en MSS. of Valerius which have been examined, it oc- 
curs only in one (Mus. Brit. Burn. 209), and there the 
name is given Lucius Calpurnius, as it is given by Mai 
in his edition of Julius Paris (Script. Vet. Xora Coll, iii, 
7). Sigonius says rightly ( Fasti Cons. p. 207) : “ Cassi- 
odorus prodit consoles Cn, Pisonem . . . epitoma L.Cal- 
purnium.” The chance of an error of transcription in 
Julius Paris is obviously less than in the Fasti of Cas- 
siodorus; and even if the evidence were equal, the au- 
thority of 1 Macc. might rightly be urged as decisive in 
such a case. — Smith, s. v. 

Lucius of Adriaxopi.e (or Hndrianople ), an East- 
ern prelate of note, flourished as bishop of Adrianople 
in the 4th century. Decidedly orthodox in his opin- 
ions, the predominant and powerful Arians deposed him 
from his see, and in 340 or 341 we meet him at Pome 
before pope Julius 1 pleading for his restoration. Al- 
though he went back with a demand from the Roman 
pontiff to reinstate the deposed orthodox bishop, the 
Oriental prelates refused to recognise the papal author- 
ity, and he did not recover his see until the emperor 
Constantius, constrained by the threats of his brother 
Constans, then emperor of the West, restored Lucius 
(about 347). Upon the death of Constans (350), Lucius 
was again deposed by the infuriated Arians, and ban- 
ished. lie died in exile. lie is commemorated in the 
Romish Church February 11. See Athanasius, Apolog. 
de Fuga sua , c. 3 ; A rianor. ad Monach. e. 19 ; Socrates, 
Hist. Feel, ii, 15, 23, 2G ; Bollaud, A eta Sanet. Februarii, ii, 
519 ; Smith, Diet. Grlc. and Horn. Biog. and Myth, ii, 825. 

Lucius of Alexandria, an Arian prelate, flourish- 
ed about the middle of the 4th century. He was elected 
patriarch by the Arians, when, upon the death of the 
emperor Constantius (301) and the murder of the Arian 
patriarch, George of Cappadocia, Athanasius had recov- 
ered the patriarchate of Alexandria, and expelled the 
Arians from the churches. Even in the lifetime of 
Athanasius the two patriarchs wrangled much for au- 
thority, but the contest became fierce between Arian and 
Orthodox after the decease of Athanasius (373). The 
latter bad nominated his successor without any regard 
to Lucius, and it was only after the deposition and 
imprisonment of Reter, the nominee, who had in the 
mean while been ordained, that Lucius regained the 
patriarchate, to bold it only until l’eter, who had made 
bis escape to Rome, returned with letters confirming his 
ordination (A.D. 377 or 378). Lucius was, in all prob- 
ability, never again restored. In 380 he is found in 
company with Hemophilus, Arian patriarch of Constan- 
tinople, just as lie was withdrawing from the city by 
order of expulsion. Nothing more is known. of Lucius. 
According to Jerome, lie wrote Solemncs de Pasehate 
Epistolce and minor treatisesT See Socrates, Ifist.Eccles. 
iii, 4 ; iv, 21 sq., 24, 37 ; Cave, J list. Lift, ad anil. 371 ; 
Fabrieius, Jiibl. Gratca , ix, 217 ; Labbe, Cone Hi i, vol. vi, 
col. 313 ; Smith, Diet, of Gr. and Rom. Biog. ii, 825. 


Lu'cius (Ao vkioc, for Latin Lucius, a common Ro- 
man name), surnamed the Cyrenian (6 K?*p?/r«7oc, 
‘‘of Cyrene”), thus distinguished by the name of his 
city— the capital of a Greek colony in Northern Africa, 
and remarkable for the number of its Jewish inhabit- 
ants— is first mentioned in the N. T. in company with 
Barnabas, Simeon called Niger, Manaen, and Saul, who 
are described as prophets and teachers of the Church at 
Antioch (Acts xiii, 1). A.D. 44. These honored dis- 
ciples having, while engaged in the office of common 
worship, received commandment from the Holy Ghost 
to set apart Barnabas and Saul for the special service of 
God, proceeded, after fasting and prayer, to lay their 
bands upon them. This is the first recorded instance 
of a formal ordination to the office of evangelist, but it 
cannot be supposed that so solemn a commission would 
have been given to any but such as had themselves 
been ordained to the ministry of the Word, and we may 
therefore assume that Lucius and his companions were 
already of that number. Whether Lucius was one of 
the seventy disciples, as stated by Fseudo-llippolytus, 
is quite a matter of conjecture, but it is highly probable 
that be formed one of tiie congregation to whom Peter 
preached on the day of Pentecost (Acts ii, 10) ; and 
there can hardly be a doubt that he was one of “the 
men of Cyrene” who, being “scattered abroad upon the 
persecution that arose about Stephen,” went to Antioch 
preaching the Lord Jesus (Acts xi, 19, 20). 

In the Apostolical Constitutions , vii, 46, it is stated 
that Paul consecrated Lucius bishop of Cenchrea?, which 
is probably a mere inference from the supposition that 
the epistle to the Romans was written from that Corin- 
thian port. Different traditions make Lucius the first 
bishop of Cyrene and of Laodicea, in Syria. — Smith, s.v„ 

It is commonly supposed that Lucius is the kinsman 
of Paul mentioned by that apostle as joining with him 
in his salutation to the Roman brethren (Rom. xvi, 21). 
A.D. 55. There is, however, no sufficient reason for re- 
garding him as identical with Luke the Evangelist, 
though this opinion was apparently held by Origen (ad 
loc.), and is supported bv Calmet, as well as by Wet- 
stein, who adduces in confirmation of it the fact reported 
by Herodotus (iii, 121), that the Cyrenians had through- 
out Greece a high reputation as physicians. But it 
must be observed that the names are clearly distinct. 
The missionary companion of Paul was not Lucius, but 
Lucas or Lucan us, “ the beloved physician,” who, though 
named in three different epistles (Col. iv, 14 ; 2 Tim. iv, 
11; Philemon 24), is never referred to as a relation. 
Again, it is hardly probable that Luke, who suppresses 
his own name as the companion of Paul, would have 
mentioned himself as one among the more distinguished 
prophets and teachers at Antioch. Olshausen, indeed, 
asserts confidently that the notion of Luke and Lucius 
being the same person has nothing whatever to support 
it (Clark’s Theol. Lib. iv, 513). See Luke. 

Lucius, king of England, said to have introduced 
Christianity into Britain in the second half of the 2d 
century. See England, Church of (I). 

Lucius, Samuel, etc. See Lutz. 

Lucius I, pope, succeeded Cornelius as bishop of 
Rome, after the death of the latter, in Sept. 252. He 
was soon after banished from Rome, hut returned, and is 
spoken of as a martyr as early as March, 253. There 
seems, however, to be no precise information as to the 
length of his pontificate. Nicephorus (//. E. vi,7) states 
that he held the office six- months ; Eusebius (II. E. vii, 
2) says eight; and the Liber Pont if e. three years and 
eight months, which must certainly be an error. The 
latter work ascribes to him the ordinances forbidding 
any hut persons of the purest morals and the best con- 
duct to officiate at the altars, and all priests from enter- 
ing alone the residence of a woman; also those direct- 
ing that the pope and the bishops were always to he 
attended hv two priests and three deacons, who should 
bear witness of their conduct. A pscudo-dccretal letter 


LUCIUS II 


545 


LUCKEY 


is also ascribed to him. According to Cyprian, Lucius I 
must have suffered a short exile from Lome during his 
pontificate, for Cyprian wrote Lucius a letter of congrat- 
ulation on the occasion of his return from exile (Ajp. 6 1 
ad Luc.'). According to this author ( Ep . G5), Lucius 
wrote several letters on the treatment of backsliders, 
but they are not known at present. See Bower, Hist, of 
the Popes , i, 61 ; Tillemont, Memoires, iv, 118 sq. 

Lucius II, pope, of Bologna, properly Gerhard 
Caccianamici, was a regular Augustinian chorister of 
St.John of Lateran. lie was made cardinal priest of 
Santa Croce of Jerusalem by llonorius II, and vice-chan- 
cellor and librarian of the Church of Kome by Innocent 
II. He was finally elected pope after the death of Ce- 
lestine II, March 12, 1144. Soon after liis accession, the 
Komans, under the guidance of Arnold of Brescia, rose 
against the papal authority, determined, by an Arnold- 
ian spirit [see Arnold of Brescia], to re-establish the 
old republic, and to this end appointed a patrician in 
the capitol to govern them, and chose Jordan, son of 
Peter Leo, as such, giving him all the revenues of the 
city, and restricting the pope to the tithes and volun- 
tary offerings. “ Caesar should have the things that are 
Caesar's, the priest the things that are the priest’s, as 
Christ ordained when Peter paid the tribute-money” 
(compare Neander, Ch. History, iv, 151). The pope at- 
tempted to oppose this revolution, and, at the head of a 
band of armed followers, went forth to attack the capi- 
tol, but was wounded by a stone, and died of this wound, 
Feb. 25, 1 145. See Gibbon, Decline and Fall of the Rom. 
Empire, vi, 42G sq. ; Iteichel, See of Rome in the Middle 
Ayes, p. 22G sq. ; Bower, History of the Popes, vi, 52 sq. 
See also Temporal Power of the Pope. 

Lucius III, properly Uraldo Allucingoli, be- 
longed to a distinguished family of Lucca. He was 
made cardinal priest of St. Praxedas by Innocent II in 
1140, and cardinal bishop of Ostia and Vclletri by Adrian 
IV in 1158. Having distinguished himself in some ne- 
gotiations with France, Sicily, and the emperor Fred- 
erick, he became a prominent member of the “ holy col- 
lege,” and was finally elected pope Sept. 2, 1181. Soon 
after his arrival at Kome, however, he got into difficul- 
ties with the Komans, and was finally obliged to flee the 
city. Christian, archbishop of Mentz and chancellor of 
the emperor, started to assist him with a large army, but 
died on the way. In 1183 Lucius returned to Kome, but 
his conduct and that of his followershaving created fresh 
troubles, he soon left that city forever and retired to Ve- 
rona, where he was nearer his imperial protector. The 
emperor himself arrived at Verona soon after, and the 
two princes held a consultation on the state of the 
Church. In this council the Komans were denounced 
as enemies of the Church, and the Waldenses also were 
put under the ban, and a crusade was advised to help 
the persecuted Christians in the East. While engaged 
in demanding assistance for the crusaders from the kings 
of England and France, Lucius fell sick and died, Nov. 
24,1185. His letters are in Mansi, Coll. Conciliorum, 
xxii. See Neander, Ch. Hist, iv, 609; Bower, Hist, of 
the Popes , vi, 159 sq. ; Hist, of the Papacy, ii, 202 ; Mil- 
man, Hist, of Lat. Christianity, iv, 439 sq. ; Buske, Med. 
Popes and Crusaelei's, ii, 155, 165, 1G8. 

Luck, Joiiann Philipp, a German theologian, was 
bom at Erbach Aug. 28, 1728. In 1745 he entered the 
University of Jena. In 1750 he became preacher at 
Gfitterbach; two years later, town -pastor at Michel- 
stadt; in 1757, assessor of the Consistory; two years af- 
terwards, counsellor of the same; and in 1781 was ap- 
pointed court-preacher. He died Nov. 8, 1791. Well 
posted in all branches of theology, especially in Church 
history, familiar with the French, and furnished with 
the gift of eloquence, he was a most active and efficient 
worker for the preservation of the moral and religious 
principles of the Keformation. As a commentator, he 
was an opponent of the innovations of Bahrdt. The 
best of his works in this line are his Erlduterungen des 
V._ M m 


Briefes Pauli an die Gemeinen zu Galatien (Jena, 1753, 
4to) : — Erliiuterungen des Briefes Pauli an die Romer 
(ibid. 1753, 4to). See During, Gelehrte Theol. Deutsch- 
lands, vol. ii. s. v. 

Liicke, Gottfried Christian Friedrich, an em- 
inent German theologian, was born at Egcln, near Mag- 
deburg, August 23, 1781. He studied theology at the 
universities of Halle and Gottingen. In 1813 he be- 
came lecturer in the latter university, and in 181 G went 
to Berlin University, and there lectured on the exegesis 
of the N. T. Here he became intimate with De Wette 
and Schleiermacher, whose views greatly influenced the 
remainder of his career as a theologian. In 1818 he 
was, at the same time as Gieseler, appointed professor 
at the newly-established University of Bonn, and in 
1827 became professor of theology at Gottingen. He 
died in that city Feb. 14, 1855. He wrote Commentatio 
deEcclesia Chrisiianorum apostolica (Gotting.l813,4to) : 
— Ucber den nentestam. Kanon des Eusebius von Cdsarea 
(Berlin, 181G, 8vo) : — Grundriss d. nentestam. Hermeneih 
tik u. ihrer Gesch. (Gotting. 1817, 8vo) : — Commentar.ii. 
d. Schriften d. Evanyelisten Johannes (Bonn, 1820-32, 4 
vols. 8vo ; 3d edit. 1843-5G; transl. into English under 
the title Commentary on the Epistles of St.John, Edinb. 
1837, 12mo): — Querstiones ac vindiciee Didymiemee (Got- 
tingen, 1829, 4 parts, 4to). He also took part with De 
Wette and Schleiermacher in the publication of the 
Theologische Zeitschidft (Berlin, 1819-22, 3 parts, 8vo), 
and with Gieseler in that of the Zeitschrift fur yebildete 
Christen (Elberfeld, 1823 and 1824, 4 parts 8vo). He 
also contributed some valuable articles to the Theoloej. 
Studien u. Kritiken . — Hoefer, Nouv. Bioy. Gener. xxxii, 
1G5; Pierer, Universal-Lexikon, x, 5G9; Herzog, Real- 
Encyklop. viii, 525 sq. ; Darling, Cyclop. Biblioy. ii, 1879 ; 
Kit to, Cyclop, of Bibl. Lit. ii, 8G0. 

Luckenbach, Aekaiiam, a Moravian missionary 
among the Delaware tribe of the North American In- 
dians, was born in Lehigh County, Pa., May 5, 1777 ; en- 
tered Nazareth Hall, a boy’s boarding-school at Nazareth, 
Pa.; taught there in 1797, and in 18C0 became a mis- 
sionary, “and labored as such with great faithfulness at 
various stations for fortv-three years, when he retired 
to Bethlehem, where he died, March 8, 1854.” Lucken- 
bach edited the second edition of Zeisberger’s Delaware 
Hymn-boolc, and published in the Delaware language 
Select O.-T. Scripture Narratives. See De Schweinitz, 
Life and Times of David Zeisberyer, p. 659. 

Luckey, Samuel, D.D., a noted minister in the 
Methodist Episcopal Church, was born in Kcnsselaer- 
ville, Albany County, N. V., April 4, 1791 ; entered the 
ministry in 1811, at Ottawa, Lower Canada; from 1812- 
1G, inclusive, labored at Dutchess, Montgomery, Sarato- 
ga, and Pittstown, and in 1817-18 in the city of Troy. 
In 1819 he was at Khinebeck, and in 1820-21 at Sche- 
nectady, where he received from Union College the de- 
grees of master of arts and of doctor of divinity. The 
next ten years of his life were spent at New Haven, 
Brooklyn, Albany, and as presiding elder on the New 
Haven District. In 1822 he became principal of the 
Genesee Wesleyan Seminary at Lima, N. Y., where he 
remained four years. At the General Conference of 
1836 he was a delegate, and was elected editor of The 
Christian A dvocate and Journal at New York. At that 
time the office involved the senior editorship of the Book 
Boom. After an honorable service of four years he re- 
turned to the itinerancy, first for a time at Duane Street, 
New York, and in 1842 was again transferred to the 
Genesee Conference. From this time to the day of his 
death (Oct. 1 1,18G9) he remained in Western New York, 
residing mostly in Kochestcr City, but filling the offices 
of presiding elder, pastor, and chaplain of the Monroe 
County Penitentiary, in which latter position he served 
for nine years, bestowing great labor on the reclamation 
of the fallen. Dr. Luckey had also the honor to be ap- 
pointed in 1847 one of the regents of the State Univer- 
sity. He wrote an excellent treatise on the Sacrament 


LUCOPETRIANS 546 LUDEKE 


of the Lord's Supper, a work on the Trinity (a respecta- 
ble 12mo volume, which gained for him a wide repute 
for theological acumen and polemic tact), and a small 
volume of Ethic Hymns and Scriptural Lessons for Chil- 
dren . The hymns, which are original and not without 
merit, are rhythmical paraphrases of Scripture, mostly 
of the Psalms. “ Dr. Luckey was a man of no ordinary 
power of intellect. For depth of penetration and sound- 
ness of judgment lie had few superiors. His knowledge 
of the forms and principles of law, both civil and eccle- 
siastical, was cpiite extensive. I Ie was a thorough Meth- 
odist, and with the genius and historic development of 
his Church he was as familiar as with the alphabet. He 
long stood among the magnates of his people, and his 
history is woven in the history of his Church.” See 
Coif Minutes, 1870, p. 280 sq. 

Lucopetrians is the name given to a sect of fa- 
natics and ascetics who believed in a double Trinity, 
rejected marriage, scorned all external forms of worship, 
and adopted absurdly allegorical interpretations of Scrip- 
ture. They were believed to have had as their founder 
an ecclesiastic by the name of Lncopetrus, but the prob- 
ability is that Lucopetrus is a nickname, and it is said 
to have been given to a person called Peter, who prom- 
ised to appear on the third day after his death, and who 
was called Wolf- Peter or Lucopetrus afterwards, because 
the devil on that day appeared to his followers in the 
shape of a wolf. See Bogomiles; Messaliaxs. 

Lucretius, Titus Carus, a noted Roman poet, de- 
serves a place here as the exponent of Epicurianism . 
He flourished some time towards the opening of the 1st 
century, but of his life we know almost nothing with 
certainty, as he is mentioned merely in a cursory man- 
ner in contemporary literature. St. Jerome, in his trans- 
lation of the Chronicle of Eusebius, gives the date of his 
birth as B.C. 95 (according to others, 99), but he docs 
not specify the source from which his statement is de- 
rived. It is alleged, further, that he died by his own 
hand, in the 44th year of his age, having been driven 
frantic by a love-potion which had been administered 
to him ; that he composed his works in the intervals of 
his madness, and that these works were revised by Cic- 
ero ; but all these statements rest on very insufficient 
authority, and must be received with extreme caution. 
1 1 is peculiar opinions rendered him specially obnoxious 
to the early Christians, and it is possible that the latter 
may have been too easily led to attribute to him a fate 
which, in its mysterious nature and melancholy termi- 
nation, was deemed but a due reward for the bold and 
impious character of his teachings. The great work on 
which his fame rests is De Rerum Nat ura, a philosoph- 
ical didactic poem in six books (editio princeps, Brescia, 
about 1473; best editions by Wakefield [London, 1796, 
3 vols. 4to, and Glasgow, 1813, 4 vols. Bvo], by Forbiger 
[Leips. 1828, 12mo], and by Lacliraann [Berlin, 1850,2 
vols. J. English translations in verse by Creech [Lond. 
1714, 2 vols. 8vo], Good [Lond. 1805-7, 2 vols. 4to] ; in 
prose by the Rev. J. S. Watson, M.A. [London, Bohn’s 
Classical Library, 1851, post 8vo]) — in large measure an 
exposition of the physical, moral, and religious tenets 
of Epicurus. See Epicurean Philosophy. “Regard- 
ed merely as a literary composition, the work of Lucre- 
tius stands unrivalled among didactic poems. The clear- 
ness and fulness with which the most minute faets of 
physical science, and the most subtle philosophical spec- 
ulations are unfolded and explained ; the life and inter- 
est which arc thrown into discussions, in themselves re- 
pulsive to the bulk of mankind ; the beauty, richness, 
and variety of the episodes which are interwoven with 
the subject-matter of the poem, combined with the ma- 
jestic verse in which the whole is clothed, render the I)e 
Rerum Nat ura, as a work of art, one of the rtiost perfect 
which antiquity has bequeathed to us” (Chambers, Cy- 
clop . s. v.). See Smith, Diet. Class. Bioy. s. v. 

Lud (Heb.ze/. 'W, derivation unknown; Sept.AoeJ, 
but in Ezek. Avcot ; Auth. Vers. “ Lydia,” in Ezck. xxx, 


5), the name apparently of two nations. See Eth- 
nology. 

1. The fourth son of Shem (B.C. post 2513), and found- 
er of a tribe near the Assyrians and Aramaeans (Gen. x, 
22; 1 Chron. i, 17). According to Josephus (An/, i, 6, 
4), they were the Lydians; in which opinion agree Eu- 
stathius, Eusebius, Jerome, and Isidore, and among mod- 
erns Bochart ( Phaley , ii, 12) and Gesenius. On the con- 
trary, Michaclis {Spicileg. ii, 114 sq.) reads TTI, and un- 
derstands the Indians (see also his Supplement, N o. 1416 ; 
comp. Vater, Comment, i, 130). Lud would thus be rep- 
resented by the Lvdus of the mythical period (Herod, i, 
7). “The Shemitic character of the manners of the Lu- 
dim, and the strong Orientalism of the art of the Lydian 
kingdom during its latest period and after the Persian 
conquest, but before the predominance of Greek art in 
Asia Minor, favor this idea; but, on the other hand, the 
Egyptian monuments show us in the 13th, 14th, and 
15th centuries B.C. a powerful people called Ruten or 
Luden, probably seated near Mesopotamia, and appar- 
ently north of Palestine, whom some, however, make 
the Assyrians. We may perhaps conjecture that the 
Lydians first established themselves near Palestine, and 
afterwards spread into Asia Minor; the occupiers of the 
old seat of the race being destroyed or removed by the 
Assyrians” (Smith). With the latter supposition, com- 
pare the apocryphal statement iu Judith ii, 23. See 
Lydia. 

2 . One of the Hamitic tribes descended from Mizraim 
(. Ludim , Gen. x. 13), apparently a people of Africa (per- 
haps of Ethiopia), sprung from the Egyptians, and ac- 
customed to fight with bows and arrows (Ezek. xxvii, 
10; xxx, 5; Isa. lxvi, 19, where they are associated with 
Cush and Phut; comp, the Ludim, Jer. xlvi,9, and the 
Phud and Lud of Judith ii, 23). Some have referred 
the name to the people of Luday, on the western coast 
of Africa, south of Morocco (see Micliaelis, Spicileg. i, 
259 sq.; also Suppl. No. 1417); and combine with this 
the mention of a river Laud in Tangitania (Pliny, v, 2). 
Others, as Bochart {Phaleg, iv, 56) and Gesenius {Com- 
ment. ad loc. Isa.), regard them as a branch of the Ethi- 
opians. Ilitzig ( Comment . ad loc. Isa. and Jer.) thinks 
that the Libyans are intended (by an interchange of 
letters), but Nubia appears to be rather indicated by the 
scriptural notices. Still more improbable is the suppo- 
sition of Forster (Ep. ad Michael, p. 13 sq.), that the in- 
habitants of the oases are intended, designated in Coptic 
by a term having some resemblance to Lud. The Ara- 
bic interpreters have Tanites; the Targum of Jonathan 
renders inhabitants of the nome of Neut. The opiuion 
of Michaelis {Suppl. No. 1418), that by the Ludim the 
prophets meant the Lydians, has lately been re-enforced 
by Gesenius {Thes. lleb. p. 746) with the remark that 
the Egyptians and Tyrians employed soldiers from Asia 
Minor in their armies (Herod, ii, 152, 154, 163; iii, 1). 
But the Egyptians, at least, had also mercenary troops 
from Africa, and the Asiatics referred to were only from 
Ionia and Caria. Rosellini {Monument, star. Ill, i, 321 
sq.) speaks of a province of Ludin , but the locality is 
uncertain. — Winer, s. v. See Ludim. 

Ludamilia, Elisabeth von Schwarz burg Ru- 
dolfstadt, a noted female hymnist of German}', was 
born April 7, 1640, and died March 12, 1672. She wrote 
215 hymns, many of which are the pearls of German 
sacred song. They were published entire in 1687, un- 
der the title Die Stimme der Ereundin (new edit. 1868), 
See her biography by Thilo (1856). 

Liideke, CunisTorii Wii.iielm, a German theolo- 
gian, was born at Schdnberg, Prussia, Alar. 3, 1737. In 
1758 he went to the Levant as a preacher of the Danish 
mission, and afterwards became pastor of the Lutheran 
Church, and director of their sehool at. Smyrna. In 
1768 he accepted a call to Magdeburg as pastor; in 1773 
to Stockholm, as German preacher and inspector of the 
German Lyceum. He died June 18, 1805. He was an 
excellent scholar in many branches of theology, has done 


LUDERWALD 


547 


LUDIM 


much for mission and education, and by his contribu- 
tions to the literature on the Orient contributed large- 
ly to Bible geography. Ilis Exposido brevis locorum 
Sacra Scriptures ad Orientem sese referendum , etc., de- 
serves special mention (Hake, 1777, 8vo). — Ddring, Ge- 
lehrte Theol . Deutschlands, vol. ii, s. v. 

Iitiderwald, Joiianx Balthasar, D.D., a German 
theologian, was born at Fahrland, Prussia, Sept. 27, 1722. 
He attended the University of Helmstiidt, and, having 
finished the academical course, became in 1742 tutor; 
in 1747, pastor at Glentorf, near Helmstiidt; afterwards 
superintendent and first pastor at Forsfelde, where he 
died, August 25, 1796. He is noted as a defender of the 
truth against Lessing after the publication of the Wol- 
fenbiittel Fragments by the latter. His Commentatio de 
vi argument i, quod licitur e silendo Scriptoris (Guelpli- 
erbyti, 1745, 8vo), deserves special mention. He also 
wrote Spicilegium observadonum in preestantissimum De- 
bora epmicium,Judic , v, 4 (ibid. 1772, 4to). — Ddring, Ge- 
lehrte Theol, Deutschlands , vol. ii, s. v. 

Ludgardis (Ludgaris, or Lutgardis), a celebra- 
ted thanmaturgist of the 12th century, was born about 
1182. At the early age of twelve she entered the Bene- 
dictine convent of St.Trudo, and soon gave evidence 
of mystic tendencies. She claimed to have visions in 
which she held familiar converse with the Virgin Mary, 
the angels, John the Baptist and the apostles, St. Cath- 
arine, and a number of other saints. Once she stated 
she had seen St. John the evangelist in the form of a 
shining eagle, who, opening her mouth with his beak, 
filled her with divine wisdom. But Christ himself was 
generally the object of her ecstatic visions. After tak- 
ing the veil in 1200, she was in 1205 appointed abbess 
of the convent. In 1206, by advice of John de Lirot 
and of St. Christine, she entered the convent of the Cis- 
tercians of Aquiric, near Brussels. Here her visions be- 
came still more striking and numerous: in her medita- 
tions on the sufferings of Christ her body became cov- 
ered with blood, etc. She was also said to have worked 
a great number of miracles. She died June 16, 1246. 
Her biography was written by the Dominican Thomas 
Cantipratanus. See Alban Stolz, Legenden (Frcib. 1856), 
vol. ii, 1. c. — Herzog, Real-Encyklop. viii, 511. 

Liidicke, Johann August, a Gorman theologian, 
was born at Cothen Sept. 15, 1737, and was educated at 
the Universities of Halle and Frankfort-on-th e-Oder. In 
1759 he became tutor; in 1762, subrector of the German 
Reformed town-school of his native place; in 1776, pas- 
tor at Gnetsch, where he remained until 1813. He died 
at Cothen July 9, 1821. For a list of his works, see Do- 
ring, Gelehrte Theol, Deutschlands , vol. ii, s. v. 

Iiu'dim (Heb. Ludim ', Sept. A todtetfi; in 1 

Chron. Aiodletp ; in Jer. AovSot, A.V. “Lydi- 

ans”), a Mizraitish or Egyptian people or tribe (Gen. x. 
13 ; 1 Chron. i, 11 ; Jer. xlvi, 9), probably the same with 
Lud, No. 2. From their position at the head of the list 
of the Mizraites, it is probable that the Ludim wore 
settled to the west of Egj r pt, perhaps further than any 
other race of the same stock. Isaiah mentions “Tar- 
shish, Pul, and Lud, that draw the bow (rTwij? ^w^), 
Tubal, and Javan, the isles afar off’ (lxvi, 19). Here 
the expression in the plural, “ that draw the bow” (Vulg. 
(tendentes sagittam ), may refer only to Lud, and there- 
fore not connect it with one or both of the names pre- 
ceding. A comparison with the other three passages, 
in all w r hich Phut is mentioned immediately before or 
after Lud or the Ludim, goes to confirm the Sept, read- 
ing, Phut, 4>ouci, for Pul, a w'ord not occurring in any 
other passage, as the true one; and w'e also notice as 
coincident the extraordinary change from to 

MorToy. See Pul; Mesecil Jeremiah, in speaking 
of Pharaoh N echo’s army, makes mention of “ Cush and 
Phut that handle the buckler, and the Ludim that han- 
dle [and] bend the bow” (xlvi, 9). Here the Ludim 
are associated with African nations as mercenaries or 


auxiliaries of the king of Egypt, and therefore it w r ould 
seem probable, primd facie , that the Mizraitish Ludim 
are intended. Ezekiel, in the description of Tyre, speaks 
thus of Lud : “ Persia, and Lud, and Phut were in thine 
army, thy men of w\ar : buckler (’j^’C) and helmet hung 
they up in thee; they set thine adorning” (xxvii, 10). 
In this place Lud might seem to mean the Shemitic 
Lud, especially if the latter be connected with Lydia ; 
but the association v r ith Phut renders it as likely that 
the nation or country is that of the African Ludim. In 
the prophecy against Gog a similar passage occurs. 
“ Persia, Cush, and Phut (A. Vers. “ Libya”) with them 
[the army 'of Gog]; all of them [with] buckler (*j^) 
and helmet” (xxxviii, 5). It seems from this that there 
w F ere Persian mercenaries at this time, the prophet per- 
haps, if speaking of a remote future period, using their 
name and that of other w'ell-known mercenaries in a 
general sense. The association of Persia and Lud in 
the former passage therefore loses somewhat of its 
weight. In one of the prophecies against Egypt Lud is 
thus mentioned among the supports of that country: 
“And the sword shall come upon Mizraim, and great 
pain shall be in Cush, at the falling of the slain in Miz- 
raim, and they shall take away her multitude (^TDi^r), 
and her foundations shall be broken down. Cush, and 
Phut, and Lud, and all the mingled people (2*1^), and 
Chub, and the children of the land of the covenant, 
shall fall by the sw r ord with them” (xxx, 4, 5). Here 
Lud is associated with Cush and Phut, as though an 
African nation. The Ereb, whom w r e have called “ min- 
gled people” rather than “strangers,” appear to have 
been an Arab population of the Sinaitic peninsula, per- 
haps including Arab or half-Arab tribes of the Egyptian 
desert to the east of the Nile. Chub is a name nowdiere 
else occurring, wdiich perhaps should be read Lub, for 
the country or nation of the Lubim. See Chub; Lu- 
bim. The “children of the land of the covenant” may 
be some league of tribes, as probably were the Nine 
Bows of the Egyptian inscriptions; or the expression 
may mean nations or tribes allied with Egypt, as though 
a general designation for the rest of its supporters be- 
sides those specified. It is noticeable that in this pas- 
sage, although Lud is placed among the close allies or 
supporters of Egypt, yet it follow's African nations, and 
is followed by a nation or tribe at least partly inhabit- 
ing Asia, although possibly also partly inhabiting Afri- 
ca. See Egypt. 

There can be no doubt that but one nation is intended 
in these passages, and it seems that thus far the prepon- 
derance of evidence is in favor of the Mizraitish Ludim. 
There are no indications in the Bible known to be posi- 
tive of mercenary or allied troops in the Egyptian ar- 
mies, except of Africans, and perhaps of tribes bordering 
Egypt on the east. We have still to inquire hov r the 
evidence of the Egyptian monuments and of profane 
history may affect our supposition. From the former 
w'e learn that several foreign nations contributed allies 
or mercenaries to the Egyptian armies. Among them 
w'e identify the Renu with the Lubim, and the Shary- 
atana with the Cherethim, who also served in David's 
army. The latter were probably from the coast of Pal- 
estine, although they may have been drawn in the case 
of the Egyptian army from an insular portion of the 
same people. The rest of these foreign troops seem to 
have been of African nations, but this is not certain. 
The evidence of the monuments reaches no lower than 
the time of the Bubastite line. There is a single foreign 
contemporary inscribed record on one of the colossi of 
the temple of Abu-Simbcl in Nubia, noting the pas- 
sage of Greek mercenaries of a rsammetichus, probably 
the first (Wilkinson, Modem Egypt and Thebes, ii, 329), 
From the Greek writers, w ho give us information from 
the time of Psammetichus I downwards, we leani that 
Ionian, Carian, and other Greek mercenaries formed an 
' important element in the Egyptian army in all time3 
i w'lien the country was independent, from the reign of 


LUDKE 


548 


LUFT 


that king until the final conquest by Ochus. These 
mercenaries were even settled in Egypt by Psammeti- 
ehus. There does not seem to be any mention of them 
in the Bible, excepting they be intended by Lud and 
the Luditn in the passages that have been considered. 
It must be recollected that it is reasonable to connect 
the Shemitic Lud with the Lydians, and that at the 
time of the prophets by whom Lud and the Ludim are 
mentioned the Lydian kingdom generally or always in- 
cluded the more western part of Asia Minor, so that the 
Lud and Ludim might well apply to the Ionian and Ca- 
rian mercenaries drawn from this territory. See Lud. 

The manner in which these foreign troops in the 
Egyptian army are characterized is perfectly in accord- 
ance with the" evidence of the monuments, which, al- 
though about six centuries earlier than the prophet’s 
time, no doubt represent the same condition of military 
matters. The only people of Africa beyond Egypt por- 
trayed on the monuments whom we can consider as 
most probably of the same stock as the Egyptians are 
the ReBU, who are the Lnbim of the Bible, almost cer- 
tainly the same as the Mizraitish Lehabim (q. v.) ; 
therefore we may take the ReBU as probably illustra- 
ting the Ludim, supposing the latter to be Mizraites, in 
which case the} T may indeed be included under the same 
name as the Lubim, if the appellation ReBU be wider 
than the Lubim of the Bible, and also as illustrating 
Cush and Phut. The last two are spoken of as handling 
the buckler. The Egyptians are generally represented 
with small shields, frequently round; the ReBU with 
small round shields, for which the term here used, *$*2, 
the small shield, and the expression ‘‘that handle,” are 
perfectly appropriate. That the Ludim should have 
been archers, and apparently armed with a long bow 
that was strung with the aid of the foot by treading 
(r.u5j5 ‘O'lTI), is noteworthy, since the Africans were 
always famous for their archery. The ReBU) and one 
other of the foreign nations that served in the Egyptian 
army — the monuments show the former only as enemies 
— were bowmen, being armed with a bow of moderate 
length ; the other mercenaries — of whom we can only 
identify the Philistine Cherethim, though they probably 
include certain of the mercenaries or auxiliaries men- 
tioned in the Bible — carrying swords and javelins, but 
not bows. These points of agreement, founded on onr 
examination of the monuments, are of no little weight, 
as showing the accuracy of the Bible. — Smith, s. v. See 
Shield. 

Liidke, Friedrich Germ anus, a German theolo- 
gian, was born at Stendal, Prussia, April 10,1780. He 
began his academical course very young, and, upon its 
completion, became pastor of the Nicolai Church at Ber- 
lin, which office he held until his death, March 8,1702. 
He was looked upon by his contemporaries as a man of 
an independent, decided, and philosophical mind, and 
ably defended the Christian truths, lie was also an 
earnest advocate of tolerance, and wrote ‘‘About Toler- 
ance and Freedom of Conscience.'’ — During, Gelelirte 
Theol. Deutschlands , vol. ii. s. v. 

Ludlow, John, D.D., LL.D., a (Dutch) Reformed 
minister, was horn at Acquackanonck, now Passaic, X. 
J., Dec. 13, 1703; graduated at Union College, 1814, and 
at the Theological Seminary, New Brunswick, N. J., 1817. 
Ilis first settlement was in the First Reformed (Dutch) 
Church of New Brunswick, 1817 ; in 1810 he was elect- 
ed professor in the theological seminary at that place; 
in 1823 lie became pastor of the First Reformed (Dutch) 
Church in Albany, where he sustained himself with 
great power as a preacher, pastor, and public man. In 
1884 he was made provost of the University of Penn- 
sylvania, and retained that position with distinguished 
ability until 1852, when hej-eturned to New Brunswick 
as professor of ecclesiastical history and Church govern- 
ment in the theological seminary, and also as professor 
of mental philosophy in Rutgers College. lie died in 
1857, in the full assurance of hope and of faith. In 


every respect Dr. Ludlow was “ a mighty man,” physi- 
cally, mentally, spiritually ; as a theologian, a preacher, 
and a leader of men. He was full of power. His 
intellect was like his bodily frame, massive, compact, 
and vigorous. His will and his emotional nature were 
equally strong. His spirit and labors in the pulpit, in 
the professor’s chair, at the head of the university, and 
in public bodies, were always direct, well ordered, and 
indomitable. “lie adorned every relation that he sus- 
tained, and was one of the very finest specimens of in- 
tellectual and moral nobility.” — Sprague, A nnals ; Me- 
morial /Sermons by Drs. George XV. Betliune, Isaac Ferris, 
and XV. J. R. Taylor; Corwin, Manual of the Reformed 
Church ; A\ V. Observer (18GG) ; American College Presi- 
dents, xliii. (XV. J. K. T.) 

Ludlow, Peter, a Baptist minister, was born in 
Enfield, Conn., Aug. 8, 1797, of Presbyterian parentage. 
He was for a time a member of Princeton College, N. J.; 
then began the study of law, but his religious convic- 
tions became so deep that lie decided to become a min- 
ister. The distinguished Summerfield aided him in his 
theological studies. He joined the Baptist Church, re- 
ceived license, and was ordained Sept. 2, 1823 pastor of 
the Second Baptist Church in Providence, Ik 1. II is 
continued ill-liealth necessitated his acceptance of a call 
to the Baptist Church in Georgetown. S. C. lie died in 
New York, May G, 1837. Rev. Dr. Jackson, of Newport, 
says of him : “ His talents were of a high order, and he 
was not less distinguished for his evangelical views than 
for his attractive and effective eloquence.” See Sprague, 
A nnals of the American Pulpit, vi, 727 sq. 

Ludolf, Job, a noted Etliiopic scholar, also a law- 
yer and statesman of distinguished merit, was born at 
Erfurt, in Thuringia, in 1C24. After finishing his edu- 
cation, he spent several years in travelling, and subse- 
quently filled important stations in his native city, and 
under the elector palatine at Frankfort. lie then de- 
voted himself to the completion of his works, of which 
his Etliiopic History, and his commentaries on it. his 
Amharic and Etkiopic Grammars, and Etliiopic Lexi- 
con, are the most valuable, and have universally met 
with the highest esteem from the learned. 

Ludolpli de Saxonia was distinguished among the 
Dominican mystics of the I4th century. He entered 
the order about A.D. 1300, and in further pursuance of 
his pious devotion became a Carthusian at Strasburg. 
His Vita Jesn Christi has often been edited and trans- 
lated into various languages. He flourished in Saxony, 
but the date both of his birth and death are unknown. 

Luers, John II., an American Roman Catholic prel- 
ate of great ability and note, was born at Ltltten, in 
Oldenburg, Germany, Sept. 29, 1819, came to this coun- 
try in 1838, and, after a short service as clerk, entered 
St. Mary’s Theological Seminary at Cincinnati, Ohio, 
and was consecrated priest in 184G, and bishop of Fort 
Wayne in 1858. lie deserves the commendation of all 
Christian people for his great zeal in behalf of educa- 
tional facilities for the lower classes of his Church. He 
was especially active during his presidency over the 
diocese of Northern Indiana, where he built many 
churches and established schools. He died in Cleve- 
land, Ohio, June 29, 1S7L 

Luft, Friedrich Matthaus, a German theologian, 
was born at Kirch-Rtisselbach, Aug. 3, 1705. In 1723 
he entered the University of Altdorf, where his uncle, 
G. G. Zelter, was then professor of theology and of the 
Oriental languages. In 1730, when Prof. Zcdter resign- 
ed his professorship and became pastor at Poppenreut, 
Luft accompanied him, and was made vicar in 1732. 
In 1733 he became the first chaplain at Fiirth, where he 
unexpectedly died. May 24, 1740. Ilis death caused 
great grief, since his knowledge and unwearied diligence 
gave promise of future usefulness and eminence. He 
rendered great service in issuing the Bible-work of Prof. 
Zelter. He himself committed only a few minor pro- 
ductions to print, but among his papers valuable MSS. 


LUGO 


549 


LUITPRAND 


were found, intended as preparations for quite extensive 
labors. See During, Gelehrte TkeoL Deutschl. vol. ii, s. v. 

Lugo, Juan de, a learned Spanish Jesuit and car- 
dinal, was born at Madrid in 15813, and for twenty years 
was theological professor at Rome ■, was made cardinal 
in 1643, and died in 1660. In his office as cardinal he 
was distinguished for his plain manner of life and his 
liberality to the poor. He wrote Be Incarnatione do- 
minion (Lyons, 1633, fol.): — Be Sacrament is in genere 
(1635, fob) : — Responsorum J/ora#«»i,lib.vi (1651, fob) ; 
etc. All his works were collected in seven large folios 
(Venice, 1751). Pallavicini boasted of having been his 
pupil. Liguori names him as a theologian next to 
Thomas Aquinas. 

Lugo’s brother Francisco was also a Jesuit, and the 
author of several theological works. They are of minor 
value, however. See lloefcr, Xouv. Biog. Gener. xxxii, 
212 . 

Lu'hith (Ileb. Luchith'y [always with the 

art. prefixed], prob. tableted [see below] ; Sept. A ovdS, 
but in Jer. [ rvnbn] ’A XacoS v. r. ’A\w3), a Moabitish 
place (but whether a town or not is uncertain, as it is 
only found in the phrase “ascent of Luhith”), appar- 
ently situated on an eminence between Zoar and Horo- 
naim, on the track of the invading Babylonians (Isa. 
xv, 5; Jer. xlviii, 5). According to Eusebius, it lay 
between Areopolis and Zoar. M. de Saulcy thinks it 
may be identified with a site on the hill Nouehin , about 
half way up on the south side of the ravine leading 
north-easterly from the northern opening of the penin- 
sula of the Dead Sea (Narrative, i, 386, 267, and map). 
The position is probably not far from correct (although 
not between Ar and Zoar), but no such name appears on 
Robinson's or Zimmermann’s map : it does, however, on 
Van de Velde’s. 

Luhith, “ as a Hebrew word, signifies ‘ made of boards 
or posts’ (Gesenius, Thesaurus , p. 748) ; but why assume 
that a Moabitish spot should have a Hebrew name ? By 
the Syriac interpreters it is rendered ‘paved with flag- 
stones’ (Eichhorn, Allg. Bibliotheh , i, 845, 872). In the 
Targums ( Pseudojon . and Jerus. on Numb, xxi, 16, and 
Jonathan on Isa. xv, 1) Lechaiath is given as the equiv- 
alent of Ar-Moab. This may contain an allusion to 
Luchith, or it may point to the use of a term meaning 
‘jaw’ for certain eminences, not only in the case of the 
Lehi of Samson, but also elsewhere. See Michaelis, 
Suppl. No. 1307 ; but, on the other hand, Buxtorf, Lex. 
Talm. col. 1134” (Smith). 

Luini (or Lovino'), Bernardino, a celebrated paint- 
er of the Lombard school, born about 1460 at Luini, near 
the Lago Maggiore, was the ablest pupil of Leonardo da 
Vinci and of Stefano Scotto. He imitated the style and 
execution of his master Leonardo da Vinci so closely as 
to deceive experienced judges, and yet his general man- 
ner has a delicacy and grace sufficiently original and 
distinct from that of Leonardo. Many of Luini’s best 
and greatest works, in oil and in fresco, are still in a 
good state of preservation, namely, the Magdalen and 
St. John with the Lamb , in the Ambrosian Library at 
Milan ; the Enthroned Madonna , painted in 1521, the 
Bninkenness of Noah, and other works in the gallery of 
the Brera at Milan ; the frescoes of the Monastero Mag- 
giore, or San Maurizio, in the same city, from which, 
however, the ultramarine and gold have been scraped 
off; several at Saronno, among them his chef-d’oeuvre, 
Christ disputing with the Boctors ; and other extensive 
and equally good works in the Franciscan convent Degli 
Angeli at Lugano, on the lake of that name. The date 
of his death is not exactly known, but he was alive in 
1530. 

He had a brother, Ambrogio, who imitated his style, 
«nd several sons who also were painters. See English 
Cyclop, s. v. ; Chambers, Cyclop, s. v. 

Luitprand, or Liudprand, king of Lombardy 
(A.D. 712-744), was born towards the close of the 7th 


century. In 702 his father, Ansprand, a powerful Lom- 
bard lord, and an adherent of king Lnitbert, having been 
defeated by the usurper Aribcrt II, retired to the Bava- 
rian court, lie was joined there by Luitprand, but the 
other members of his family, having fallen into the hands 
of Aribert, were put to death. In 712 Luitprand and his 
father succeeded in overthrowing Aribert, and Ansprand 
dying shortly after, Luitprand succeeded to the throne. 
His first care was to restore peace to his kingdom, suf- 
fering from internal dissensions. He enacted a series of 
laws in the years 712,717, 720,721, 723,724, which, with 
the Edict of Rotharis, form the principal basis of the 
Lombard law as it remained in force in Northern Italy 
until the 14th, and in the kingdom of Naples until the 
16th century. Peace and prosperity once restored to 
his people, Luitprand eagerly sought for an opportunity 
for the aggrandizement of his dominions. He had his 
eye especially on Rome and the exarchate, and when the 
quarrel broke out between the pope and the emperor 
of Constantinople concerning image worship, Luitprand 
suddenly announced himself and bis Lombards devout 
worshippers of images, and, under pretence of taking the 
pope’s part, he seized the exarchate of Ravenna and sev- 
eral cities. But pope Gregory II, alarmed at the grow- 
ing power of Lombardy, and the prospect that hereafter 
the papacy might be dependent on the rule of a people 
looked upon as vile barbarians [see Lombards], pre- 
ferred to seek aid in other quarters not only for him- 
self, but also for the exarchate, whose days seemed 
about to be numbered. lie therefore enjoined upon the 
duke of Venetia to aid the exarch in retaking the prov- 
inces seized by Luitprand. Gregory at the same time 
persuaded the inhabitants of the duchies of Spoleto and 
Benevento to throw off the Lombard yoke. Luitprand, 
however, matched the pope in cunning, for he no sooner 
learned the position of the pontiff than he turned to the 
side of the exarch, and, after having aided him in sub- 
duing his insurgent provinces, marched himself against 
Rome, with the intention of taking his revenge on the 
pope. The latter, however, succeeded in pacifying Luit- 
prand, and the Lombard returned into his kingdom. In 
I 736, being dangerously ill. he surrendered for a while his 
! power to his nephew Hildebrand, whom the Lombards 
had elected his successor, but when he recovered his 
health he found himself obliged to divide his authority 
with Hildebrand. In 739 Luitprand overcame a league 
formed against him by pope Gregory III, and the dukes 
of Spoleto and Benevento and the exarch of Ravenna, 
and, to punish the incumbent of the apostolic see. he ap- 
peared before the gates of Rome. The pope, in his dis- 
tress, called upon Charles Martel for assistance. Greg- 
ory’s appeal is truly touching: “His tears are falling 
night and day for the destitute state of the Church. The 
Lombard king and his son are ravaging the last remains 
of the propert} r of the Church, which no longer suffices 
for the daily service; they have invaded the territory 
of Rome, and seized all his farms. II is only hope is in 
the timely succor of the Frankish king.” Valuable pres- 
ents accompanied this appeal— among them the mystic 
keys of the sepulchre of St. Peter, and filings of his 
chains, which no Christian could resist — also a proffer 
of the title of “Patrician and Consul of Rome” — vea, the 
deliverer of the Eternal City was to become even the 
patron of the Romish Church. Of course Martel an- 
swered favorably to such an invitation. Unfortunately, 
however, for the Romish cause, he died shortly after. 
But, even before Martel could have taken the field 
against Luitprand, the latter had been induced to with- 
draw his troops from Rome. A state of hostility, how- 
ever, continued between the Lombards and the Romans 
until the death of Gregory III. The next pontiff (Zach- 
ary) finally succeeded, by a personal visit to Luitprand, 
in securing a treaty with the Lombards by which the 
latter restored to the Church all the possessions taken 
from it during the war. Luitprand thereafter seems to 
have been favorably inclined towards Zachary and the 
Church. He died in January, 744. See Paid Diacre* 


LUITPRAND 


550 


LUKE 


Ilistoria Longobardornm ; Anastasius, Vitas Pontif.; Mu- 
ratori, Aimaks Script. Ital. ; Iloefer, Nouv. Biog. Gener. 
vo 1. xxxii; Reichel, See of Home in the Middle Ages, p. 
54 sq. ; Mil man, Hist. Lat. Christ , ii, 374 sq. (J. II. W.) 

Luitprand, or Liutpraxd, a distinguished Italian 
historian, is supposed to have been born at Pavia about 
A.D. 920, of a noble family very high in favor at the 
court of king Hughes. Luitprand received a very good 
education, and was at an early age appointed deaeon of 
the cathedral of Pavia. He soon after became chancel- 
lor of king Berengar, by whom he was, about 946, sent 
on a mission to Byzantium. After his return in 950, he 
fell under the displeasure of the king and of queen Willa, 
and retired to the court of Otho I of Germany. He re- 
mained there eleven years, learned the language of the 
country, and became acquainted with all the most dis- 
tinguished characters. In 958 he began, at the request 
of the bishop of Elvira, to write a history of his own 
age, and he continued this task until 962, when he re- 
turned to Otho in Italy. He was now at once appoint- 
ed bishop of Cremona, and was in 963 sent by Otho to 
pope John XU, ostensibly for the purpose of assuring 
the latter of the emperor’s good will, but iu reality to 
incite the Roman aristocracy against the pope. Shortly 
after, when the pope was accused before the Synod of 
Rome, Luitprand spoke against him in the name of the 
emperor. Two years afterwards Otho sent him again 
to Rome, together with tlio bishop of Spiers, to direct 
the pontifical election, a duty which he performed to the 
emperor’s entire satisfaction. In 968 Luitprand went to 
Constantinople to negotiate a marriage between princess 
Theophania and the son of Otho, but herein he failed. 
In 971 he was sent, with some others, to renew negotia- 
tions for the same object, Nieephorus being dead ; but he 
died himself soon after, in the early part of 972. Ills 
works, which are of great value for the history of those 
times, are A ntapodosis, begun at Frankfort-on-the-Maine 
in 958, concluded in Italy in 962, a historical work, in 
which he seeks to revenge himself for the wrongs he 
had suffered, especially from Berengar and Willa: — Liber 
tie rebus gestis Ottonis Magni imperutoris , an account of 
events from 960 to 964, which is the more valuable from 
the fact that Luitprand was an eyewitness and often an 
actor in all the occurrences he relates : — Relatio de lega- 
tion e Const ant inopolitana of 968, very important for the 
information it contains on events and customs, and the 
best written of Luitprand's works. The Antapodosis 
ami Ilistoria Ottonis , of which the original MS., partly 
in Luitprand's own handwriting, is preserved in the. li- 
brary of Munich, were published at Antwerp (1640, fob), 
and in several historical works of the Middle Ages, as in 
those, of Reuber and Du Chesue, and in the Script ores of 
Mura tori, vol. ii. The best edition of Luitprand’s works 
is contained in Pertz, Monuments, vol. iii, who has also 
published them separately. A German translation of 
the Antapodosis was published by the baron of Osten- 
Sacken (Berlin, 1853), with an Introduction by Watten- 
bacli. See Kopkc, He Vita et Script is Luitprandi (Berk 
18 12,8vo) ; Pertz, Monnm. iii. 26 1 ; \Vattenbach, Deutsch- 
land s Geschichtsqnetten ini Mittelalter (2d ed. Berk 1866), 
p. 209 ; Contzen, Geschirhtschreiber d. sdchsischen Kaiser - 
zeit, ete. (liegensb. 1X37) ; Giesebreeht, Kaiserzeit , i, 740, 
742 sq. ; D.inniges, Otto /, p. 199 sq.; Niebuhr, SS. Bgz. 
vol. xi. ; Martini, Be. d. Gesch iehtsch reiber Liudprand. in 
Denkschrift. d. Kon. -1 ka<1. <1. Wissensch. of Munich, 1809, 
1810; 1 loefer, Xonr, Biog. Gene rale, xxxii, 219 ; Herzog, 
1 leal- Encyklop. viii, 4 12; Baxmann, Politik der Pdpste, 
vol. ii (see Index). 

Luke, the evangelist, and author of the Acts of the 
Apostles. In the following account of himself and his 
Gospel we largely follow the articles in Kitto's and 
Smith’s Dictionaries. 

I. His A 'ume. — This, in the Greek form, Aovkcic. is 
abbreviated from A ovkovoc. the Grrecized representative 
of the Latin Lncanns , or AouKtXtdc, Lncilius (comp. Silas 
for Site anus; Annas for .1 unanus ; Zenas for Zenodorus: 


Winer, Gram. p. 115). The contraction of avoq into dq 
is said to be characteristic of the names of slaves (see 
Lobeck, De Substantiv. in aq exenntibus , in Wolf, .1 nalect. 

iii, 49), and it has been inferred from this that Luke was 
of heathen descent (which may also be gathered from 
the implied contrast between those mentioned Coh iv, 
12-14, and the oi lie 7 TepiToprjg, ver. 11), and a libertus, 
or freed man. This latter idea has found confirmation in 
his profession of a physician (Col. iv, 14), the practice of 
medicine among the Romans having been in great meas- 
ure confined to persons of servile rank (Middleton, De 
Medicorum apud Roman, degent. Conditione). To this, 
however, there were many exceptions (see Smith, Diet, 
of Class. Antiq. s. v.Medicus), and it is altogether an in- 
sufficient basis on which to erect a theory as to the evan- 
gelist’s social rank. So much, however, we may proba- 
bly safely infer from his profession, that he was a man 
of superior education and mental culture to the gener- 
ality of the apostles, the fishermen and tax-gatherers of 
the Sea of Galilee. 

II. Scripture History. — All that can be with certainty 
known of Luke must be gathered from the Acts of the 
Apostles and the Epistles of Paul. The result is but 
scanty. He was not born a Jew, for he is not reckoned 
among them “of the circumcision’’ by Paid (comp. Col. 

iv, 11 with ver. 14). If this be not thought conclusive, 
uothing can be argued from the Greek idioms in his 
style, for he might be a Hellenistic Jew, nor from the 
Gentile tendency of Ids Gospel, for this it would share 
with the inspired writings of Paul, a Pharisee brought 
up at the feet of Gamaliel. The date of his conversion 
is uncertain. He was not, indeed, “an eyewitness and 
minister of the Word from the beginning” (Luke i, 2), or 
he would have rested his claim as an evangelist upon 
that ground. His name does not onee occur in the Acts, 
and we can only infer his presence or absence from the 
sudden changes from the third to the first person, and 
vice versa , of which phenomenon, notwithstanding all 
that has of late been urged against it, this, which has 
been accepted since the time of Jrenams ( Contr.Hicr . iii, 
14), is the only satisfactory explanation. Rejecting the 
reading avvearpappivtav cs i)pwv, Acts xi, 28 (which 
only rests on D. and Augustine, De Serm. Dom. ii, 17), 
which would bring Luke into connection with Paul at a 
much earlier period, as well as the identification of the 
evangelist with Lucius of Cvrene (Acts xiii, 1 ; Rom. 
xvi, 21), which was current in Origen’s time (ad Rom. 
xvi, 39 ; see Lardner, Credibility , vi, 124 ; Marsh, Micha- 
clis , iv, 234), and would make him a kinsman of Paul, 
we first find Luke in Paid’s company at Troas, and sail- 
ing with him to Macedonia (Acts xvi, 10, 11). A.D. 48. 
Of his previous history, and the time and manner of his 
conversion, we. know nothing, but Ewaid’s supposition 
{Gesch. d. V. Isr. vi. 35. 448) is not at all improbable, that 
he was a physician residing in Troas, converted by Paul, 
and attaching himself to the apostle with all the ardor 
of a young convert. He may also, as Ewald thinks, 
have been one of the first uneircumeised Christians. 
His conversion had taken place before, since he silently 
assumes his place among the great apostle’s followers 
without any hint that this was his first admission to the 
knowledge and ministry of Christ, lie may have found 
his way to Troas to preach the Gospel, sent possibly by 
Paul himself. There are some who maintain that Luke 
had already joined Paul at Antioch (Acts xi, 27-30; see 
Journal of Sacred Literature , October, 1861, p. 170, and 
Conybeare and I lowson's Life of Paul, chap, v, new ed. 
Loud. 1861). lie accompanied Paul as far as Philippi, 
but did not share in the imprisonment of his master and 
his companion Silas, nor. as the third person is resumed 
(Acts xvii, 1), did lie, it would seem, take any further 
part in the apostle’s missionary journey. The first 
person appears again on Paul's third visit to Philippi, 
A.D.51 (Acts xx, 5, 6). from which it has been gathered 
that Luke had spent the whole intervening time — a pe- 
riod of seven or eight years — in Philippi or its neighbor- 
hood. If any credit is to be given to the aucient opin- 


LUKE 551 LUKE 


ion that Luke is referred to in 2 Cor. viii, 18 as “ the 
brother whose praise is in the Gospel throughout all the 
churches” (a view adopted by the Church of England in 
the collect for Luke’s day), as well as the early tradition 
embodied in the subscription to that epistle, that it was 
sent from Philippi “ by Titus and Lucas? we shall have 
evidence of the evangelist’s missionary zeal during this 
long space of time. If this be so, we are to suppose that 
during the “three months” of Paul’s sojourn at Philippi 
(Acts xx, 3) Luke was sent from that place to Corinth 
on this errand, the word “gospel” being, of course, to be 
understood, not, as Jerome and others erroneously inter- 
pret it, of Luke’s written gospel, but of his publication 
of the glad tidings of Jesus Christ. The mistaken in- 
terpretation of the word “gospel” in this place has thus 
led some to assign the composition of the Gospel of Luke 
to this period, a view which derives some support from 
the Arabic version published by Erpenius, in which its 
writing is placed “in a city of Macedonia twenty-two 
years after the Ascension,” A.D. 51. From their reunion 
at Philippi, Luke remained in constant attendance on 
Paul during his journey to Jerusalem (Acts xx, 6-xxi, 
18), and, disappearing from the narrative during the 
apostle’s imprisonment at Jerusalem and Caesarea, reap- 
pears again when he sets out for Pome (Acts xxvii, 1). 
A.D. 56. He was shipwrecked with Paul (xxviii, 2), 
and travelled with him by Syracuse and Puteoli to Pome 
(vers. 12-16), where he appears to have continued as his 
fellow-laborer (pvvepyuc, Philem. 24 ; Col. iv,4) till the 
close of his first imprisonment, A.D. 58. The Second 
Epistle to Timothy (iv, 11) gives us the latest glimpse 
of the “beloved physician,” and our authentic informa- 
tion regarding him beautifully closes with a testimony 
from the apostle’s pen to his faithfulness amidst general 
defection, A.D. 64. 

III. Traditionary Notices. — The above sums up all we 
really know about Luke ; but, as is often the case, in pro- 
portion to the scantiness of authentic information is the 
copiousness of tradition, increasing in definiteness, he it 
remarked, as it advances. Ilia Gentile descent being 
taken for granted, Ids birthplace was appropriately 
enough fixed at Antioch, “ the centre of the Gentile 
Church, and the birthplace of the Christian name” (Eu- 
sebius, //. E. iii, 4 ; comp. Jerome, De Yir. lllust. 7 ; In 
Matt. Pra?f.), though it is to be observed that Chrysos- 
tom, when dwelling on the historical associations of the 
city, appears to know nothing of such a tradition. He 
was believed to have been a Jewish proselyte, ignorant 
of Hebrew (Jerome, Qucest. in Gen. c. xlvi), and probably 
— because he alone mentions their mission, but in con- 
tradiction to his own words (Luke i, 23) — one of the sev- 
enty disciples who, having left our Lord in offence (John 
vi, 60-66), was brought baek to the faith by the ministry 
of Paul (Epiphan. Hcer. li, 11) ; one of the Greeks who 
desired to “see Jesus” (John xii, 20. 21), and the com- 
panion of Cleopason the journey to Emmaus (Theophvl. 
Proem in Luc.). An idle legend of Greek origin, which 
first appears in the late and credulous historian Niceph- 
orus Callisus (died 1450). llist.Eccl. ii, 43, and was uni- 
versally accepted in the Middle Ages, represents Luke as 
well acquainted with the art of painting ( aicpiog ttjv Zoj- 
ypd<pov rk\vr]V IKtTriGTdptvoQ), and assigns to his hand 
the first portraits of our Lord, his mother, and his chief 
apostles (see the monographs of Manni [Florent. 1764] 
and Schlichter [Hal. 1734]). 

Nothing is known of the place or manner of his death, 
and the traditions are inconsistent with one another, 
Gregory Naz. reckons him among the martyrs, and the 
untrustworthy Nicephoros gives us full details of the 
time, place, and mode of his martyrdom, viz., that lie 
was crucified to a live olive-tree in Greece, in his eighti- 
eth year. According to others, he died a natural death 
after preaching (according to Epiphanius, Contra Hcer. 
li, 11) in Dalmatia. Gallia, Italy, and Macedonia; was 
buried in Bithynia, whence his bones were translated by 
Constantins to Constantinople (Isid. Ilispal. c. 82; Phi- 
lostorgius, vol. iii, chap. xxix). See generally Ivbhler, 


Dissert, de Luca Ev. (Lipsice, 1695) ; Credner, Einleit. ins 
N. T. i, 124. 

LUKE, Gospel according to, the third in order of 
the canonical books of the New Testament 

I. Author — Genuineness . — The universal tradition of 
Christendom, reaching up at least to the latter part of 
the 2d century, has assigned the third member of our 
Gospel collection to Luke, Paul’s trusted companion and 
fellow-laborer, cvvtpy 6c, who alone continued in attend- 
ance on his beloved master in his last imprisonment 
(Col. iv, 14 ; Philem. 24 ; 2 Tim. iv. 11). Its authorship 
has never been questioned until comparatively recent 
times, when the unsparing criticism of Germany — the 
main object of which appears to be the demolishing of 
every ancient belief to set up some new hypothesis in 
its stead — has been brought to bear upon it, without, 
however, effectually disturbing the old traditionary 
statement. The investigations of Semler, Hilgenfeld, 
Kitschl, I3aur, Schleiermaclier, Ewaid, and others, have 
failed to overthrow the harmonious assertion of the 
early Church that the third Gospel, as we have it, is 
the genuine work of Luke. It is well known that, 
though the “Gospels” are referred to by Justin Martyr 
as a collection already used and accepted by the Church 
( Apol . i, 66 ; Dial. c. Tryph. c. 10), and his works supply 
a very considerable number of quotations, enabling us to 
identify, beyond all reasonable doubt, these evayytXici 
with t lie first three Gospels, we do not find them men- 
tioned by the names of their authors till the end of the 
2d century. In the Muratorian fragment, which can 
hardly be placed later than A.D. 170, we read. “Tcrtium 
Evangelii librum secundum Lucam Lucas iste niedicus 
post ascensum Cliristi cum eum Paidus quasi ut juris 
(tov ducat ov) studiosum [‘itineris socium,’ Bunseii] se- 
cum adsumsisset nomine suo ex ordine [• opinione,’ Cred- 
ner] conscripsit (Dominum tamen nec ipse vidit in ear- 
ne), et idem prout assequi potuit, ita et a nativitate Jo- 
liannis inccpit dicere” (Westcott. Hist, of Can. p. 559). 
The testimony of Ircnanis, A.D. cir. 180, is equaLy defi- 
nite, Ao vkclq ci 6 cttcoXovOog UctvXov ro vtt Gceivov ki)- 
pvacoptvov tvctyyiXiov iv fitfiXitp uarWero ( Contra 
Ilcer. iii, 1, 1), while from his enumeration of the many 
particulars, jilvrimct evangelii (ib. iii, 14, 3), recorded by 
Luke alone, it is evident that the Gospel he had was the 
same we now possess. Tatian’s Diatessaron is an un- 
impeachable evidence of the existence of four Gospels, 
and therefore of that by Luke, at a somewhat earlier 
period in the same century. The writings of Tertullian 
against Marcion, cir. 207, abound with references to our 
Gospel, which, with Ircnanis, he asserts to have been 
written under the immediate guidance of Paul ( Adv. 
Marc, iv, 2; iv, 5). In Eusebius we find both the Gos- 
pel and the Acts specified as QtoTrvtvGra fitfiXict, while 
Luke’s knowledge of the sacred narrative is ascribed to 
information received from Paul, aided by his intercourse 
with the other apostles (rijg twv dXXmv uttogtuXiov 
opiXiac wtpsXypivoc, 11. E. iii, 4 and 24). Eusebius, in- 
deed, tells us that in his day the erroneous view which 
interpreted ti'ayyiXiov (Pom. ii, 16; comp. 2 Cor. viii, 
18) of a written document was generally received, and 
that, in the words “according to my Gospel,” Paul was 
supposed to refer to the work of the evangelist. This 
is also mentioned by Jerome (De 17 r. lUust. 7). and ac- 
cepted b) r Origen (Eusebius, If. E. vi, 25) — one among 
many proofs of the want of the critical faculty among 
the fathers of that age. 

Additional evidence of the early acceptance of Luke’s 
Gospel may be derived from the queestio veorata of its 
relation to the Gospel of Marcion. This is not the place 
to discuss this subject, which has led critics to the most 
opposite conclusions, for a full account of which the read- 
er may be referred to De Wctte, Einleit. in N. T. p. 119- 
137, as well as to the treatises of Kitschl, Baur, llilgen- 
feld, Hahn, and Volckmar. It will be enough for our 
purpose to mention that the Gnostic teacher Marcion, in 
pursuit of his professed object of restoring the purity of 
the Gospel, which had been corrupted by Judaizmg 


LUKE 


552 


LUKE 


teachers, rejected all the books of the canon with the 
exception of ten epistles of Paul and a gospel, which he 
called simply a gospel of Christ. We have the express 
testimony of Ireiueus ( Contr . fleer. i, 27, 2; iii, 12, 12, etc.), 
Tertullian ( Cont . Marc. iv. 1, 2, G), Origen ( Cont . Cels. 
ii, 27), and Epiphanius ( liar . xlii, 11) that the basis of 
Marcion's Gospel was that of Luke, abridged and altered 
by him to suit his peculiar tenets (for the alterations and 
omissions, the chief being its curtailment by the first two 
chapters, see Dc Wettc, p. 123-132), though we cannot 
assert, as was done by his enemies among the orthodox, 
that all the variations are due to Mareion himself, many 
of them having no connection with his heretical views, 
and being, rather, various readings of great antiquity 
and high importance. Of late years, however, the op- 
posite view, which was first broached by Sender, Gries- 
bach, and Eichhorn, has been vigorously maintained, 
among others, by Ilitschl and Baur, who have endeav- 
ored to prove that the Gospel of Luke, as we have it, is 
interpolated, and that the portions Mareion is charged 
with having omitted were really unauthorized additions 
to the original document. See Bleek, Einl. in das X. T. 
§ 52. Volckmar, in his exhaustive treatise Das Evang . 
Marcions (Lips. 1852), has satisfactorily disposed of this 
theory, and has demonstrated that the Gospel of Luke, 
as we now have it, was the material on which Mareion 
worked, and, therefore, that before he began to teach, 
the date of which may be fixed about A.D. 133, it was 
already known to and accepted by the Church. Zeller 
and Kitschl have since abandoned their position ( Theol . 
Jahrb. 1851, p. 337, 528), and Baur has greatly modified 
his ( Markusevangel . 1851. p. 191). See also Hahn, Dors 
Euangelium Marcions (Kdnigsb. 1823) ; Olshausen, Eckt- 
heit der vier Kanon. Evangelien (Kdnigsb. 1823) ; Hits chi, 
Das Evangelium Marcions (Tubing. 184G) ; Baur, Krit , 
Unter suckling iiber d. Kan. Evangelien (Tubing. 1847) ; 
llilgenfeld, Krit. Untersuchungen (Halle, 1850); bishop 
ThirlwalTs Introduction to Schleiernuicher on EL Luke; 
De Wette, Lehrbuch d. X. T. (Berl. 1848) ; Norton, Genu- 
ineness of the Gospels (Bost. 1844), iii, add. note C, p. xlix. 

11. Sources . — The authorities from which Luke de- 
rived his Gospel are clearly indicated by him in the in- 
troduction (i, 1-4). lie does not claim to have been an 
eye-witness of out Lord’s ministry, or to have any per- 
sonal knowledge of the facts he records, but, as an honest 
compiler, to have gone to the best sources of information 
then accessible, and, having accurately traced the whole 
course of the apostolic tradition from the very first, in its 
every detail (TrappKoXovOifKon dvioQtv 7 rct(nv eiKptfiujg), 
to have written an orderly narrative of the facts (wpay- 
ftarwv) already fully believed ( 7re7rXt]po(popj)phtoi > ) in 
the Christian Church, and which Theopliilus had already 
learned, not from books, but from oral teaching (fcar/;- 
xh&K ; comp. Acts xviii, 25 ; Gal. vi, 5). These sources 
were partly the ‘‘oral tradition” (rrapicoem}') of those 
“who from the beginning were eve-witnesscs and min- 
isters of the Word,” and partly the written records (to 
which Ewald, vi, 40, on unexplained grounds, dogmat- 
ically assigns a non-J uda?an origin) which even then 
“ many” (7ro\Aot) had attempted to draw up, of which, 
though tlie evangelist’s words do not necessarily bear 
that meaning, we may well suppose that he would avail 
himself. Though we thankfully believe that, as well in 
the selection of his materials as in the employment of 
them, Luke was acting under the immediate influence 
of the Holy Spirit, it will be remarked that he lays claim 
to no such supernatural guidance, but simply to the care 
and accuracy of an honest, painstaking, and well-in- 
formed editor, not so consciously under the inspiration 
of the Holy Spirit as to supersede the use of his own 
mental powers. His use of his authorities is not me- 
chanical; though often incorporating, apparently with 
little alteration, large portions of the oral tradition, es- 
pecially in the case of the words of our Lord, or those 
with whom he conversed, ami adopting narratives al- 
ready current (of which the first two chapters, with their 
harsh Hebraistic phraseology, immediately succeeding 


the comparatively pure Greek of the dedication, are an 
example), the free handling of his pen is everywhere to 
be recognised. The connecting links and the passages 
of transition evidence the hand of the author, which 
may again be recognised in the greater variety of his 
style, the more complex character of his sentences, and 
t lie care he bestows in smoothing away harshnesses, and 
imparting a more classical air to the synoptical portions. 

Notwithstanding the almost unanimous consent of 
the fathers as to the Pauline origin of Luke’s Gospel 
(Tertull. adv. Marc . iv, 5, “Lucre digestum Paulo ad- 
scriberc solent Ircnreus, Cont. I Jeer. iii, I ; Origen apud 
Euscb. Hist. Eccl. vi, 25; Euseb. Hist. Eccl. iii, 4; Je- 
rome, De 17r. Illust. 7), there is little or nothing in the 
gospel itself to favor such a hypothesis, and very much 
to contradict it. It is true that the account of the in- 
stitution of the Lord’s Supper, 1 Cor. xi, 23-25, displays 
an almost verbal identity with Luke xxii, 19, 20; and, 
as Paul affirms that he received his “from the Lord,” it 
is highly probable that the evangelist has in this in- 
stance incorporated a fragment of the direct teaching 
of his master. But this is a solitary example (Luke 
xxiv, 34, comp, with I Cor. xv, 5, is too trifling to de- 
serve mention), and it is impossible that the evangelist 
should have expressed himself as he has done in his 
preface if he had derived the facts of his narrative from 
one who was neither “ an eye-witness” nor “ a minister 
of the Word from the beginning.” Nor again in the 
general tone and character of the gospel, when impar- 
tially viewed, is there much that can fairly be consid- 
ered as bearing out the hypothesis of a Pauline origin. 
Those who have sifted the gospel with this object have, 
it is true, gathered a number of passages which are sup- 
posed to have a Pauline tendency (sec llilgenfeld, 
Evang., and the ingenious essay prefixed to this gospel 
in Dr. Wordsworth’s Greek Testament ), e. g. Luke iv, 25 
sq. ; ix, 52 sq. ; x, 30 sq. ; xvii, 1G-18; and the parables 
of the prodigal son, the unprofitable servant, and the 
Pharisee and publican, which have been instanced by 
De Wette as bringing out the apostle’s teaching on jus- 
tification by faith alone; but, as dean Alford has ably 
shown ( Greek Test, i, 44, note b), such a list may easily 
be collected from the other gospels, while the entire ab- 
sence of any definite statement of the doctrinal truths 
which come forward with the greatest prominence in 
the apostle’s writings, and, with very scanty exceptions, 
of his peculiar theological phraseology, is of itself suffi- 
cient to prove how undue has been the weight assigned 
to Pauline influence in the composition of the gospel. 
It is certainly true that, in the words of bishop Thirl- 
wall (Schleiermacher On St. Luke, Introd. p. cxxviii), 
“ Luke’s Gospel contains numerous indications of that 
enlarged view of Christianity which gave to the gospel, 
as preached by Paul, a form and an extent very differ- 
ent from the original tradition of the Jews,” but no 
more can be legitimately inferred than that Luke was 
Paul’s disciple, instructed by the apostle of the Gentiles, 
and naturally sharing in his view of the gospel as a 
message of salvation for all nations; not that his gospel 
was in any sense derived from him, or rested on the 
apostolic basis of Paul. 

The question naturally arises whether the gospels of 
Matthew and Mark were among the e)ujyi)<jug to which 
Luke refers. The answers to this have been various 
and contradictory, the same data leading critics to the 
most opposite conclusions. Meyer ( Comment . ii, 217) is 
of opinion that Luke availed himself both of Matthew 
and Mark, though chiefly of the latter, as the “primi- 
tive gospel;” while De Wette, on the other hand (Ein- 
leit. sec. 94, p. 185), considers Mark’s Gospel the latest 
of the three, and based upon them as authorities. In 
the face of these and other discordant theories, of which 
a list may be seen (De Wette, Einleit. § 88, p. 1G2-1G8), 
it will be wise not to attempt a categorical decision. A 
calm review of the evidence will, however, lead most 
unbiassed readers to the conclusion that all three wrote 
in perfect independence of one another ; each, under the 


LUKE 


553 


LUKE 


guidance of the Holy Spirit, giving a distinct view of 
the great complex whole, the retiex of the writer’s own 
individual impressions, and that least of all is Luke to 
he considered as a mere redacteur of the prior writings 
of his brother synoptists — a theory, the improbabilities 
and absurdities of which have been well pointed out by 
dean Alford in the Prolegomena to his Greek Testament, 
i, 2-G, 41. 

III. Relation to Matthew and M ark . — Believing that 
no one of the three synoptical gospels is dependent on 
the others, and that the true explanation of this strik- 
ing correspondence, not only in the broad outline of our 
Lord’s life and work, and the incidents with which this 
outline is filled up, but also, to a considerable extent, in 
the parables and addresses recorded, and even in the 
language and forms of expression, is to be sought in the ! 
same apostolical oral tradition having formed the orig- ! 
inal basis of each, we have presented a very interesting I 
point of inquiry in tracing the correspondence and diver- 
gence of the several narratives. In particular, a com- 
parison of Luke with the other synoptists furnishes 
many striking and important results. With the gen- 
eral identity of the body of the history, we at once no- 
tice that there are two large portions peculiar to this 
evangelist, containing events or discourses recorded by 
him alone. These are the first two chapters, narrating 
the conception, birth, infancy, and early development 
of our Lord and his forerunner, and the long section (ix, 
51-xviii, 14) devoted to our Lord’s final journey to Je- 
rusalem, and comprising some of his most beautiful par- 
ables. We have also other smaller sections supplying 
incidents passed over by Matthew and Mark — the ques- 
tions of the people and the Baptist’s replies (iii, 10-14); 
Simon and the woman that was a sinner (vii, 36-50) ; 
the raising of the widow’s son (viii, 11-17); the story j 
of Zacclueus (xix, 1-10) ; our Lord’s weeping over Jeru- 
salem (xix, 39-44); the journey to Emmaus (xxiv, 13- | 
35). In other parts he follows a tradition at once so 
much fuller and so widely at variance with that of the 
others as almost to suggest the idea that a different 
event is recorded (eh. iv, 16-30; comp. Matt, xiii, 54- 
58; Mark vi, 1-6; cli. v, l-II; comp. Matt, iv, 18-22; 
Mark i, 16-20). Even where the language employed 
so closely corresponds as to remove all question of the | 
identity of the events, fresh details are given, often of j 
the greatest interest, e. g. 7rpo aevxop'tvQv (iii, 21) ; erio- j 
gaToctp tidu (iii, 22); 7r\i)p. 7ri ay. (iv, 1); on 
tfioi 7rapadecorai, k. r. \. (iv, 6) ; up\i Kcupov (iv, 13); I 
Svvapig Kvpiov ijv, k. r. \. (v. 17); KaraXnroJV uVor- 
ra and doy?) gey. (v, 28, 29); the comparison of old and 
new wine (v, 39); h r\i)<rS. civoiag (vi, 11); cvvagig 
Trap’ avrov ii£i)px» (vi, 19); the cures in the presence 
of John’s disciples (vii, 21), and the incidental remarks 
(ver. 29, 30) ; many additional touches in the narratives 
of the Gadarene demoniac (viii, 26-39), and the trans- 
figuration, especially the fact of his “praying” (Luke 
records at least six instances of our Lord having prayed 
omitted by the other evangelists), and the subject of 
the conversation with Moses and Elijah (ix, 28-36); 
notices supplied (xx, 19 ; xxi, 37, 38), all tending to con- 
vince us that we are in the presence not of a mere copy- 
ist, but of a trustworthy and independent witness. 
Luke’s account of the passion and resurrection is to a 
great extent his own, adding much of the deepest sig- 
nificance to the synoptical narrative, particularly the 
warning to Simon in the name of the twelve (xxii, 31, 
32) ; the bloody sweat (ver. 44) ; the sending to Herod 
(xxiii,7-12) ; the words to the women (ver. 27-3 1) ; the 
prayer for forgiveness (ver. 34) ; the penitent thief (ver. 
39-43); the walk to Emmaus (xxiv, 13-35); and the 
ascension (ver. 50-53). 

It has been remarked that there is nothing in which 
Luke is more characteristically distinguished from both 
the evangelists than in his selection of our Lord’s para- 
bles. There are no less than eleven quite peculiar to 
him: (1.) The two debtors; (2.) Good Samaritan; (3.) 
Friend at midnight; (4.) Iiieh fool; (5.) Barren fig- 


tree; (6.) Lost silver; (7.) Prodigal son; (8.) Unjust 
steward; (9.) Itich man and Lazarus; (10.) Unjust 
judge; (11.) Pharisee and publican; and two others, 
the Great Supper, and the Pounds, which, with many 
points of similarity, differ considerably from those found 
in Matthew. 

Of our Lord’s miracles, six omitted by Matthew and 
Mark are recorded by Luke: (!.) Miraculous draught; 
(2.) The son of the widow of Nain; (3.) The woman 
with a spirit of infirmity; (4.) The man with a dropsy; 
(5.) The ten lepers; (6.) The healing of Malelius’s ear. 
Of the seven not related by him. the most remarkable 
omission is that of the Syrophcenician woman, for which 
a priori reasoning would have claimed a special place 
in the so-called Gospel of the Gentiles. We miss also 
the walking on the sea, the feeding of the four thou- 
sand, the cure of the blind men, and of the deaf and 
dumb, the stater in the fish’s mouth, and the cursing of 
the fig-tree. 

The chief omissions in narrative are the whole sec- 
tion, Matt, xiv-xvi, 12; Mark vi, 45— viii, 26; Matt, 
xix, 2-12; xx, 1-16, 20-28; comp. Mark x, 35-45; the 
anointing, Matt, xxvi, 6-13 ; Mark xiv, 3-9. 

With regard to coincidence of language, a most im- 
portant remark was long since made by bishop Marsh 
(Michaelis, v, 317), that when Matthew and Luke agree 
verbally in the common synoptical sections, Mark al- 
ways agrees with them also ; and that there is not a 
single instance in these sections of verbal agreement be- 
tween Matthew and Luke alone. A close scrutiny will 
discover that the verbal agreement between Luke and 
Mark is greater than that between Luke and Matthew, 
while the mutual dependence of the second and third 
evangelists on the same source is rendered still more 
probable by the observation of Iteuss, that they agree 
both in excess and defect when compared with Mat- 
thew: that when Mark has elements wanting in M at- 
thew.Luke usually has them also ; while, when Matthew 
supplies more than Mark, Luke follows the latter; and 
that where Mark fails altogether, Luke’s narrative often 
represents a different irapcKoaig from that of Matthew. 

IV. Character and general Purpose . — We must admit, 
but. with great caution, on account of the abuses to 
which the notion has led, that there are traces in the 
gospel of a leaning towards Gentile rather than Jewish 
converts. The genealogy of Jesus is traced to Adam, 
not from Abraham, so as to connect him with the whole 
human race, and not merely with the Jews. Luke de- 
scribes the mission of the Seventy, which number has 
usually been supposed to be typical of all nations; as 
twelve, the number of the apostles, represents the Jews 
and their twelve tribes. 

On the supposed “doctrinal tendency” of the gospel, 
however, much has been written which it is painful to 
dwell on, but easy to refute. Some have endeavored to 
see in this divine book an attempt to ingraft the teach- 
ing of Paul on the Jewish representations of the Mes- 
siah, and to elevate the doctrine of universal salvation, 
of which Paul was the most prominent preacher, over 
the Judaizing tendencies, and to put Paul higher than 
the twelve apostles ! (See Zeller, A post. ; Baur, Kanon. 
Evang . ; and Hilgenfekl.) How two impartial histori- 
cal narratives, the Gospel and the Acts, could have been 
taken for two tracts written for polemical and personal 
ends, is to an English mind hardly conceivable. Even 
its supporters found that the inspired author had car- 
ried out his purpose so badly that they were forced to 
assume that a second author or editor had altered the 
work with a view to work up together Jewish and Pau- 
line elements into harmony (Baur, Kanon. Evang. p. 
502). Of this editing and re-editing there is no trace 
whatever; and the invention of the second editor is a 
gross device to cover the failure of the first hypothesis. 
By such a machinery it will be possible to prove in 
after ages that Gibbon’s History was originally a plea 
for Christianity, or any similar paradox. 

The passages which are supposed to bear out this 


LUKE 


554 


LUKE 


“Pauline tendency” are brought together by Ililgenfeld 
with great care ( Evangelien , p. 220); but lieuss has 
shown, by passages from Matthew which have the same 
“tendency” against the Jews, how brittle such an argu- 
ment is, and lias left no room for doubt that the two 
evangelists wrote facts and not theories, and dealt with 
those facts with pure historical candor (lieuss, I/istoire 
tie la Theologie , vol. ii, b. vi, eh. vi). Writing to a Gen- 
tile convert, and through him addressing other Gentiles, 
Luke has adapted the form of his narrative to their 
needs, but not a trace of a subjective bias, not a vestige 
of a personal motive, has been suffered to sully the in- 
spired page. Had the influence of Paul been the ex- 
clusive or principal source of this gospel, we should 
have found in it more resemblance to the Epistle to the 
Ephesians, which contains (so to speak) the Gospel of 
Paul. 

The chief characteristic of Luke’s Gospel which dis- 
tinguishes it from those of the other synoptists, espe- 
cially Matthew, is its universality. The message he 
delivers is not, as it has sometimes been mistakenly de- 
scribed, for the Gentiles as such, as distinguished from 
the Jews, but for men. As we read his record, we seem 
to see him anticipating the time when all nations should 
hear the Gospel message, when all distinctions of race 
or class should be done away, and all claims based on a 
fancied self-righteousness annulled, and the glad tidings 
should be heard and received by all who were united in 
the bonds of a common humanity, and felt their need 
of a common Saviour, “the light to lighten the Gen- 
tiles, and the glory of his people Israel.” It is this 
character which has given it a right to the title of the 
Pauline Gospel, and enables us to understand why Mar- 
cion selected it as the only true exponent of Christ’s 
Gospel. This universal ism, however, is rather inter- 
woven with the gospel than to be specified in definite 
instances; and yet we cannot but feel how completely 
it is in accordance with it that Luke records the enrol- 
ment of the Saviour of the world as a citizen of the 
world-embracing Roman empire — that he traces his 
genealogy back to the head of the human race— that 
his first recorded sermon (iv, 1(5-27) gives proof of God’s 
wide-reaching mercy, as displayed in the widow of Sa- 
repta and Naaman — that in the mission of the twelve, 
the limitation to the “cities of Israel” should have no 
place, while he alone records the mission of the seventy 
(a number symbolical of the Gentile world) — that in the 
sermon on the mount all references to the law should be 
omitted, while all claims to superior holiness or national 
prerogative ar ; cut away by his gracious dealings with, 
and kindly mention of, the despised Samaritans (ix, 52 
sq. ; x, 30 sr^.; xvii, 11 sq.\ 

As with the race in general, so with its individual 
members. Luke delights to bear witness that none are 
shut out from God’s mercy — nay, that the outcast and 
the lost are the special objeets of his care and search. 
As proofs of this, we may refer to the narratives of the 
woman that was a sinner, the Samaritan leper, Zaechre- 
ns, and the penitent thief; and the parables of the lost 
sheep and lost silver, the Pharisee and publican, the 
rich man and Lazarus, and, above all, to that “which 
has probably exercised most influence on the mind of 
Christendom in all periods” (Maurice, Unity of the Gos- 
pel, p. 274), the prodigal son. 

Most naturally also in Luke we find the most fre- 
quent allusions to that which has been one of the most 
striking distinctions between the old and modern world 
— the position of woman as a fellow-heir of the king- 
dom of heaven, sharing in the same responsibilities and 
hopes, and that woman eomes forward most prominent- 
ly (the Syrophoenieinn, as already noticed, is a single 
marked exception) as the object of our Lord’s Sympathy 
and love. Commencing wkh the Virgin Mary as a 
type of the purity and lowly obedience which is the 
true glory of womanhood, we meet in succession with 
Anna the prophetess, the pattern of holy widowhood 
(comp. I Tim. v, 5) ; the woman that was a sinner; the 


widow of Nain; the ministering women (viii, 2, 3); 
Mary and Martha; the “daughter of Abraham” (xiii, 
11); and close the list with the words of exquisite ten- 
derness and sympathy to the “daughters of Jerusalem” 
(xxiii, 28). 

This universal character is one, the roots of which lie 
deep in Luke’s conception of the nature and work of 
Christ. With him, more than in the other gospels, Je- 
sus is “ the second man, the Lord from heaven” (Lange); 
and if in his pages we see more of his divine nature, 
and have in the more detailed reports of his conception, 
and aseension clearer proofs that he was indeed the Son 
of the llighes-t, it is here too, in “ the life-giving sympa- 
thy and intercourse with the inner man, in the human 
fellowship grounded on not denying the divine conde- 
scension and eompassion” (Maurice, u. s .), that we rec- 
ognise the perfect ideal man. 

Luke, it has been truly remarked, is the gospel of con- 
trasts. Starting with the contrast between the doubt 
of Zaeharias and the trustful obedience of Mary, we tind 
in almost every page proofs of the twofold power of 
Christ’s word and work foretold by Simeon (ii, 34). To 
select a few of the more striking examples : He alone 
presents to our view Simon and the sinful woman, Mar- 
tha and Mary, the thankful and thankless lepers, the 
tears and hosannas on the brow of Olivet; he alone adds 
the “woes” to the “blessings” in the sermon on the 
mount, and earries on in the parables of the rich man 
and Lazarus, the Pharisee and publican, and the good 
Samaritan, that, series of strong contrasts which finds so 
appropriate a close in the penitent and blaspheming 
malefactors. 

Once more, Luke is the hymn-writer of the New Tes- 
tament. “Taught by thee, the Church prolongs her 
hymns of high thanksgiving still” (Keble, Christian 
Year'). But for his record the Magnificat , Benedict us, 
and Nunc Dimittis would have been lost to us; and it 
is he who has preserved to us the Ave Maria, identified 
with the religious life of so large a part of Christendom, 
and the Gloria in Excelsis, which forms the culminating 
point of its most solemn ritual. 

To turn from the internal to the external character- 
istics of Luke’s Gospel, these we shall find no less mark- 
ed and distinct. His narrative is, as he promised it 
should be, an orderly one (icaStZijc, i, 3) ; but the order 
is one rather of subjeet than of time. As to the other 
synoptists, though maintaining the principle of chrono- 
logical succession in the main outline of Ins narrative, 
“ he is ever ready to sacrifice mere chronology to that 
order of events which was the fittest to develop his pur- 
pose according to the object proposed by the inspiring 
Spirit, grouping his incidents according to another and 
deeper order than that of mere time” (Maurice, u. s.). 
It is true that he furnishes us with the three most pre- 
cise dates in the whole Gospel narrative (ii, 2; iii, 1,23 
— each one, be it remarked, the subject, of vehement con- 
troversy), but, in spite of the attempts made by Wieseler 
and others to force a strict chronological character upon 
his gospel, an unprejudiced perusal will convince us that 
his narrative is loose and fragmentary, especially in the 
section ix, 49-xviii, 14, and his notes of time vague and 
destitute of precision, even where the other synoptists 
are more definite (eh. v, 12; eorap.Matt.viii,l; ch. viii, 4 ; 
comp. Matt, xiii, 1 ; ch. viii, 22 ; comp. Mark iv, 35, etc.). 

“ The aeeuraey with which Luke has drawn up his 
Gospel appears in many instances. Thus, lie is partic- 
ular in telling us the dates of his more important events. 
The birth of Christ is referred to the reign of Augustus, 
and the government of Syria by Cyrenius (ii, 1-3). The 
preaching of John the Baptist is pointed out as to its 
time with extreme circumstantiality (iii, 1-2). But it 
is in lesser matters that accuracy is ehiefiv shown. Thus 
the mountain storm on the Lake of Gennesaret is mark- 
ed by him with a minute accuracy which is not seen in 
Mark or Matthew (comp. ch. viii, 23 with parallel Gos- 
pels, and with Josephus, ir</r, iii, x; Irby and Mangles, 
Travels , ch. vi). In ch. xxi, l,we read of a gesture on 


LUKE 


555 


LUKE 


Christ’s part which marks a wonderful accuracy on the 
part of Luke. We read there that Christ “ looked up” 
and saw the rich casting their gifts into the treasury. 
From Mark xii, 41 we learn the reason of Luke’s ex- 
pression, which he does not give himself, for there we 
read that Christ, after warning his disciples against the 
scribes, “ sat down” and would therefore have to look up 
in order to see what was going on. This minute accu- 
racy marks Luke’s description of our Lord’s coming to 
Jerusalem across the Mount of Olives (xix, 37-41). 
Travellers who are very accurate in topographical de- 
scription speak of two distinct sights of Jerusalem on 
this route, an inequality of ground hiding it for a time 
after one has first caught sight of it ( Clerical Journal , 
August 22, 1856, p. 397). Luke distinctly refers to this 
nice topographical point ; in ver. 37 he marks the first 
sight of Jerusalem, and in ver. 41 he marks the second 
sight of the city, now much nearer than before. The 
correctness of Luke’s date in the matter of the govern- 
ment of Syria by Cyrenius has indeed been often ques- 
tioned, but on insufficient grounds. The just way of 
dealing with very ancient documents which have given 
general proofs of trustworthiness, but which, in particu- 
lar instances, make statements that do not appear to us 
to be correct, is to attribute this apparent want of cor- 
rectness to our ignorance rather than to that of the 
writer. In the particular case before us recent research 
has shown that Cyrenius was in all probability twice 
governor of Syria, thus establishing, instead of over- 
throwing, the correctness of Luke” (Fairbairn). Com- 
pare I luschke, Ueber den zur Zeit der Geburt Christi gc- 
haltenen Census (Breslau, 1840); Wieselcr, Chronologische 
Synapse der vier Evangelien (Hamburg, 1843) ; Tholuck, 
G la ubteii rdigkeit der evangelischen Geschichte. See Cv- 

KENIIS. 

In his narrative we miss the graphic power of Mark, 
though in this he is superior to Matthew, e. g. eh. vii, 
1-10; comp. Matt. viii, 5-13: cli.viii, 41-56; comp.Matt. 
ix, 18-26. His object is rather to record the facts of 
our Lord’s life than his discourses, while, as Olshausen 
remarks (i, 19, Clark’s ed.), “He has the peculiar power 
of exhibiting with great clearness and truth our Lord’s 
conversations, with all the incidents that gave rise to 
them— the remarks of the by-standers, and their re- 
sults.” 

We may also notice here the passing reflections, or, 
as bishop Ellicott terms them {Hist, Led, p. 28), “psy- 
chological comments,” called up by the events or actors 
which appear in his Gospel, interpolated by him as obi- 
ter dicta in the body of the narrative. We may in- 
stance ii, 50, 51 ; iii, 15; vi, 11; vii, 29, 30, 39; xvi, 14; 
xx, 20; xxii, 3; xxiii, 12. 

Y. Style and Language. — Luke’s style is more finished 
than that of Matthew or Mark. There is more of com- 
position in his sentences. His writing displays greater 
variety, and the structure is more complex. His dic- 
tion is substantially the same, hut purer, and. except in 
the first two chapters, less Hebraized, as remarked by 
Jerome ( Comment . in Es .; compare ad Damas. Ep. 20). 
It deserves special notice how, in the midst of close ver- 
bal similarity, especially in the report of the words of 
our Lord and others, slight alterations are made by him 
either by the substitution of another word or phrase (e. 
g. Luke xx, 6 ; comp. Matt, xxi, 26 ; Mark xi, 32 : Luke 
vii, 25; Markxi,8: Luke ix, 14; Mark vi,39,40: Luke 
xx, 28, 29; Mark xii, 20, 22 : Luke viii, 25; Mark viii, 
27), the supply (Luke xx,45; Mark xii, 38: Luke vii, 8; 
Matt, viii, 9), or the omission of a word (Luke ix, 25; 
Matt, xvi, 26; Mark viii, 36), by which harsh construc- 
tions are removed, and a more classical air given to the 
whole composition. 

The Hebraistic character is more perceptible in the 
hymns and speeches incorporated by him than in the 
narrative itself. The following are some of the chief 
Hebraisms that have been noticed: (1.) the very fre- 
quent use of Lytvtro in a new subject, especially iyn’ero 
iv T(jj } with the accusative and infinitive, corresponding 


to 3 twenty-three times, not once in Matt., only 

twice in Mark; (2.) the same idiom, without iyharo, e. 
g. ix, 34, 36 ; x, 35 ; xi, 37 ; (3.) iytvtro wg, or wg alone 
of time, the Hebrew 2, e. g. ii, 15; v, 4, only once each 
in Matthew and Mark; (4.) "Yi/aoroe, used for God= 
five times, once in Mark ; (5.) olicog, for family = 
n*'2; (6.) inrb tov j-'ui/=S"IFC* 72, four times, not once 
in the other gospels; (7.) dctnta in the genitive as an 
epithet, e. g. oncovoyov rijg cidudag , KotTijg rijg dFuciag ; 
(8.) wpo^/S-fro nifiipai, xx, 11,12; (9.) KapSia = z\ 

On the other hand, we find certain classical words 
and phrases peculiar to Luke taking the place of others 
less iamiliar to his Gentile readers, e. g. e 7 noTciTi]g for 
pa/3/3/, six times; voyiKol for ypapyaTtic, six times; 
i'«£, d\7]Su>g, or in’ dXifitiag for dpiju, which only oc- 
curs seven times to thirty in Matthew, and fourteen in 
Mark; dnrTtiv Acynor for Kaitiv A., four times; Xipvrj 
of the Lake of Gennesareth for BraXaooa, five times; 
7rapaXtXvintvog for 7rapaXvriKog ; icXivtciov for fcpd/3- 
/3aroo; <pbpog for idjvoog. 

The style of Luke has many peculiarities both in con- 
struction and in diction; indeed, it has been calculated 
that the number of words used only by him exceeds the 
aggregate of the other three gospels. Full particulars 
of these are given by Credner ( Einleit .) (copied by Da- 
vidson, Introd. to the N. T.) and Itenss ( Geschichte d. II. 
SchriJ}.'). The following are. some of the most note- 
worthy. Of peculiar constructions we may remark, (1.) 
the infinitive with the genitive of the article (Winer, 
Gr. Gr. i, 340), to indicate design or result, e. g. Luke ii, 
27; v, 7 ; xxi, 22; xxiv, 29; i,9; i, 57 ; ii, 21. (2.) The 
substantive verb with the participle instead of the finite 
verb, iv, 81; v, 10; vi, 12 ; vii, 8; xxiii, 1 2 (Winer, § 65- 
67). (3.) The neuter participle with the article for a 

substantive, iv, 16; viii, 34; xxii, 22; xxiv, 14. (4.) 

7-6, to substantivise a sentence or a clause, especially in 
indirect questions, i, 63 ; vii, II ; ix, 46, etc. (5.) tiirtiv 
7 rpo£, sixtv-seven times; Xiyeiv -tt poc, ten times; Aa- 
Af7r 7rpor, four times, the first being used once by Mat- 
thew, and the others not at all by him or INI ark. (6.) 
Participles are copiously used to give vividness to the 
narrative, dvaarag, seventeen times; arpa^tig, seven 
times; Trtcrdjv, etc. (7.) civijp used with a substantive, 
e. g. dpaprioXog, v, 8 ; xix, 7 ; and 7rpo6))T)]g, xxiv, 19. 

Of the words peculiar to, or occurring much more fre- 
quently in Luke, some of the most remarkable are, the 
use of Kvpiog in the narrative as a synonym for ’li/crorc, 
which occurs fourteen times (e. g. vii, 13 ; x, 1 ; xiii, 15, 
etc.), and nowhere else in the synoptical gospels save 
in the addition to Mark, xvi, 19, 20; aiorijp. aairi]pia 7 
oajrijpiov, not found in the other gospels, except the 
first two once each in John; yapte, eight times in the 
Gospel, sixteen in the Acts, and only thrice in John,\a- 
pt^oyai, \apiroio ; tvayytXi^opai, very frequent, while 
tvayytXioi’ does not occur at all; virocrptebio, twenty- 
one times in the Gospel, ten in the Acts, and only once 
in Mark ; iepiardva r, not used in the other three gos- 
pels ; ciipxtG^ai. thirty-two times in Luke’s Gospel and 
the Acts, and only twice each in Matthew, 31 ark, and 
John; 7rap«\'pf///a, frequent in Luke, and only twice 
elsewhere, in Matthew; in rdpyw, seven times in Gos- 
pel, twenty-six in Acts, but nowhere in the other gos- 
pels, and rd v7rdp\ovTa 9 eight times in Gospel to three 
in Matthew alone ; urrag , twenty times in Gospel, six- 
teen in Acts, to thrice in Matthew and four times in 
Mark; 'ItpovaaXiift, instead of the 'itpoabXvya of the 
other gospels; ivibiziav, twenty-two times in Gospel, 
fourteen times in Acts, once besides in John ; ccr, twen- 
ty-four times in Gospel, fifty-one in Acts, and only ten 
times in the other gospels; the particle rf, which hardly 
appears in the other gospels, is very frequent in Luke’s 
writings. The words drtmZut, droTrog , /3ouA>), f3 ot<pog. 
dioyat, cttjGig , coy//, cpdypj/, Sdyfioc, StptXior, ictoig , 
Kra3’6n,/«:a3'oAof;, KaSiZgg, Kanorpyog, icnpaZ, Xt7og,Xv - 
rp6a>, Xvrpiucng, oiia'i'oyog-ia-ta), Tratcevio, ttovoj, 7tXLo 9 
7rXi}Sog , TrXiftw, 7 r\i]r, TTpuaau), oiydu >, GKipraw, rup- 


LUKE 


556 


LUKE 


fidZopai, X'lP a i wtwt, icaSiog, are almost or quite pecul- 
iar to him; he is very partial to kcii civtoq and ku'i av- 
7-01, ei, de, pi), ye, and abounds in verbs compounded 
with prepositions, where the other evangelists use the 
simple verb. 

Some omissions are to be noted: dX?)5i)g does not oc- 
cur once, ciXrjSuvog only once, evayyeXiov , dtciKovogfai- 
povi^opevog, not once ; daipoviaSeig only once ; and 
worf, which is found fifteen times in Matthew, and thir- 
teen in Mark, occurs only thrice in the whole gospel. 

A few Latin words are used by Luke — docrdpior, xii, 
0; dtji'dptoc, vii, 41 ; Xeyeioy, viii, 80 ; podtov, xi, 33; 
(jouedpiop, xix, 20 ; Acts xix, 12, but no Hebrew or Syr- 
iac forms, except aiKEpa, i, 15. 

On comparing the Gospel with the Acts, it is found 
that the style of the latter is more pure and free from 
Hebrew idioms, and the style of the later portion of the 
Acts is more pure than that of the former. Where Luke 
used the materials he derived from others, oral or writ- 
ten, or both, his style reflects the Hebrew idioms of 
them ; but when he comes to scenes of which he was an 
eye-witness, and describes entirely in his own words, 
these disappear. 

VI. Quotations from the 0. T. — It is a striking con- 
firmation of the view propounded above of the charac- 
ter of Luke’s Gospel, and the object of its composition, 
that the references to the O. T., the authority of which 
with any except the Jews would be but small, are so few 
— only twenty-four in the one against sixty-five in the 
other — when compared with their abundance in Mat- 
thew. Only eight out of the whole number are pecul- 
iar to our evangelist (marked with an asterisk in the 
annexed list), which occur in the portions where he ap- 
pears to have followed more or less completely a 7 rapd- 
docrig of his own; the history of the birth and childhood 
of our Lord, the visit to Nazareth (eh. iv), and that of 
the passion. The rest are found in the common synop- 
tical sections. We may also remark that, with the most 
trilling exceptions, Luke never quotes the O. T. himself, 
nor speaks on his own authority of events occurring in 
fulfilment of prophecy, and that his citations are only 
found in the sayings of our Lord and others. The fol- 
lowing list is tolerably complete, exclusive of the hymns, 
which are little more than a cento of phrases from the 
O. T. 


i, IT, Mai. iv, 6. 

* 25, Gen. xxx, 23. 

* ii, 23, Exod. xiii, 2. 

* 24, Lev. v, 11. 
iii,4-6, Isa. xh 3-5. 

iv, 4, Deut. viii, 3. 

8, Deut. vi, 13. 
10-11, Psa. xc, 11-12. 
12, Dent, vi, 16. 

* 1S-19, Isa. lxi, 1-2. 

Isa. lviii, G. 

vii, 2T, Mai. iii, 1. 

viii, 10, Isa. vi, 9. 


x, 27, Deut. vi, 5. 

Lev', xix, 18. 
xiii, 27, Psa. vi, 8. 

35, Psa. cxvii, 26. 
xviii, 20, Exod. xx, 13-15. 

xix, 46, Isa. Ivi, 7. 

xx, 17, Psa. cxvii. 

28, Deut. xxv, 5. 

37, Exod. iii, 6. 

42-43, Psa. cix, 1. 

* xxii,37, Isa. liii, 12. 

* xxiii, 30, Hos. x, S. 

46, Psa. xxx, 5. 


VI I. Time and Place of Composition. — In the com- 
plete silence of Scripture, our only means for deter- 
mining the above points are tradition and internal evi- 
dence. The statements of the former, though sufficient- 
ly definite, are inconsistent and untrustworthy. Jerome 
( Propf. in Matthew) asserts that it was composed “in 
Achaia and the regions of Roeotia,” an opinion which 1 
appears to have been generally received in the 4th cen- j 
tury (Gregory Nazianzen, ’Ey ’A X aiaci), and has been 
accepted by Lardner ( Credibility ), who fixes its date 
A.D. 63 or 64, after the release of Paul. An Arabic ver- 
sion, published by Erpenius, places its composition “in 
a city of Macedonia, twenty-two years after the ascen- 
sion,” A.l). 51; a view to which llilgenfeld and Words- 
worth {Or. Test, i, 170) give in their adherence. A still 
earlier date, thirteen years after the ascension, is as- 
signed by the subscription in some ancient MSS. Oth- 
er statements as to the place are Alexandria Troas, Al- 
exandria in Egypt (the Peshito and Persian versions, 
Abulfeda, accepted by Mill.Grabe, and Wetstein), Pome 
(Ewald, vi, 40 ; Olsliausen), and Gesarea (Rertholdt, 
Schott, Thiersch, Alford, Abp. Thomson). 


! Amid this uncertainty, it will be well to see if there 
! is any internal evidence which will help us in deter- 
mining these points. We are here met at the outset by 
those who are determined to see in every clear prophecy 
a vaticinium post eventum , and who find in the predic- 
tions of the overthrow of Jerusalem (xiii, 34, 35; xix, 
43, 44; xxi, 20-24), and the persecutions of our Lord’s 
followers (xii, 52, 53; xxi, 12), and the nearness of the 
Trapovaia (xxi, 25-33), a clear proof that the Gospel was 
composed after A.D. 70. This has come to be regarded 
as a settled point by a certain school of criticism (Ew- 
ald, v, 134 ; l)e Wette, Einleit. p. 298 ; Credner, Einleit. ; 
Peuss, Gesch. de Heil. Sch r. p. 195; Meyer; Penan, Vie 
de Jesus, xvi ; Nicolas, Etudes , X. T., etc.), though there 
is no small diversity among its representatives as to the 
time and place of its publication of the Gospel and the 
sources from which it was derived. Those, on the other 
hand, who, brought up in a sounder and more reverent 
school, see no a priori impossibility in a future event 
being foretold by the Son of God, will be led by the 
same data to a very different conclusion, and will dis- 
cover sufficient grounds for dating the Gospel not later 
than A.D. 58. It is certain that the Gospel was written 
before the Acts of the Apostles (Acts i, 1). This latter 
could not have been composed before A.D. 58, when the 
writer leaves Paul “in his own hired house” at Pome; 
nor probably long after, since otherwise the issue of 
the apostle’s imprisonment and appeal to Caesar must 
naturally have been recorded by him. How long the 
composition of the Gospel preceded that of the Acts it is 
impossible to determine, but we may remark that the 
different tradition followed in the reports of the ascen- 
sion in the two books renders it probable that the inter- 
val was not very small, or, at any rate, that the two 
were not contemporaneous. If we follow the old tradi- 
tion given above, we may find reason for supposing that 
the interval between Luke’s being left at Philippi (Acts 
xvi, 12; xvii, 1) and his joining the apostle there again 
(xx, 5) was employed in writing and publishing his 
gospel. This view is accepted by Alford, Proleg. p. 47, 
and is ably maintained by Dr. Wordsworth, Gr. Test, i, 
168-170, though he weakens his argument by referring 
evayye Xioy (2 Cor. viii, 18) to a written gospel, a later 
sense never found in the New Test. Another and more 
plausible view, adopted by Thiersch, which has found 
very wide acceptance, is that the Gospel was written 
under the guidance and superintendence of Paul during 
his imprisonment at Gesarea, A.D. 55; but, as this im- 
prisonment did not last for two years, as usually held, 
there is here no room for the composition. Olshausen, 
among others, places it a little later, during Paul’s cap- 
tivity at Rome, where he may have made the acquaint- 
ance of Theophilus, if, as Ewald (vi, 40) maintains, the 
latter was a native of Rome. This view, which places 
the writing of the Gospel in the earl}' part of Paul’s first 
imprisonment at Rome, A.D. 56, is supported by Luke’s 
leisure at the time, and the fact that the Acts followed 
not very long after as a sequel. 

VIII. For whom icritten. — On this point we have cer- 
tain evidence. Luke himself tells us that the object he 
had in view in compiling his gospel was that a certain 
Theophilus “might know the certainty of those things 
wherein he had been (orally) instructed.” Nothing 
more is known of this Theophilus, and it is idle to re- 
peat the vague conjectures in which critics have in- 
dulged, some even denying his personal existence alto- 
gether, and arguing, from the meaning of the name, 
that it stands merely as the representative of a class. 
See Theophilus. One or two inferences may, how- 
ever, be made with tolerable certainty from Luke’s 
words. lie was doubtless a Christian, and, from his 
name and the character of the Gospel, a Gentile convert ; 
while the epithet fcod-iorog, generally employed as a 
title of honor (Acts xxiii, 26; xxiv, 3; xxvi, 25), indi- 
cates that he was a person of official dignity. He was 
not an inhabitant of Palestine, for the evangelist mi- 
nutely describes the position of places which to such a 


LUKE 


557 


LUKE 


one would be well known. It is so with Capernaum 
(iv, 31), Nazareth (i, 26), Arimathaja (xxiii, 51), the 
country of the Gadarencs (viii, 26), the distance of 
Mount Olivet and Emmaus from Jerusalem (Acts i, 12; 
Luke xxiv, 13). By the same test he probably was not 
a Macedonian (Acts xvi, 12), nor an Athenian (Acts 
xvii, 21), nor a Cretan (Acts xxvii,8, 12). But that he 
was a native of Italy, and perhaps an inhabitant of 
Rome, is probable from similar data. In tracing Paul’s 
journey to Kome, places which an Italian might be sup- 
posed not to know are described minutely (Acts xxvii, 
8, 12, 16); but when he comes to Sicily and Italy this is 
neglected. Syracuse and Khegium, even the more ob- 
scure Puteoli, and Appii Forum and the Three Taverns, 
are mentioned as to one likely to know them. (For 
other theories, see Marsh’s Michaelis , vol.'iii, part i, p. 
236; and Kuinol’s Prolegomena.') All that emerges 
from this argument is that the person for whom Luke 
wrote in the first instance was a Gentile reader. But, 
though the Gospel is inscribed to him, we must not con- 
sider that it was written for him alone, but that The- 
ophilus stands rather as the representative of the whole 
Christian world; not, as we have already seen, of the 
Gentiles, as such, to the exclusion of the Jews, but the 
whole race of man, whom Luke had in his eye ; and for 
whom, under the guidance of the Holy Spirit, the work 
was adapted “as the Gospel of the nations (role enrb 
tojv iSuibu 7T(7roit]ic6ra , Origen, apudEuseb. vi, 25), full 
of mercy and hope assured to the whole world by the 
love of a suffering Saviour” (Wcstcolt, Study of Gospels, 

p. 218). 

IX. Contents of the Gospel.— After the brief preface — 

the value of which it is difficult to overestimate as 
throwing light on the history of the composition of the 
gospels in general, and the true theory of scriptural 
inspiration — the narrative of the Gospel may be di- 
vided into four portions: 1. The time preceding our 
Lord’s public life, including the conception and birth of 
John the Baptist, and of Christ, his circumcision, pre- 
sentation in the Temple, and the single incident recorded 
of his childhood (ii, 41-51), comprised in the first two 
chapters. The whole of this portion is in form, and to 
a considerable extent in substance, peculiar to our evan- 
gelist. See § X. 2. A large number of originally de- 
tached and independent narratives, comprising our Lord’s 
baptism, temptation, and Galilean ministry, almost the 
whole being common to Luke with the other synoptists 
(iii, I-ix, 49). 3. A large section, sometimes, but im- 

properly, termed the gnomology , containing narratives 
of events and reports of discourses belonging to the pe- 
riod from the close of our Lord’s direct G alike an ministry 
to his visit to Jericho a few days before his royal en- 
trance into Jerusalem, and mostly occurring during the 
actual journey (ix, 50-xviii, 14). The whole of this, in 
its present form, is peculiar to Luke. 4. The last days 
of Christ: his entry into Jerusalem, discourses in the 
Temple, his sufferings and death, his resurrection and 
ascension, common to Luke and the other evangelists in 
substance, though there are considerable differences in 
detail in the narratives of the passion and resurrection 
(especially the journey to Emmaus), and that of the as- 
cension is entirely Luke’s own (xviii, 15-xxiv, 53). 

X. Integrity of the Gospel — the frst tiro Chapters . — 
The Gospel of Luke is quoted by Justin Martyr and by 
the author of the Clementine Homilies. The silence of 
the apostolic fathers only indicates that it was admitted 
into the canon somewhat late, which was probably the 
case. The evidence of the Marcionite controversy is, as 
we have seen, that our gospel was in use before A.I). 120, 
A special question, however, has been raised about the 
first two chapters. The critical history of these is best 
drawn out perhaps in Meyer’s note. The chief objec- 
tion against them is founded on the garbled opening of 
Marcion’s Gospel, who omits the first two chapters, and 
connects iii. 1 immediately with iv, 31. (So Tertullian, 
“Anno quintodccimo principatus Tiberiani proponitDe- 
um descendisse in civitatem Galilee® Caphamaum,” 


cont. Marc, tv, 7.) But any objection founded on this 
would apply to the third chapter as well; and the his- 
tory of our Lord’s childhood seems to have been known 
to and quoted by Justin Martyr (see Apology , i, § 33, 
and an allusion, Dial, cam Tryph. 100) about the time 
of Mareion. There is therefore no real ground for dis- 
tinguishing between the first two chapters and the rest; 
and the arguments for the genuineness of Luke’s Gospel 
apply to the whole inspired narrative as we now possess 
it (see Meyer's note ; also Volekmar, p. 130). 

XI. Commentaries. — The following arc the special ex- 
egetical helps on Luke’s Gospel : Origen, Fragmcnta (in 
Opp. iii, 979) ; also Scholia (in Bibl. Patr. Gallandii, 
xiv) ; Athanasius, Fragmcnta (in Opp. I, ii) ; also Com- 
ment aria ( ib . iii, 31) ; Ambrose, Expositio (in Opp. i, 
1257) ; Augustine, Qucestiones (in Opp. iv, oil) ; Jerome, 
Ilomilice [from Origen] (in 0/7/u vii,245) ; also Expositio 
(in Opp. [ Sujposita), xi, 764) ; Cyril Alex., A eldit a men- 
tion (in Mai, Script. Vet. ix, 741) ; Commentaria (ed. 
Smith, Lond. 1858, 4to; Commentary , tr. by same, ibid. 
1859, 2 vols. 8vo); Eusebius, Excerpta ( ibidem , i, 107); 
Titus Ilostrensis, Commentarius (in Bibl. Max. Patr. iv, 
415) ; Apollinarins Laodicensis, Fragmcnta (in Mai,67uss. 
A uct. x, 495) ; Bede, In Lucavi (in Opp. v, 217 ; J Tory's, 
ed. Giles, x and xi); Photius, Specimen (in Mai, Script. 
Vet. I, i, 189) ; Nicetas Senon. Catena (ib. ix, 626) ; yEl- 
fridus Rivellensis, Ilomilice (in Bibl. Max. Patr . xxiii, I ) ; 
Bonaventura, Expositio (in Opp. ii, 3) ; Albertus Mag- 
nus, Commentarii (in Opp. 10); Decorosus, Landes (in 
Mai, Script. Vet. ix, 182); Zwingle, Annotationes (in 
Opp. iv, 181); Brentius, Ilomilice (in Opp.v ); Lambert, 
Commentarius (Norib. 1524, Argent. 1525, 8vo) ; Agrie- 
ola, Commentarius (Aug. Yind. 1515, Norib. 1525, Hag. 
1526, 8vo) ; Sareer, Scholia (Basil. 1529, Francft. 1541, 
8vo) ; Bullinger, Commentaria (Tigur. 1546, fob); Hof- 
meister, Commentarius [inelud. Matt. and Mark] (Lovan. 
1562, fol.; Paris, 1563, Colon. 1572, 8vo); Logenhagen, 
Commentarius [from Augustine] (Antwerp, 1574, Svo); 
Soar, Commentaria (Conimb. 1574, Par. 1578, fob) ; Stel- 
la, Commentarius [Kom. Cath.] (Salmart. 1575, Complut. 
1578, Lugdun. 1580, 1583, 1592, Rom. 1582, Antw. 1582, 
1584, 1591, 1600, 1605, 1608, 1613, 1622, 1654, Mogunt. 
1680, fob; Yen. 1583, Mayence, 1681, 4to); Dc Horoseo, 
Commentarius (Complut. 1579, 4to) ; Gualther, Hom'd he 
(Tigur. 1585, fol.) ; Piseator, Analysis (Sigen. 1596, 1608, 
Svo) ; De Melo, Commentaria (Yallis. 1597, fob); Tole- 
tns, Commentaria [on ch. i-xii] (Rom. 1600, Par. 1600, 
Colon. 1612, fob; Yen. 1600, 4to) ; Winckelmann, Com- 
mentarius (Francf. 1601, Giess. 1609, Lub. 1616, 8vo) ; Del 
Pas, Commentaria (Rom. 1625, 2 vols. fob); Corderius, 
Catena (Antw. 1628, fob) ; Novarinus, Expensus (Lugd. 
1642, fol.) ; Gomarus, Illusiratio (in Opp. theolog. i, 149) ; 
A Lapidc, In Lucam (Antwerp, 1660, fob) ; Spielenberg, 
Commentarius (Jen. 1663, 4to); Harlsocker, Aantehin- 
gen [continued by Molinams] (Amst. 1687, 4to) ; Tolaar, 
Verklaaring (Ilainb. 1741, 3 vols. 4to) ; Pope, Erlauter- 
ung (Bremen, 1777, 1781, 2 vols. Svo); Anon. A nmerk. 
(Lps. 1792, Svo) ; Morns, Prcelcctiones (Lips. 1795, 8vo) ; 
Schleiermacher, Versuch (vol. i, 1817, 8vo ; trans. Essay, 
Lond. 1825, 8vo); Major, Notes (Lond. 1826, Svo); Bo- 
mermann, Scholia (Lips. 1830, 8vo) ; Stein, Kommentar 
(Halle, 1830, Svo) ; Wilson, Questions (Cambridge, 1830, 
12mo) ; Sumner, Exjmsition (3d ed. 1833, Svo) ; Watson, 
Exposition [ch. i-xiii] (in IVor&s, xiii ; also separately, 
N. Y. Svo) ; Short, Lectures (London, 1837, 12mo); Sirr, 
Notes (pt. i, London, 1843, 8vo) ; Trollope, Commentary 
(Lond. 1849, 12mo); Thomson, Lectures (Lond. 1849-51, 
3 vols. 8vo) ; Ford, Illustration (Lond. 1851, 8 vo) ; Cum- 
ming, Headings (London, 1854, 8vo) ; Foote, Lectures 
(Glasg. 1857, 2 vols.8vo) ; Goodwin, Commentary (Lond. 
1865, Svo) ; Stark, Commentary (London, 1866, 2 vols. 
I2mo) ; Yan Doren, Commentary (Lond. and N. Y. 1868, 
2 vols. 12mo); Godet, Commentaire (Neufchatel, 1870, 
Svo). See Gospels. 

Luke of Prague, one of the most celebrated bish- 
ops and writers of the Unitas Fratrum, or the Bohemian 
and Moravian Brethren, was born about 1460, in Bohe- 


LUKE 


558 


LULLY 


mia, and studied at the University of Prague, where he 
attained to the degree of A.B. A member of the Utra- 
quist, or National Church, he quitted Prague in conse- 
quence of dithcidties with the Roman Catholics, sought 
out the Brethren, whose simple faith and stanch con- 
fession of it attracted him, and joined their communion 
about 1480. At that time they were on the eve of se- 
rious dissensions, owing to the gradual separation of two 
parties among them, the one extreme, the other moder- 
ate in its views of the discipline. The former repre- 
sented the illiterate, and the latter the educated portion 
of the membership. Luke, being a thoroughly learned 
man, gifted with great executive ability, and distin- 
guished for his unassuming piety, soon won a prominent 
position. lie held to the moderate party, but enjoyed 
the confidence of many on the other side. In 1491 he 
was sent, with three associates, on a visit to the East, in 
order to find, if possible, a body of Christians free from 
the corruptions of the age, with whom the Unitas Fra- 
trum might establish a fellowship. Returning from 
this journey without having accomplished its object, he 
devoted himself to literary labors, and wrote a number 
of works treating of the points in dispute among the 
Brethren. These publications contributed not a little 
to the ascendency of the moderate party, and to the 
final pacification of the Church in 1494, after the most 
violent of the extremists had seceded, and organized a 
sect of their own, called the Amosites, which soon de- 
generated into fanaticism. Three years later, Luke un- 
dertook a mission to the Walden ses of Italy and France, 
and on his return in 1500 was elected bishop. His 
sound judgment and unflinching courage sustained the 
Brethren in times of persecution; his sense of the dig- 
nity and proprieties of public worship served to develop 
their ritual; his enthusiastic conviction of the scrip- 
tural character of their faith opened the way for their 
rapid increase among the higher classes; and his won- 
derful diligence gave them a literature far superior to 
that of the Utraquists and of the Bohemian Roman 
Catholics. In 1505 he published a Catechism and a 
Hymn-book , the first evangelical works of this kind in 
the Middle Ages. Having, in 1518, become the senior 
bishop of the Church and president of its ecclesiastical 
council, he began to watch the progress of Luther’s Ref- 
ormation with close attention, and in 1522 sent a dep- 
utation to Wittenberg in order to present the good 
wishes of the Brethren. The result, however, was not 
satisfactory. Luke disagreed with Luther in regard to 
the doctrines both of the Lord’s Supper and of justifica- 
tion by faith. On the one hand, he upheld the spiritual 
presence, and, on the other, he gave undue prominence 
to good works. Each published a defence of his own 
views. Luther wrote with moderation, and in a friend- 
ly spirit; Luke was more severe in his strictures. His 
stand-point touching justification, however, was not, as 
Gindely asserts, a Romish one. He was led to extremes 
by his desire to prevent a misuse of the doctrine of free 
grace. This purpose induced him, in 1524, to renew his 
correspondence with Luther. A second deputation vis- 
ited Wittenberg, and gave him a full account of the dis- 
cipline of the Brethren, in the hope that he would in- 
troduce a similar system among his followers, and thus 
bring about a reform not merely of Christian doctrine, 
but also of Christian life. But again the negotiations 
failed. Indeed, they produced a personal estrangement 
between Luke and Luther, and for a time all inter- 
course with Wittenberg was broken off. The real cause 
of this disagreement is not clear. In part it was owing 
to the grave offence which the deputies took at the 
loose morals of the Wittenberg students, and to the free- 
dom with which they denounced their manner of life. 
Luther, on his side, attacked the rigorism of tl*c Breth- 
ren in his Tischreden . In the following years the Breth- 
ren suffered a severe persecution in Bohemia. Luke 
himself was seized, loaded with chains, and imprisoned, 
and escaped execution only through the intervention of 
a powerful noble belonging to the Unitas Fratrum. Af- 


1 ter his liberation he was active for a few years longer, 
although suffering from a most painful disease, and died 
at Zungbunzlau Dec. 1 1, 1528. His literary labors were 
astonishing. lie was the author of more than eighty 
different works, written partly in Latin and partly in 
Bohemian, and consisting of doctrinal, exegetical, and 
polemical treatises. The most of them have been lost. 
For a further account of his life, see Gindely, Oeschichte 
der Bohni. Briider , vol. i, bk. i, ch. iii, and bk. ii ; Crozer, 
Geschichte d.alten Briiderkirche , i, 95-192; Czerwegka, 
Gescliichte der Evany. Kirche in BOhnien, vol. ii, chap, iii— 
vii. (PL de S.) 

Luke’s, St., Day, a festival observed in the Greek 
and Romish churches on the 18th of October. 

Lukewarm (y\tapo£, tepid), moderately warm; 
spoken figuratively of Christians in a half-backslidden 
state (Rev. iii, 1G), who are threatened with the divine 
excision, as we instinctively reject from the mouth wa- 
ter in this insipid state. 

Lullus of Mayence, a noted German prelate of the 
Romish Church, flourished in the 8th century as suc- 
cessor of Boniface, in the archbishopric of May cnee, 
lie was a native of England, and was educated in the 
cloister of Meldun, but went to Germany on invitation of 
Boniface, and was his ambassador to pope Zachary about 
754, He attended the Council of Attignv in 763, and of 
Rome in 769. In 785 he baptized Witikind, leader of 
the Saxons. He founded the cloister of Ilersfcld, and on 
his death in 78G was buried there. See Hoefer, Nouu. 
Bioy. Generale , xxxii, 221. 

Lully (Lull or Lulle), Raymond, surnamed the 
Doctor 1 Uaminatus, an eminent Spanish philosopher and 
theologian, was born at Palma, on the island of Ma- 
jorca, about 1234. In early life he followed his paternal 
profession of arms, and abandoned himself to all the 
license of a soldier’s life. Even when married he con- 
tinued to pursue pleasures inconsistent with conjugal 
fidelity, and the theme of his poetical compositions was 
sensual love. About the year 12GG, sick and tired of 
debauchery, he retired to a desert to lead a life of soli- 
tude and rigorous asceticism. Here he pretended to 
have visions, and, among others, a manifestation of 
Christ on the cross, who called him to his service, and 
to the conversion of the Mohammedans. He therefore 
at once engaged in diligent study to prepare for the la- 
bors and duties of a missionary. Having mastered the 
Arabic, and thoroughly entered into the spirit of Ara- 
bian philosophical writings, he took to the use of his 
pen for the conversion of the Saracens, seeking to dem- 
onstrate the truth of Christianity in opposition to all 
the errors of infidels. Ilis first work was his A rs major 
or yeneralis , which has so severely tested the sagacity 
of commentators. This work is the development of the 
method of teaching known subsequently as the “Lul- 
lian method,” and afforded a kind of mechanical aid to 
the mind in the acquisition and retention of knowledge 
by a systematic arrangement of subjects and ideas. 
Like all such methods, however, it gave little more than 
a superficial knowledge of any subject, though it was of 
use in leading men to perceive the necessity for an in- 
vestigation of truth, the means for which were not to be 
found in the scholastic dialectics, and it was published 
by Lully with the special aim of serving as the prepara- 
tory work to a strictly scientific demonstration of all the 
truths of Christianity. 

The king of Majorca, hearing of his reputation, called 
Lully to Montpellier, where, in 1275, he wrote his Ars 
demonstrativa , and founded a convent for the prepara- 
tion of Minorites as missionaries to the Saracens. This 
was the first linguistic school for missionary purposes. 
In 1287 he went t.o Paris, wdicre he lectured on the Ars 
yeneralis to a large number of st talents, and before Ber- 
tauld de St. Denis, chancellor of the university. He 
next went to Rome to seek the countenance of the pope 
for his plan of establishing missionary schools, which he 
| thought would prove more effective than the Crusades, 


LULLY 


559 


LULLY 


of -which he said, “ I see many knights going to the 
Holy Land in the expectation of conquering it by force 
of arms; but, instead of accomplishing their object, they 
are in the end all swept off themselYes. Therefore it is 
my belief that the conquest of the Holy Land should be 
attempted in no other way than as thou (Christ) and 
thy apostles undertook to accomplish it — by love, by 
prayer, by tears, and the offering up of our own lives.” 
Meeting, however, with but little success, he returned 
to Tunis in 1291, and commenced labors as a missionary 
by holding conferences with the most learned Moham- 
medan scholars and theologians. In proclaiming to 
them the truth of the Christian religion, he insisted es- 
pecially on the necessary adaptation which a perfect 
Being could not fail to establish between the primary 
cause and its effect, and attempted to explain the doc- 
trines of the Trinity and the Incarnation by purely met- 
aphysical arguments. He was, however, expelled by 
the king of Tunis, and owed his life only to the inter- 
cession of a learned and liberal Mohammedan. Lully 
now went back to Paris, resumed his teaching there, 
and wrote his Tabula generalis and A rs expositiva , 
which are a continuation of his former works, and pre- 
sent the same ideas under a different form. In 1298 he 
succeeded in establishing at Paris, under the protection 
of king Louis Philippe le Bel, a college where his meth- 
od was taught. France was at that time in great fer- 
ment: Philippe le Bel was planning the destruction of 
the order of Knight Templars, and Boniface VIII, in re- 
vindicating the right previously claimed by Gregory 
VII, had aroused the greatest opposition in France. 
Lully himself, after having again in vain applied to 
Borne for help in carrying out his plans, withdrew 
to labor wherever an opportunity offered itself. He 
sought by arguments to convince the Saracens and 
Jews on the island of Majorca. In 1301 he went to 
Cyprus, and thence to Armenia, exerting himself to 
bring back the different schismatic parties of the Ori- 
ental Church to orthodoxy. He then visited Hippone, 
Algiers, and other cities on the coasts of Africa, and 
finally Bugia, then the seat of the Mohammedan em- 
pire. Here he publicly lectured in Arabic, proclaiming 
“that Christianity is the only true religion; the doc- 
trine of Mohammed, on the contrary, false; and this he 
was ready to prove to every one.” He was again im- 
prisoned, but made his escape by the aid of some Geno- 
ese merchants, enduring many hardships on his journey 
to Europe by shipwreck. He finally reached Paris, and 
there resumed his lectures with great success. In 1311 
the Council of Vienne, mainly by his influence, no 
doubt, decided that, in order to facilitate the conversion 
of the heathen, professors of Hebrew", Arabic, and Chal- 
dee, tw r o for each language, should be established at 
Pome, and in the universities of Paris, Oxford, Bologna, 
and Salamanca ; those at Borne to be maintained and 
paid by the pope; those at Paris by the king of France, 
etc. ; and excluded the doctrines of Averroes from the 
schools. But Lully could not long bear the easy but 
monotonous life he was leading as a teacher and philos- 
opher; so, on Aug. 14,1314, he once more crossed to Af- 
rica, w here, after laboring at first secretly, then openly, 
he w'as at last stoned to death by order of the king, 
June 30, 1315. His body was recovered by some Geno- 
ese merchants and brought back to Europe. According 
to another account, he w r as still alive when rescued, but 
so seriously w'ounded that he died in sight of his native 
island. 

Lully appears to have been in many points in ad- 
vance of his contemporaries. Although at the time of 
his conversion he inclined to a life of asceticism, he af- 
terwards declared himself strongly against the monastic 
spirit of his age. He deplored it as a great evil that 
pious monks retired into solitudes, instead of giving up 
their lives for their brethren, and preaching the Gospel 
among the infidels. Concerning pilgrimages, he con- 
trasted the gorgeous processions of the pilgrims with 
the entry of Christ into Jerusalem; what he did to seek 


men, and w r hat they do to seek him, and exclaimed, 
“We see the pilgrims travelling away into distant lands 
to seek thee, w hile thou art so near that every man, if 
he would, might And thee in his owm house and cham- 
ber. . . . The pilgrims are so deceived by false men, 
whom they meet in taverns and churches, that many of 
them, when they return home, show themselves to be 
far w’orse than they were when they set out on their 
pilgrimage.” As a theologian, Lully, as we have seen 
from his history, w"as a self-taught man, not having been 
trained in the school of any of the great teachers of his 
time. The speculative and the practical were intimate- 
ly blended in his mind, and so they ar% also in his sys- 
tem. “ ilis speculative turn entered even into his en- 
thusiasm for the cause of missions, and his zeal as an 
apologist. His contests, growing out of this latter in- 
terest, with the school of Averroes, with the sect pro- 
ceeding from that school which affirmed the irreconcila- 
ble opposition between faith and knowledge, would nat- 
urally lead him to make the relation subsisting between 
these two a matter of special investigation. It is true, 
the enthusiasm for truth which filled his mind, the un- 
ion of a fervid imagination with logical formalism, led 
him to form extravagant hopes of a fancied absolute 
method adapted to all science — applicable, also, to the 
truths of Christianity, and by which these truths could 
be demonstrated in a convincing manner to every man. 
Yet his writings generally abound — far more than that 
formal system of science, his A rs magna — in deep apol- 
ogetic ideas. The enthusiasm of a most fervent love 
to God, a zeal equally intense for the cause of faith and 
the interests of reason and science, expressed themselves 
everywhere in his works” (Neander, Ch. Hist, iv, 42C). 

One of his biographers states that the works of 
Lully numbered four thousand. Most of them are con- 
tained in an edition published atMayence (10 vols. fob), 
under title “ Lulli Opera omnia , per Baccholium collecta, 
ctirante electore Palatino, et edita per Saltzingerum.” 
They may be divided into four classes: I. Works con- 
cerning the “ A rs magna ;” Ars generalis ; A rs demon - 
stratira ; Ars inventiva ; Ars expositiva ; Ars brevis; 
Tabula generalis ; A rs magna generalis ultima (this lat- 
ter w T as published separately, Majorca, 1G47) ; A rbor Sci- 
entiee (Barcelon. 1582); Liber Queest ionum super quutuor 
libris sententiarum (Lyons, 1451); Qucestiones magistri 
Thomce Alubatensis solid re secundum Artcm (Lyons, 
1451). II. Beligious works: I)e articulis fidei Chris - 
tianee demonstrative probatis (Majorca, 1578); Contro - 
versia cum Ifomerio Sarraceno (Valencia, 1510) ; I)e 
Demonstr at ione Trinitatis per cequiparantiam (Valencia, 
1510) ; Liber no tails pueri Jesu, III. Against the Aver- 
roists: Libri duodecim Principiorum Philosophue, con- 
tra Averrhoistas (Strasb. 1517); Philosophies , in Aver- 
rhoistas, Expositio (Paris, 151G). IV. The w r orks in 
which he speaks of himself, as the Phantasticus (Paris, 
1499), and a very curious biography of B. Lully pre- 
served in MS. in the college of Sapientia, at Borne, and 
which appears to have been written by himself. To 
these must be added his numerous unpnblislied w’orks, 
preserved in the Imperial Library, the libraries of the 
Arsenal and Ste. Genevieve, at Paris, and those of An- 
gers, Amiens, the Escurial, etc. We might also men- 
tion a number of w’orks on alchemy generally attributed 
to him, but distinguished critics incline to the opinion 
that they are due to another person of the same name. 
Indeed, it appears certain that under the name of B. 
Lulle several distinct persons have been confounded to- 
gether. 

See Wadding, Vie de R. Lulle ; Bouvelles, Epistol. in 
Vit. R.LulL eremites (Amiens, 1511) ; Pax, Elogium Lulli 
(Alcala, 1519); Segni, Vie de R. Lulle (Majorca, 1G05); 
Colletct,I7e tie R. Lulle (Paris, 1G4G) ; Perroquet, Vie et 
Martyre du docteur illumine R. Lulle (Vendome, 1GG7); 
Vernon, llist.de la saintete et de la doctrine de R. Lulle 
(Paris, 1GG8) ; Dissert avion historica del rnlto in memo - 
ril del beato R. Lulli (Majorca, 1700) ; Loev, De Vita R. 
Lulli specimen (Halle, 1S30); Delecluze, Vie de R. Lulle, 


5G0 


LUNT 


LUMINUM DIES 


in t lie Revue des Deux Mondes, Nov. 15, 1840; Ilaurcau, 
Hist, de la Scholastique , ii ; Kenan, A nrrhoes ct VAver - 
rhoisme : Kousselot, Hist, philosophique du Mayen- Age, 
iii. 7t»— 14 1 ; Ilelffereich, Raymond Lull (Berk 1858, 8vo) ; 
and especially Hitter, Gesch. d. Christl. Philos. iv,48G sq.; 
Maclear, llist. of Christian Missions in the Middle Ages, 
p. 354 sq. ; Iloefer, Nouv. Biogr. Generate , xxxii, 222; 
Herzog, Real-Encyklop. via, 558. (J. IT. W.) 

Luminum Dies ( Day of Lights ), another name for 
the Epiphany (q. v.), supposed to be the day of our Sav- 
iour’s baptism, and so named because baptism was fre- 
quently called lux, or light. — Farrar, Eccles. Did. 

Lump (nb^rj, debelah''), a round mass of any sub- 
stance pressed together, specially of dried figs (2 Kings 
xx, 7; Isa. xxxviii, 21; "cake,” 1 Sam. xxv, 18; xxx. 
12: 1 Chron. xii, 40). The Greeks adopted the Heb. 
term in a softened form, TraXdS)], which the Sept. uses. 
This was the usual shape in which figs were preserved 
for sale or use among the ancients, and is still found in 
the modern package called a “ drum of figs.” (See Cel- 
sii Itierohot. ii, 377-370; J. E. Faber on Harmar’s Obs. i, 
389 sq.) See Fig. 

The term rendered “lump” in the New Test, is <pvpci- 
pa, a kneaded mass, e. g. of potter’s clay prepared for 
moulding (Rom. ix, 21), or of dough (proverbially, 1 
Cor. v, G ; Gal. v, 9 ; tropically, Rom. xi, 1G ; 1 Cor. v, 7). 
See Pottery. 

Lumper, Gottfried, a noted Benedictine, was 
born in 1747, and entered in his youth the Benedictine 
cloister of St. George at Villi ngen, in the Black Forest 
of Baden. He remained there in various offices, and as 
theological teacher, till his death in 1801, and distin- 
guished himself by his works on Church History, the 
chief of which is Ilistoria theologico-critica de vita , 
scriptis atque doctrina SS. Patrum , aliorumque scripto- 
rum ecclesiasticorum trium primorum sceculorum (Augs- 
burg, 1783-1799, 13 vols. 8vo). See Wetzer uml Welte, 
Kirchen-Lexikon , s. v. 

Lumsden, William O., a minister of the Method- 
ist Episcopal Church, was born in Alexandria, Va., about 
1805. lie was converted in the fifteenth year of his 
age, was received into the Baltimore Annual Confer- 
ence in 1824, and held the following appointments in the 
states of Pennsylvania, Maryland, and Virginia: 1824, 
Prince George’s; 1825, Harford; 182G, Bedford Circuit; 
1827, Phillipsburg; 1828, Gettysburg; 1829, Fairfax; 
1830, Stafford; 1831, Prince George and St. Mary’s; 
1832-3, Montgomery; 1834, Severn; 1835, Springfield; 
183G-7, Carlisle Circuit; 1838-9, Fairfax; 1840, West- 
moreland; 1841-2, Winchester Circuit; 1843-4, Calvert; 
1845-G, William Street, Baltimore ; 18 17, Whatcoat, Bal- 
timore ; 1848, Baltimore Circuit ; 1849, Summerfield. In 
1850 failing health obliged him to take a supernumera- 
ry relation. He died May 15, 18G8. He was an active 
and efficient laborer in the vineyard of the Lord to the 
last. Though he was a supernumerary for eighteen 
years, he ceased not to preach of “ the things pertaining 
to the kingdom of God.” See Conf. Minutes, 18G9, p. 13. 

Luna, Pedro de. See Benedict XII 1 (A). 

Lunatic ( [atXrjvid^opat , to be moon-struck, as the 
Latin term lunaticus also signifies, a term the origin of 
which is to be found in the belief that diseases of a par- 
oxysmal character were affected by the light, or by the 
changes of the moon), in Greek usage is i. q. epileptic, 
the symptoms of which disease were supposed to become 
more aggravated with the increasing moon (comp. Lu- 
can. 7 ox. 24) ; in the N.Test. (and elsewhere) the same 
malady is ascribed to the influence of damions or malig- 
nant spirits (Matt, iv, 24; xvii, 15; comp. Lucan. Phi- 
lops. 1G; Isidor. Orig. iv, 7 ; Manctho, iv, 81, 21G). In 
the enumeration of Matt, iv, 24, the “lunatics" are dis- 
tinguished from the dtcmoniacs; in Matt* xvii, 15, the 
name is applied to a boy who is expressly declared to 
have been possessed. It is evident, therefore, that the 
word itself refers to some disease affecting both the body 


and the mind, which might or might not be a sign of 
possession. Perhaps the distinction in the one case was 
that of periodicitg or lucid intervals, in contrast with 
the continual demency of the possessed. See Demo- 
niac. Persons of this description are highly venerated 
in the East as saints, or individuals highly favored of 
heaven. In Egypt, according to Lane {Modern Egyp- 
tians, i, 345 sq.), “ Lunatics who are dangerous to soci- 
ety are kept in confinement, but those who are harmless 
are generally regarded as saints. Most of the reputed 
saints of Egypt are either lunatics, or idiots, or impos- 
tors. Some of them go about perfectly naked, and are 
so highly venerated that even women do not shun them. 
Men of this class are supported by alms, which they 
often receive ■without asking for them. An idiot or a 
fool is vulgarly regarded by them as a being whose 
mind is in heaven, while his grosser part mingles among 
ordinary mortals; consequently he is regarded as an es- 
I pecial favorite of heaven.” This opinion entertained of 
lunatics by the Orientals serves to illustrate what is said 
of David when lie fled to Achisli, king of the Philis- 
tines, and feigned himself mad, and thus saved his life 
(1 Sam. xxi, 10-15). Also the words of the apostle are 
thought to be illustrated from the same superstitious 
custom: “For ye suffer fools gladly, seeing ye your- 
selves are wise” (2 Cor. xi, 19). See Madness. 

Lundy, Benjamin, an American philanthropist, of 
Quaker parentage, was born at Ilanclwich, Sussex Co., 
N. J., Jan. 4, 1789. At the age of nineteen he went to 
learn the saddler’s trade in Wheeling, Va., and there 
gained an insight into, and a lasting hatred of, negro 
slavery. He organized in 1815 an association called 
the “Union Humane Society,” and soon after joined 
Charles Osborne, Esq., in publishing The Emancipator, 
at Mount Pleasant, O. In 1821 he successfully started a 
monthly entitled The Genius of Universal Emancipa- 
tion. into which he afterwards merged The Emancipator. 
In 1824 he delivered his first antislavery address at 
Deep Creek, North Carolina, and lecturing and journey- 
j ing about on foot from place to place, organized about 
fourteen abolition societies in that state, besides some in 
i Virginia. In the same year he removed The Genius to 
Baltimore, and issued it weekly. In 1825 lie visited 
llayti.and made provisions there for emancipated slaves. 

I In 1828 he visited the antislavery advocates of the East, 
and lectured in their principal cities. In 1828-9 he was 
assaulted for alleged libel, censured by the court, and 
compelled to remove his paper to Washington, and final- 
ly to Philadelphia, where he gave it the name of The 
National Inquirer, and finally it merged into 7'he Penn- 
sylvania Freeman . In 1838 his property was burnt up 
by the proslavery mob which fired Pennsylvania Hall. 
Undaunted, he began anew by issuing The Genius at 
Lowell, La Salle Co., 111., and there continued until his 
death, August 22, 1839. See Earle, Life, Travels, etc., of 
Benj. Luncly ; Greeley, American Conjlid, i, 111 ; Drake, 
Diet, of A mer. Biog. s. v. 

Lunsford, Lewis, a Baptist preacher, born in Strat- 
ford Co., Va., in 1753, began to preach when seventeen 
at the Potomac (now Hartwood) Church. Later he 
travelled in Westmoreland, Northumberland, Lancaster, 
and all the counties of the northern Virginia Neck, and 
several churches sprang up as the fruit of his toil ; 
among others, Nomini and Wicomico. On the estab- 
lishment of Moratico Church in 1778, he became its pas- 
tor for life. His sect was much persecuted at the time 
he was preaching in Richmond Co., and Lunsford was 
arrested, and thereafter tried in vain to get license to 
preach. He never was ordained, because he thought a 
Church’s call was sufficient. Faithful study in and out 
of his profession made up for a limited schooling, lie 
died in Essex Co., Va.. Oct. 2G, 1793. See Sprague, An- 
nals of the Amer. Pulpit , vi, 125 sq. 

Lunt, William Parsons, D.D., an eloquent and 
popular Unitarian divine, born at Newburyport, Mass., 
April 21, 1805, was ordained pastor of the Second Unita- 


LUPETINO 


561 


LUQTJE 


v?an Church in New York, June 10, 1828 ; left here Nov. 
i9, 1833, and became pastor of the Unitarian Church in 
Quincy, Mass., June 3, 1835, where he remained until his 
death, Mar. 20, 1857. See Drake, Dict.Ame r. Blog. s. v. 

Lupetino, Fra Baldo, one of the first martyrs to 
the Protestant cause in Italy in the 16th century, was 
born of ancient and noble parents in Albano, and ac- 
tively propagated the reformed opinions in Venice. On 
becoming provincial within the Venetian territories of 
the Franciscan monks (to whose order he had been pre- 
viously admitted) he urged the young men not to as- 
sume monastic orders. One of his contemporaries gives 
the following account of his further career. “After 
having long preached the Word of God in both the vul- 
gar languages (the Italian and Sclavonian) in many cit- 
ies, and defended it by public disputation in several 
places of celebrity with great applause, he was at last 
thrown into close prison at Venice by the inquisitor and 
papal legate. In this condition he continued during 
nearly twenty years to bear an undaunted testimony to 
the Gospel of Christ, so that his bonds and doctrine 
were made known not onty to that city, but to the whole 
of Italy, and even to Europe at large, by which means 
evangelical truth was more widely spread. ... At last 
this pious man, whom neither threatenings nor promises 
could move, sealed his doctrine by an undaunted mar- 
tyrdom, and exchanged the filth and protracted tortures 
of a prison for a watery grave.” See M‘Crie’s History 
of the Reformation in Italy (Pliila. 1842), p. 105, 221. 

Lupset, Tiiojias, an English scholar and theolo- 
gian, was born in London in 1408; was educated at 
English schools, but took the degree of B.A. in Paris. 
In 1518 he obtained the chair of rhetoric at Oxford Uni- 
versity. Later he was secretary to the Italian ambas- 
sador. On his return he took charge of the education 
of the natural son of Wolsev in Paris. In 1530 he was 
appointed prebend of Salisbury. He died Dec. 27, 1532. 
Among his works we notice Epistobe 1 'arite, in the Fjris- 
tolce aliquot emclit. Viromm (Bale, 1520): — Treatise 
teaching how to die well (1534): — A n Exhortation to 
young Men (1540, 8vo) : — Treatise of Charity (1546, 
8vo) : — Rules for a godly Life (London, 1660). See 
Thomas, Diet, of Biog. and Mythol. s. v. ; lloefer, Xouv. 
Biog. Generate, vol. xxxii, s. v. 

Lupus, St. The Roman Catholic Church commem- 
orates three saints by this name. The most important 
of them was born at Toul about the beginning of the 
5th century. He was of a good family, and received a 
good education. He was afterwards married to Pime- 
niola, sister of Hilaries, bishop of Arles. Seven years 
after he abandoned his wife and children, and joined the 
disciples of St. llonoratus, who were there laying the 
foundations of the afterwards renowned convent of Le- 
rins. In 426 he returned to Macon, and was elected to 
the see of Troyes, and greatly distinguished himself by 
his learning, both classical and theological. In 429 a 
council of the bishops of Gaul sent him, together with 
Germain of Auxerre, to Brittany, to oppose the Pelagian 
heresy, which was making great progress in that coun- 
try. In 451, when Attila conquered Troyes, we find the 
barbarian king in intimate association with the bishop, 
and in his retreat Attila was accompanied by Lupus as 
far as the shores of the Rhine. Lupus died, according 
to tradition, July 29, 479. His most distinguished con- 
temporaries called him “episcopus episcoporum,” the 
Jacob of his age, and praised him particularly for his 
experience and his knowledge in all ecclesiastical mat- 
ters. We possess only two works of his. One of them 
is an answer to some canonical questions propounded 
by Talassius, bishop of Angers, and to be found among 
the Instrumenta of the Gallia Christiana (vol. iv, col. 39). 
It contains some interesting information concerning 
marriage among the clergy. There is, it says, no gen- 
eral rule on this point: in the churches of Autun and 
Troyes married deacons are ordained without difficulty; 
but those who were single when ordained are not per- 


mitted to marry, and a married priest, on losing his wife, 
cannot marry again. (Comp. Lea, History of Sacerdo- 
tal Celibacy , p. 84.) Ilis other work is a letter to Apol- 
linarius, published in Acherv, Spicilegium , v, 579. See 
Hist. Lift, de la France , ii, 486 ; Gallia Christ, xii, col. 
485; Herzog, Rcal-Encyklopadie, viii,564; Hoefer, Aoar. 
Biog. Generate , xxxii, 16. (J. N. P.) 

Lupus, Christian. See Wolf. 

Lupus, Servatus, or Loup de Ferrieres, a 
French ecclesiastical writer, was bora in the neighbor- 
hood of Sens about the year 805; studied at the abbey 
of Ferrieres, and afterwards at Fulda, under the cele- 
brated Rabanus Maurus. Eginhard instructed him in 
the classics. In 836 he returned to Sens, where he soon 
acquired a great reputation for learning. He was called 
to the court of the empress Judith, and became a favor- 
ite both with Louis le Debonnaire and his successor, 
Charles the Bald. In 841, the latter prince, having re- 
solved to remove Odon, abbot of Ferrieres, appointed 
Lupus in his stead. This intervention of the royal 
power in the affairs of the Church displeased the eccle- 
siastical authorities, and Lupus failed to secure their 
sanction until he had obtained from king Charles a char- 
ter granting to the monks of Ferrieres the right of ap- 
pointing in future their own abbots. This charter is to 
be found in the Gallia Christiana , among the Instru- 
menta of vol. xii, column 8. Lupus had great infiuence 
both with the king and with the clergy, and was pres- 
ent at all the councils held in France from 844 to 859, 
taking an active part in their proceedings. When the 
Normans landed in France in 861 he sought refuge in 
the diocese of Troyes. Still in the same year we find 
him present at the Council of Pistes, and in 862 at that 
of Soissons. There is no mention made of him after- 
wards; whether he died then, or whether, as would ap- 
pear from the chronicle of Robert of Auxerre, he was 
exiled from Ferrieres, and his rival Guanelon appointed 
in his stead, does not appear. His works, so far as they 
were then extant, were collected by Etienne Baluze, and 
published first in 1644, then, with notes and corrections, 
in 1710, 1 vol. 8vo. His treatise De tribus Qucestioni- 
bus discusses free-will, the twofold predestination, and 
the question whether Christ died for all men, or only 
for the elect. Gottschalk had mooted these three ques- 
tions, strongly maintaining the necessity of grace ; 
John Scotus Erigena, Rabanus Maurus, and Hinemar 
had more or less defended the doctrine of free-will. Lu- 
pus here attempts to conciliate these two opposite views,, 
without, however, concealing his preference for that of 
Gottschalk. lie thinks that, in the fallen human na- 
ture, free-will does indeed, to some extent, participate in 
our good impulses, yet is of no effect compared with 
grace. These impulses themselves originate in grace, 
and can only avail through grace ; but, at the same 
time, grace enlightens the will, which becomes then a 
voluntary agent in continuing the work thus begun by 
grace alone. The Jansenists often quoted these views 
of Lupus. See Gallia Christ, vol. xii, col. 159; Hist. Lift, 
de la France , v, 255; lloefer, Xouv. Biog, Gener. xxxii, 
19 ; Herzog, Real-Encyklop. viii, 562 ; Neander, Ch.llist. 
iii, 459, 482. 

Luque, Hernando de, the first Spanish bishop of 
Pern, was born in Darien, Isthmus of Panama, towards 
the close of the 15th century. After teaching a short 
time, he became priest and vicar of Panama. In 1525, 
as appears from subsequent events, he represented the 
licentiate Caspar de Espinosa, principal alcalde in Da- 
rien, in that famous written and consecrated contract be- 
tween himself, Pizarro, and Almagro, by which he was 
to furnish the money for the outfit and expenses of an 
expedition for the conquest of Peru, the success of which 
depended mainly upon his exertions. His services were 
rewarded by the king of Spain with the bishopric, and 
he was, besides, declared Protector of the Indians of 
Peru. He died suddenly in 1532. See Oviedo y Valdes, 
Historia general y natural de las Indias , etc. (edit, de 


LURIA 


562 


LUST 


M. Amador de los Rios) ; llerrsra, Jlistoria general de 
los Viajes cn las Indius occidentals ; Prescott, Hist, of 
Peru ; Iloefcr, Xouv, Biog. Generate , vol. xxxii, s. v. 

Luria. See Lori a. 

Luscinius, Otiimar. See Naciitigall. 

Lush. See Laisii. 

Lusk, If. K., a Presbyterian minister, prosecuted his 
college studies at the Western University, in Mononga- 
hela City, and graduated with high honors. In 1842 he 
entered the theological seminary at Canonsburg, Penn., 
and in 1846 was licensed to preach by the Presbytery of 
Charticrs. For a time he labored in many of the va- 
cant places of the Church, but subsequently received a 
call from the congregation of Cambridge, N. Y. He af- 
terwards accepted a call from the congregation of 11 ni- 
ton, where he spent the rest ofhis ministry. He died 
Oct. 25, 1862. Mr. Lusk was gifted with a simplicity of 
manners which made him eminently social. Familiar 
with the government and discipline of the Church, he 
filled an important place in its courts. His convictions 
of truth and duty were such as to prompt a fearless and 
unswerving advocacy of what he deemed to be right 
and proper. See Wilson , Presbyt. Historical Almanac, 
1863, p. 358. (J. L. S.) 

Lust (usually IT'X.Fl, hr&vgia), in the ethical sense, 
is used to express sinful longings — sinful either in be- 
ing directed towards absolutely forbidden objects, or in 
being so violent as to overcome self-control, and to en- 
gross the mind with earthly, carnal, and perishable 
things. Lust, therefore, is itself sinful, since it is an es- 
trangement from God, destroys the true spiritual life, 
leads to take pleasure in what displeases God and vio- 
lates his laws, brings the spirit into subjection to the 
flesh. and makes man a slave of sin and ungodliness. 
Lust, therefore, is the inward sin; it leads to the falling 
away from God; but the real ground of this falling 
away is in the will. It took place in the earliest days 
of mankind (Rom. i, 21), and is natural to all in the un- 
regenerated state; it can only be abolished by Christ. 
The nature of man is not changed, only his empirically 
moral mode and place of existence. Lust, the origin of 
sin, has its place in the heart, not of a necessity, but be- 
cause it is the centre of all moral forces and impulses, 
and of spiritual activity. The law does not therefore 
destroy sin, nay, it rather increases it, yet not in an ac- 
tive manner, but by the sinner’s own fault. The psycho- 
logical reason of this is, that the law does not destroy 
the lust, even while accompanied by punishment; con- 
sequent ly the estrangement from God can only be can- 
celled by regeneration. This takes place in the recon- 
ciliation with God through Christ, because, in giving his 
Son as a ransom for sinners, God has manifested his love 
in such a manner as to awaken man, and give him the 
strength to love God again. This love of God forms 
the substance of regeneration, and of the operations of 
the Holy Spirit, and destroys sinful lust by bringing 
man into union with God, or by the reception of the 
Spirit of Christ through faith. According to Matt, v, 
28, Whosoever looketh on a woman to lust after her, 
hath committed adultery with her already in his heart.” 
This forcible expression is correct, for he who is regen- 
erated, and whose heart is tilled with true love of God, 
and who is possessed of the. Spirit of Christ, cannot have 
such worldly lusts, lie, therefore, who looks on a wom- 
an to (-a-pot,*) Inst after her, or, in other words, he in 
whom her sight will awaken the lust of carnal pleasure, 
has already committed adultery in his heart. In Mark 
iv, 19 (Matt, xiii, 22; Luke viii, 14) : “And the cares of 
this world, and the deceit fulness of riches, and the lusts 
of other things entering in, choke the word,- and it be- 
comcth unfruitful;” by lusts we are to understand the 
objects of desire, for lust does not enter the heart, but, on 
the contrary, proceeds from it, as appears from Matt, xv, 
19: “For out of the heart proceed [through lust] evil 
thoughts [sms], murders, adulteries, fornications, thefts, 


false witness, blasphemies.” In Rom. i, 24 : “ Wherefore 
God also gave them up to uncleanness, through the 
lusts of their own hearts and ver. 26, it is not God 
who awakened the lusts, but man, who had withdrawn 
from God, and made gods unto himself to worship. In 
view of its final object, this estrangement from God is a 
mystery, as it is an act of free volition. So in Rom. vi, 
12: “Let not sin, therefore, reign in your mortal body, 
that ye should obey it in the lusts thereof;” it can be 
understood how one could be good so far as intentions 
are concerned, while yet sin would reign in the lower 
ego — in the perishable body (compare with vii, 19, Gal. 
v, 17). Rut the apostle considers man, spiritually and 
bodily, as a whole. He who lives in God through 
Christ, and is dead unto sin (Rom. vi, 1 1), must not let 
lust govern his perishable body, or listen to his desire, 
but, on the contrary, these ought no longer to exist in 
him; the body is to be made as subservient to right- 
eousness as the spirit, for it is the temple of the spirit, 
and therefore is the instrument wherewith the human 
mind, animated by the Holy Spirit, is to act. Accord- 
ingly it is stated in Rom. vii, 5, “ For when we were in 
the flesh [before being regenerated], the motions [acts] 
of sins, which were by the law [which were shown by 
the law as such], did work in our members to bring 
forth fruit unto death.” So in Rom. vii, 7, 8 : “ What 
shall we say, then ? Is the law sin [the original source 
of sin]? God forbid. Nav, I had not known sin [the 
fact of its existence within me] but by the law; for I 
had not known lust [that it was evil] except the law 
had said, Thou shalt not covet. But [my natural] sin 
[the principle of sin, or lust], taking occasion by the 
commandment, wrought in me all manner of concupis- 
cence [sinful desires resulting from the general lusts of 
the flesh]. For without the law sin was dead [i. e. not 
absent, but partly in the sense of not being recognised 
as sin or lust, and partly because the knowledge of the 
restrictions imposed by the law served but to increase 
the desire for what it forbade].” XwoIq yelp vofiov 
agapTia vtiepa is a general and popularly expressed 
aphorism, which is not received in theory. In Gal. v, 
16, 17, 24, we are directed, “ Walk in the Spirit, and ye 
shall not fulfil the lust of the flesh. For the flesh [sin] 
lusteth against [in contradiction with] the [lloly] Spir- 
it, and the Spirit against the flesh; and these are con- 
trary the one to the other; so that ye cannot do the 
thing that ye [simply] would; but they that are Christ’s 
have crucified the flesh (in the regeneration), with the 
affections and lusts.” The effect of the strife between 
the flesh and the Spirit is to prevent the evil which 
man desires after the flesh. The Holy Spirit helps man 
to triumph over lust. The image of God is never en- 
tirely obliterated, but the lusts of the flesh can lead into 
enormous sins, and have done so. In like manner, in 
Rom. i, 24, etc. ; Eph. iv, 22 (Col. iii, 5 comp, with Eph. 
ii,2; Tit. iii, 3) : “That ye put off concerning the former 
conversation the old man, which is corrupt according to 
the deceitful lusts;” lust (estrangement from God), as 
an impulse of free volition, is the original source of error 
which obscures both the ihind and the heart. Further, 
Rom. i, 21, 22; 1 Tim.vi, 9 (“But they that will be rich 
fall into temptation, and a snare, and into many foolish 
and hurtful lusts, which drown men in destruction anil 
perdition”); 2 Tim. ii, 22 (“Flee also youthful lusts”); 
Tit. ii, 12 (“Teaching us that, denying ungodliness [d<rt- 
fittav] and worldly lusts, we should live soberly, right- 
eously, and godly in this present world).” Christians 
can and must be in the world, but not of the world, and 
must hold themselves aloof from its contamination. So, 
again, James i, 27 ; 1 Pet. ii, 11 (“Dearly beloved, I be- 
seech you, abstain from fleshly lusts, which war against 
the soul”); i Pet. iv, 1-3 (“lie that has suffered in the 
flesh [ethically, is dead unto the flesh] hath ceased from 
sin; that he no longer should live the rest of his time 
in the flesh to the lusts of men, but to the will of God. 
For the time past of our life may suffice us to have 
wrought the will of the Gentiles, when we walked in 


LUSTRATION 


563 


LUTHER 


lasciviousness, lusts, excess of wine, rcvellings, banquet- 
ings, and abominable idolatries”); compare 1 Pet. i, 4; 
2 Pet. ii, 10,18; iii, 3; Jude 16. Once more, 1 John ii, 
15-17 : “Love not the world, neither the things that are 
in the world. If any mail love the world, the love of 
the Father is not in him. For all that is in the world, 
the lust of the tiesh, and the lust of the eyes, and the 
pride of life, is not of the Father, but is of the world. 
And the world passeth away, and the lust thereof.” Fi- 
nally, James i, 14, 15: “ But every man is tempted, when 
he is drawn away of his own lust, and enticed. Then, 
when lust hath conceived, it briugcth forth sin ; and sin, 
when it is finished, bringeth forth death (or misery).” 
The N. T. teaches us that man should eagerly avail him- 
self of the power of sanctification proffered through 
grace to overcome lust and the consequent sin. — Krehl, 
Neu-test. Worterbuch. See Temptation. 

Lustration, a formal and public application of 
water in token of consecration or expiation. Such acts 
were prevalent not only among heathen nations, more 
especially those of the southern climates, such as the 
Indians, Egyptians, Greeks, and llomans (compare Wet- 
stein, Xov. Test. Evany. Mutth. iii, G), but also among 
the Jews (see Hiiner, I)e lustratione Hebrceorum , Wit- 
tenb. 1733). With these latter they were preparations 
for divine services of a different nature, and even for 
private prayer (Judith xii). They formed a part of 
the offering-service, and more especially of the sin-offer- 
ing (Lev. xvi); and for that reason t lie prayer-houses 
( TTpoaevxcii ) were usually established in the vicinity of 
running waters (compare Kuinol, ad A ct. xvi, 13). Jo- 
sephus(dwh xviii, 1,5) gives an account of the manifold 
lustrations of the Essenes. In the language of the 
prophets, cleansing with water is used as an emblem of 
the purification of the heart, which in the Messianic 
age is to glorify the soul in her innermost recesses, and 
embrace the whole of the theocratic nation (Ezek. 
xx xvi, 25 sq. ; Zech. xiii, 1). Such declarations gave 
rise to or nourished the expectation that the advent of 
the Messiah would manifest itself by a preparatory lus- 
tration, by which Elijah or some other great prophet 
would pave the way for him. This supposition lies ev- 
idently at the bottom of the questions which the Jews 
put to John the Baptist (John i, 25; compare 31 att. and 
Luke iii, 7), whether he was the Messiah, or Elijah, or 
some other prophet ? and if not, why lie undertook to 
baptize? (compare Sclineckenbcrger, Ueber das Alter der 
Jiidischen Proselytentaufe , § 41 sq.). Thus we can com- 
pletely clear up the historical derivation of the rite, as 
used by John and Christ, from the general and natural 
symbol of baptism, from the Jewish custom in particu- 
lar, and from the expectation of a Messianic consecra- 
tion. iSee Baptis3j. 

Among the ancient Greeks, and more particularly the 
Homans, lustrations were of most solemn import. Those 
of which we possess direct knowledge are always con- 
nected with sacrifices and other religious rites, and con- 
sisted in the sprinkling of water by means of a branch 
of laurel or olive, and at Home sometimes by means of 
the aspergillum, and in the burning of certain materials, 
the smoke of which was thought to have a purifying 
effect. Whenever sacrifices were offered, it seems to 
have been customary to carry them around the person 
or thing to be purified. Lustrations were made in an- 
cient Greece, and probably at Home also, by private in- 
dividuals when they had polluted themselves by any 
criminal action. Whole cities and states also some- 
times underwent purifications to expiate the crime or 
crimes committed by a member of the community. The 
most celebrated purification of this kind was that of 
Athens, performed by Epimenides of Crete, after the 
Cvlonian massacre. Purification also took place when 
a sacred spot had been unhallowed by profane use, as 
by burying dead bodies in it, as was the case with the 
island of Delos. See Ablution. 

The Homans performed lustrations on many occasions 
on which the Greeks did not think of them, and the 


object of most Roman lustrations was not to atone fot 
the commission of crime, but to obtain the blessing of 
the gods upon the persons or things which were lustra* 
ted. Thus fields were purified after the business of sow- 
ing was over, and before the sickle was put to the corn. 
Sheep were purified every year at the festival of the 
Palilia. All Homan armies before they took the field 
were lustrated, and, as the solemnity was probably al- 
ways connected with a review of the troops, the word 
lustratio is always used in the sense of the modern re- 
view'. The establishment of a new colony u r as always 
preceded by a lustratio with solemn sacrifices. The 
city of Home itself, as well as other towms within its 
dominion, always underwent a lustratio after they had 
been visited by some great calamity, such as civil blood- 
shed, awful prodigies, and the like. A regular and gen- 
eral lustratio of the whole Roman people took place after 
the completion of every lustrum, when the censor had 
finished his census, and before he laid down his office. 
This lustratio (also called lustrum) was conducted by 
one of the censors, and held with sacrifices called Suove- 
taurilia, because the sacrifices consisted of a pig (or 
ram), a sheep, and an ox. It took place in tho Campus 
Martius, where the people assembled for the purpose. 
The sacrifices were carried three times around the as- 
sembled multitude. See Smith, Diet, of Class. Antiqui- 
ties, s. v. Lustratio. 

Something of the nature of lustration prevails in the 
use of “holy water" (q. v.) by the Homan Catholics. 

Lntei, earthy , one of the terms of reproach with 
which the first Christians were assailed by their perse- 
cutors. 

Luther, Martin, the greatest of the Reformers of 
the Christian Church, whose name is the watchword of 
Protestantism, and marks a new a?ra in the history of 
Europe. 

I. Youth. — He sprang from an old and widely-extend- 
ed German family, of which there are documentary 
traces as early as 1137. He was born at Eisleben, a 
village of Lower Saxony, Nov. 10, 1483 (see, however, 
an argument for a later date, 1484, Studien v. Kritiken , 
1872), fifteen years before the martyrdom of Savonarola. 
As one of the heralding stars declined to its setting in 
blood, the Morning Star of the Reformation drew near 
the horizon of the new day. His father, Hans Luther, 
was a miner of the village of Moehra. His mother’s 
name was Margaretlm Lindemann. His parents subse- 
quently removed to Mansfeld, and there his father be- 
came a man of property and town senator. 

Luther grew up under pious but rigorous discipline. 
Ilis father was characterized by severity, tempered with 
great honesty and clearness of judgment. Luther’s 
mother was a woman of earnest piety, which, however, 
had also a tinge of harshness. Luther went to school 
at Magdeburg in 1497, in 1498 to Eisenach, and in 1501 
he entered the University of Erfurt. Here he took the 
Bachelor’s degree in 1503, and the degree of 31 aster of 
Arts, which entitled him to teach in the university, in 
1505. lie was designed for the profession of the law ; but 
a prevailing discomfort and occasional anguish of mind, 
under a sense of sin and the dread of the wrath of God, 
heightened first by the sudden, violent death of a friend, 
and later by a stroke of lightning which fell near his 
feet, determined Luther quite otherwise. He vowed to 
St. Ann that he would become a monk. The evening 
before his entrance to the cloister of the Augustinians 
he spent in lively conversation and song with his uni- 
versity friends, and the first announcement to them of 
bis purpose was made at the close of the festal hours. 
“To-day you see me; after this you will see me no 
more,” said Luther. When night was passing into 
morning, July 17, 1505, he presented himself for admis- 
sion at the convent — soon to become the birthplace of 
Lutheran Protestantism and of the evangelical doctrine 
of justification by faith without the works of the law. 

II. Cloister Life (1505-1517).— He passed through his 


LUTIIER 


564 


LUTHER 


novitiate, and finally, in opposition to liis father s wish- 
os, to whom it seemed that his son had chosen “a life 
little differing from death,” took the vows, and was con- 
secrated to the priesthood May 2, 1507. Luther had 
entered the priesthood to find peace for his soul, lie 
says, I chose for myself twenty-one saints, read mass 
every day, calling on three of them each day, so as to 
complete the circuit every week; especially did I in- 
voke the holy Virgin, as her womanly heart was more 
easily touched, that she might appease her Son. I ver- 
ily thought that by invoking three saints daily, and by 
letting my body waste away with fastings and watch- 
ings, I should satisfy the law, and shield my conscience 
against the goad: but it all availed me nothing: the 
further I went on in this wav the more was I terrified, 
so that I should have given over in despair had not 
Christ graciously regarded me, and enlightened me with 
the light of the Gospel.” From his deep depression of 
soul he was lifted by a brother in the cloister, who fixed 
his attention on the article in the Apostles’ Creed, “I 
believe in the remission of sins.” Staupitz, one of the 
noblest men of his time, dealt with Luther very faith- 
fully. “Staupitz,” says Luther, “once comforted me on 
this wise : ‘You would be a painted sinner, and have a 
painted Christ as a Saviour. You must make up your 
mind that you are a very sinner, and that Christ is a 
very Saviour.”’ “I sought to make out the meaning 
of Paul in the term ‘the righteousness of God,' and at 
last 1 came to apprehend it thus : Through the Gospel 
is revealed the righteousness which availeth with God 
— a righteousness by which God in his mercy and com- 
passion justifieth us. as it is written, ‘ The just shall live 
by faith.’ The expression, ‘ the righteousness of God,’ 
which 1 so much hated before, became now dear and 
precious, my darling and most comforting word, and 
that passage of Paul was to me the true door of Para- 
dise.” 

Luther now zealously devoted himself to the earnest 
study of theology. “The writings of Pie! and D'Ailly 
lie could repeat almost word for word ; Occam he read 
long and carefully, and rated his acumen higher than 
that of Thomas and Scotus. He read Gevson with 
diligence, but the entire writings of Augustine he had 
read more frequently and fixed more thoroughly in 
his memory than any others” (Melancthon, Yit. Luih .). 
“Next after the holy Scriptures,” says Luther, “no 
teacher in the Church is to be compared with Augus- 
tine; take the entire body of the fathers together, 
there is not to be found in them half that we find in 
Augustine alone’* ( 1 1 r erke, xiv, 209). It was an uncon- 
scious presage when Luther, on entering the cloister, 
took the name of Augustine. Among the mediaeval 
writers, Bernard held the highest place in Luther’s re- 
gard. “If ever there was a holy monk. Bernard was 
that monk, lie is golden when he teaches and preach- 
es — then he surpasses all the doctors in t he Church” 
(Werlce, xii, 1696; xxii, 2050). Augustine and Bernard 
became increasingly precious to him as his continued 
studies of the holy Scriptures brought him to a pro- 
founder acquaintance with the truth. In 1508 his 
scholarship received acknowledgment by a call to the 
chair of philosophy in the newly-founded Fmversity of 
Wittenberg, the capital of the old electorate. The uni- 
versity was under the protection of the elector (Freder- 
ick) — not of an ecclesiastic — which was a happy circum- 
stance for its part in the future. Its patron saints were 
Paul and Augustine. Luther went thither, and lectured 
on dialectics and physics according to Aristotle. In 
1509 he became Baccalaureus ad Biblia ; 1511,Senten- 
tiarius ( Sentences of Lombard , first two books), l’orma- 
tus (Sentences, last two books); October 4, 1512, Licen- 
tiatus (to teach theology in general); and October 19, 
1512, Doctor of Theology, a degree which involved not a 
mere honor, but an office, in receiving 'which Luther 
swore “to teach purely ami sincerely according to the 
Scriptures.” He now transferred his labors from philos- 
ophy to theology. Ilis favorite books, on which he de- 


livered his earliest theological lectures, were the Psalms 
and the Epistle to the Bomans. The lectures rested 
upon a study of the Vulgate and of the fathers. Philos- 
ophy he still prized, but most of all as a handmaid to 
true theology, which, he says, “ searches for the kernel 
of the nut, the marrow of the fruit.” 

A journey to Rome was made by Luther in 1510. on 
foot. He went partly in the interests of his order, and 
yet more as a pilgrim. As the Eternal City rose before 
Ids eyes, he fell on his knees, and fervently exclaimed, 
“Hail, sacred Borne ! thrice hallowed with the blood of 
martyrs !” St. Peters was half finished. The man now 
looked upon it who was to make its completion the bank- 
ruptcy of Borne, though Borne held the world's coffers 
in her hands. New Borne stood on the heaped graves 
of the dead, old pagan city. Luther was not insensible 
to the historical and antiquarian interest which clus- 
tered around every site, but every other feeling was sub- 
ordinate to the religious one. He was full of honest 
fervor, full of pious credulity. lie went up the staircase 
of Pilate on his knees, yet with his heart protesting as 
he crept : Not thus do “ the just live by faith.” He 
looked upon the handkerchief of Veronica; he gazed on 
the heads of Paul and Peter, and his strong sight was 
too much for his strong credence — lie pronounced the 
heads carvings in wood, and bad carvings. Luther saw 
the pomps and the corruptions of Rome, but his heart 
remained fixed still in its strong love to the “Roman 
Church, honored of God above all others” (1519). 

The visitation of the cloisters of Misnia and Thurin- 
gia, conducted by Luther (1516), in the absence of the 
provincial Staupitz (who was then in the Netherlands), 
was the means of opening Luther’s eyes to the corruptions 
among the people and the clergy, but did not shake his 
faith in the Church. “Ilis first prejudices were enlist- 
ed in the service of the worst portion of the Roman 
Catholic Church; his opening reason was subjected to 
the most dangerous perversion ; and a sure and early 
path was opened to his professional ambition. Such 
was not the discipline which could prepare tlie mind for 
any independent exertion ; such were not the circum- 
stances from which any ordinary mind could have 
emerged into the clear atmosphere of truth. In dignity 
a professor, in theology an Augustinian, in philosophy 
a Nominalist, by education a mendicant monk, Luther 
seemed destined to be a pillar of the Roman Catholic 
Church, and a patron of all its corruptions.” 

The first light of the Gospel as Luther sheds it, beams 
forth in his lectures on the Psalms and Romans. Among 
his earliest works are Ids series of sermons on the Ten 
Commandments, his exposition of the penitential psalms, 
printed in 1517. and his exposition of the Lord’s Prayer, 
delivered during Lent in 1517, and printed in 1518. He 
had become a student of Tauler and of the “German 
theology.” The iufiuenee of the pure and profound mys- 
ticism of these books shows itself in all of Luther’s later 
life, for true mysticism is the internal mirror of the truth 
of God. Luther's advance in Biblical study, and the in- 
fluence of this loftier mysticism, brought him more and 
more out from the influence of Aristotle and of scholasti- 
cism. He was unconsciously preparing for the opening 
of that grand part which ho was to play in the history 
of the Church and in the history of mankind. 

The traffic in indulgences (q. v.) had been brought 
into the vicinity of Wittenberg, with the approval of 
the archbishop of Mayenec. by Tetzel, a Dominican 
monk. The expressions with which Tetzel recommend- 
ed liis treasure appear to have been marked with pecul- 
iar impudence and indecency. But the act had in it- 
self nothing novel or uncommon ; the sale of indulgences 
had long been recognised as the practice of the Roman 
Catholic Church, and was sometimes censured by its 
more firm or more prudent members. But the crisis 
had at length arrived in which the iniquity could no 
longer he repeated with impunity. The cup was at 
length full, and the hand of Luther was destined to dash 
it to the ground. In the attitude which Luther took 


LUTHER 


565 


LUTHER 


toward this traffic, his design was not to array himself 
against the Church, but to vindicate her against what 
he believed to be an abuse of her sacred name. At the 
confessional and in the pulpit he began to warn his peo- 
ple. He wrote earnest letters of remonstrance to the 
bishops of Brandenburg and Mavence, holding in re- 
gard to repentance that a distinction is to be made be- 
tween the internal repentance, which is of the heart, 
and the external thing of confession and satisfaction. 
Receiving unfavorable comments on his position from the 
prelates, lie determined to make his opposition public. 

HI. First Movements as a Reformer (Oct. 31, 1517- 
Mav 4, 1521). — On the 31st of October, 1517, at midday, 
Luther affixed to the castle church at Wittenberg nine- 
tv-tive theses, which he proposed to defend at the uni- 
versity, completely denying the position on which Tet- 
zel rested the merits of indulgences. lie declared, in 
substance, that the command of Jesus to repent implies 
that the whole life is to be a repentance, not to be con- 
founded with the confession and satisfaction made to a 
priest. Repentance, indeed, demands with that which 
is internal an external mortitication of the flesh. The 
power of the papal indulgence can go no further than 
the penances imposed by the pope himself. The papal 
indulgence, consequently, can produce no reconciliation 
with God, nor, in fact, take away the guilt of the small- 
est daily sin. The pope can only announce and confirm 
the forgiveness imparted by God. This, indeed, is not 
to be despised, yet it can be found without the pope’s 
indulgence where there is true compunction and faith. 
The true treasure of the Church is not a treasure of in- 
dulgences intrusted to the pope, but is the Gospel of 
the grace of God. He distinctly held the obtaining of 
grace to be a thing of immediate relation between the 
soul and God. In these theses Luther believed that he 
expressed throughout the mind of the pope, who he 
supposed was ignorant of the abuses that had been prac- 
ticed in his name. It seems at first remarkable that 
Luther gives so little prominence to faith in the theses, 
and in the sermons on indulgence and grace which ap- 
peared simultaneously with the theses, and were meant 
for the people, Nov. 1517. But a careful study will show 
that his conception of repentance is that larger Biblical 
one in which it embraces both penitence and faith. Re- 
pentance is sometimes used as synonymous with peni- 
tence, and we then speak of repenting and believing, re- 
pentance and faith. Sometimes repentance covers both, 
and then God is said to command men everywhere to 
repent. Thus, in the 12th art. of the Augsburg Confes- 
sion, it is said: “Repentance properly consists of these 1 
two parts : The first is contrition, or the terrors of a con- : 
science smitten with acknowledged sin. The other part < 
is faith, which is conceived from the Gospel or absolu- ‘ 
tion, and believes that for Christ’s sake sins are remit- 1 
ted.” “This first act of Luther’s evangelical life,” says 1 
Gieseler, “ has been hastily ascribed by at least three em- * 
inent writers of very different character — Bossuet,Ilume, i 
and Voltaire — to the narrow monastic motive, the jeal- 
ousy of a rival order. It is asserted that the Augustinian ‘ 
friars had usually been invested in Saxony with this prof- < 
itable commission, and that it only became offensive to 1 
Luther when transferred to the Dominicans. There is no r 
ground for this assertion. The Dominicans had been for i 
nearly three centuries the peculiar favorites of the holy i 
see, and objects of all its partialities ; and it is particular- 1 
lv remarkable that, after the middle of the fifteenth cen- t 
tury, during a period scandalously fruitful in the abuse ( 
in question, we very rarely meet with the name of any i 
Augustinian as employed in that service. Moreover, 1 
it is almost equally important to add that none of the i 
contemporary adversaries of Luther ever advanced this 1 
charge against him, even at the moment in which the ( 
controversy was carried on with the most unscrupulous { 
wrath.” The influence of the theses was instantly felt t 
far and wide. “ The theses,” says Luther himself, “ ran 1 
clear through all Germany in fourteen days, for all the f 
world was complaining about the indulgences; and be- c 


cause all the bishops and doctors were silent, and nobody 
was willing to bell the cat, Luther became a renowned 
doctor, because at last somebody had come who took 
hold of the thing.” Luther, in his frank, artless confi- 
dence that the pope would be his most enthusiastic pa- 
tron, was soon undeceived, but his higher trust was 
strengthened by the course of events. “If,” said he, 
“the work be of God, who can overthrow it?” (Com- 
pare here the article Leo X in this volume, especially 
p. 363 sq. A careful reprint of the theses, after the orig- 
inal, is given in Ranke’s Reformation's Geschichte.') 

In 1518 the Augustinian Order held a convention at 
Heidelberg. All of Luther’s friends counselled him 
against going thither, as his life was threatened. Lu- 
ther, faithful to the vow to his order, went, on foot, to 
the convention. In Heidelberg he disputed on theses 
in theology and philosophy; on free-will and the fall; 
grace, faith, justification, and good works. He took 
ground against Aristotle. An immense audience, not 
only of students, but of citizens and courtiers, attended 
the disputation. Among the auditors were Bucer, Bren- 
tius, and others, destined to play a memorable part in 
the scenes of the coming Reformation. Meanwhile the 
principles maintained in the ninety-five theses had pro- 
voked the assaults of a number of stanch adherents to 
the practice of the indulgence traffic; but Luther stout- 
ly defended himself against all of them in his “ Reso- 
lutiones,” that is, solution of points in dispute concern- 
ing the virtue of indulgences; and, still hoping for re- 
dress from Rome, sent these to Leo X. His appeal was 
first of all to holy Scripture, and, next to this, to Au- 
gustine, as the profoundest expositor of Scripture among 
the fathers. 

While the elector, in the interest of the university, 
protected Luther, Rome avoided coming to the last ex- 
tremity. As early as Feb., 1518, the pope had instructed 
the general of the Augustinian Order, Gabriel Venetus, 
to turn Luther from the path he was following. As this 
measure failed of success, Luther had been called forward 
for trial to Rome. By the intercession of the elector, in 
place of appearing at Rome to answer the citation, the ap- 
pointment was made that cardinal Cajetan should give 
him a hearing at Augsburg. Urban, the orator of the 
marquis of Montferrat, tried his arts of persuasion pre- 
vious to Luther’s meeting Cajetan. To him Luther said, 
“If I can be convinced that I have said anything in con- 
flict with the understanding of the holy Roman Church, 

I will at once condemn it, and retract it.” Urban said, 
“ Do you think the elector is going to hazard his land 
for you?” Luther replied, “1 would in no wise have it 
so.” “ Where, then, will you abide?” Luther answer- 
ed, “Under the cope of heaven.” The Italian replied, 
“Had you the pope and the cardinals in your power, 
what would you do?” “I would,” said Luther, “give 
them all due honor and reverence.” At this the mes- 
senger, after the Italian manner, biting his thumbs, went 
away (Fuller, Abel Reclivivus [Nichols], 1867, i, 44). 

The cardinal himself attempted, Oct. 1518, to bring 
“little brother Martin” to submission, but without suc- 
cess. “I don’t wish to talk more with this beast; he 
has a deep eye, and marvellous speculations in his head.” 
The good offices of Staupitz, the head of the Augustin- 
ians, and a firm friend of Luther, were also called in to 
move Luther, but the service was not one after his heart. 
When Luther asked Staupitz for some other interpreta- 
tion of the Scripture than that on which his faitli rest- 
ed, Staupitz acknowledged that he could not give it, 
and showed where his heart was when he said to Luther, 
“Remember, dear brother, that thou hast begun in the 
name of Jesus.” In order that Luther might not be 
hampered, Staupitz had absolved him from the vow of 
obedience to the order. Luther finally appealed from 
“our most holy master Leo X, illy informed, to Leo X, 
to be better informed.” Having reason to fear violence, 
lie made his escape in the night of Oct. 20. Staupitz 
furnished him with a horse and an old guide. Luther, 
disguised in a long mantle, barefooted, and unarmed, 


LUTHER 


5G6 


LUTHER 


rode until the evening of the day following, and when 
dismounted, could not stand, but lay helpless on the 
straw. At Griifenthal he was overtaken by count Al- 
bert of Mansfeld, who laughed heartily at Luther’s style 
of horsemanship, and insisted on having him as his 
guest. *Two days after Luther’s departure the appeal 
was fastened to the door of the cathedral at Augsburg, j 

The papal bull of the month following condemned 
the attacks upon indulgences, and claimed for the pope | 
the power of delivering sinners from all punishments due 
to every sort of transgression. Luther, now despairing 
of any reasonable accommodation with the pontiff, find- 
ing that nothing short of the six letters “revoc o” 
would answer, appealed on Nov. 25, 1518, from the pope 
to a general council. Leo, however, by this time aware 
of the greatness of the schism likely to occur in the 
German Church, seeing around Luther fast gathering 
the great, and the strong, and the learned, hastily dis- 
patched Miltitz, the papal chamberlain and legate, whose 
moderation and skill adapted him lbr the mission of con- 
ciliation. Though he utterly failed to procure any re- 
cantation, he yet succeeded in obtaining from Luther 
(1519) an expression of submissiveness, and induced him 
to write to the pope a letter full of courtesy and humil- 
ity, promising silence if it were also imposed on his ad- 
versaries. See Leo X. 

IV, Leipsic Disputation . — But the vanity and eager- 
ness of his opponents were too great to allow the stipu- 
lation any practical force. They saw spurs to be won, 
and would not lift their lances from rest. Eck in the 
previous year (1518) had challenged Carlstadt to a dis- 
putation, but his whole course proved that Luther was 
to be the main object of his attack, and Luther hesita- 
ted not to appear in defence. The disputation took 
place at Leipsic, in the Pleissenberg Castle, from June 
2d to July 16, 1519. Carlstadt was no match for Eck, 
who was incomparably the best debater on the side of 
Lome in the century. The discussion was so tedious at 
times that the hall was emptied. The debate itself, 
and the part Luther himself took during its progress, 
have already been spoken of in the article Eck, in vol. 
iii, especially at p. 47 sq. 

The breach with Koine was decided at these disputa- 
tions by Luther’s declaration that among the articles of 
Huss there were also some condemned by the Council 
of Constance completely Christian and evangelical, thus 
clearly denying, de facto, the authority of the Church to 
decide in matters of faith. In August, 1520, appeared 
the reformatory writing, “To the Christian Nobles of 
the German Nation, of the bettering of the Christian 
State.” In this work Luther unsparingly exposed what 
the pope had done to convert the Germans, a noble, 
loyal race, into treacherous perjurers, and showed with 
what forbearance Germany had borne these indignities. 
The German knighthood had offered to draw sword in 
Luther’s defence, but be declined the aid of all earthly 
power, as out of keeping with the holy interests of the 
kingdom. This great book showed to the knights that 
Luther’s arms were mightier than theirs. In his book, 
‘•Of the Babylonish Captivity of the Church,” Oct. 6, 
1520, Luther presented the doctrinal aspects of the Ref- 
ormation, as in his book to the nobles he had looked at 
it in its political relations, lie demanded the total ab- 
rogation of indulgences as “devilish institutions,” the 
restoration of the cup to the. lait}% the limitation of the 
number of the sacraments: “ If we wish to speak rigid- 
ly, there are in the Church two sacraments only.” lie 
declared transubstantiation to he no article of faith, and 
set forth the view that “true bread and true wine,” not 
their mere accidents, remain in the Supper, lie urges 
the cessation of external ecclesiastical satisfactions. 
Through the whole he argues the sufficiency of the 
faith by which alone maii-is justified. % It might have 
seemed fixed that reconciliation with the Church of 
Rome was no longer possible; yet, as the result of a 
second conference with AI iltitz at Lich ten berg, Oct. 12, 
1520, Luther expressed himself willing once more to 


test the question. If reconciliation were to be bad at 
all, the sermon “Of the Freedom of a Christian INI an” 
(Wittenb. 1520) breathed the very spirit in which alone 
it was possible. It is “pleasant, without polemics, full 
of devoutness, and of the overwhelming might of love 
to God and love to man. In it the reformatory princi- 
ple appears in its depth, its rich devotional spirit, its re- 
ligious freshness. Its life-breath is the spirit of the 
higher peace; it contains a treasure of new impulses for 
the intellectual, and, indeed, the speculative life of the 
I Christian soul. The evangelical principle, as it involves 
faith and love, has perhaps never been unfolded with 
j such clearness, fullness, and depth. It is noble and full • 
I of significance that Luther appended this golden little 
' book to his last letter to the pope (Sept. 6, 1520), as if 
with a petition for a peaceful separation and a more 
kindly construction. But it is a happy tiling besides to 
note the quiet self-possession, the profound repose, and 
clearness of soul with which Luther stood as the strife 
grew more threatening, and the bull of excommunica- 
tion was impending. This undoubted mirror of a child- 
like heart, reflecting the peace of heaven, is in amazing 
| contrast with the thunder-storm which gathered about 
it, and is a demonstration that the confessor of the jus- 
; t ideation which is by faith had what he confessed, and 
was what he taught” (Dorner, Gesch. der Prot. Theol. p. 

’ 101, 108). Rome had meanwhile been getting ready 
to settle the whole matter by a coup de main. Jn Sep- 
tember, 1520, Eck appeared in Germany with the papal 
bull, dated June 15. It condemned as heresies fortv- 
| one propositions extracted from Luther’s writings, or- 
dered bis works to be burned wherever they were found, 
and summoned him, on pain of excommunication, to 
confess and retract his errors within sixty days, and to 
1 throw himself upon the mercy of the pope. This bull 
] brought Luther to a step decisive beyond recall. Sus- 
ceptible to gentleness, he met violence and threatening 
, with unshakable courage. Like a great general, prompt- 
ly accepting the warfare forced upon him, he carried the 
war instantly into the heart of the enemy’s territory. 
Before the gate which opens towards the river Lister, 
at Wittenberg, in the presence of a vast multitude of all 
ranks and orders, he burned the papal bull, and with it 
the decree, the decretals, the Clementines, the Extrav- 
agants, the entire code of Romish canon law, as the root 
I of all the evil, Dec. 10, 1520. Archdeacon Manning, 

1 whose testimony here will carry peculiar weight, says: 
“The just causes of complaint which made Luther first 
! address the bishops, his steady appeals through every 
gradation of ecclesiastical order to the award of a gen- 
eral council; and, on the other, the violent and corrupt 
administration of Leo X, ending in an excommunication 
against a man whose cause was still unheard, seem ef- 
fectually to elcar both him and those who. for his sake, 
were driven from the unity of the Church from the guilt 
of schism” ( Unity of the Church [London, 1842], p. 328, 
329). Thus Luther broke openly, as he had already 
broken virtually, with Rome, forever. This final rupture 
gave a character of sharpest decision to his appeal to a 
general council, with which he prefaced the burning of 
the bull, and to his writings Against the Bull of Anti- 
christ, against Emser, and others. He still continued a 
faithful member of the Catholic Church of the West, 
holding its old faith, which knew nothing of a pope 
with unlimited despotic authority. He stood then in 
many respects in the same general position which is oc- 
cupied hv Dbllinger now. The bull of excommunica- 
tion promptly followed, Jan. 6, 1521. In consequence 
of Luther's daring act, the papal legate, Alexander, de- 
manded of the Diet sitting at Worms that he should be 
put under the ban of the empire. But it was the wish 
1 of the estates of the empire that, in advance of giving 
efleet to the papal bull, Luther should be summoned to 
appear and bare a bearing before the Diet. To this 
Diet, against the urgent advice of his friends, under a 
safeguard from Charles V, who had succeeded Maximil- 
, iau in 1519, Luther went, saying, “Though there were 


LUTHER 


567 


LUTHER 


as many devils in Worms as there are tiles on its roofs, 
still would I enter.” In the memorable transaction at 
Worms, “the most splendid scene in history,” as it has 
been styled, Luther stood in the presence of the emper- 
or, the archduke Ferdinand, six electors, twenty-four 
dukes, eight margraves, thirty bishops, and other prin- 
ces and prelates of the realm, April 17, 18, 1521. It 
“was the most remarkable assembly ever convened on 
earth — an empire against a man ! Lucas Cranach’s pic- 
ture represents Luther as he stood there, so lone and 
strong, with his great full heart — a second Prometheus, 
confronting the Jove of the 10th century and the Ger- 
man Olympus.” “ His friends were yet few, and of no 
great intiuence; his enemies were numerous and power- 
ful, and eager for his destruction : the cause of truth, 
the hope of religious regeneration, appeared to be placed 
at that moment in the discretion and constancy of one 
man. The faithful trembled.” But Luther was victo- 
rious in his good confession. Having examined the 
books laid before him, April 17, he acknowledged them 
as his own. After deep reflection, for which he had so- 
licited time, he defended himself on the following day 
in an address of two hours in length. lie upheld free- 
dom of conscience, and denied the right of the priest- 
hood to control by force the religious convictions of men. 
II is manner was free from all vehemence, his expression 
was modest, gentle, and humble; “but in the matter of 
his public apology he declined in no one particular from 
the fulness of his convictions. Of the numerous opin- 
ions which he had by this time adopted at variance 
with the injunctions of Iiome, there was not one which 
in the hour of danger he consented to compromise,” At 
the close of his speech, which was in German, he com- 
plied with the request to repeat it in Latin, for the sake 
of the emperor and of others. When urged with the 
direct question whether he would recant, he replied in 
Latin, “Unless I shall be convinced by the testimonies 
of the Scriptures or by evident reason (fori believe nei- 
ther pope nor councils alone, since it is manifest they 
have often erred and contradicted themselves), I am 
bound by the Scriptures I have quoted, and my con- 
science is held captive by the word of God; and as it 
is neither safe nor right to act against conscience, I can- 
not and will not retract anything.” He added in Ger- 
man, “ Here I stand ; 1 cannot otherwise; God help me. 
Amen” (A eta Wornuttiaz habit ee, in Opera [Jena], ii, 414. 
The historical character of these last [German] words 
has been disputed [see Burckhardt, Stud. u. Krit. 1869], 
but without good grounds). Luther’s enemies now 
made violent efforts to effect his ruin. They counselled 
the violation of the imperial safe-conduct. They ap- 
pealed to the crime of Constance as a precedent. Charles 
replied that if honor were banished from every other 
home, it ought to find refuge in the heart of kings. 
The ban of the empire was published INI ay 25, 1521. It 
made Luther an outlaw. 

V. The Wartburg Exile, and the Return (May 5, 1521— 
1522). — On Luther's return from Worms the imperial 
herald accompanied him to the border of Hesse. At 
this point Luther, with no companion but Amsdorf, 
turned his face towards Mohra, to visit his grandmother. 
At Altenstein, May 4, in the Thuringian Forest, he was 
seized by masked horsemen, and was taken for protec- 
tion by his friend the elector to the Wartburg, the l’at- 
mos of the opening apocalypse of history (see “ Leo and 
Luther,” by Eugene Lawrence, in Harper’s Monthly, 
xxxix, 91-106). Here, in the apparel of a knight, he 
was known as Jungker George. Ilis enemies accounted 
for his sudden disappearance by asserting that he had 
been carried off by the devil, a theory which, from their 
point of view, does not give to that august person the 
due generally conceded to his sagacity — if Home was 
right, there was no one whom the devil had so much 
reason to wish to keep on earth as Luther. The leisure 
enjoyed by Luther at the Wartburg was employed bv 
him in preparing the first draught of the translation of 
the New Testament. 


After an exile of ten months he was called back ta 
Wittenberg, March 6, 1522, by the disorders which had 
broken out. The Augustinian monks had abrogated 
the mass; in the transactions which took place between 
them, the university, and the elector, Carlstadt had in- 
termeddled. Carlstadt had gone on at once to introduce 
what, in his judgment, were manifest consequences of 
Luther’s principles. The communion was administered 
in both kinds, with the exclusion of the sacrificial ele- 
ments and of the mass, and without confession. A great 
number of the usual ceremonies also were set aside, and 
the marriage of the priests, and of others under eccle- 
siastical vows, was introduced. The radical violence 
of the whole tendency and of its modes gave evidence 
that Carlstadt was availing himself of Luther’s absence 
to attempt what he would not have dared to do when 
Luther was present. The passionate violence of Carl- 
stadt was fanned by the Zwickau Prophets, who at this 
time made their appearance at Wittenberg. The wild 
storm of iconoclasm was met by Luther with discussion 
for the scholar, with sermons for the people. The per- 
sonal character and force of Luther, the solid truth of 
his position, and his irresistible popular eloquence 
gained a complete victory over Carlstadt (q. v.). The 
two men were in heart sundered from this hour, though 
they did not come into open controversy until 1525. 
Previous to the struggle with Carlstadt the life of Lu- 
ther in every element and trait had made an ineffacea- 
ble impression of grandeur on the hearts of the whole 
German nation. Every independent heart, and all the 
nobler Boman Catholics, acknowledged him in the high- 
est sense a man of the people, and, in a sense not less 
high, a man of God. He bad “opened the sanctuary 
of a pure faith, and in heroic struggle had kept it open” 
(Dorner, / list, of P rot. Tlieol. , trans. by Bobson and So- 
phia Taylor [Edinb. 1871], i, 97,98). At this time took 
place his change from monasticism and asceticism to 
evangelical life: the former in 1524, when he dropped 
! the monastic dress; the latter in 1525, when be n.i rried. 

| Here also belong the part he took in 1529 at the colloquy 
in Marburg (q.v.), where an effort was made to harmo- 
nize the peculiar views of Luther and Zwingli on the 
Lord’s Supper; and ids work for the Augsburg Confes- 
sion (q.v.). 

VI. Last Efforts at Conciliation with Rome. — All the 
later efforts to bridge over the gulf between himself and 
the papacy Luther regarded as too weak, in their very 
conception, to justify any great solicitude either of hope 
or of despair on his part. At Coburg, in 1530, he warn- 
ed the sanguine among his own adherents of the hope- 
lessness of the effort to compromise with the pope with- 
out the sacritice of the truth. The colloquy in Witten- 
berg, Nov. 1535, with Vergerius, the papal nuncio sent 
by Paul III, Luther considered a farce. The embassy 
filed into Wittenberg “with twenty-one horses and one 
ass.” Luther confided to his barber the chief prepara- 
tion he felt it necessary to make for meeting the nuncio 
of the holy father, and, with a full sense of the humor of 
the position, put on the best clothes and the largest jew- 
els he could command, and in the splendor of an open 
carriage, which would now be considered a cart, rode 
forth “ pope of Germany, with cardinal Bugenhagen” at 
his side. The legate was treated with courtesy, but not 
with reverence. Luther declared himself willing to ap- 
pear before a general council whenever it might be 
summoned, though he should know that it would end 
in his being burned. Vergerius : “ The pope would not 
be unwilling to meet you here in Wittenberg.” Lu- 
ther: “Let him come; we shall be glad to see him.” 
Vergerius: “Would you prefer his coming with an 
army, or without oneV” Luther: “Just as he pleases; 
we are ready for him either way.” When the legate 
had mounted, he said to Luther, “See to it that you are 
ready for the council.” Luther replied, “ I shall come, 
sir, if it costs me my head.” His opinion of the pro- 
posed council was expressed in his work OJ Councils 
and Churches (1539), and by his advice the evangelical 


LUTHER 


LUTHER 568 


(Lutheran) princes declined to participate in the coun- 
cil. 

Melanethon in 1545 prepared the Wittenberg Reform, 
the sketch of a plan of union. To this Luther gave his 
subscription, but shortly afterwards published his book 
Against the Papacy at Rome, founded by the Devil, one 
of the very fiercest of his controversial works. 

VII. Luther and the Bohemians. — On the other hand, 
Luther sought to perpetuate the fellowship formed with 
the Bohemians, who in 1536 had again sent their rep- 
resentatives to him. He wrote prefaces to their Apol- 
ogy of the Faith in 1533 and 153b. The dissatisfaction 
he had felt in 1541 with some things in their doctrine 
of the Lord’s Supper, which appeared to him suspicious, 
was dispelled in 1542. 

Till. Luther's last Days. — The Protestant princes had 
drawn the sword in the feud. Luther did all in his 
power to preserve the peace between the princes and 
the emperor; but the future looked threatening, and his 
soul was as full of solicitude as a soul could be whose 
trust in God was so implicit. The council and the con- 
gregation in Wittenberg gave Luther very serious 
trouble. The great renown and prosperity of Witten- 
berg, given to it by Luther and his coworkers, had 
brought the evils which naturally attend the inflowing 
of wealth and the attainment of position. Frivolity 
and fashion corrupted the people. Luther fought with 
all his energies against the evil. In 1530, after a pow- 
erful sermon of rebuke, he withdrew, disheartened, for a 
long time from the pulpit. lie at length left Witten- 
berg, and advised his wife to sell her property there. 
The elector himself was obliged to interpose, to restore 
the old relations. From the time of his re.turn Luther 
continued to preach, but discontinued his lectures. 

Luther’s last work was one of love and conciliation. 
Under the pressure of many cares, he started, in Febru- 
ary, 1546, on a journey to Eisleben, to attempt a concil- 
iation between the counts of Mansfeldt, a work in which 
they had solicited his good offices. For fourteen years 
Luther had been a sufferer from severe and complicated 
diseases. He was not well when he reached the inn at 
Eisleben, and from the beginning of his sickness had a 
presentiment that he would die in the place where he 
was born. He was able, however, to preach once. The 
day before his death he expressed a strong assurance 
that we shall know our loved ones in heaven. Febru- 
ary 17 he was too ill to leave his bed. When Aurifaber 
called, he found him so much worse that he summoned 
medical aid at once. Rubbing and bathing afforded 
him temporary relief, and about nine o’clock Luther lay 
down upon a eoueh, and after gathering a little strength 
by an hour's rest, proposed to his attendants that he 
should be helped to his bed. Jonas, and Martin, and 
Paul, Luther’s sons, and two servants, watched by his 
side. 1 1 is pains, however, became so great that he could 
not remain in his bed. Count Albert and the countess 
sent in haste for their own physicians. Luther used 
everything prescribed, but spoke of nothing but his 
death, which he felt sure was at hand, lie poured forth 
his soul in fervent prayer, and, after commending his 
soul into the hands of God, lay silent and waiting. 
Among the stimulants used was shavings of the horn 
of the narwhal, o? sea-unicorn, a remedy then greatly 
prized. None of the stimulants had any effect. A lit- 
tle before his last breath Jonas and Cadi us asked him 
whether he died in firm assurance of the truth of the 
doctrine he had taught. With a distinct voice, he re- 
plied *■ Vcs.” lie expired about four o’clock in the 
morning, Feb. 18, 154G (( ’. E. Stowe, Last Days and Death 
of Luthir, in the Bill. Rtpository, 1845. p. 195, 212). 

His body was taken to Wittenberg, followed along 
the whole route by thousands of mourners, the, tolling 
of the bells, and the dirges which gave expression to a 
universal sorrow. It was interred in front Of the pulpit 
iii the Castle Church. The funeral discourses were pro- 
nounced by Bugenhagen and Melanethon. Six weeks 
after Luther’s death his wife wrote: ‘*My dear husband 


was not the minister of a city, or of a land, but of the 
whole world. To have lost a princedom, to have lost 
an empire, would not be such a loss as 1 deplore” (Brief e 
[De Wctte, Leidemann], vi, G50). 

Luther’s situation in reference to eai'thly posscssiotis 
would have been that of very moderate competence (his 
greatest income was about three hundred gulden), had 
not his unbounded charity kept him perpetually poor. 
The large or older cloister of t lie Austin monks in Wit- 
tenberg was given to him by John the Constant. It 
was purchased from Luther’s heirs for the academy at 
the price of 3700 gulden. Luther purchased the Lit- 
tle Cloister for 430 gulden : it was sold by his heirs for 
300 thalers. He also owned an orchard and garden val- 
ued at 500 gulden, the manor of Waehsdorf, a male- 
fief valued at 1500 gulden, and the Zeilsdorf property, 
which sold for 956 gulden. For his books, which en- 
riched his publishers, he would take nothing. 

IX. Domestic and Social Life. — In the midst of the 
warfare which conscience compelled him to carry on 
with Erasmus, Carlstadt, and others, who professed to 
take in whole or in part the general ground against 
Rome, Luther entered on that domestic life, the charm 
of which still wins the heart of men, whose sympathies 
have been lost to him as a reformer, or as a conservator 
in reformation. June 13, 1525, he married Catharine 
von Bora, who had fled from the Cistercian nunnery of 
Niraptsch. ‘‘This was the event of his life which gave 
most triumph to his enemies and perplexity to his 
friends. It was in perfect conformity with his mascu- 
line and daring mind, that, having satisfied himself of 
the nullity of his monastic vows, he should take the 
boldest method of displaying to the world how utterly 
he rejected them.” Luther’s intercourse with his wife 
and children, his letters to them, the touching story of 
the death of Margaret and of Madeleine, present him as 
the model of the head of a Christian family (Krauth, 
Conservative Reform, p. 33^13 ; Stork, Luther at Borne 
[1872]). 

Luther had six children : 1. John, born June 7, 1526, 
was a jurist in Kbnigsberg, and died there October 28, 

: 1575. Some of his descendants v r ere found in Bohemia 
in 1830 in a state of poverty. 2. Elizabeth, born Dec. 
10, 1527 ; died Aug. 3,1528. 3. Madeleine (Magdalene), 
born May 4, 1529; died Oct. 20, 1542. 4. Martin, born 
Nov. 7. 1531, studied theology, but had not the intel- 
lectual gifts necessary for the ministry; laid down his 
office, and died as a private citizen, March 3, 1565. 5. 

Paul, born Jan. 28. 1533, was physician in ordinary at va- 
rious courts, and died March 8, 1593. G. Margaret, born 
in 1534, was married to George von Kunhcim, Prussian 
counsellor, and died in 1 570. See Nobbe, Stammbaum der 
Familie des Dr. Luther (Grimma, 1846); Ilofman, Cath- 
arine von Bora, oder Luther als Gatie u. Yater (Leipzig, 
1845) ; C. Becker, Luther's Familienleben (Kbnigsb. 1858). 

The direct line of male descent from Luther termi- 
nated with Martin Gottlob L., who was an advocate in 
Dresden, and died in 1759. The family of Luther’s 
I brother, and of Catharine von Bora, have living repre- 
sentatives. 

f The great eoworkers with Luther were also his dear- 
j est personal friends. First among them were Melanc- 
thon, Amsdorf, Justus Jonas, and Bugenhagen. The 
I Tiseh-redcti (Table-talk), which appeared twenty years 
after Luther’s death, professes to be a record of his con- 
versations, made immediately after them. It is not 
! strictly authentic, and where it conflicts with well 
known and carefully avowed opinions of Luther, is of 
no value as testimony. It often presents the prosiest 
construction of the poetry of Luther’s mind, and the 
dullest matter-of-faet perversion of his most brilliant 
thoughts. It confounds Luther himself with the char- 
acter he dramatizes, in order to vivify his aversion to it, 
and the liveliest sallies of his wit and humor are given 
with the air of the most solid and painful judgments. 
Luther’s annalist had the idolatry of a Boswell, but lit- 
tle of his skill. Nevertheless, the Table-talk is a record. 


LUTHER 


LUTHER 569 


though a clumsy one, of many of Luther’s best say- 
ings. 

X. Luther and Erasmus. — In their negations Luther 
and Erasmus had many points of contact and sympathy. 
Luther admired the polished scholarship of Erasmus ; 
Erasmus acknowledged the power of Luther, the purity 
of his motives, and the necessity for his earlier work, 
lie wrote to Luther and of him as a friend (1519). 
When the diversity of their positions, the difference of 
their characters, and the pressure of circumstances made 
a conflict between them growingly probable, each dread- 
ed the other as an antagonist as he dreaded no other 
man. (Compare here Luther’s letter to Erasmus, cited 
in the article Erasmus.) Erasmus was forced into the 
controversy. Ilad Erasmus had his own way, he would 
perhaps have never entered the lists against Luther, 
and he would never have written his Defence of free- 
will. The will of Erasmus was under bondage to the 
will of Henry VIII. Luther, with more solicitude than 
the presence of princes and prelates had ever given 
him, was obliged to take up the gage of battle. To 
the years 1524, 1525 belongs this controversy. It be- 
gan with an attack on the part of Erasmus in his book 
De libero Arbitrio. Luther wrote J)e servo Arbltrio. 
Erasmus wrote in reply his Jfyperaspistes. Luther felt 
that Erasmus had made no new points, and that his 
own had been sufficiently put, and the controversy 
ceased. As regards the vital point in this discussion, 
the mass of earnest Christian thinkers from Luther’s 
time to this have been a unit in their estimate. Eras- 
mus simply made a development of a refined pagan nat- 
uralism (for Pelagianism is no more) under the phrases 
of Christianity. Luther’s main point is the common 
ground of evangelical Christianity, though many of his 
particular phrases might not meet with universal ap- 
proval. “Erasmus makes man at first richer than Lu- 
ther does, but yet how far is Luther’s conception of free- 
dom ultimately superior to that of Erasmus, who views 
the highest and best element of freedom as reached in 
freedom of choice, and who accordingly must logically 
teach an everlasting possibility of falling, and make 
perfection eternally insecure! Luther’s conception of 
freedom leads to godlike, real freedom by grace ; for 
this it could seem to be no advantage, but only a defect, 
to be involved in choice and hesitation” (Dorner, Hist, 
of P rot. Theol. [ transl.], i, 217). In justifying the class- 
ing of this controversy with Luther’s war against Rome, 
Ivostlin says : “ Not only did Erasmus write under the 
pressure brought to bear on him by the papal opponents 
of Luther, but Luther, in his reply, shows that he rec- 
ognises the same interest as involved here, as that which 
had so far conditioned his whole struggle with Rome. 
He writes under the consciousness that in Erasmus he 
has again to do battle with the old principle of the Pe- 
lagianism of Rome” (ii, 3G). (Comp, here a review of 
INI. Durand du Laur’s Erasme in The Academy , Septem- 
ber 15, 1872.) 

XI. The character of Luther lies so open in his life 
that it is hardly necessary to trace its lines. He was 
so ingenuous that if all the world had conspired to cov- 
er up his faults, his own hand would have uncovered 
them. His violence was that of a mighty nature, strong 
in conviction, waging the battle of truth against impla- 
cable foes. The expressions which jar upon the refined 
ear of the modern world were natural in a rough aura, 
and from the lips of one who was too pure to be pru- 
<lish. The coarsenesses of the mendicant life can hard- 
ly fail to leave their traces on any man who has been 
subjected to them — the taint of a system in which filthi- 
ness is next to godliness, or, rather, is a part of it. The 
inconsistencies charged upon Luther’s thinking are those 
of a man of great intuitions, who grows perpetually, and 
who will not stop for the hopeless and useless task of 
harmonizing with the crudities of yesterday the ripe- ! 
ness of to-day. His widest diversities, after the sap of 
Reformation began to swell in his veins, are like those i 
of the tree which bends with the mellow fruit of au- i 


tumn, careless of consistency with its first buddings in 
the cold rains of March. That Luther was unselfish, 
earnest, honest, inflexibly brave in danger, full of ten- 
derness and humanity, the ideal of Germanic strength 
and of Germanic goodness ; that he was one of the great 
creative spirits of the race, mighty in word and deed, 
matchless as a popular orator, one of the very people, 
yet a prince among princes, a child of faith, a child of 
God — this is admitted by all (sec Krautli’s Conservative 
Reformat, p. 45-87). 

There is scarcely another instance in history in 
which an individual, without secular authority or mili- 
tary achievement, has so stamped himself upon a peo- 
ple, and made himself to so great an extent the lead- 
er, the representative, the voice of the nation. He has 
been to Germany what Homer was to Greece, “lie 
was the only Protestant reformer,” says Bayard Taylor, 
“ whose heart was as large as his brain.” (See “ An In- 
terview with Martin Luther,” in Harper’s Monthly , xxii, 
231.) Luther was well-set, not tall, was handsome, with 
a “clear, brave countenance,” and fresh complexion. 
His eyes were remarkable for their keenness, “dark and 
deep-set, shining and sparkling like a star, so that they 
could not well be looked upon,” as old Kessler describes 
them. The fulness of face given him in his later pic- 
tures was the result, not of robustness, but of a dropsical 
tendency, resulting from his early austerities. His phys- 
ical life was largely one of suffering. 11 is habits were 
abstemious, and his enjoyments at the table were social, 
not Epicurean. His voice was not loud nor strong. 
Melanctlion’s happy phrase touching Luther’s words is, 
that they were “fulmina,” not “tonitrua”— it was their 
lightning, not their thunder, by which their mighty ef- 
fects were produced. The papal system, the upas of 
the ages, which they struck, is not dead, but it is riven 
and blasted from its crown to its root. 

XII. Luther as a Conservator. — The culmination of 
Luther’s epic for the world at large is undoubtedly the 
defence at Worms. An obvious source of the diminu- 
tion of interest in the later j'ears of Luther’s life is that 
the carrying through of what had been so grandly be- 
gun presents, in the nature of the case, less that brings 
before the mind, in all the magic of its unparalleled 
power, the personal character of Luther. When the 
warfare is ended, the life of the greatest soldier becomes 
as tame as that of the ordinary man. But, beyond this, 
a diminished interest and a divided sympathy are due 
to the fact that in the development of doctrine and of 
the constitution of the Church Luther took a position 
on which the Protestant world has divided. The occa- 
sion for the exhibition of Luther’s conservatism was 
given by his conflict with the Zwickau Prophets (1522) 
and Carlstadt, and by the dreadful excesses of the peas- 
ant insurrections. In these he encountered what claim- 
ed to be results of the German mystical thinking — a 
mysticism which he himself had cherished; he found 
that these wild fanatics put their own construction upon 
his views of Christian liberty and the rights of the con- 
gregation, and appealed to those views in self-defence. 
These results and this construction Luther looked upon 
with abhorrence. Luther brought to a fuller exhi- 
bition what was the real difference in principle be- 
tween the position of these fanatics and his own. lie 
saw that they consciously ignored and rejected a prin- 
ciple without which reformation would be transformed 
into a radical and violent revolution, foreign in its own 
nature to the whole genius and history of Christianity. 
This principle is that of the unbroken historical life and 
development of the Church. Not as a something iso- 
lated from the Church, but as a divine power within it, 
had the truth of God reached the soul of Luther. The 
power which opened to Luther the true nature of re- 
pentance, justification, and grace, had not simply lin- 
gered in the Church, but had ripened in it, and the Ref- 
ormation could no more have been, nor Luther have 
been Luther, without the Church in history, than with- 
out the Word. Men are begotten of God through the 


LUTIIE1 


570 


LUTHER 


Word, but tlic Church is the mother who bears them. 
The Word of God is the all-sufficient rule of faith, but 
it must be seen or heard in order to be applied; and the 
rule of faith does not write itself, print itself, circulate 
itself, or speak itself, and all the ordinary organs of its 
perpetuation, circulation, and application are within the 
Church, The divinity of the Word and the divinity 
of the Church are doctrines not only in harmony with 
each other, but necessary to each other’s existence. The 
first without the second is fanaticism, sectarianism, and 
hopeless individualism; the second without the first is 
popery. The movement of Luther, from the hour of its 
riper self-perception, was so completely churchly and 
historical that the fanatics hated Luther more than they 
hated the pope. Among the evidences that Luther felt 
the need of building the sound, as well as of thinning 
down and removing the rotten, may be mentioned the 
Wittenberg Order of the Congregations, 152*2 ; the Leis- 
lfig Order of the General Fund, 15*23 ; letter to the land- 
grave of Hesse in regard to the Ilomberg Clntrch-Or- 
der. 1527; the Visitation, 1527-1529; the part he took 
in the arrangement of the consistories and for the gov- 
ernment of the Church. 

Those who do not sympathize with his conservatism 
yet admit that Luther’s personal religious character was 
deep and consistent, and that in the sphere of conscience, 
and where he stands on the verities of his own internal 
experience, he is the unshakable reformer. But it is 
said bv these objectors that where his own immediate 
religious consciousness ceases he shows himself under 
the influence of his earlier views; that, unknown to 
himself, lie stands forth with the “ineffaceable traces of 
the monk, the priest, and the scholastic theologian.” 
By this supposition is solved the fact that, while lie re- 
jected the mass as it embodied the idea that the Lord’s 
Supper is a proper sacrifice, and rejected transubstantia- 
tion, he yet found it impossible to abandon the thought 
that the Lord’s Supper veils the mystery of redemption, 
and is “more than an act in which a congregation unites 
in a pious and believing memorial.” This it was, they 
think, which led him “to a conception of the sacrament 
obscure and indeterminate, and to a doctrine which 
maintains on a scholastic basis the presence of Christ, 
and the ubiquity, the omnipresence of his body.” From 
the same direction comes the charge that, “ blinded by 
the halo which to the eyes of the people invests the 
head of the imperial majesty, he overlooked the fact 
that it is not only Christian for a great cause to go 
cheerfully to the scaffold, but that it is also Christian 
and manly for inalienable rights to resist imperial op- 
pression with the sword.” Luther’s holding back, and 
Luther’s scruples, are charged as the main cause that 
the Evangelical States made so little use of the favora- 
ble opportunities which were so often presented in the 
political relations of the times; opportunities which, 
rightly used, would have enabled them to seize and to 
maintain the pre-eminence. 

To these objections it may be answered that all that 
is of real importance in the judgment of Luther’s posi- 
tion as to the Lord’s Supper hinges upon the question. 
Is his doctrine the Biblical one? If it be Biblical, the 
main objections vanish. They could at the worst fix 
no more than the charge of doing a right thing in a 
wrong way. If we were to concede for Luther in these 
controversies what he confessed for himself at Worms, 
that he had fallen into personal expressions which did 
not become his character as a Christian, nor as a minis- 
ter of Christ, yet we could say for him. as he said for 
himself at the same great aura, the question is not con- 
cerning his person, hut his doctrine. It' the doctrine he 
uuhiblieal, the proof of that fact swallows up all minor 
questions. But those who prize the thing will at least 
forgive the mode. Loving Jhim for the “re” in which 
lie was “ fortiter,” they will absolve him for its sake for 
having carried the “fortiter” also into the “modo.” 
Here, as elsewhere, the estimate of Luther’s character is 
properly made from the position of those who harmonize 


with his views, not of those who differ from him, for the 
practical difference between the construction of firmness 
and obstinacy usually is, that firmness stands fast to 
what we cherish, and obstinacy holds stiffly to what we 
reject, or care nothing about. To the Romanist Luther 
was obstinate at Worms, firm at Marburg ; to the Zwin- 
giian portion of Protestants he was obstinate at Mar- 
burg, firm at Worms. 

As regards Luther’s political position, it may he said 
that it saved the Reformation in its infancy; and when 
evil counsels of the friends of Protestantism harmonized 
with the efforts of the Romanists to drag the question 
of the aera into the arena of state-struggle, the Reforma- 
tion was brought to the verge of ruin. Had Luther 
shared the political views of the Zwinglian side of the 
Reformation, the appeal to arms made in the Thirty 
Years’ War might have come a century earlier, and 
might have ended in the overthrow of the Reformation. 
But once in his career did Luther yield to the pressure 
of political considerations (the bigamy of the landgrave 
of Hesse), and in that yielding the Reformation received 
its severest blow, and tlic name of Luther its solitary 
blot. His simple trust in God was the highest princi- 
ple. It was, though Luther did not think of it as such, 
the highest policy. 

A complete, comprehensive, and systematic statement 
of his doctrines was never given by Luther, not even in 
his confessional writings. Others have endeavored to 
arrange his views in systematic order: Kirchner, The- 
saurus (in Latin, I5GG; in German, 15GG, 1570. 1578); 
Theodosius Eabricius, Loci Communes (Lond. 1593 ; 1 G51, 
Latin; and in German, 1597); Mains. 21. L. Thtoloyia 
Pura (1709; with a Supplement, 1710); Beste, J/. Z.’s 
Glaubenslehre (Halle, 1845). In this general class may 
also be mentioned And. Musculus, Schaiz (1577), and 
Salzmann, Sinyularia Lutheri (1GG4, fol.). It was Lu- 
ther’s work to restore doctrine, he left to others the ar- 
rangement of it. He made history, others might write 
it. Luther’s great aim constantly was to give promi- 
nence and strength to those doctrines which were denied, 
ignored, or corrupted. His plan of warfare was that of 
attack rather than of defence. He fought many battles, 
but underwent and conducted few sieges. “ The wealth 
of his theological knowledge and teaching rests essen- 
tially upon his direct mighty grasp, intuition, and uni- 
fying view of truth. As the result of this, it is the 
peculiarity of his mind that there is a relative throwing 
into the background of that aspect and endowment of 
intelligence which are directed to calm reflection upon 
the diverse individual elements and parts of the object, 
to notional formulating, to logical or dialectical syste- 
matizing” (Kbstlin, The Theology of Luther [18G3]). 
The grand impulse of his life was to testify to the truth ; 
so to impart the knowledge in which his own soul had 
found healing and salvation that it might he to others 
health and life. 

XIIJ. Polemics and Irenics. — Inflexible in his opposi- 
tion to Rome, he j*ct showed himself solicitous to pre- 
serve peace while peace was possible. Very gradually 
and very cautiously he declared himself for the right of 
armed resistance, when, in the conscientious judgment 
of men learned in the law, the nature of the violation 
of rights is such as to demand war as the sole possible 
mode of self-defence. 

1. The doctrine of the Lord's Supper grew to a sub- 
ject of extended conflict, and of far-reaching doctrinal 
and practical power in Luthers life and in the Reforma- 
tion. It became, indeed, a touchstone. The laws of 
interpretation which determined the doctrine of the 
Supper either way, conditioned more or less the entire 
distinctive characteristics of both tendencies in the Ref- 
ormation. While he was engaged in the controversy 
with Carlstadt, he heard. Nov. 12, 1524, that Zwingle, 
and Jan. 13, 1525, that (Ecolampadius held the same 
views — “the poison widely creeping.” There were, in- 
deed, three mutually contradictory processes of interpre- 
tation; each of the three overthrew the other two, and 


LUTHER 


571 


LUTHER 


was overthrown by them ; but as they concurred in the 
one result, the denial of the true presence, Luther regard- 
ed them from the beginning as essentially one view. 

2. Luther's course in the sacramental controversies ex- 
ercised an immense influence on the internal and exter- 
nal history of the Reformation, and on nothing in his 
history has Protestant sentiment been so completely and 
so passionately divided. In his sermon on the venera- 
ble sacrament (1519), in which he for the first time pre- 
sented with comparative fulness the evangelical view 
of the Lord’s Supper, he still retained the doctrine of 
transubstantiation. 1 1 is own doctrine of the true pres- 
ence of the body and blood of Christ without a change 
in the elements (“true bread and wine remains”) he 
first brought clearly forth in his work on the adoration 
of the holy sacrament (1523), addressed to the Bohe- 
mian Brethren, who had directed their inquiries to him. 
They claimed that they held an objective gift of God 
in the sacrament; and, although their doctrine has been 
asserted by some to be that of a purely spiritual pres- 
ence, they gave it such an approximation to the doc- 
trine maintained by Luther that he was entirely satis- 
fied with their statement. Tie discussed the question 
further in a letter to the preacher at Strasburg (1525), 
and in a preface to the Suabian Syngramtna (1526), 
with which he declared himself in harmony. He fought 
earnestly again§t the doctrine of the Lord’s Supper pro- 
posed by Carlstadt and Zwingle, which had the common 
feature that it regarded the Lord's Supper not so much 
a divine institution as a movement of man towards God. 
Over against their views Luther designates the forgive- 
ness of sins as the special, distinctive grace of this sac- 
rament, as in that forgiveness Christ has laid the efficacy 
of his passion. That bread remains bread, and is yet, 
in the sacramental complex, the body of Christ, involves 
to faith no contradiction. He defended his views in the 
Sermon of the Sacrament of the Bod iy and Blood of 
Christ (1526); that the Words “ This is my Body ” still 
stand fast (1527); and in Confession touching the Supper 
(1529). The colloquy at Marburg (1529) only in part 
removed his suspicions of Zwingle: You have another 
spirit than we.” The Schwabach Articles gave renew- 
ed expression to the doctrine of the true presence, even 
stronger than that in the articles which were drawn up 
at Marburg to express the consent and dissent of the 
two parties. A more hopeful turn of mind was called 
forth by the visit of Bucer to Coburg in 1530. As a re- 
sult of this visit, Luther, in letters to Albert of Prussia 
and to the people of Frankfort, expressed himself more 
gently towards Zwingle. The Wittenberg Concord of 
1536 resulted from this new movement. This Concord 
led to a temporary friendly recognition of the Swiss, 
and a correspondence with them ; but all the old dis- 
trust showed itself again in the Short Confession touch- 
ing the Holy Sacrament (1541). Luther had set himself 
with unshakable decision against e^ery league of the 
Evangelical (Lutheran) States with the Swiss. He had 
not been able, however, to deter the landgrave Philip 
from forming a league with them. In the conflict with 
Zwingle there had been a special development of Lu- 
ther’s Christological views, and an expansion and dis- 
tinctiveness imparted to his entire theological thinking. 

3. The controversies which most deeply distressed 
Luther were those which took place within the Evan- 
gelical Church itself. The Osiandrian controversy in 
Nuremberg, 1533, in regard to the general form of public 
absolution, to which Andrew Osiander (q. v.), who was 
constitutionally self-opinionated, objected on the ground 
that many were unprepared for absolution, was decided 
by Luther with that thorough moderation which never 
failed him when he believed that principle was not com- 
promised. He. thought the form unobjectionable, but 
advised that if Osiander felt scruples he should be al- 
lowed to omit it, without censuring those who used it, 
or being censured by them. He quenched the Antino- 
mistic controversy excited in Wittenberg in 1537 by 
John Agricola (q. v.), who had been one of his dearest 


friends. Agricola completely retracted his erroneous 
views, but the tenderness of the old confidence and love 
was never restored. 

XIV. Literary Activity. — The activity of Luther in 
the period which followed his return to Wittenberg was 
largely directed to the internal shaping of the Evangel- 
ical (Lutheran) Church. Among its richest results may 
be mentioned, 1. his German hymns in the first Ger- 
man Hymn-book (1524), and the Wittenberg Hymn- 
book (1529). He stands forth in these as the father 
and founder of German hymnology and Church music. 
See Hymnology. lie was the author of thirty-six 
hymns, and of several original melodies adapted to them. 
2. His Order of Divine Service and of the Congregation 
(Wittenberg, 1523); his Formula Messce et Communio- 
nis (1524); German Mass and Order of Divine Service 
(1526) (all of these are given in Sunday Services of the 
Churches of the Deformation , by C. P. Ivrauth), with 
which he connected his Ritual of Baptism and Marriage, 
and a form of Confession. The great visitation in the 
states of the elector of Saxony (1527-1529) led to Me- 
lancthon’s writing the Book of Visitation. This was 
revised by Luther, and issued anew in 1538. 

Among Luther’s greatest labors are to be mentioned 
the two Catechisms (1529), and his Translation of the 
Bible. This he commenced with the New Testament 
in 1522; the Old was sent out in parts, commencing in 
1525, and was issued complete in 1534. The final re- 
vision was made in 1541, and the latest edition of this 
final revision, which Luther himself helped to correct, 
typographically, appeared in 1545. The Bible of Lu- 
ther is an acknowledged masterpiece — one of the won- 
ders of the intellectual world.- “The modern German 
attained its full development and perfect finish in Lu- 
ther’s version. By means of that book it obtained a 
currency which nothing else could have given it. It 
became fixed ; it became universal ; it became the or- 
gan of a literature which, more than any other since 
the Greek, has been a literature of ideas. It became 
the vehicle of modern philosophy, the cradle of those 
thoughts which at the moment act most intensely on 
the human mind” (Hedge). “He created the German 
language,” says Heine. 

XV. Activity in Church Constitution. — lie took an ac- 
tive interest in the constitution of the Consistories : Be- 
clenken — Considerations of the Theologians touching 
Consistories (1538). An important part was borne by 
Luther in the preparation of the confessional writings 
of the renewed Church, lie was. in conjunction with 
other divines, the author of the Marburg Articles and 
Schwabach Articles (1529), which furnished the basis 
and, to a large extent, the material, both doctrinal and 
verbal, of the Augsburg Confession (1530), during the di- 
rect preparation and presentation of which Luther was 
at Coburg. As he was under the ban of the empire, to 
have appeared at Augsburg would have almost certain- 
ly cost him his life, and would have made all negotia- 

I tion impossible, as it would have been regarded as an 
I open act of aggression on the part of the Protestant 
princes. He was brought, therefore, to the nearest point 
at which he could be safe, and where he could be con- 
sulted. His influence at Augsburg was no less real 
and hardly less direct than if lie had been there in per- 
son. The great hymn “ Eine feste Burg” is generally 
supposed to have been written at this time, but there 
are strong grounds for believing that it appeared in 1529. 
In 1537 he prepared the Sclimaleald Articles, to be laid 
before the council which had been summoned to con- 
vene at Mantua. In aiding in giving to the Church 
her proper external relations, Luther exercised his influ- 
ence by letters, and by bis writings in connection with 
the Diet of Nuremberg and of Eatisbon, the religious 
Peace of Nuremberg (1532), and the Interim of Eatisbon 
(1536). At the formation of the Torgan alliance (1526) 
and of the Schmaleald League (1530) he had sent his 
opinion and advice, and. with his counsel to his elector, 
the protestation was made at Spires (1529). 


LUTHER 


572 


LUTHER 


XVI. Memorials. — 1. A monumental bronze statue 
was erected to Luther’s memory in the market-place of 
Wittenberg, 1817. Another monument, reared bv the 
German nation at Worms, was inaugurated June 25, 1868. 

2. The number of medals struck in honor of Luther 
and of his work is very great (Juncker’s Life of Luther, 
illustrated by medals, in Latin, 1699, and German, 1707 ; 
Cyprian’s Uilaria Ec angelica [1719, fol.]). 

3. The third centennial anniversary of the death of 
Luther was observed Feb. 18, 1846, throughout all Ger- 
many, with Wittenberg and Eisleben as its focal points. 
Nor was the celebration limited to Germany. Solemn 
memorial services were held in France, Holland, Swe- 
den, Russia, and other countries. The anniversary was 
made the occasion of establishing a number of beneficent 
institutions. Among these were a Luther-school in Wit- 
tenberg for the poor, an evangelical Lutheran Orphan- 
house in Warsawa, and the Luther -establishment in 
Leipzig, Feb. 18, 1846, the object of which was to make 
provision for descendants of Luther, and to circulate Lu- 
ther’s writings, especially his translation of the Bible. 

4. Poetry and A rt have devoted many of their noblest 
efforts to Luther and his work. But neither Bechstein’s 
epic (‘* Luther,” Leipz. 1834), nor the dramas of Werner 
(‘‘Martin Luther, or the Consecration of Power”) and 
Kbster, nor Trumpelmann’s Luther u. Seine Zeit (Gotha, 
1869), which is the latest attempt to dramatize Luther’s 
life, have taken the place in the heart of the people 
which they would have tilled had they been wholly 
worthy of their theme. The great war had its Achilles, 
but it waits for its Homer. The most ambitious effort 
in English in this line is Robert Montgomery’s Luther , 
or the Spirit of the Deformation (3d edit. Lond. 1843). 

5. Among the paintings of renown, the first place his- 
torically is due to Luther’s portrait by Lucas Cranach. 
It is now in the possession of Winter, in Heidelberg. 
The copies and engravings of it have been multiplied 
by millions. Busts or portraits of Luther are found in 
mam r of the Protestant (Lutheran) churches on the Con- 
tinent, and in some in America. 

XVII. Literature. — Luther’s separate works amount 
to about four hundred. In a collected shape his works 
have appeared in the following editions: 1. 1539-1559, 
20 vols. folio (at Wittenberg), by order of the elector 
John Frederick. Seven of the volumes are in Latin 
(1545-1558), and one (Breslau, 1563) is the Index. 2. 
1555-1558. 12 vols. folio (Jena). Four are Latin. The 
Index (1573 and 1592) was completed by Aurifaber (Eis- 
leben, 1564-1565, 2 vols. folio). Text more trustworthy 
than that of the Wittenberg. 3. 1661-1664, 10 vols. folio 
(Altenburg), by order of the duke Frederick William; 
edited by J. Ch. Sagitarus. German only. A supple- 
ment to these three editions was published in 1702, bv 
J. G. Seidler (Halle, 1702). 4. 1729-1740, 23 vols. folio, 
German (Leipzig) ; best of the folio editions. 5. 1740- 
1753, 24 vols. 4to, German, J. G. Walch (Halle). Pre- 
ferred to the others because of its fulness, and the in- 
corporation of important documents; objected to be- 
cause of inaccuracies, and liberties with the text. 6. a. 
1826-1857. 67 vols. I2mo, German (Erlangen) ; edited by 
John G. Plochmann and John C. lrmischer. It is the 
most critical of all the editions, h. The Latin series of 
the same edition is not yet completed. 

Selections from Luther’s works, or abridgments, have 
been edited by F. W. Lommler (Gotha, 1816-17, 3 vols.), 
l>v Vent (I Iamb. 1826-27, 10 vols.), by Pfitzer (Frankf. 
1837), by Otto von Gerlach (1840-18 18, 24 vols.), and by 
Zimmerman n (1816-1850, 4 vols. 8vo). For the German 
Christian people, by Frobenius, Schellbach, and others 
(1847-1855). Political writings, by Mundt (Berk 1844). 
Ki rchen- Post ille. by Francke (Leipzig, 1844). Manual 
Concordance of Luther’s writings, edited by Lomler and 
others (Darmstadt, 1827- 183 1,9. vols.). See Brctschnei- 
der, Luther an Unsere Zeit (Erfurt, 1817). 

Translations from Luther into English are catalogued 
in Lowndes’s Bibliographer' s Manual (Bohn, 1860), p. 
1415-1417. 


Luther’s Letters have been edited, 1. by G.Tli. Strobel 
(1780-83) and by De Wette (1825-28) ; supplement by 
Seidemann (1856). 2. Correspondence edited by Burck- 
hardt (1866). See Veesenmayer, Literargeschkhte (“ Lit- 
erary History of the Collections of Luther’s Letters,” 
Berlin, 1821), 

The“ Table-Talk" ( Tisch reden, Aurifaber, 1 566 ; Stang- 
wald, 1571, 1591) has been critically edited by Forste- 
mann and Bindseil (1844-48). The most complete trans- 
lation into English is by Capt. Hemy Bell (Loud. 1652, 
folio; 2d edit. 1791 ; new edit. Burckhardt, 1840 [gar- 
bled] ; transl. by Wm. Hazlitt, London, 1848 ; new edit., 
with additions, London [Bohn], 1857 ,■ Philad. 1868). 

The writers on the life of Luther are numerous (Fa- 
bricii Centifolium [II amburg, 1728, 1730. 2 vols. ; Ukert, 
1817]; E. G. Vogel, Biblioth. Biographica Luth . [Halle, 
1851], give the literature), namely, Melancthon, Histo- 
ria de vita et Adis Lutheri (Wittenberg, 1546; edited by 
Augusti, Breslau, 1817 ; with Preface by Neander, Berk 
1841; transl. by Zimmermann, Gottingen, 1816; in Eng- 
lish, London, 1561, 1817); Cruciger (1553); Mathesius, 
Geschichte Luther's, in Seventeen Sermons (N iirnberg, 1 565, 
and frequently since ; edited, with observations by Bust, 
Berk 1841; by Schubert, Stuttg. 1852) ; Selnecker "(1575) ; 
Dresser (1598); Walch, in his edition of Luthers 1 Verke, 
xxiv, 1-875; Keil (2d ed. Leipz. 1764,4 vols.); Schrbckh 
(Leipzig, 1778) ; Tischer (Leipz. 1793; yew edit. 1803) ; 
Ukert (Gotha, 1817, 2 vols. [rich in notices of litera- 
ture]) ; Spieker, Geschichte Luther's und der Peformation 
(Berlin, 1818,1 vol.) ; Stang, Leben it. Wirken (1835-37 ; 
after J. Mathesius, Nurnb. 1833) ; G.Pfizer (Stuttg. 1836); 
Ledderhose (1836); Meurer. Luther's Leben, aus den Quel- 
len , erzdhlt (Dresden, 1843-1846 [transl. N.Y. 1848], 1852 ; 
3d edit. 1870; abridged, 1850, 1861,1869); F. W.Genthe, 
Leben u. Werke (Eisleb. 1841-45); Jurgens, First Divis. 
3 vols. — reaches only to 1517 (Leipz. 1846-47) : Weyd- 
mann (1850), 11. Gelzor, Historical Sketches, with picto- 
rial illustrations by G. Konig (Hamb. 1851 ; transl.. with 
an Introduction and view of the Reformation in Eng- 
land by Croly, 1853, 1858; 3d ed. Bohn, 1860 ; reprinted, 
Philadelphia, with Introduction by T. Stork, 1854); J. A. 
Jander, Luther's Leben (Leipzig, 1853); K. Zimmermann 
(Darmstadt, 1855) ; G. A. 1 1 off, I r ie de Luth. (Paris, 1860) ; 
H. W. J. Thiersch, Luther. Gustav Adolph, und Maxim il- 
ian I (Nordh 1869) ; Jiikel, Dr. M. L. Gesch. seines Le- 
bens und seiner Zeit (1870); Schultz (E. S. FA, Luther's 
Leben u. Wirken (Berk 1870) ; Lang, M. L. (1870). The 
biographical dictionaries and the encyclopedias all have 
articles on Luther. Among the former may be mentioned 
Bayle, among the latter the Britannica (Bunsen) and 
llerzog (by Kostlin), Many of the most important works 
which treat of Luther's life, as, for example, Sleidan, Scul- 
tetus, Seckendorf,Tenzeh Spalatine, Mveonins, among the 
older writers, and Marheineke, Ranke, D’Anbignc, Wad- 
dington, among recent ones, present it in its connections 
with the history of the Reformation (q.v.). 

The most noticeable lives of Luther from Boman 
Catholic hands are by Cochheus (1549; tr. into German 
by Hueber, 1582), Ulenberg (1622; trails, into German, 
Mainz, 1836), Michelet (1833-35, trails, by Lawson, 1836 ; 
by G. II. Smith and by Hazlitt, 1846), and Audin (Par. 
1838, 1850; transl. Philad. 1841 ; by Trumbull, London, 
1854). 

The best known by English hands are by Bower 
(1813), Riddle (1837), and John Scott (London, 1832; 
New York, Harpers, 1833). The Schonberg-Cotta Fam- 
ily (1864) is the best picture of Luther from an English 
pen ; little more than the frame is fiction. 

From the hands of American authors we have, lives 
by Sears (1850), Weiser (1848, 1866), Loy (tr. of Frick, 
2d edit. 1869), J. G. Morris ( Quaint Sayings and Doings 
concerning Luther, 1859), and A. Carlos Martvn (1866). 

The third centennial of Luther’s death, Feb. 18, 1846, 
called forth an immense number of writings: Ortmann, 
Pasig, Kothe, Meurer, Petcrmann, Heyl, John, and 
Lbschke. Petermann and others published histories 
of Luther’s last days, and of his death and burial. There 


LUTHERAN 


573 


LUTHERAN 


appeared at this time the account of Luther’s last hours 
by two eye-witnesses, Justus Jonas and Cceliu.s of Mans- 
feld; Luther’s sermons, hitherto unprinted, edited by 
Hdk (from the MSS. of the Wolfenbiittcl Library); se- 
lections from Luther’s German letters, by Ddring; and 
Luther’s hymns, by Kurtz, Wackcrnagel, and Crusius. 
Among the best books called forth is the prize work of 
Hopf — his critique (Wurdigung) of Luther’s translation 
of the Bible, with reference to the older and the more 
recent translations (1847). 

On Luther’s theology, see Julius Kostlin, IPs Theolo- 
gie , “ Luther’s Theology, in its historical unfolding and 
in its internal connection” (Stuttgart, 1863) ; L.'s The- 
ologie , “ Luther’s Theology, with special reference to his 
doctrine of Atonement and Redemption” (Ilarnack, 
1862-7) ; Dorner, Gesch. der Protest. Theolog. (Munchen, 
1867 ; trans. by Robson and Sophia Taylor, Edinb. 1871, 
2 vols); Plitt, Einleitung in die Augustana (Erlangen, 
1868); Chr. Weisse, Luther's Christologie (1855); Lu- 
ther’s Philosophie von Theophilos (1 Theil, die Logik, 
Hanover, 1870). 

On Luther’s German style, sec Dietz, Worterbuch zu 
Ph\ M. L.'s Deutschen Schriften (Leipsic, 1868) ; Opitz, 
Die Sprache L. (Halle, 1869). 

On the character and merits of Luther, Ackermann L. 
Peine m 1 Allen 1 Verth und 1 Vesen nach , aus seinen Schrift - 
en dargestellt (1 Heft, “ Luther im Ivampf,” Jena, 1871). 
For other literature, see Reformation. (C. P. K.) 

Lutheran Church, Lutheranism, Lutherans. 
I. The name “ Lutherans,” as a designation of all those 
who were in sympathy with Luther’s views, was, at the 
opening of the Reformation, first applied to them by 
Eck (q. v.) and pope Hadrian VI, and was meant as a 
term of depreciation, and at first and for a considerable 
time designated the entire body of those who opposed 
the corruptions of Rome. The official and proper titles 
of the particular churches on which the name Lutheran 
has finally been fixed are “Protestant” (q. v.), “Evan- 
gelical” (q. v.), and “Adherents of the Augsburg Con- 
fession.” The Protestant Evangelical Church of the 
Augsburg Confession has not, as a whole, to this hour, 
by any official act, received or acknowledged the title 
“Lutheran,” but has tolerated it because of the histori- 
cal necessities of the usage. Like the name “Chris- 
tian” itself, invented by enemies, it has been borne un- 
til it has become a name of honor. It became more 
and more the received term for the Protestant Evangel- 
ical Church in consequence of the struggles of that 
Church with the Zwinglian and Calvinistic-Reformed 
without, and the Philippists within. It marked Lu- 
theranism in antithesis to Calvinism, and the thorough- 
going adherence to the faith of Luther, over against the 
changes furtively introduced and extended under the 
plea, true or false, of the authority of Melancthon (q. v.; 
also Philippists). 

The Lutheran Church is the ecclesiastical communion 
which adheres to the rule and articles of faith restored 
in the Reformation, of which Luther was the chief in- 
strument. The acceptance of this rule (God’s Word) 
and the confession of this faith are set forth in the 
Augsburg Confession of 1530, which is the common con- 
fession of the entire Lutheran Church. The major part 
of the Lutheran Church formally and in terms acknowl- 
edges, and the rest of it, almost without exception, vir- 
tually acknowledges the Apology of the Augsburg Con- 
fession of 1530, the Sehmaleald Articles of 1537, the two 
Catechisms of Luther of 1529, and the Formula of Con- 
cord of 1579, as accordant with the rule of faith and 
with the Augsburg Confession. These confessions, to- 
gether with the oecumenical creeds, form the Book of 
Concord ol 1580, and are often styled the Symbolical Books 
oj the Lutheran Church. The system of faith and life 
involved in the Church’s Confession is Lutheranism , the 
Church which officially receives it is the Lutheran 
Church, and the members of that Church are Lutherans. 
The faith of the Lutheran Church is thus summarily 
presented by Dr. Chas. P. Krauth ( Conservative Refor- 


mation. p. 127) : “ We are justified by God, not through 
any merits of our own, but by his tender mercy, through 
faith in his Son. The depravity of man is total in its 
extent, and his will has no positive ability in the work 
of salvation, but has the negative ability (under the or- 
dinary means of grace) of ceasing its resistance. Jesus 
Christ offered a proper, vicarious, propitiatory sacrifice. 
Faith in Christ presupposes a true penitence. The re- 
newed man co-works with the Spirit of God. Sanctifi- 
cation is progressive, and never reaches absolute perfec- 
tion in this life. The Holy Spirit works through the 
word and sacraments, which only in the propen sense 
are means of grace. Both the Word and the Sacraments 
bring a positive grace, which is offered to all who receive 
them outwardly, and which is actually imparted to all 
who in faith embrace it.” The chief peculiarities of 
Lutheran doctrine, which have to any considerable de- 
gree become subjects of controversy outside of the body 
itself, relate to (1.) Original Sin, (2.) the Person of Christ, 
(3) Baptism, and (4) the Lord’s Supper. These will be 
found specially treated under those heads. Luther’s 
own views on the last point will be detailed under the 
art. Transubstantiation. For a more complete view 
of the doctrines of Lutheranism, see Krauth, Conservative 
Reformation (Phila. 1871), and Prof. Jacobs in the Mer- 
cersburg Review, Jan. 1872, p. 77 sq. ; Zbckler, A ugsbur- 
gische Confession (1870). 

II. Origin and Extent. — The rupture with the dominant 
part of the Church of Rome, and the formation of the new 
communion, was made inevitable by the Diet at Spires in 
1529, at which the solemn protestation of the evangelical 
princes was presented, in opposition to the imperial recess 
| (decree) in its bearing on tbe great religious interests 
of the time. This event gave to the Lutheran Church 
the title Protestant (q. v.), by which it is almost ex- 
clusively known in parts of Europe. The rupture was 
completed by the events connected with the presenta- 
tion of the Augsburg Confession in 1530. The funda- 
mental principle of the Lutheran Church prevented its 
formation into a new, concentrated, and united whole, 
like that which had grown to such enormous proportions 
and baleful power in the Church of the West. Nor 
was it Luther’s object to form an independent Church, 
lie hesitated as much in the establishment of an inde- 
pendent organization as do the leaders of the Old Cath- 
olic movement in our day (1872). Luther’s single aim, 
like Dollinger’s to-day, was the reformation and revival 
of Christianity, and the restoration of the whole Church, 
in its universal form, to primitive and scriptural purity. 
Denominationalism he knew not. His conception of 
the Church comprehended Catholic Christianity. In 
| spite of himself, however, his peculiar views, which for 
convenience sake we will now denominate “ Lutheran- 
ism,” spread rapidly, especially after the Diet of Worms 
(1521), and though as late as 1522 Luther himself wrote, 
“1 beseech you, above all things, not to use my name; 
not to call yourselves Lutherans, but Christians” ( lPo/7iS, 
xviii, 293, in the 6th Leips. ed. ; comp, also Gclzer, Life 
of Luther, p. 288, 291), national churches sprang up in 
every country where his followers constituted the ma- 
jority. These state churches were all independent of 
each other, and were based much upon the same funda- 
mental principles of polity, allowing, however, of great 
variety in the forms of application. Instead of the 
bishop of Rome, the princes of the different countries 
now assumed the rights of bishops, and the direct rule 
of the Church was conducted by the Consistories (q. v.). 
John the Constant, elector of Saxony, followed in the 
steps of his brother and predecessor, Frederick the Wise, 
in devotion to the work of Luther. The landgrave 
Philip of Hesse also became an adherent. In Prussia 
the Lutheran doctrine was introduced in 1523 by George 
of Polentz, bishop of Samland. Thus, at the beginning 
of the year 1525, the three princes of Saxony, Hesse, 
and Prussia were its defenders. The Reformed doctrine 
found an especially ready entrance in the free impe- 
rial cities, where the voice of the people was a power. 


LUTHERAN 


574 


LUTHERAN 


In Wiirtemberg it was introduced under duke Ulrich in 
1534; in the' bishoprics of Magdeburg and Halberstadt 
in 1541; in Brunswick about 1545. The views which 
Luther had expressed at an early period in regard to a 
congregational constitution were thrown into the back- 
ground by the disturbances of the Anabaptists and the 
insurrections of the peasants. The leagues of the evan- 
gelical princes were one of the earliest forms in which 
there was an expression of the unity of the different 
parts of the Lutheran Church. The conventions of the 
theologians for the adjustment of doctrinal controver- 
sies tended to the same end. In the political relations 
of the Church the unity found expression in the “Cor- 
pus Evangelicorum” (q. v.) at the Diets. 

The rapid, and, for a time, resistless growth of the Lu- 
theran Church received its first cheek in the “ecclesiasti- 
cal reservations” of the religious peace of Augsburg. By 
the terms of this peace the transition of an ecclesiastical 
prince was attended by a loss of his secular power. The 
miscarriage of the attempt at reformation by Gebliard 
Truchsess in the archbishopric of Cologne in 1583 was a 
serious disaster to the Lutheran Church. The larger 
part of Germany was inclined to the Lutheran faith. 
The apostasy of several of the princes, as, for example, 
Pfalz-Neuburg, on political grounds, and the influence 
of the counter reformation conducted by the Jesuits in 
Bavaria and Austria, preserved a part of Germany for 
the pope; but the peace of Westphalia finally fixed the 
bounds of the Lutheran Church in Europe, and they re- 
main, very much as they then were, to the present day. 
The transition of the elector of Saxony, of the duke of 
Brunswick, and of other princes to the Church of Borne, 
exercised no very marked influence upon their people. 
A large part of the higher nobility, which in the earlier 
movements of the Reformation had manifested, almost 
without exception, a drawing towards it, gradually lapsed 
again into Bom an ism. (On these perversions, and other 
losses to the Lutheran Church, see Lobell’s Hist . Briefe; 
Banke, Deutsche Geschichte , vol. vii [1808].) At an ear- 
lier period than that of these changes, the Fhilippistic 
and Reformed churches of the Palatinate, and in Hesse, 
in Anhalt, and on the Lower Rhine, in East Friesland 
and Bremen, Lippe, Nassau, and Tecklenburg, bad sun- 
dered themselves from the Lutheran Church. In the 
present century these churches have come together hi 
the “ Union.” Beyond the bounds of Germany the Lu- 
theran Church was tirmlv established in Sweden, Nor- 
way, and Denmark, and in the German Baltic provinces 
of Russia. In Poland it was suppressed (comp. Krasin- 
ski, Hist . of the Ref. in Poland). In the United States 
of America the Lutheran Church has won a new terri- 
tory. (See below, Lutherans in America.) In Hun- 
gary and Transylvania the German (Saxon) nationality 
accepted the Lutheran confession. The Magyars be- 
came Reformed. In Sweden, Olaf and Lorenz Peterson, 
pupils of Luther, preached the purified faith. Gustavus 
Vasa, king of Sweden, greatly promoted the interests of 
the Lutheran Church ; and at the Diet of Westeras, in 
1544, the last remnants of the papal system were re- 
moved. In Denmark, as early as 1527, Christian II had 
favored the Reformation. Frederick I was also' a de- 
cided Lutheran. Christian III called in Bugenhagen 
to prepare and introduce a Church discipline and rit- 
ual. Riga and Courland entered into the League of 
Sehinaleald in 1538. Apart from the vast Lutheran 
element within the “Union” in Prussia, the Lutheran 
Church is the predominant Church in the minor Ger- 
man lands ; Baden, Brunswick, Mecklenburg, Oldenburg, 
the principality of Reuss in Hesse, the Saxon lands, 
Schwarzburg, and WUrtemburg; also in Denmark, Nor- 
way, and Sweden; in Russia, in the departments of Li- 
vonia, Esthland, St. Petersburg, Finland, and Courland. 
Lutherans constitute a large body in Hungary, France, 
the British empire, and North America. They are, in 
fact, found the world over. There are not less, probably, 
than forty millious of them altogether. (Comp. Krautli, 
p. 124, 125.) 


III. Organization and Constitution. — The first fresh 
impulses of the evangelical life of faith was not allowed 
to shape a complete congregational life in entire accord- 
ance with the pure principles which had been restored. 
Although the early Lutheran princes were, as a bodv, 
men of devoted piety, yet the interests of the Church 
in the particular state territories were subjected to po- 
litical policy. The tendencies of the Romish ideas, 
which in every department had struck their roots too 
deeply into European life to be easily eradicated, put 
forth new vigor in the reactionary after-time. The 
Lutheran Church was repressed in one part of her de- 
velopment, and stimulated to the highest degree by her 
libert} r in another, and by the doctrinal necessities 
which taxed all her resources. The result was that she 
matured abnormally — the strength of her polity bore no 
proportion to the perfection of her doctrinal system. 
In the organization of the Church an important part 
was borne by the Church visitation in Saxony in 1520, 
and resulted in assigning the oversight of the churches 
and schools to superintendents (q. v.). A Saxon Church 
Order of Discipline and Worship was prepared, which 
became, to a very large extent, the model in the organ- 
ization of the state churches throughout Germany. The 
Lutheran Church held herself in principle remote from 
the two extremes of hierarchy, which absorbed the State 
into the Church, and Ca?saropapacy, which absorbed the 
Church into the State. The princes and magistrates, 
in the time of the Church’s need, took the position of 
provisional bishops. They were the supreme officers in 
the Church, its highest representatives. In the execu- 
tion of the duties thus assumed they called to their aid 
Consistories (q.v.), an official board composed of clergy- 
men and laymen. A condition of things which had 
been justified by the immediate necessity of the Church 
gradually became normal in the “Episcopal system.” 
The provisional became legalized into the fixed, and the 
head of the State was in effect the chief bishop of the 
Church. Such a distinction as Rome had made be- 
tween clergy and laity, and which ignored the great 
New-Tcstament doctrine of the universal priesthood of 
believers, was no longer recognised. The ministry 
ceased to be a self-perpetuating, independent order, and 
was regarded as a divine office, with a divine vocation, 
given by Christ’s command, through the Church. A 
hierarchical division of the clergy, as of divine right, 
was rejected as at war with the Christianity of the New 
Testament and of the early Church; but the propriety 
and usefulness of grades in the ministry (bishops, su- 
perintendents, provosts), as of human right only, was 
acknowledged, and they are retained in some coun- 
tries. Thus, in Denmark, in the very infancy of Lu- 
theranism, evangelical bishops took the place of the 
deposed Roman Catholic prelates; while in Sweden the 
prelates embracing the Reformed doctrine were contin- 
ued in office, and thus secured to that country “apostol- 
ical succession” in the High-Church sense. Very gen- 
erally the rule of the Church is by consistories, but as 
these depend upon the instructions of the congregations, 
the ultimate power lies with the latter. See Consis- 
tory; Synod; Church. 

IV. Progress. — The internal history of the Church be- 
came largely a process of the development of doctrine (see 
1 1 undeshagen, z. Kirch. -politik) ; and in this prog- 
ress, naturally enough, opposition was encountered, and 
gave rise to controversies with parties both from within 
and without. In the earliest period of the history of the 
Lutheran Church, her chief struggles were with Popery, 
the Anabaptists, and the Sacramentarians. These con- 
troversies drew the boundary-lines of her own territory, 
as biblical over against Rome, historical and conserva- 
tive over against Anabaptism and the more radical type 
of Protestantism. To the fixing of t lie bounds of her 
territory succeeded a long series of efforts to bring that 
territory under complete and harmonious cultivation. 
To be consistent in general over against systems which, 
as systems, were indefensible, was not enough. The 


LUTHERAN 


575 


LUTHERAN 


Lutheran system was to bring all its own parts into 
working harmony, and hence the various dissensions 
and difficulties when it was yet in its infancy. The most 
important of the internal controversies which arose 
during this effort are : 1. The A ntinomistic , from 1537 to 
1540, on the relation between the Gospel and the law, 
the use of the law, and its necessity. See Agricola, 
John. 2. The Osiandrian , from 1549 to 1567, on redemp- 
tion, justification, and sanctification. See Osiander, 
Andrew. 3. The Majoristie, from 1551 to 1562: Are 
good works necessary to salvation? and in what sense? 
See Major, George. 4. The Stancaristic, 1552: Ac- 
cording to what nature was Christ’s redemptcry work 
wrought out — the divine, the human, or both ? 5. The 

Synergistic , from 1555 to 1570, on the question whether 
there is an active co-operation on the part of man be- 
fore and on his conversion. 6. The Flacian, 1561 : Is 
original sin substantial or accidental ? See Flacius II- 
lyricus. All these controversies had a common aim 
— they wished to define more perfectly the fundamental 
doctrine of justification by faith, to show what it pre- 
supposed and what it involved, to exhibit its objective 
and subjective aspects. All doctrines were viewed in 
these controversies in their relations to the central doc- 
trine, and the great aim was to adjust them to it (see 
Domer, Geschichte der Prot. Theologie (1867 ; in English 
dress, Edinb. 1872, 2 vols. 8vo). A deeper impression 
was made upon the life of the people by the contro- 
versies which grew out of the interim in 1548, involv- 
ing the mode of worshipping God. It touched matters 
which appealed to the senses as well as to the convic- 
tions of the worshippers. Out of it arose the Adiapkot'is- 
tic controversy (q.v.) (1550-1555) : Whether the Church 
could permit certain usages, in themselves indifferent, 
to be imposed upon her by force or civil policy. The 
vehement opposition of the Flacians to the Philippists 
also had a great influence upon the shaping of the Lu- 
theran Church. Unfortunately, however, these divi- 
sions among the Protestants gave the Romanists many 
advantages : they tended at the Diet of Augsburg ( 1 566) 
to change the political situation greatly in favor of the 
Roman Catholics, and protracted the strife for years 
(Ranke, Deutsche Geschichte , vil, 63). See Interim. 
Against Calvinism, the controversy turned especially 
upon the doctrine of the Lord’s Supper and the asso- 
ciated doctrine of the Person of Christ, and the doctrine 
of predestination. It involved the whole essential di- 
versity between Lutheranism and Calvinism; also the 
Philippistic tendency, so far as it approximated to Cal- 
vinism in some features (Crypto-Calvinism). To com- 
pose these differences and close up these questions with- 
in the Church was the aim of the Formula of Concord, 
which, after various ineffectual efforts in the same gen- 
eral direction at the Assembly of the Electors in Frank- 
fort (1558), at the Assembly of the Princes in Naumburg 
(1561), and at the Altenburg Colloquy (1568), was final- 
ly carried to a successful completion at Cloister Bergen, 
near Magdeburg, in 1577. See Concord, Formula of. 
The preparation of the Formula of Coneord is the last 
act in the series of events which gave full confessional 
shape to the doctrines of the Lutheran Church. 

Dining Luther’s lifetime the Lutheran Church had 
taken a firm and final position over against the Roman 
Catholic. The Augsburg Confession was the rallying 
point of the friends of the revised faith. The Apology 
defended the Confession in Melancthon’s incomparable 
manner; the Schmalcald Articles gave forth Luther’s 
trumpet note of a battle in which no quarter could now 
be given — a battle for victory or death. The people 
had their Manual in the Shorter Catechism, and the 
pastors, in using it, had the Larger Catechism, the best 
commentary on the lesser. Yet these immortal docu- 
ments did not exhaust the development of the faith. 
Even in the individual peculiarities of Luther and Me- 
lancthon there were impulses to conflicting tendencies. 
Alter Luther’s death the Lutheran Church was threat- 
ened with a schism, which might have been followed by 


the complete triumph of Rome over the whole reforma- 
tory work. On the one side was the gentler, unionistie 
tendency of Melanctlion and his party (the Philippists), 
yearning for union, and temporizing sometimes with Cal- 
vinism, and yet more frequently with Romanism. Oil 
the other side stood the stricter party, headed by Ams- 
dorf, Flacius, and Wigand. Over against the Church 
of Rome on the one side, and the Reformed Church 
on the other, the Lutheran Church insisted earnestly on 
the doctrines which distinguished and separated her 
from both. She was unwilling that open questions 
should be perpetuated, and desired that the points of 
controversy should be adjusted and closed. Shall the- 
ology be simply a mode of thinking, or shall it be a 
system of faith? was the question involved. Shall 
it be a ball for the play of theologians, or a world for 
the firm footing of believers? The controversies which 
now arose took their root in questions which involved 
the relations of the two parties, on the one side to Ro- 
manism, on the other to Calvinism. Toward the Church 
of Rome the question in controversy had reference to the 
doctrines of redemption and justification. The intellect- 
ual centres of these struggles were the universities (q.v.). 
Wittenberg at this period ivas the home of the Melanc- 
thonian theology. Its great antagonist in the interests 
of the conservative Lutheranism was Jena, which for va- 
rious causes — some of the subordinate ones, no doubt, be- 
ing of a political character — had been founded in 1558 
by the older Saxon line. It was the citadel of conserv- 
ative Lutheranism until its exponents were driven from 
it for conscience sake. Their refuge proved to be Magde- 
burg. This period reaches its culmination in the prep- 
aration of the Formula Concordice , in which the Swa- 
bian tendency, whose great representatives were Bren- 
tius and Andrea, obtained official recognition (compare 
Schmid, Geschichte dcr A bend mahlsleh re). The ortho- 
doxy thus fixed was dominant from this time to the 
beginning of the 18th century. Its elaborate polemics 
were built up on almost impregnable doctrinal author- 
ity. The scholastic acuteness and dryness more and 
more supplanted the freer and more vital faith of the 
Reformation. The religion of the heart was too much 
absorbed into the elaborate system of theology. The 
temple was solid and grand, but the hearthstones of the 
people were too often cold. George Calixtus (1586- 
1656) revived in Hclmstadt the humanism of Melanc- 
thon. His school became involved with orthodoxy in 
the Syncretistic controversy (q.v.). It sought, in the 
interests of Church peace, to soften the asperities of 
dogmatic disputes and the exclusiveness of the doctrinal 
systems. The plan on which it proposed to accomplish 
this result was to distinguish between fundamentals and 
non-fundamentals, and to return to the yet largely vague 
and general expressions of the first five eenturies, which, 
while they regarded a pure faith as necessary to salva- 
tion, endured, without deciding the conflicting opinions 
on various points. The most unsparing and one of the 
ablest opponents of this tendency was Abraham Calo- 
vius (q. v.). Spener produced a revival of religious feel- 
ing by pietism. This active Christianity was needed 
in opposition to the one-sided scholasticism which had 
grown up in the Church. So far it revived the truer 
Lutheranism of the first (era. But it soon deviated into 
an outward form of religious life. The Biblical theology 
of its representatives degenerated into arbitrary inter- 
pretations and applications of Scripture. Pietism (q. 
v.), in various shades, made good its footing in the 
Church. It wrought in its better forms a more earnest 
spirit in theology. Next to Spener, as a representative 
of the best type of pietism, was Aug. Hermann Francke 
(q.v.). Its most distinguished opponents were Johann, 
Benedict Carpzov (q. v.) and Valentine Ernest Lbscher 
(q. v.). The inflexible narrowness of the Church life 
was alleged as a ground of separation from the Church 
by the mystical fellowships which attached themselves 
to J. Bohme, Giehtel. and Dippel, and by the Church 
of the Brethren. By these movements, and by Bengel 


LUTHERAN 


570 


LUTHERAN 


anti the theosophy of Oetinger, the dominion of the 
medievalism of the seventeenth century was broken. 
Under the influence of rationalism, at the end of the 
eighteenth century, the points of distinction between 
the Lutheran anil the 1 Reformed churches, both in 
Church life and in theology, lost more and more their 
significance. Efforts at union, which were vigorous 
without being in any high sense earnest, were made, 
especially in Westphalia and on the Rhine. These ef- 
forts resulted in very little until after the Wars of Lib- 
eration. From that great series of struggles went forth 
an intense religions feeling through all Germany. It 
was felt alike in both the Protestant churches. It 
stood in strong opposition to the shallow spirit of ra- 
tionalism, but was, in the nature of the case, more in- 
terested at the beginning in the great common princi- 
ples of the religious life of the whole Protestant move- 
ment than with particular, and still more than with spe- 
cific distinctive doctrines. Prussia now took steps for 
a “ union” of all the Protestants. By the Lutheran con- 
servatives this new movement was looked upon with 
distrust. The union, they held, depended for its moral 
power upon a depreciation in part of the confession. 
It had been made possible by rationalism; but its per- 
plexity was that, if it remained true to what was in 
so large a part its original source, it lost its power on 
men in proportion as their convictions were heightened 
and intensified; if, on the other hand, it abandoned the 
mild laxity of rationalism, it at once helped to restore 
the way to a strict confessional ism. It is impossible 
for men to be intelligently earnest, either as Reformed 
or Lutheran, and regard the differences of the two 
churches as of little importance. Claus Harms, in his 
theses, treated the union as a rationalistic volatilization 
of the very substance of the faith. Among the people 
of conservative stamp also, the changes in the liturgy, 
the hymn-books, and in the Church usages of various 
kinds, were regarded with suspicion and dislike as an 
assault upon the religion of the fathers. Under these 
circumstances, the “ Old Lutheran” movement, under the 
leadership of Sclieibel, in Breslau, Iluschke, the distin- 
guished jurist, and Steffens, the natural philosopher, 
separated itself from connection with the State Church 
and formed an independent communion. See Old Lu- 
theranism. The religious life of the Church continued 
to suffer from the evils which in the course of her his- 
tory had been fixed upon German Lutheran Protest- 
antism. Prominent among them were the hampering 
of the congregational life — a life which was demanded 
by the principles of Lutheranism — and the repression 
of public life which characterized the first half of the 
nineteenth century. The newly- awakened religious 
life withdrew itself, in consequence, very largely into 
the smaller religious circles, and derived from them 
more or less of a pietistic hue. See Pietism. These 
circles themselves drew more and more toward the an- 
cient orthodoxy. To this they were impelled by the 
unionistic efforts, and the havoc created by infidelity and 
rationalism. The new theological tendencies were met 
by the system set forth in the Confessions. The feel- 
ing grew that without a restoration of the old relations 
of fealty on the part of ministers to the great Church 
standards there would be no internal harmony in the 
Church. This opposition to union first embodied itself 
in the Lutheran Conferences held at Leipzig in 1843, 
and subsequently. Rudelbach was the earliest leader 
of this movement. lie was succeeded by Harless. It 
gained strength by the civil commotions of 1848, so that 
at that time it demanded of the members of the confer- 
ences a subscription to the symbolical books. Under 
this tendency were formed the provincial associations, 
which united with the Lutheran Conventions at Wit- 
tenberg in 1849 and 1851. In these conventions, as well 
as in a great variety of publications, a strong opposition 
to the “ union” was developed. It was evident that the 
conservatives were a unit on the two points — the dis- 
solution of the state union and the complete re-estab- 


lishment of the Lutheran Church. The prevailing po- 
litical current in Prussia from 1852 favored this tenden- 
cy. (See below, under Ritual and Worship.) In the 
different lands and provinces of Germany, the efforts 
in the one direction of emancipation and restoration 
bore the common character of earnestness and vigor, hut 
in forms and modes shaped by circumstances. In Ba- 
varia the leaders were Lbhe, Thomasius, and Harless. 
In Mecklenburg its great representatives were Kliefoth 
and Krabbe. Jn Hanover its chief organs were the 
Conference at Stacie, and Petri, Miinchmeier ( Dogma of 
the Invisible and Visible Church , 1854), and Uhlhorn; on 
the Rhine itself, and in Westphalia, Ravcnsberg. The 
“New Lutheranism’’ was not, indeed, an internal unit in 
all its views. Among its great theologians, Hoffmann 
and Kahilis completely alienated their early friends. 
In Bavaria, Lohe (died 1872), in carrying through his 
principles, came into conflict with the government in 
the Lutheran Church. 

Efforts were made to annul the union and restore gen- 
uine Lutheranism. I)r. Ferdinand Christian Baur, who 
will be considered above any suspicion of sympathy 
with the distinctive theology of Lutheranism, gives the 
history and characteristics of the two doctrinal tenden- 
cies, the unionistic mediating and the Lutheran, which 
come into conflict at this point: “The controversies 
arising from the question of the union have had this 
result in dogmatics, that no man can defend the Church 
doctrine without either taking position with the doc- 
trines held in common — the consensus-dogmatik — or 
taking the strictly confessional position. As the chief 
opponents of the union are the Lutheran theologians, 
who, with all their strength, give force to their confes- 
sional interest, the main opposition to the dogmatik of 
the consensus is offered by the Lutheran dogmatik. On 
the side of the consensus the main representatives are 
theologians of the school of Schleiermaeher. among 
whom are Nitzseh, Liicke, J. Midler, Dorner, and others. 
To relieve the union from the charge of lacking confes- 
sional character, they find it necessary to maintain a dis- 
tinct dogmatical system. But as it is essential to the 
idea of the union to set aside the particular distinctive 
doctrines which sunder the confessions, the system of 
the theologians of the union can only accept the ground 
common to both. In this spirit Nitzseh, in the Urhun- 
denbuch d. Evangelischen Union (1853), anil J. M tiller. The 
Evangelical Union, its Xature and divine Right (1854), 
have attempted to present, in the different articles, a 
formula exhibiting the agreement of the confessions. 
The consensus, however, can only be brought about by 
a limiting and tempering of the two doctrines to a me- 
dium in which the sharpness of the antithesis is lost. 
This method of union may be applicable to a certain set 
of doctrines, but it gees to pieces of necessity on the dis- 
tinctive doctrines which can allow of no modification 
without, loss of their essential character. The principle 
on which the theology of the consensus rests is that 
that alone is essential in Protestantism in which the 
two confessions agree. Schleiermaeher was the first to 
maintain this, but his object was by it to neutralize and 
render indifferent both systems, in order to set them 
aside as antiquated, and to substitute for them a point 
of view in consonance with modern culture. With all 
the care which Schleiermaeher takes to give himself the 
appearance of complete harmony with the ancient sys- 
tem, it is easy to see that the new form of consciousness 
breaks through the old, and that the old is retained sim- 
ply to introduce the new, and to smooth the way for it. 
In the case of these doctrinaries of the union, however, 
the dogmatics of the consensus is a mere illusion, which 
has no ground except in their lack of mental freedom. 
They find the particularism of the confessional systems 
too narrow for them; they are urged by something 
within them to sustain a freer relation to those systems; 
and there is no ignoring the fact that they take a posi- 
tion which has gone beyond them. But they are not 
willing to confess this to themselves ; instead of looking 


LUTHERAN 


577 


LUTHERAN 


forward where their proper goal lies, they turn back- 
wards. They are constantly recurring to the point on 
which the confessional differences originally rested. 
They desire to establish by the Church confessions what 
they hold to be the real substance of the evangelical 
faith. Yet they must themselves confess that they can- 
not be satisfied that they are throughout in harmony 
with either the Lutheran or the Reformed doctrine, and 
that on this ground they are wishing for what can be 
found in neither. The more the two systems are com- 
pared, the more do they show that the one excludes the 
other. This is the contradiction out of which there is 
no escape, the code in which there is a perpetual revo- 
lution between union and confession. The sympathy 
for the old system is lost, and yet there is lack of force 
and courage to rise to a new one. Men know in their 
hearts that they are no longer at one with the Church, 
and yet they are afraid to break with it outwardly. 
They hold fast to the union, and yet cannot let go of 
the confessional. Is it a matter of wonder that all the 
dogmatic products of this school of theologians have an 
air of feebleness, superficiality, and lifelessness? From 
the dogmatic position it is impossible to deny that the 
opponents of the theology of the union are right; from 
it we must justify the Lutheran theologians, whose sys- 
tem, with all the offensiveness of its particularism, has 
at least the advantages of character, decision, and log- 
ical consistency” ( Kirchengeschichte des Nennz . Jahrh. 
[Tubing. 1862 J, p. 409-411). 

Mecklenburg isolated itself by its exclusive state- 
churchism. Even the Hanoverian Catechism, with 
which the earliest agitations in North Germany had 
been connected, did not secure the unmixed approval 
of the portion of the Church with whose views it was 
in sympathy. New Lutheranism has been accused of 
manifesting a tendency towards Romanizing, especially 
in the doctrine of the ministry, of the sacraments, and 
of the Church. To the ministerial office it is charged 
with imputing a hierarchical priestly character. It is 
charged with holding that ordination confers a divine 
authority for the ministration of the Word and sacra- 
ments, and for the discipline and government of the 
Church. With this tendency has been connected a 
desire to restore private confession, which its oppo- 
nents say is almost equivalent to auricular confession. 
With it has arisen a strong opposition to the presbyte- 
rial constitution. It is said to maintain that the sacra- 
ments derive their operativeness from the “office of the 
means of grace.” In connection with this view, an ex- 
alted importance is attached to the sacraments. The 
Lord's Supper is made the proper centre of the public 
service. The whole artistic sense has been developed 
in this movement; a higher interest has been excited 
in the proper performance of the ritual, and, indeed, of 
the whole liturgical service of the Church. The in- 
toning and the whole musical element in worship has 
been assigned its old place of esteem. This school has 
been charged with maintaining that, in order to pre- 
serve the pure doctrine, a view of tradition in affinity 
with that of Rome is to be held. Subjection to the au- 
thority of the Church is to be substituted for individual 
faith. The most important literary organ of this ten- 
dency has been Ilengstenberg’s Evangelische Kirchen- 
zeitnng , established in 1827, which maintains within the 
Prussian union, with immense force and success, the po- 
sition of distinctive Lutheranism. This tendency sep- 
arated itself from the orthodoxy which bore the tinge 
of pietism, and from the mediating theology, especially 
in the work of inner missions (q. v.), with which it re- 
fused to co-operate, on the ground that it was not 
churclily. In the Prussian Church it opposed itself to 
the regulations of the congregations, and to the consti- 
tution of the State Church. In the department of mis- 
sions to the heathen (the term foreign missions has 
ceased to answer, since it lias become the fashion for 
one set of Christians to establish missions for the con- 
version of another set), the revised New Lutheranism 
Y.-O o 


has pursued an independent course. Against this Dor- 
ner expressed himself, in a memorial of the Prussian 
High Consistory in 1866, which did not, however, pre- 
vent the newly-acquired state churches (such as Hano- 
ver, etc.) from being placed under the care of the minis- 
ter of cultus. The Lutherans outside of Prussia, the 
Mecklenbnrgers, Bavarians, and others, at the confer- 
ence at Hanover in 1868, with the Hanoverians, and 
others in Church fellowship with them, made use of 
the seventh article of the Augsburg Confession (of the 
Church and its true unity) to keep up the agitation 
against all union with the rest of the State Church of 
Prussia. See Neite Evangel-. Kirehenzeitung (1868); 
Ritschl, in Dorner’s Zeitschrift fur das Kirchen-recht 
(1869) ; Matthes, Allgemeine Kirehliehe Clironik (1871). 

V. Ritual and Worship (cultus) of the Lutheran 
Church. — The foundation for these was laid by Luther 
in his Formula Missae (1523) and his German Mass 
(1525). In these he proceeded upon the principle, which 
he expressed aud defended, that the Church service was 
not to be abrogated as a whole; that the vital parts of 
it had a noble origin ; that the great thing was to purge 
off its excrescences and defilements, and to restore to its 
true place in it the Word of God, which had been more 
and more neglected. In conformity with Luther’s fun- 
damental principles, the ritual was purified, the neglect- 
ed elements replaced, and the more necessary parts de- 
veloped still further. It was brought back to the stand- 
ard of the Bible, and of. early pure Catholie antiquity. 
The Lord’s Supper, restored to its true position, became 
the grand point of culmination in all the chief services. 
The office of the Word was renew ed. Preaching became 
a great indispensable element of the chief public ser- 
vices. The congregation took a direct part in the ser- 
vice in response and singing. The services were held 
in the vernacular of the country, though a certain pro- 
portion of the familiar old Latin part of the services was 
in many cases continued, mainly, however, in order to re- 
tain the noble Church-music, until time had been given 
to fit it to a vernacular service complete in all its parts. 
Luther insisted simply on an organization of worship 
which should preserve its rich treasures and resources. 
Services for the morning and evening, and for the days 
of the week, were retained or arranged. More than all, 
congregational singing was developed. In conformity 
with these views, there arose the sendee of the Luther- 
an type which we find in the agenda (q, v.) of the 16th 
and 17th centuries. In northern, eastern, and middle 
Germany the Wittenberg order was followed, and is 
maintained to this day. The service is of moderate 
length, and is rich liturgically. 

The forms established in the sera of the Reformation 
were more or less broken through, or altered in a very 
wretched manner, in consequence of the theological rev- 
olution which marked the 18th century. With the re- 
ligious life, whose reviving poiver was felt towards the 
close of the first quarter of the 1 9tli century, came a 
strong desire for relief from these misehievous changes. 
To this desire, at least as one of its greatest motives, 
the Prussian agenda ow r es its origin ; yet, alike in the 
mode of its introduction and in elements which per- 
vaded it throughout, it involved a breach with the orig- 
inal Lutheran type, to which it claimed in large meas- 
ure to conform. As this fact became more and more 
manifest, the effort was made to bring the forms of the 
agenda into harmony with the better elements which 
still survived in the congregations; yet, after all that 
could be done in this way, the result v^as imperfect and 
unsatisfactory. In consequence of this, in the most re- 
cent period, a still closer approximation has been made 
in Prussia to the original Lutheran ritual. One set of 
influential thinkers, as Ilotling and Ivliefoth, contended 
for an unconditional repristination of the worship of the 
Reformation time. Others held that various changes 
were necessary to adjust what v r as furnished by the his- 
tory in Church worship with the well-grounded views of 
the present and the actual needs of the congregations. 


LUTHERAN 


LUTHERAN 


578 


The “agenda” became a source of special trouble in 
the controversy between the Unionists and the “Old 
Lutherans.” The contest on the agenda raged particu- 
larly severe in Silesia. Among the most active par- 
ticipants in this struggle were the pastors Scheibel, Ber- 
ger, Wehrhahn, and Kellner, at Udnigern. A pacific 
royal order of Feb. 28, 1834, in regard to the continued 
force of the confessions, accomplished little. Nor was 
the conflict allayed by the rescript of the Consistory of 
Breslau, May 15, 1834, which demanded that the clergy 
who had not acceded to the Union should use the revised 
agenda of 1829, and forbade any public attacks upon the 
Union, in consequence of infraction of these orders 
the offending clergymen were suspended (1834). In 
Hdnigern the military were called in to force open the 
Church for the introduction of the State-Union service 
(Dec. 24, 1834). Similar disturbances arose in Halle in 
connection with Guericke, professor in the university, 
who was removed by the government in 1836. But 
this opposition element was not to be seduced by flat- 
tery nor terrified by force. In a synod held at Breslau 
in 1835 they had resolved to exhaust all legal measures 
to secure for themselves purity, independence, and in- 
tegrity in doctrine, worship, and constitution. Mission- 
ary preachers travelled from place to place, administer- 
ing baptism and the Lord’s Supper. In Berlin and 
Erfurt new congregations were formed. In the Mark 
and in Silesia a special apostolical Church constitution 
was adopted. Among the decided Lutherans, however, 
there were two tendencies. The stricter tendency de- 
manded a complete separation from the State Church. 
The relatively more moderate party, with which Guer- 
icke stood, desired to carry out their Lutheran convic- 
tions within the State Church as far as the legal con- 
cessions allowed them to do so. These troubles matured 
a purpose in thousands of the oppressed confessors of the 
faith to leave their native land for conscience sake. In 
spite of various concessions on the part of the govern- 
ment, a great emigration to Australia took place under 
the leadership of Ivavel. To these “pilgrim fathers” of 
our day were added many from Saxony, led by Stephan, 
and from Wiirtemberg and the Wupperthal. From 
1838, and especially after the advent of Frederick Wil- 
liam IV to the throne of Prussia (1840), the tone of the 
government towards the Lutherans became milder. 

VI. “ Separate Lutherans' ’ — A royal general concession 
was issued July 23, 1845, for the relief of those Luther- 
ans who held themselves aloof from the State “Evan- 
gelical” Church. They were granted the right to form 
congregations of their own, and to have them united 
under a common direction, which was not to be subject 
to the control of the State Church. The congregation, 
having obtained the consent of the state to its forma- 
tion, could call pastors, whose vocation was to be con- 
tinued by the Direction, and who were to be ordained 
by ordained ministers. The baptisms, confirmations, 
proclamation of the bans, and marriages of these clergy- 
men were acknowledged in law, and their Church regis- 
ters were to be received in evidence. Their obligation 
as regarded the taxes and burdens of the parochial con- 
nection was to be determined by the common law. 
Under these provisions the Lutherans constituted a 
High Consistory in 1841 under the presidency of pro- 
fessor lluschke. This official board is the supreme ec- 
clesiastical authority for the Lutherans in Prussia. It 
consists of four regular members; it is controlled by the 
Synod, and has charge of the purity of the Church in 
doctrine and life, of the reception of new congregations, 
the regidation of the parochial relations, and the ap- 
pointments of clergymen; to it is committed the deci- 
sion in complaints made by the officials of the churches 
and of the higher schools. It has oversight of the rit- 
ual, of the decisions in ecclesiastical cases, and of cen- 
sures, the calling of synods, and similar matters. The 
clergy are supported bv a fixed salary, and by perqui- 
sites. The processes of Church discipline are monition, 
temporary exclusion from the communion, the making 


of apologies in various degrees, and final excommunica- 
tion. The Church service is conducted according to the 
agenda which have been in use ; the preaching on free 
texts requires the permission of the Board of the High 
Consistory; the Lord’s Supper is an essential part of the 
chief service. The Lutherans are not obliged to send 
their children to the United schools. Thus the Luther- 
an Church in Prussia obtained a definite independent 
foundation. In 1847 the High Consistory had in its 
care twenty-one congregations recognised by the state, 
and numbering about nineteen thousand souls. Of 
these the largest proportion was in Silesia — ten congre- 
gations, with 8400 members. The smallest proportion 
was in Westphalia and in the Rhine Provinces. In 
addition to these Separate Lutherans there was an im- 
mense number of Lutherans who, in consequence of con- 
cessions guaranteed by the government, remained in the 
State Church. Outside of Prussia, a Lutheran move- 
ment was felt in Nassau in 1846, in which Brunn of 
Steeten, near lhinkel, was leader. The government and 
the deputies declined to authorize the formation of a 
separate Lutheran commission. The connection be- 
tween the Lutherans was strengthened by the press and 
by conventions. Their literary organs were the Zeit- 
schrijl fur Lutlierische Theologie, edited by Rudelbach 
and Guericke; the Zeitschrift fiir Protestantismus und 
Kirche, edited by Harless and others; and various pop- 
ular periodicals, such as the Pilger aus Sachsen , the 
Sonntagsblatt, and others. Conventions were held at 
Berlin, Triglaff, and Gnadau. The Lutheran Confer- 
ence in Leipsic held its first session in 1843. With the 
great political movement of 1848 the interests of the 
Positive Lutherans entered on a new a?ra. Of the 
urgent demands made at that time for the separation 
of Church and State, they took advantage especially 
in their struggle against the Union established by the 
State Church. Meanwhile the difference of conviction 
between the Lutherans within the Union and those sep- 
arated from it was not completely removed. The Sep- 
arate Lutherans urged the impossibility of a Lutheran 
clergyman’s remaining with good conscience in the 
Union. The Lutherans who did not withdraw from 
the government Church nevertheless began to come 
into closer association under the leadership of Gdschel, 
Stahl, Heubner, and Schmieder. Their views and claims 
were supported by Ilengstenberg’s Kirchenzeitung , and 
by provincial associations in Saxony, Pomerania, Sile- 
sia, and Posen. They agreed, at a meeting in Witten- 
berg, in September, 1849, on the following principles: 
“We stand upon the Confession of the Evangelical Lu- 
theran Church ; our congregations have never justly 
ceased to be Lutheran congregations; we demand the 
recognition and adherence to the Lutheran Confession 
in worship, the order of the congregation, and Church 
government; first of all is to be insisted on the freeing 
of the altar service from everything that is dubious, and 
the giving of the stamp of the Confession to the entire 
service; furthermore, there should be in the govern- 
ment of the Church a management which would give 
security to confessional independence ; finally, there 
should be a guarantee of Lutheran principles in the con- 
stitution of the congregations.” These aims they did 
not, however, propose to secure by separation, but by 
contending within the State Church for the rights of 
the Lutheran Church in the districts belonging to it. 
This decision rendered more bitter the feeling of alien- 
ation between the Lutherans who remained in the 
State Church and those who separated from it. In ad- 
dition to these internal controversies, there arose also 
differences with the civil government of the Church, 
especially on the part of Lutherans within the State 
Church. These diflerences were caused partly by the 
establishment of the High Consistory in 1850, and partly 
by the proposed Evangelical Order of Congregations, 
which was opposed on the ground that the Confession 
was not sufficiently secured. The High Consistory at- 
tempted to meet the opposition, and to harmonize feel- 


LUTHERANS IN AMERICA 5' 

ings by various concessions; but, with a growing con- 
sciousness of need and of right, the Lutherans constant- 
ly rose in their demands. They asked for the abolition 
of the mixed boards, the institution of exclusively Lu- 
theran faculties, the return of the Church property, and 
for other changes looking in the same general direction. 
The result finally was the issue of a cabinet order of 
July 12, 1853, which showed that the king, Frederick 
William IV, was determined to make no further conces- 
sions. The stricter Lutherans had shown themselves 
unwilling to co-operate in various movements of the 
time. Thus had they declined to co-operate in the plan 
of the Inner Missions (1849), and opposed the confeder- 
ation of churches proposed at the Church Diet at Y\ it- 
tcnberg in 1849. In other lands the struggles of the 
Lutheran Church for truth and right continued. The 
University of Erlangen was the centre of the struggle 
in Bavaria, and Ilarless, the president of the High Con- 
sistory, one of its great supports. But at the General 
Synod at Anspach, in consequence of opposition on the 
part of the congregations, the stricter Lutheran views 
could not be carried out in regard to creed, Church gov- 
ernment, changes in the liturgy, confession, and Church 
discipline. Here also arose the stricter party, with 
the pastors Lohe and Wacheren, which took ground 
against fellowship at the Lord’s Supper with the re- 
formed, and favored separation from the State Church. 
This party was resisted by the High Consistory. In 
Nassau, the two Hesses, Hanover, and the Saxon duch- 
ies, the stricter Lutheranism had adherents. As a rule, 
the mission festivals were their centres of union. In 
Baden, under pastor Eichhorn as leader, the conflict with 
the government resulted in a legal separation from the 
State Church in 185G. In Saxony, especially about 
Schbnburg, the stricter Lutheran clergy were numerous. 
The emigration of Stephan injured the cause very much 
in the general estimation. During these public move- 
ments various questions of profound interest in scientific 
theology were discussed by the great divines in the Lu- 
theran Church. Among the most important of these 
discussions was, 1, that between Hoffmann in Erlangen 
and Philippi in Rostock on the doctrine of the atone- 
ment ; 2, the controversy in Mecklenburg, which result- 
ed in the deposition of professor Baumgarten in 1858. 
A convention of clergymen and laymen at Rothenmoor 
in 1<S58 represented the strictest Lutheranism, of which 
Ivliefoth had been the especial promoter. See F. J. 
Stahl, Die Lutherische Kirche u. die Union (Berl. 1859). 
(C. P.K.) 

LUTHERANS IN AMERICA. I. Early History.— 
The celebrated German divine, Dr. Henry Melchior 
Muhlenberg (q. v.), is generally and justly recognised 
as the founder of the Lutheran Church in America. He 
arrived in this country in 1742. Long previous to his 
coming, however, the Lutherans had gained a footing 
here. Adherents of the Church of the great German 
reformer first came to these shores of the West from 
Holland in 1621. In consequence of the severe meas- 
ures adopted by the Synod of Dort (1618-19), the stay 
of non-Calvinists had been made uncomfortable in the 
mother country, and with the first Dutch settlers in the 
province of New Amsterdam (now New York) came 
several Lutheran immigrants, seeking here a home, and 
a place to worship God agreeably to the dictates of their 
conscience. They had come, however, without a shep- 
herd, and for years were dependent upon lay supervision 
and instruction. The first Lutheran communicants who 
brought thither one to minister unto them came from 
Sweden in 1638, and settled on the banks of Delaware 
Bay, where now stands the thriving city of Wilmington. 
For many years the Swedish Lutherans only were fa- 
vored with ministerial care. The first to perform this 
duty was Reorus Torkillus (died in 1643), whose suc- 
cessor, John Campanius, “a man of enlightened zeal, 
deeply interested in his work, and burning with a strong 
desire to promote the spiritual interests of the aborigi- 
nes,” was the first to publish in this country Luther’s 


9 LUTHERANS IN AMERICA 

Smaller Catechism, and first to furnish it to the Red Man 
in his own vernacular — “ perhaps the first work ever ren- 
dered into the Indian language, and the Swedes most 
probably were the first missionaries among the Indians in 
this country.” Strangely enough, the Swedes were also 
the first to fall away from their mother Church and enter 
into communion with those of the Protestant Episcopal 
Church— a result due, no doubt, in a great measure, to 
the want of complete organization, as we shall see below. 

Dr. Muhlenberg, as we have noted above, was of the 
German Church, and, though his labors were mainly 
confined to those of his own nationality, the influence 
of this man of God extended over all Lutherans in the 
states, and caused them to be “of one heart and one 
mind,” and to keep “the unity of the Spirit in the bond 
of peace.” The lirst German Lutherans preceded the 
doctor very nearly one hundred years. He himself, as 
we have seen, came hither in 1742; the first of his 
countrymen in the faith reached these shores in 1644. 
They came in company with the Dutch, and, like the 
latter, for a long time depended on lay instruction. By 
1653 they had increased in strength sufficiently to seek 
the services of a preacher, hut in vain they directed a 
petition to the Dutch Directory to secure permission for 
such a step. In 1664, finally, the much-coveted privi- 
lege came to them from the English authorities, who, 
immediately upon their acquisition of this territory, 
granted the Lutherans religious liberty. The first to 
preach to the German Lutherans in their own vernacu- 
lar was Jacob Fabricius, who reached this country in 
1669. The first house of worship, however, they enjoyed 
two years later (1671) ; but they were deprived of it bv 
the Dutch in 1673. It was rebuilt in 1703 (on the 
south-west corner of Broadway and Rector Street). The 
Lutherans enjoyed a decided accession in 1710, when 
four thousand Germans, the victims of civil oppression 
and religious persecution, who had fled for refuge to 
England under the patronage of queen Anne, came to 
the provinces of New York, Pennsylvania, and South 
Carolina. Quickly others followed, until in 1717 their 
large numbers began to excite the serious apprehension 
of the civil authorities. In Pennsylvania the govern- 
ment actually felt it its duty to direct the attention of 
the “Provincial Council” to the fact “ that large num- 
bers of foreigners from Germany, strangers to our lan- 
guage and constitution, had lately been imported into 
the province.” All these people had come without their 
ministers, and so it happened that, by settling in Penn- 
sylvania and South Carolina, they were deprived ol the 
regular ministrations of the sanctuary, and dependent 
for religious instruction upon those of their own number 
best informed “ in heavenly things.” A colony of Ger- 
man Lutherans, refugees from civil oppression and Rom- 
ish intolerance at Salsburg, was founded under better 
auspices in Georgia in 1734. Their pastors were John 
Martin Bolzius and Israel Christian Gronau. In the 
following year they received large accessions from the 
mother country, and by the time of Dr. Muhlenberg’s 
arrival the Lutherans of Georgia formed quite a consid- 
erable Christian band (over 1200 of them). Indeed, it is 
said that these Lutherans exerted a very salutary influ- 
ence on the piety of John and Charles Wesley. 

As early as 1733, the German Lutherans of Philadel- 
phia and other places had sent urgent petitions for 
ministerial help and pecuniary aid to the Lutherans of 
England and of the mother country. At Halle, where 
now flourished the pious Aug. Hermann Francke, their 
prayers were heard, and by the untiring exertions of 
the founder of the “ Halle Orphan Asylum,” the future 
founder and leader of American Lutheranism was in- 
duced to leave his native land, and “to relieve,” among 
his brethren of the faith and fellow-countrymen who 
had sought a home, in the wilds of America, “ the spir- 
itual destitution that prevailed, to gather together the 
lost sheep, and to preach to them the truths of the Gos- 
pel.” With the year 1742, therefore, opens a new epoch 
in the history of the Lutheran Church in America — the 


LUTHERANS IN AMERICA 580 LUTHERANS IN AMERICA 


epoch in which it assumed organic form. No man 
could have been more eminently titted than was II. M. 
Muhlenberg for t lie mission to be accomplished, “lie 
possessed piety, learning, experience, skill, industry, and 
perseverance.” He was, moreover, “deeply interested 
in the work to which he had devoted himself, as is ap- 
parent from the manner in which he discharged his du- 
ties, and the condition ill which he left the Church at 
the time of his decease.” "When he came there was an 
absence of all organization. It is true the Swedish 
brethren gave assistance to their German brethren free- 
ly and cheerfully, but this was by no means sufficient to 
advance the interests of Lutheranism. Muhlenberg saw 
this clearly, and he at once applied himself to the task 
of effecting an organic union of German Lutherans at 
least. The greatest obstacle he found in the want of 
preachers and of houses of worship; but he was not in 
the least discomfited by this jejuneness of his beloved 
Church. Ilis influence at home was that of a pious and 
devoted servant of the Lord, and he soon drew a number 
of bis former associates and friends to this side of the 
Atlantic, so that by 1748, only six years after his landing 
on these shores, he was enabled to call around him the 
strongest and ablest representatives of the Lutheran min- 
istry in America, to counsel together and form a synod. 
The Swedes had contented themselves with the election 
of one of their own number as jn'ovost (q.v.), to preside 
over them and act as their representative before the coun- 
try. Muhlenberg, however, desired stricter conform- 
ity to the rules and regulations of the mother Church, 
and. as the fate of the Swedish Lutheran Church after- 
wards showed, his course proved to be the only safe way 
towards a perpetuation of the Lutheran Church in Amer- 
ica. The men who joined M uhlenberg in the convention 
at Philadelphia, Aug. 14, 1748, for the purpose of organ- 
izing the first Lutheran synod in America, were Brunn- 
lioltz, Ilandsehuh, and Hart wig, of the German, and 
Sandm and Naesman, of the Swedish Lutheran Church. 
It was by this body that the first German Lutheran was 
regularly set apart in this country to the work of the 
ministry. His name was John Nicholas Kurtz. He was 
not, however, the first Lutheran minister ordained here. 
As early as 1701, Falkner, a student of divinity, was or- 
dained by the Swedish ministers Eudman, Bjbrk, and 
Auren, to labor in the Swedish Lutheran Church; quite 
an eventful act, also, because it set aside forever the 
supposition that the Swedish Lutherans received the 
doctrine of the episcopacy in the sense in which it is 
taught in the Anglican Church. After 1748 the synod 
met regularly each year, and these meetings “were at- 
tended with the most beneficial results. They not only 
advanced the prosperity of the Church, but the hands 
of the brethren were strengthened, and their hearts en- 
couraged. They promoted kind feeling, and formed a 
bond of union among the churches.” In 1765 a private 
theological seminary was started, under the care of Drs. 
Helmuth and Schmidt, and in 1787 the Legislature of 
Pennsylvania established Franklin College, “for the spe- 
cial benefit of the Germans of the commonwealth, as an 
acknowledgment of services by them rendered to the 
state, and in consideration of their industry, economy, 
and public virtues.” There were, in the year of Muh- 
lenberg’s arrival in this country, in Pennsylvania alone, 
110,000 Germans, and of these about two thirds were of 
the Lutheran Church. One of the sons of Dr. H. M. 
Muhlenberg — Ileury Ernest — at this time pastor of the 
Lutheran Church in Lancaster, Pa., was honored with 
the distinction of first president of this now widely cel- 
ebrated institution of learning. In 1791 the Lutheran 
Church received further recognition for its services to 
education by the Pennsylvania Legislature in the gift 
of 5000 acres of land “ to the free-schaols of th.e Luther- 
an Church in Philadelphia,” the centre of Dr. Henry 
Melchior Muhlenberg’s labors. 

During the Eevolutionary days the Lutherans acted 
the part of patriots and Christians ; many of their num- 
ber came forward in defence of the country of their 


adoption. Dr. Muhlenberg, among others, had two sons 
in the army ; one of them exchanged the gown for the 
colonel’s uniform. In consequence of this identification 
of the Lutherans with the cause of American liberty, 
the English came to dislike them greatly, and many 
were the sufferings and deprivations to whieh they were 
subjected ; several of their churches were burned or des- 
ecrated, and all manner of oppression was visited upon 
them. The close of the War of Independence, however, 
left them, if anything, gainers in the struggle. Aside 
from the liberal donations whieh they received in Penn- 
sylvania, as we have seen above, they received large ac- 
cessions from the very ranks of their enemies. Many 
of the German soldiers who, by the ignominious treaty 
of the English with the Hessians, had been brought to 
this country to exterminate the love of freedom, at the 
close of hostilities concluded to remain this side the At- 
lantic, and became valuable members of the Lutheran 
Church in America. Out of 57*23 soldiers that had come 
here from Brunswick, 1200, with seven officers and their 
chaplain, at one time entered the fold of American Lu- 
theranism. Of the Hessians, also, some 7000 remained 
to swell the number of adherents to the Church of the 
great German reformer. 

Not so auspicious was the outlook at the close of the 
eighteenth century. On October 7, 1787, the patriarch 
and founder of the Lutheran Church in Ameriea de- 
parted this life, and the Church was bereft of its great 
stronghold. There had been slowly growing, ever since 
the establishment of American independence, a decided 
preference for the introduction of the English language 
into the exercises of public worship. The older and 
more conservative portion of the Church contended for 
the use of the language whieh the great reformer had so 
much embellished and invigorated, and of which he was 
really the second father. Some of the Germans even 
believed that their language might actually be made 
the language of the country, and thus the proposition 
of the younger and Americanized portion for the use of 
the English proved an occasion of discord and aliena- 
tion, “resulted in serious injury to the Church, and al- 
most caused its total ruin. . . . Thousands abandoned 
tlieir parental communion, and sought a home among 
other denominations, because their children did not un- 
derstand the German, while many who remained, be- 
cause of their limited acquaintance with the language, 
lost all interest in the services, and became careless in 
their attendance on the ministrations of the sanetuarv.” 
Dr. Muhlenberg had counselled due consideration of the 
wants of this young and growing element, and frequent- 
ly himself preached in English ; but, his tongue once 
silent, the conservative element impolitieallv gloried in 
its wisdom (comp, here Dr. S. S. Sehmncker’s Am. Luth. 
Ch. [5th edit. Philad. 1852, 12mo], p. 27-29). The first 
Lutheran Chureh in which the English was exclusively 
used was not built until 1809, and it remained for many 
years the only one to represent the English-speakiug 
element in the Lutheran Chureh. Efforts for more com- 
plete and effectual organization were made in New York 
State in 1785 by the establishment of the New York 
Synod; hitherto the Pennsylvania Synod was the only 
ministerium (q. v.) in existence. In 1803 a synod was 
organized in North Carolina; in 1819, in Ohio; in 1820, 
both in Maryland and Virginia. In 1816 the educa- 
tional advantages of the Chureh also received new 
strength by the founding of a theological seminary at 
Hartwick, N. Y. — tho first public training-school of the 
American Lutherans for voting men prospecting the holy 
office of the ministry. An asylum for orphans the Lu- 
theran Church had founded as early as 1749, in the 
midst of the thriving colonists at Ebenezer, in Georgia. 
It was widely known as the “Salzburger Waisenhaus,” 
and is said to have received no little encouragement 
from "Whitefield. 

II. Organization of the General Synod of American 
Lutherans . — The need of a central bond of union for the 
different synods extending over a territory so vast as 


LUTHERANS IN AMERICA 581 LUTHERANS IN AMERICA 


that of the United States gave rise in 1820 to the for- 
mation of a “general synod” — “a starting-place and a 
central radiating point of improvement in the Church.” 
There were at this time 170 ministers connected with 
the Lutherans, and 35,000 communicants in the Luther- 
an connection. Of these, 135 preachers and 33,000 com- 
municants were represented at the meeting which, Oct. 
22, 1820, formed the General Synod. The constantly in- 
creasing influx of European Lutherans frequently gave 
rise to the manifestation of the most diverse opinions on 
ecclesiastical matters, and, in consequence, to many con- 
troversies, first of a milder, and gradually of a more de- 
cided character, until a schism became inevitable. Even 
previous to the outbreak of our civil war there had been 
frequent secessions of several of the synods from the 
general body, but the strife of 1861-65 gave a more de- 
cided influence in favor of the establishment of rival 
bodies by the side of the “ General Synod.” The first to 
establish themselves independently were the Southern 
Lutherans, who instituted a “ Southern General Synod,” 
later known as the “ General Synod of North America,” 
and now (1872) embracing 5 synods, 92 ministers, 175 
churches, and 13,457 communicants. 

A more serious division was, however, preparing, on 
doctrinal grounds, in the Northern synods. The con- 
stitution of the General Synod did not make member- 
ship dependent upon an adhesion to the letter of the 
“ Augsburg Confession” of 1530, the great standard of 
faith of the early Lutheran Church. While heartily 
indorsing the Augsburg Confession as the most impor- 
tant historical document as regards the doctrines of the 
Church, the constitution aimed to secure to all Luther- 
ans the liberty of rejecting some utterances of that con- 
fession which had early been discarded by a considera- 
ble number of the followers of Luther as unevangeli- 
cal and semi-papal. This feature was obnoxious to the 
strict Lutheran party, which wished Lutheranism to re- 
main for all time to. come as defined by the Augsburg 
Confession of 1530. and which desired to bring back the 
whole Lutheran Church of the United States to this 
point. 

111. Organization of the “ General Council — The 
party differences, after creating frequent disturbances at 
the meetings of the General Synod, led to an open rup- 
ture in 1864, when the Franckean Synod, a New York 
State body, which was regarded by the Confessional Lu- 
therans as positively unchurchly and heretical, was ad- 
mitted to the General Synod. In consequence of this 
act. the oldest synod, that of Pennsylvania, withdrew 
from the Convention. At the next meeting of the Gen- 
eral Synod, in 1866, the Pennsylvania Synod was con- 
sequently declared by the president and a majority of 
the delegates out of practical connection with the Gen- 
eral Synod. In reply to this decision, the Pennsylva- 
nians called on all Lutherans adhering to the letter of 
the Augsburg Confession of 1530 to org.anize upon this 
basis a new and genuine Lutheran Church. The call 
was responded to by a number of synods hitherto con- 
nected with the General Synod, and also by some inde- 
pendent synods, and a preliminary convention was held 
in December, 1866, at Reading, Pa. This meeting drew 
up a constitution, and provided for the convention of 
the first “ General Council” of the new organization as 
soon as the constitution should be adopted by ten syn- 
ods. The preliminaries having been complied with, the 
“General Couneil” met at Fort Wayne Nov. 20, 1867. 
Twelve synods, representing 140,000 communicants, a 
larger number than the combined membership of the 
two other organizations — the “ General Synod” and the 
Southern “General Synod of North America” — togeth- 
er, were in attendance. A resolution was passed invit- 
ing those only “who are in the unity of the faith with 
us, as set forth in the fundamental articles of tins Gen- 
eral Council,” as “visiting brethren,” making this body 
distinctively Confessional in the character of its Luther- 
anism. The last Convention of the “General Council,” ! 
held at Rochester, New York, in November, 1871, was , 


presided over by Dr. Chas. P. Krauth, of Philadelphia. 
At this meeting there were only nine synods, represent- 
ing 511 ministers, 971 congregations, and 141,875 com- 
municants. Two other synods — the Danish-Norwegian 
Augustana Synod and the Indiana Synod — had, how- 
ever, announced their intention to join the “Council.” 
A meeting is now (Nov., 1872) in progress at Akron, 
Ohio. Its proceedings will have to be given in the Ap- 
pendix volume. 

IY. Movement totcards the Formation of a General 
Conference. — The tendency of a majority of the Amer- 
ican churches towards ecclesiastical union has of late 
made an impression also on the Lutheran communicants, 
and there is now in progress a movement for the organ- 
ization of a new body, to be called the “ General Confer- 
ence,” with the avowed object of making it “ the organ- 
ization of a general Lutheran body, on the basis of the 
unqualified reception of all the symbolical books as a 
bond of union between all Lutheran synods in America.” 
This movement was started several years ago, mainly 
by the independent synods (see for list, Y. /Statistics ). 
At the meeting held at Fort Wayne, Indiana, Nov. 14, 
1871, about 60 members were present, representing most 
of the independent synods. The reports of the meeting 
for final organization, which was to be held in Milwau- 
kee, Wis., on the second Wednesday of July, 1872, have 
not yet come to our notice. If all the six independent 
synods have adopted the Constitution and joined the 
“ General Conference,” this body is now the strongest 
in the Lutheran connection, its membership exceeding 
that of either the General Synod or of the General 
Council. (Comp. Schaffer, Early llist. of the Lutheran 
Church in America; Schmuckcr, Amer. Luth. Church 
[5th edition, Phila. 1852] ; and the excellent article in 
Schcm, Deu tsch-A merikan Conv. Lexikon, vi, 690-704; 
Annual to New Amer . Cyclop. 1871.) 

V. Statistics . — With the assistance of Dr. Charles P. 
Krauth we are enabled to present our readers with the 
latest statistics of the Lutheran Church in the United 
States of America. The almanacs for 1872 furnish a list 
of— theological seminaries, 15 ; colleges, 20; female sem- 
inaries, 12; academies, 18; charitable institutions (or- 
phan homes, infirmaries, hospitals, etc.), 23 ; Church 
boards and societies, 7. The General Synod embraces — 
synods, 22; ministers, 657; clmrehcs, 1134; communi- 
cants, 101,241. The General Council embraces — synods, 
9; ministers, 421 ; churches, 789; communicants, 125,267. 
The Southern General Synod embraces — synods, 5 ; min- 
isters, 92; churches, 175; communicants, 13,457. The 
grand total is — synods, 54; ministers, 2157; churches, 
3727 ; communicants, 450,410. The periodicals are — 
English, 9; German, 19; Norwegian, 6; Swedish, 4. 


Tabular View of the Growth of the Lutheran Church in the 
United States in the last forty-eight Years (1S23-1S71). 


Year. 

Synods. 

Ministers. 

Congrega- 

tions. 

Communicants. 

1S23 



ITS 

900 


1833 

— 

337 

1017 


1845 

22 

538 

1307 

135,629 

1S60 

36 

1193 

2279 

232,780 

1SG1 

38 

1322 

2300 

246,788 

18G2 

42 

13GG 

2575 

270,780 

1871 

54 

2157 

3727 

450,410 


For special local and national statistics of the Lutheran 
Church, sec America; Anhalt; Austria; Baden; 
Bavaria; Belgium; Bohemia; Brunswick; Bre- 
men; Carintiiia and Carniola; Denmark; Eng- 
land; France; Hesse; Holland; Hungary; Ice- 
land; Lippe; Lubeck; Mecklenburg; Moravia; 
Norway; Oldenburg; Poland; Prussia; Russia; 
Saxony; Silesia; Steiermark; Sweden; Thurin- 
gia; Transylvania; United States; Westphalia; 
Wurtemberg. For missions of the Lutheran churches, 
see Missions. 

On the history of the Lutheran Church, compare 
Krauth, The Conservative Reformation and its Theology 
(Phila. 1871, 8vo), especially ch. iv; Gobel, Die religib- 
sen Figenthiimlichkeiten d. Luth. u. ref Kirchen (183#)/ 


LIITKEMANN 


5S2 


LUZ 


August!. Beitriige z. Geschichte u. Statist ik der Evangel 
Kirche (1838); Wingers, Statistic (1842, 2 vols.) ; liar- 
uack. Die Lath. Kirche im Lichte (L Gesch . (1855); Kah- 
nis, German Protestantism (1850); Seiss, Ecclesia Lu- 
therana,a brief Survey of the Evang . Luth. Church (1808) ; 
Homer, Gesch. der Protest. Theologie (1807); Muller (J. 
T.), Die symbolischcn Bucher der evangel Luth. Kirche 
(Stuttg. 1800, 8vo); Hitt, Lutheranische Missionen (Er- 
langen, 1871, 8vo). 

Liitkemann, Joachim, a German theologian, was 
bom at Demmin, in Pomerania, Dee, 15, 1008; studied 
at Stettin, and afterwards at the universities of Greifs- 
wald and Strasbnrg ; then travelled through France and 
Italy; and was magister legente of the philosophical fac- 
ulty of Rostock in 1038, and appointed professor of met- 
aphysics in 1G43. He published at this time several 
philosophical works, such as his JJneamenta corporis 
physici (Rostock, 1047). lie also preached at the same 
time, and soon acquired great reputation by his elo- 
quence and Christian earnestness, lie became involved, 
however, in a quarrel with the strict orthodox party of 
Mecklenburg, upheld by the duke, on the question of 
the humanity of Christ in his death. Liitkemann de- 
fended his views in his Dissert atio physico-theologica de 
vero liomine , maintaining that the human nature of Christ 
ended in his death, lie was expelled for these views, 
but immediately called to Brunswick as general superin- 
tendent and court preacher. Here he prepared in 1G5J a 
School Discipline, and in 1052 a Church Discipline, which 
were adopted in Brunswick. lie died in 1055. His most 
important works were devotional, and in this line he 
may be ranked next to Arndt and INI idler. The princi- 
pal are: Vorschmach d. gottlichen Giite (Wolfenb. 1043) : 
— Vom irdischen Parodies: — JJarfe auf zehn saiten. 
See P. Reth mover, Schicksalcn, Schriften u.Gaben Liitke- 
ma nil's (Brunswick); Tholuek, A had. Leben, part ii, p. 
109 ; llerzog, Beal-Encyklop. viii, 530 ; llagenbach, Ilist. 
of Doctrines, vol. ii, § 217. 

Lutz, Johann Ludwig Samuel, a distin- 
guished German theologian, historian, and biographer, 
was bom at Bern in 1785; studied first in his native 
city, then at the universities of Tubingen and Gottin- 
gen ; was in 1812 appointed professor of the gymna- 
sium, and rector of the literary school of Bern ; in 1824 
became pastor ofWynau, and afterwards of Bern; and 
was there in 1833 appointed professor of exegesis. He 
died Sept. 21, 1844. Among his works the most note- 
worthy is Gesch. der Deformation in Basel (Basle, 1814, 
8vo). II is theological lectures were published by Rlit- 
schi and Ad. Lutz, under the title Biblische Dogmatik 
vnd Ilermeneutik (1847 and 1840). See Hundeshagen, 
Lutz, tin theolog. Ch arahterbild. 1844; Xeuer Xekrolog d. 
Deutschen, vol. xxii ; l’ierer, Universal- Lev ikon, x, 031 ; 
Hoefer, Sour. Bing. Gen. xxxii, 314. (,!. X. P.) 

Lutz (or Lrcirs), Samuel, one of the most impor- 
tant representatives of early pietism in Switzerland, was 
born in 1G74. His father, the pious and learned pastor 
of Biglen, was his first teacher. Lutz at first turned his 
attention especially to mathematics, the classics, and 
Hebrew, then to Church discipline, and finally left all 
these to devote himself exclusively to the study of 
Scripture, and the works of the fathers and reformers, 
especially Luther’s. German pietism was then begin- 
ning to strike root in Switzerland, in spite of all the ef- 
forts of the orthodox party, headed by the theologians 
of Berne. To oppose it, a committee was appointed to 
take charge of all things pertaining to religion, and in 
1099, by its influence, several prominent and intluential 
preachers, tainted with pietism, were exiled or deprived 
of their office, a number of adherents of the pietist party 
fined or otherwise punished, and several stringent laws 
passed to secure the “ uniformity of faith, doctrine, and 
worship.” Finally both the citizens and clergy were 
obliged to take the so-called oath of association — a sort of 
Test Act. Lutz’s first and rather insignificant appoint- 
ment as pastor ivas at Yverden in 1 703. Here he labored 


faithfully for twenty-three years, winning the respect 
and affection not only of the German, among whom he 
labored, but also of the French inhabitants. As he was 
accused of pietism, all attempts to secure more impor- 
tant appointments, with a view to increasing his sphere 
of usefulness, were defeated, in spite of his reputation for 
learning and eloquence, until about 1720, when he was 
appointed pastor of Amfohlingen. In 1738 he removed 
to Diessbach, where he died, May 28, 1750. II is col- 
lected works were published under the title Wohlriechen- 
der Strauss r.schunen t i.gesunden J/immel sblnmen (Basle, 
1730 and 1750, 2 vols,). See Leu, Schweiz. Lexikon , xii ; 
Haller, Bibl d. Schiceizergesch. ii, 290; Hurst’s Hagen- 
bach, Ch. Hist, of the 18 th and 1 \)th Centuries , i, 191 sq.; 
llerzog, Real-Encgklop. viii, 021. 

Lux Mentis {the light of the mind), another name 
for baptism, so called on account of the instruction ill 
the Christian religion which was given to the candi- 
dates for baptism before they were admitted to the sa- 
cred ordinance. — Farrar, Eccles. Diet. s. v. 

Luxury, a disposition of mind addicted lo pleasure, 
riot, and superfluities. Luxury implies a giving one’s 
self up to pleasure ; voluptuousness, an indulgence in 
the same to excess. Luxury may be further considered 
as consisting in, l.Yain and useless expenses; 2. In a 
parade beyond what people can afford; 3. In affecting 
to be above otrr own rank ; 4. In living in a splendor 
that does not agree with the public good. In order to 
avoid it, we should consider that it is ridiculous, trouble- 
some, sinful, and ruinous. See Robinson’s Claude, i, 382 ; 
Ferguson, On Society, part vi, sec. 2 ; Buck, Theologiccd 
Dictionary , s. v. 

Luz (Ileb. id. "5, a nut-bearing tree, either the al- 
mond or hazel as in Gen. xxx, 37 [but according to 
Fiirst, after Hiller, sinking , as of a valley]; Sept. Aou- 
£«,but in Gen. xxviii,19 unites with the preceding word 
OuAojuXoi’s), the name of two plaqes. 

1. The ancient name of the Canaanitish city on or 

near the site of Bethel (Gen. xxviii, 19; xxxv.G; xlviii, 
3), on the border of Benjamin (Josh, xviii, 13); taken 
and destroyed, with all its inhabitants (except one fam- 
ily that bad acted as spies), by the descendants of Jo- 
seph (Judg. i, 23). The spot to which the name of 
Bethel was given appears, however, to have been at a 
little distance in the environs of Luz, and they are ac- 
cordingly distinguished in Josh, xvi, 2, although the 
lleb. name of Bethel eventually superseded the Canaan- 
itish one Luz; or rather, perhaps, Luz was the name of 
a locality near which Bethel was afterwards built. The 
form of the name in the Sept., Eusebius, and the Yulg. 
seems to have been derived from Josh, xviii, 13, where 
the words rriS-SX should, according to ordinary 

usage, be rendered “ to the shoulder of Luzah the ah, 
which is the particle of motion in Hebrew, not being re- 
quired here, as it is in the former part of the same verse. 
Other names are found both with and without a similar 
termination, as Jotbah, Jothathah ; Timnath, Timnath- 
ah; Riblali, Riblathab. Laish and Laishali are proba- 
bly distinct places. Yan de Yelde is confident that lie 
has recovered the site of Luz in the modern ruins called 
Klmrbet ef-Lozeh. one hour and a half west of Beth-el 
(Xotes to the 2d ed. of his Map, p. 10). See Bktukl. 

2. A small place in the district of the I lit t ites. found- 
ed by an inhabitant of the former Luz, who was spared 
on tiie destruction of this place by the tribe of Benja- 
min (Judg. i.2G); and this seems to dispose of the iden- 
tification with the ruins still found on Alt. Gerizim (Stan- 
ley, p. 231 sq.4, bearing the name of Luza (Seetzen, Dc- 
ise, i, 174; Wilson. ii, 09), about ten minutes beyond the 
trench of the Samaritan sacrifice (Yan de Yelde, Manoir, 
p.331 ). Schwarz thinks the site may be identified with 
that of wadv Luzon, in the interior of the desert of et- 
Tih, north-west of Jebel el-Araif, on the strength of the 
Talmudic statement that this place lay without the 
bounds of Palestine ( Palest . p. 213). This is doubtless 
the wady Lussdn described by Dr. Robinson as a broad 


LUZ 


583 


LYCAONIA 


plain swept over by torrents from the mountains on the 
right, destitute of any fountain or water, and containing 
only a few remains of rude walls and foundations, which 
lie regards as the traces of the Homan station Lysa along 
this route ( Researches . i, 276, 277). Eosenmiiller ( A l - 
ierth. II, ii, 129) refers the name to Luza , a city, accord- 
ing to Eusebius ( Onomast . s. v.), lying three miles from 
Shechem; but this could not have been Ilittite terri- 
tory. Studer (Bitch cl Richter, p.45) adopts a sugges- 
tion of I). Kirachi, that a city of the Phoenicians (Kit- 
tim, so Eusebius, Kfrrf //(, Onomast . s. v. 2) is meant. 
Probably it was some place near Ilebron, in southern 
Palestine, where the Ilittites were settled. See Hit- 

TITE. 

Luz. See Hazel. 

Luzzatto, Mose Chayim, ben-Jacob, the great 
modern Jewish mystic of Italy, was born at Padua in 
1707, and enjoyed the highest educational advantages 
the country of his birth could afford. When a youth 
of only twenty, his extended studies in Hebrew litera- 
ture, especially the cabalistic writings, secured for him 
a universal reputation. Had he known how to avoid 
mysticism, he might have proved one of the greatest 
ornaments of Judaism, but the Cabala (q. v.) led him 
astray, and he not only compiled a second Zohar (q. v.), 
but actually came to believe himself the predicted Mes- 
siah of his people. He was excommunicated, and obliged 
to quit Italy. For a time he nourished in Amsterdam, 
and about 1744 he removed to the lloly Land. He died 
shortly after, at Safet, in May, 1747, and was buried at 
Tiberias. Of his multifarious works twenty-four are 
yet unedited; twenty-eight have been published, com- 
prising treatises in theology, dogmatic and eabalistical, 
philosophy, morals, and rhetoric, and a body of poetry, 
devotional, lyrical, and dramatic. II is most important 
writings are cited in Etheridge, Introd. to Hebrew Litera- 
ture. , p. 393. See also Griitz, Geschichte d. Juden , x, 369- 
383; and his biography in Kerem Chemed (1838), iii, 113 
sq. (J.1I.W.) 

Luzzatto, Samuel David, one of the most noted 
Jewish writers of onr day, the Jehudah ha-Levi (q. v.) of 
the 19th century, was born at Trieste (Italy) in 1800, the 
scion of one of the most eminent Italian families. He 
received a thorough academical training, and early dis- 
played great ability as a writer. Greatly interested in 
the study of the history and literature of his people, he 
became one of the most prominent writers in this field. 
Says Griitz ( Gesch . d. Juden, xi, 502), “If Krochmal and 
Eapaport were the fathers of Jewish history, Luzzatto 
must be acknowledged as her mother.” He brought to 
light the most beautiful pages of Jewish history of the 
Franco-Spanish epoch — the tragical fate of the Jews in 
the persecutions of the Middle Ages and the reforma- 
tory period — which had been given up as lost; and there- 
by prepared the way for the labors of Kayserling, Sachs, 
Zunz, and others. Luzzatto also labored creditably in 
the department of O.-T. exegesis, and when the collegio 
rabbinico was opened at Padua in 1829, he became one 
of its professors, continuing in this service until his 
death in 1865. He wrote Hebrew, Italian, French, and 
German. His diction is graceful and exceedingly pleas- 
ant. 1 1 is essays and treatises in this field appeared first 
in the “Bikkure Ittim,” and afterwards (1841, etc.) in 
the “ Kerem Chemed,” published in Vienna and then in 
Prague by a man of great learning in Jewish literature, 
Samuel L. Goldenberg, of Tarnapol. One of his best 
works is his J)ialogues, etc., on the Cabala, the Zohar, 
the antiquity of the vowel-points and accents of the Bible 
(1852), which shows the folly of the Cabala, the origin 
of the Zohar in the 13th century, and the vowel-points 
in the 5th, and the accents probably in the 6tli. Luz- 
zatto also published on Hebrew grammar, Prolegomena 
ad unci gram, llebr. ; and later a complete Hebrew gram- 
mar, Oheb Guer ("13 -!"lli<) ; a work on the Aramaic ver- 
sion ofOnkelos (Vienna, 1830) ; an Italian version of Job 
(Livorno, 1844) ; French Motes on Isaiah ( in Kosenmul- 


ler’s version, Leips. 1834); Heb. Notes on the Pentateuch 
(Vienna, 1850) ; and finally Isaiah , an Italian transla- 
tion with an extensive Hebrew commentary (Vienna, 
1850). See Griitz, Gesch. d. J uden, xi, 499 sq. ; Jost, Ge- 
schichte d.Judenthums , iii, 345 sq. ; Maggid, 1864-1865 ; 
The Israelite (Cincinnati, O.), Jan. 19, 1872. (J. II. W.) 

Luzzatto, Simone (Heb. Simcha), a noted rabbi, 
who flourished at Venice about 1590, exerted no small 
influence on the Italian Jews of the 16th century. He 
was an associate of Leo da Modena (q.v.), and aided 
the latter greatly by his superior abilities. He died in 
1663. He wrote 1 la della Fede , in which he teaches 
that the prophecies of Daniel refer rather to a by-gone 
age than to a future Messiah. This peculiar view has 
given rise to the belief that he accepted Jesus as the 
Messiah (see Wolf, Bibl. Jud. iii, 1128). His most val- 
uable work, however, is his Discorso circa il siafo degli 
Hebrei (Venice, 1638), in which he ably defends Juda- 
ism and the Jews. The excesses of the Cabalists he de- 
plored, and stoutly opposed all relation with them. See 
Griitz, Geschichte der Juden , x, 162 sq. (J. H.\Y .) 

Lybon or Libo, a city mentioned in the Anionine 
Itinerary as being situated thirty-two Roman miles 
from Heliopolis (Baalbek), and the same distance from 
Laodicea. Its name has elsewhere been displaced in 
the same itinerary by that of Conna. The modern vil- 
lage of Lebweh is doubtless the same (Bibl. Sacr. 1848, 
p. 099), although the distances have become corrupted 
(Porter, Damascus, ii, 322 sq.). It is a poor village, in 
the middle of a basin, on a low tell among the streams 
on the eastern slope of Lebanon, with some remains of 
antiquity, and a considerable Arabian history (Robin- 
son, Later Res. p. 532 sq.). 

Lybrand, Joseph, an eminent Methodist Episcopal 
minister, was born of Lutheran parentage in Philadel- 
phia, Oct. 3, 1793; was converted at about ten ; entered 
the Philadelphia Conference in April, 1811 ; was presid- 
ing elder on Philadelphia District in 1824-8; 1834-8 
was on stations in Philadelphia; desisted from labor in 
1813 at Harrisburg, and died April 24, 1845. Mr. Ly- 
brand was a man of deep fidelity to God, and immova- 
ble fidelity to man. As an eloquent preacher he had 
few equals in the American pulpit. His style was ele- 
gant and weighty, full of masterly argument and pow- 
erful exhortation, and many souls were added to the 
Church by his long and blessed ministry. So strong was 
bis conviction in his duty to preach only that he refused 
to accept some of the most important offices in the gift of 
his denomination. Thus he declined in 1832 to assume 
the responsibilities of the publishing house taken from 
Dr. Emory, who had been elected bishop.— Minutes of 
Conferences , iii, 598. 

Lycao'llia (A vtcaovia, either from the mythologi- 
cal name Lycaon, or from X vkoq, a wolf'), a province of 
Asia Minor, having Cappadocia on the east, Galatia on 
the north, Phrygia on the west, and Isauria and Cilicia 
on the south. These boundaries, however, are differ- 
ently described by ancient authors (Ptolemy, vi, 16; v, 
6 ; Pliny, v, 25 ; Strabo, xiv, 663 ; Livy, xxxviii, 38). 
It extends in length about twenty geographical miles 
from east to west, and about thirteen in breadth. It 
was an undulating plain, involved among mountains, 
which were noted for the concourse of wild asses. The 
soil was so strongly impregnated with salt that few of 
the brooks supplied drinkable water, so that good water 
was sold for money; but sheep throve on the pastu- 
rage, and were reared with great advantage (Strabo, xii, 
568 ; Pliny, I list. Nat. viii, 69). Lyeaonia first appears 
in history in connection with the expedition of Cyrus 
the younger (Xenophon, A nab. i, 2, 19 ; iii, 2, 23 ; Cyrop. 
vi, 2, 20). The inhabitants were a hardy race, not sub- 
ject to the Persians, and lived by plunder and foray 
(Dionysius, Per. 857; Prise. 806; Avien. 1020). With 
these descriptions modern authors agree (Leake’s Jour- 
nal , p. 67 sq. ; Iiennel, Geog. of JFesf. Asia, ii, 99; Cra- 
mer, As. Min. ii, 63 ; Mannert, Geog. VI, ii, 190 sq.). It 


LYCIA 


584 


was a Roman province when visited by Pan* (Acts xiv, 
C), anti its chief towns were Iconium, Lystra. and Derbe, 
of wliich the tirst was t lie capital (see Smith’s Diet, of 
Class, Geog. s. v.). “The speech of Lycaonia” (Acts 
xiv, 11) is supposed bv some to have been the ancient 
Assyrian language, also spoken by the Cappadocians 
(Jablonskv, Disquis. de Lingua Lycaomca , Berlin, 1714; 
also in his Opusc . iii, 3 stj.) ; but it is more usually con- 
ceived to have been a corrupt Greek, intermingled with 
many Syriac words (Guhling, Dissert, de Lingua Lyca- 
onica, Yiteb. 17*20), sinee the people appear, from the ac- 
count in the Aets, to have adopted the Grecian mythol- 
ogy as the basis of their religion (see Sommel, De Lin- 
gua Lye. Lond. 1787). “ It is deeply interesting to see 

these rude country people, when Paul and Barnabas 
worked miracles among them, rushing to the conclusion 
that the strangers were Mereury and Jupiter, whose 
visit to this very neighborhood forms the subjeet of one 
of Ovid’s most charming stories (Ovid, Metam. viii,G*2G). 
Nor can we fail to notice how admirably Paul’s address 
on the occasion was adapted to a simple and imperfectly , 
civilized race (Acts xiv, 15-17)” (Smith). See Bomer, 
De Paulo in Lycaonia (Lips. 1708). See Asia Mixor; 
Paul. 

Lyc'ia (A vKta, prob. from \vkoq, a wolf; according 
to some, from its earliest king, Lyeus; for a Shemitic 
origin of the name, see Simonis, 0 nomast. X. T. p. 101 : 
Siekler, lJandb. p. 508), a province in the south-west of 
Asia Minor, opposite the island of Rhodes, having Pam- 
phylia on the east, Phrygia on the north, Caria on the 
west, and the Mediterranean on the south. The last 
eminences of the range of Taurus come down here in 
majestie masses to the sea, forming the heights of Cra- 
gus and Antieragus, with the river Xantluis winding 
between them, and ending in the long series of promon- 
tories called by modern sailors the “Seven Capes,” 
among which are deep inlets favorable to seafaring and 
piracy. It forms part of the region now called Tekeh. 
It was fertile in corn and wine, and its cedars, firs, and 
other trees were celebrated (Pliny, Hist. Xat. xii, 5). Its 
inhabitants were believed to be descendants of Cretans, 
who came thither under Sarpedon, brother of Minos. 
One of their kings was Belleroplion, celebrated in my- 
thology. Lyeia is often mentioned by Homer (II. vi, 
171 ; x, 430; xii, 312; Odys. v, ‘282, etc.), according to 
whom it was an ally of Troy. Herodotus assigns sev- 
eral ancient names to the country (i, 173). The Lvcians 
were a warlike people, powerful on the sea, and attached 
to their independence, which they successfully main- 
tained against Croesus, king of Lydia, and were after- 
wards allowed by the Persians to retain their own kings 
as satraps, and their ships were conspicuous in the great 
war against the Greeks (Herod, vii, 91, 92). After the 
death of Alexander the Great, Lycia was included in 
the Greek Seleucid kingdom, and was a part of the ter- 
ritory which the Romans forced Antiochus to cede (Livy, 
xxxvii, 55). It was made, in the first place, one of the 
continental possessions of Rhodes [see Caria] ; but be- 
fore long it was politically separated from that island, 
and allowed to be an independent state. This has been 
called the golden period of the history of Lycia (see 
further in Smith’s Diet, o f Class. Geog. s. v.). It is at 
this time that it is named in 1 INI ace. xv, 23, as one of 
the countries to which the Roman senate sent its mis- 
sive in favor of the Jews. The victory of the Romans 
over Antiochus (B.C. 189) gave Lycia rank as a free 
state, which it retained till the time of Claudius, -when 
it was made a province of the Roman empire (Sueton. 
Claud. 25; Yespas. 8). At first it was combined with 
Pamphylia, and the governor bore the title of “ Procon- 
sul Lycia? et Pamphylia?” (Gruter, Thes. p. 458). Such 
seems to have been the condition of the district when 
Paul visited it (Acts xxi, 1 ; xxvii, 5). At a later pe- 
riod of the Roman empire it 'was a separate province, 
with Myra for its capital. Lycia contained many towns, | 
two of which are mentioned in the New Testament ; 
Patara (Acts xxi, 1, 2) and Myra (Aets xxvii, 5) ; and 1 


LYDDA 

one, Phasdis, in the Apoerypha (1 Macc. xv, 23). This 



region, abounding in ancient remains and inscriptions 
(the last copiously illustrated by Schmidt, Jena, 1808, 
fob), was first visited in modern times by Sir Clias. Fel- 
lows. See his Journal (London, 1839, 1841); Forbes, 
Travels (London, 1847) ; Texier, II A sie Mineure (Paris, 
1838) ; Eneycl. of Useful Knowledge, xiv, 210 sq. : Cra- 
mer’s Asia Minor, ii, 282 sq.; Maunert, Geogr.Y I, iii, 
150 sq. ; Cellarius, Notit. ii, 93 sq. 

Lych-gate or Licii-gate (Anglo-Sax. lie or liee, a 
body or corpse), i. e. corpse-gate, is a covered gate erect- 
ed, especially in England, at the entrance of a church- 
yard, beneath which the persons bearing a corpse for 
interment were wont to pause, sometimes to read the 
burial-service under this sheltered place. It is also ap- 
plied to the path by which a corpse is carried. 



Lych- or Corpse-gate at Blackford Church, Perthshire. 


Lychnoscope (an opening (or watching the light), 
a name assigned by conjecture to an unglazed window 
or opening, which is frequently found near the west end 
of the chancel, and usually on the south side, below the 
range of the other windows, and near the ground. What 
purpose these low side windows served in churches is 
not now known. — Eadie, Ecelcs. Cyclop, s. v. 

Lycus (Wolf), a river of Palestine, mentioned by 
ancient geographers as situated between ancient Biblus 
and Berytus (Strabo, xvi, p. 755 ; Pliny, v, 20). This 
is evidently the modern Nahr el-Kelh (Dog River), at 
the mouth of whieh, about 24 hours N.E. of Beirut, are 
found the remarkable rock-tablets of ancient victorious 
kings (Wilson, ii, 405 ; Robinson, Later Des. p. G19 sq.). 

Lyd'da (AiWa,Acts ix, 32, 35, 38; from the Ileb. 
“ Lodf'ih, strife; Sept. Aoti v. r. AwS, 1 Chron. viii, 12; 
Avcciov v. r. Ao caci and Aolaftid, by union with the 
following name, Ezra ii, 33 ; Nch. vii, 37 ; Avcca , Nth. 
xi, 35; 1 Mace. xi,34 ; so also Josephus), a town within 
the limits of the tribe of Ephraim; according to Eu- 
sebius and Jerome, nine miles east of Joppa, on the road 
between that port and Jerusalem ; according to the An- 
tonine Itin., thirty-two miles from Jerusalem and ten 
from Antipatris. It bore in Hebrew the name of Loi>, 
and appears to have been first built by the Bcnjamites, 
although it lay beyond the limits of their territory (1 
Chron. viii, 12); and we find it again inhabited by Ben- 
jamites after the exile (Ezra ii, 33; Nell, xi, 35). In 
all these notices it is mentioned in connection with Ono. 
Tt likewise oceurs in the Apocrypha (1 Macc. xi,34) as 
having been taken from Samaria and annexed to Judaea 
by Demetrius Nicator; and at a later date its inhabi- 
tants are named among those who were sold into slay- 


LYDDA 


585 


LYDIA 


cry by Cassius when he inflicted the calamity of his 
presence upon Palestine after the death of Julius Ctesar 
(Josephus, Ant. xiv, 11,2; xii,6). In the New Testa- 
ment the place is only noticed under the name of Lyd- 
da, as the scene of Peter’s miracle in healing ^Eneas 
(Acts ix, 32, 35). Some years later the town was re- 
duced to ashes by Cestius Gallns, in his march against 
Jerusalem (Josephus, War, ii, 19, 1) ; but it must soon 
have revived, for not long after we find it at the head 
of one of the toparchies of the later Judina, and as such 
it surrendered to Vespasian, who introduced fresh in- 
habitants from Galilee (Josephus, War, iii, 3, 5; iv, 8). 
At that time it is described by Josephus (Ant, xx, 6, 2) 
as a village equal to a city; and the Rabbins have much 
to say of it as a seat of Jewish learning, of which it was 
the most eminent in Judaea after Jabneh and Bethcr 
(Lightfoot, Parergon, § 8; Ilorm Ifeb. p. 35 sq. ; Otho, 
Lex. Babb. p. 399 sq.). About the time of the siege it 
was presided over by rabbi Gamaliel, second of the name 
(Lightfoot, Chor. Cent. xvi). Some curious anecdotes 
and short notices from the Talmuds concerning it are 
preserved by Lightfoot. One of these states that “queen 
Helena celebrated the Feast of Tabernacles there!” in 
the general change of names which took place under 
the Roman dominion, Lydda became Diospolis (Ptol- 
emy, v, 16, 6 ; Pliny, v, 15 ; see Reland, Palcest. p. 877), 
and under this name it occurs in coins of Severus and 
Caracalla, and is often mentioned by Eusebius and Je- 
rome. It was early the seat of a bishopric, and at the 
different councils the bishops are found to have sub- 
scribed their names variously, as of Lydda or Diospolis; 
but in the later ecclesiastical records the name of Lydda 
predominates. Tradition reports that the tirst bishop 
was “Zenas the lawyer” (Tit. iii, 13), originally one of 
the seventy disciples (Dorotheus, in Rcland, p.879) ; but 
the first historical mention of the see is the signature of 
“iEtius Lvddensis” to the acts of the Council of Nieiea 
(A.D. 325 ; Reland, p. 878). The bishop of Lydda, orig- 
inally subject to Ciesarca, became at a later date suffra- 
gan to Jerusalem (see the two lists in Yon Raumer, p. 
401) ; and this is still the case. In the latter end of 415 
a council of fourteen bishops was held here, before which 
Pelagius appeared, and by whom, after much tumultu- 
ous debate, and in the absence of his two accusers, he 
was acquitted of heresy, and received as a Christian 
brother (Milner, Hist, of Ch. of Christ , cent, v, chap. iii). 
The latest bishop distinctly mentioned is Apollonius, in 
A.D. 5 18. Lydda early became connected with the hom- 
age paid to the celebrated saint and martyr St. George, 
who was not less renowned in the East than afterwards 
in the West. He is said to have been born at Lydda, 
and to have suffered martyrdom at Nicomcdia in the 
earliest persecution under Diocletian and Maximian, at 
the end of the 3d century. His remains were transfer- 
red to his native place, and a church erected in honor 
of him by the emperor Justinian. This church, which 
stood outside the town, had just been levelled to the 
ground by the Moslems when the Crusaders arrived at 
Lydda; but it was soon rebuilt by them, and they es- 
tablished a bishopric of Lydda and Bainleh. Great hon- 
ors were paid by them to St. George, and they invested 
him with the dignity of their patron : from this time 
his renown spread more widely throughout Europe, and 
he became the patron saint of England and of several 
other states and kingdoms. The church was destroyed 
by Saladin in 1191, and there is no evidence that it was 
ever rebuilt, although there was in later centuries an 
unfounded impression that the church, the ruins of 
which were then seen, and which still exist, had been 
built by the English king Richard. From that time 
there has been little notice of Lydda by travellers. It 
now exists, in a fruitful plain, one mile north of Rama, 
and three east of Jaffa, under its ancient name of Lud 
or Ludda ( Lidd in Tobler, Dritte Wanderung, p. 69, 456). 
Within a circle of four miles still stand Ono (Kefr Anna), 
Hadid (el-Haditheh), and Neballat (Beit-Neballah), 
three places constantly associated with Lod in the an- 


cient records. The water-course outside the town is 
said still to bear the name of Abi-Butrus (Peter), in 
memory of the apostle (Tobler, p. 471). The town is, 
for a Mohammedan place, busy and prosperous (see Van 
de Velde, Syr. and Palest, i, 244). Buried in palms, and 
with a large well close to the entrance, it looks from a 
distance inviting enough, but its interior is very repul- 
sive on account of the extraordinary number of persons, 
old and young, whom one encounters at every step, either 
totally blind, or afflicted with loathsome diseases of the 
eyes. It is a considerable village of small houses, with 
nothing to distinguish it from ordinary Moslem villages 
save the ruins of the celebrated church of St. George, 
which are situated in the eastern part of the town. The 
building must have been very large. The walls of the 
eastern end arc standing only in the parts near the al- 
tar, including the arch over the latter; but the western 
end remains more perfect, and has been built into a large 
mosque, the lofty minaret of which forms the landmark 
of Lud. As the city of St. George, who is one with the 
famous personage El-Khtulr, Lydda is held in much 
honor by the Moslems. In their traditions the gate of 
the city will be the scene of the final combat between 
Christ and Antichrist (Sale’s Koran , note to chap, xliii ; 
and Prel. Pise, iv, § 4; also Jalal ad-Din, Temple of Je- 
rusalem, p. 434), See Raumer, Palastina , p. 208 ; Rob- 
inson, Mb. Researches, iii, 55; Sandys, Travailes; Cotovi- 
cus, Itiner. p. 137, 138 ; D’Arvieux, Memoires, ii, 28 ; Po- 
cocke, Description , ii, 58 ; Volncv, Voyage, i, 278 ; Thom- 
son, Land and Book, ii, 291 sq. — Kitto; Smith. 

Lydgate, John, an ancient English theologian, 
celebrated particularly as a poet, one of the successors 
of Chaucer, was a monk of the Benedictine abbey of 
Bury St. Edmunds, in Suffolk. The dates of only a few 
of the events of his life have been ascertained, lie was 
ordained a subdeacon in 1389, a deacon in 1393, and a 
priest in 1397, whence it has been conjectured that he 
was born about 1375. He seems to have arrived at his 
greatest eminence about 1430. After a short education 
at Oxford he travelled in France and Italy, and re- 
turned a complete master of the language and literature 
of both countries. He chiefly studied Dante, Boccac- 
cio, and Alain Chartier, and became so distinguished a 
proficient in polite learning that he opened a school in 
his monastery for teaching the sons of the nobility ver- 
sification and composition. Although philology was his 
subject, he was not unacquainted with the philosophy 
of the day : he was not only a poet and a rhetorician, 
but a geometrician, an astronomer, a thcologist, ami a 
disputant. He died about 1461. — English. Cyclop, s. v.; 
Warton, Ilist. Engl. Poetry ; Chambers, Cyclop. Eng. Lit. 
i, 40 sq. 

Lyd'ia (A vela), the name of a country, and also of 
a woman in the New Testament. 

1. The Hebrew Lud (“Lydia” in Ezek. xxx, 5; see 
also Ludim), a province in the west of Asia Minor, sup- 
posed to have derived its name from Lud, the fourth son 
of Shorn (Gen. x, 22). Thus Josephus states ‘‘those 
who are now called Lydians (Aetoi), but anciently Lu- 
dim (Aoicoi), sprung from Lud” (Aovda, Ant. i, 6, 4-, 
compare Bochart, Opera, i, 83, and the authorities cited 
there). See Ethnology. Lydia was bounded on the 
east by Greater Phrygia, on the north by iEolis or My- 
sia, on the west by Ionia and the iEgiean Sea, and on 
the south it was separated from Caria by the Meander 
(see Smith's Diet, of Class. Geogr. s. v.). The country 
is for the most part level (Schubert, Reisen, i. 369 sq.). 
Among the mountains, that of Tmolus was celebrated 
for its saffron and red wine (Xenoph. Cyrop. vi, 2, 21). 
Lydia, however, lay on the west coast of Asia Minor, 
and thus was far removed from the other possessions of 
the Shemitic nations. Greek writers inform ns that 
Lydia was originally peopled by a I^lasgic race called 
fheonians (Homer , Iliad, ii, 866; x, 431), who received 
their name from Mieon, an ancient king (Bochart, l. c.). 
They also state that the name Lydians was derived from 
a king who ruled them at a later period (Herod, i, 7). 


LYDIA 


586 


LYDIUS 


Ahout eight centuries B.C. a tribe of another raee mi- 
grated from the east, and subdued the Mteonians. These 
wore the Lydians. For some time after this conquest 
both nations are mentioned promiscuously, but the Lyd- 
ians gradually obtained power, and gave their name to 
the country (Kaliseh, On Gen. x ; Dionysius, i, 30; Pliny, 
v, 30; comp. Strabo, xii, 572; xiv. 679). The best and 
most recent critics regard these Lydians as a Shemitie 
tribe, and consequently the descendants of Lud (Movers, 
Die Phonicier, i, 475). This view is strengthened by 
the description of the character and habits of the Lyd- 
ians. They were warlike (Herod, i, 79), skilled in horse- 
manship (£&.), and accustomed to serve as mercenaries 
tinder foreign princes (vii, 71). Now, in Isa. lxvi, 19, a 
warlike people called Lud is mentioned in connection 
with Tarshish and Pul; and again in Ezek. xxvii, 10, 
the prophet says of Tyre, “ They of Persia, and of Lud, 
and of Phut, were in thine army, thy men of war.” 
There can scarcely be a doubt that this is the Shemitie 
nation mentioned in Genesis, and wliieh migrated to 
Western Asia, and gave the province of Lydia its name. 
The identity has recently been called in question by 
professor and Sir Henry Rawlinson, but their arguments 
do not seem sufficient to set aside the great mass of cir- 
cumstantial evidence in its favor (Rawlinson 's Herodo- 
tus , i. 160. 659, 667 ; comp. Kaliseh, ad loe. Gen.; Prieli- 
ard, Physical History of Mankind, iv, 562 sq. ; Niebuhr, 
Lectures on Ancient History, i, 87 ; Gesenius, Thesaui'iis, 
p. 745). In the palmy days of Lydia its kings ruled 
from the shores of the jEgrean to the river Halys; and 
Croesus, who was its king in the time of Solon and of 
Cyrus, was reputed the richest monarch in the world 
(Strabo, xv, 735). lie was able to bring into the field 
an army of 420,000 foot and 60,000 horse against Cyrus, 
by whom, however, he was defeated, and his kingdom 
annexed to the Persian empire (llerod. i, 6). Lydia af- 
terwards formed part of the kingdom of the Seleucidte; 
and it is related in 1 Mace, viii, 8, that Antioehus the 
Great was compelled by the Romans to cede Lydia to 
king Eumenes (comp. Apian. Syr. 38). Some difficulty 
arises in the passage referred to from the names “India 
and Media” found in connection with it; but if we re- 
gard these as incorrectly given by the writer or by a 
copyist for “Ionia and Mysia,” the agreement with 
Livy’s account of the same transaction (xxxvii, 56) will 
be sufficiently established, the notice of the maritime 
provinces alone in the book of Maccabees being explica- 
ble on the ground of their being best known to the in- 
habitants of Palestine. In the time of the travels of 
the apostles it was a province of the Roman empire 
(Ptolemy, v, 2, 16; Pliny, v, 30). Its chief towns were 
Sardis (the capital), Thyatira, and Philadelphia, all of 
which are mentioned in the New Testament, although 
the name of the province itself does not occur. Its con- 
nection with Judaea, under the Seleueida?, is referred to 
by Josephus (H nt. xii, 3, 4). The manners of the Lyd- 
ians were corrupt even to a proverb (Herod, i, 93). — 
Kitto; Smith. See Th. Menke, Lydiceu (Berlin, 1844); 
Cramer, Asia Minor, i, 413; Forbiger, Handb. der A Iten 
Geoy r. ii, 167 ; Clinton, Fasti Hellen. Appendix, p. 361 : 
Niebuhr, Lectures on Anc. Hist, i, 82 ; Cellarius, Notitice, 
ii, 108 sq. ; Mannert, 6Vw/r. Vl,iii,345sq.; AUgem.Welt- 
histor. iv, 623 sq. ; Reek, Welty. i, 308 sq. ; Ileeren, Ideen, 
I, i, 154 sq. 

2 . A woman of Thyatira, “a seller of purple,” who 
dwelt in the city of Philippi, in Macedonia (Acts xvi, 
14, 15). A.D. 47. The commentators are not agreed 
whether “ Lydia ” shoidd be regarded as an appellative, 
or a derivative from the country to which the woman 
belonged, Thyatira, her native place, being in Lydia. 
There are examples of this latter sense; but the preced- 
ing word ovopari seems here to support the former, and 
the name was a eommon one* (See Riel and I. llase in 
the Jtibl. Jirem. ii, 4 1 1 ; iii, 275 ; v, 670 ; vi, 1041 ; Sytnb. 
Tirem. II, ii, 124; compare Ugolini Thesaur. xiii, xxix.) 
Lydia was not by birth a Jewess, but a proselyte, as the 
phrase “ who worshipped God” imports. It was at the 


Jewish Sabbath-worship by the side of a stream (Acts 
xvi, 13) that the preaching of the Gospel by Paul reached 
her heart. She was converted, being the first person in 
Europe who embraced Christianity there, and after she 
and her household had been baptized she pressed the 
use of her house so earnestly upon the apostle and his 
associates that they were constrained to accept the in~ 
vitation. As her native place was in the province of 
Asia (Acts xvi, 14; Rev. ii, 18), it is interesting to no- 
tice that through her, indirectly, the Gospel may have 
come into that very district where Paul himself had 
recently been forbidden directly to preach it (Acts xvi, 
6). We infer that she was a person of considerable 
wealth partly from the fact that she gave a home to 
Paul and his companions, partly from the mention of 
the conversion of her “household,” under which term, 
whether children are included or not, slaves are no doubt 
comprehended. Of Lydia’s character we are led to form 
a high estimate from her candid reception of the Gos- 
pel, her urgent hospitality, and her continued friendship 
to Paul and Silas when they were persecuted. Whether 
she was one of “ those women who labored with Paul in 
the Gospel” at Philippi, as mentioned afterwards in the 
epistle to that place (Phil. iv,3), it is impossible to say. 
The Lydians were famous for the art of dyeing purple 
vests (Pliny, vii, 57 ; Max. Tyr. xl, 2; Valer. Flacc. iv, 
368 ; Claud. Rapt, rroserp. 5, 275 ; yElian, Anim. iv, 46), 
and Lydia, as “ a seller of purple,” is supposed to have 
been a dealer in vests so dyed rather than in the dye 
itself (see Kuinol on Acts xiv, 14). — Kitto; Smith. 

Lyd'ian (Jer. xlvi, 9). See Lud ; Ludjm ; Lydia. 

Lydius, Balthasar, a Duteh theologian of Ger- 
man origin, was born at Umstadt, near Darmstadt, about 
1577 ; studied at Leyden ; became pastor at Streefkerk 
in 1602, and in 1608 at Dordrecht, lie was present at 
the Synod of Dort. He died in 1629. Lydius was a 
violent opponent of the Remonstrants. Of his literary 
labors, one deserves special mention, XValdensia (now 
very rare, Rotterdam, 1616-17 ; 2d ed. Amsterdam, 1623, 
2 vols. 8vo), in which he seeks to show an intimate con- 
nection between the Moravians and Waldensians. See 
Herzog, Real-Encyklop. xx, 63, 64. 

Lydius, Jacob, a Dutch theologian, son of the 
preceding, flourished about the middle of the 17th cen- 
tury at Dordrecht, and took a prominent part in the 
synod held there. He died in 1688. Some of his works 
deserve special mention: A gonistica Sacra, sire Syntag- 
ma vocum et phrasium a gonistica rum gme in Script ura 
occurrunt (I’ott. 1657, 12mo) : — Florum Sparsio ad his- 
torium passionis Jesu Christi (ibid, 1672, 8vo). See 
Brandt, Hist, of the Reformation in the Low Countries ; 
Hoefer, Xouv. Biog. Generate, xxii. 388. 

Lydius, Johannes (1), a German theologian, 
brother of Balthasar, was born at Frankfort about 1577, 
and became pastor at Oudewater (the birthplace of Ar- 
minius) in 1602. He died in 1643. Like his brother 
Balthasar, he is noted for his opposition to Arminianism. 
He was the editor of the works of Clemanges, Wessels, 
etc. See Herzog, Real-Encyklop. xx. 64. 

Lydius, Johannes (2), one of the early Dutch 
ministers of the Reformed Church in America, was edu- 
cated in Holland, and settled at Scheneetady and Al- 
bany, N. Y., in 1702. Like his predecessors in the same 
Church, he labored successfully for the instruction and 
salvation of the Mohawk Indians. He ministered among 
the tribes of the “ Five Nations,” and received from the 
governor and council suitable compensation for his serv- 
ices. lie died March 1. 1710. About thirty Indian 
communicants were iii connection with his Church at 
his decease, lie is represented by his contemporary, 
Rev. Thomas Barclay, of the Church of England, in a 
report to the Society for the Propagation of the Gospel 
in Foreign Parts, as “a good, pious man,” who “lived 
in entire friendship” with him, “and sent his own chil- 
dren to be catechized.” — Documentary Hist, of Xew York, 
iii, 897 ; Dr. Rogers’s Hist . Discourse. (W. J. Ik T.) 


LYDIUS 


587 


LYON 


Lydius, Martin, a noted Dutch theologian, father 
of Balthasar and Jacob, was born at Lubeck, Germany, 
in 1539 or 1540, of Dutch parentage, and was educated 
at the universities of Tubingen and Heidelberg, where 
in 1560 he was employed at the Collegium Sapient ice as 
teacher. On account of persecution in the Palatinate, 
he went to Holland, and became in 1579 pastor of a 
Church at Amsterdam. Upon the founding of the uni- 
versity at Franeeker in 1535, he was called thither as 
professor. He died in 1601. lie is noted for the part 
lie took in the Arminian controversy. It is he who 
forwarded to Arminius the works of Koornhert and 
Arnold Cornelius for refutation, which resulted instead 
in the conversion of Arminius. See Herzog, Reul-En- 
cyki. xx, 61 sq. ; Bayle, Hist. Diet, iii, 970, 971. See An- 
si ini anism. 

Lye, Edward, an English philologist and clergy- 
man, was born at Totnes, Devonshire, and was educated 
at Hertford College, Oxford ; took holy orders in 1719; 
was presented to the living of Ilaughton Parva, North- 
amptonshire ; in 1750 became vicar of Yardley Hast- 
ings, and died in 1767. lie acquired distinction by his 
researches in the Saxon language and literature. See 
Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and A m. A uthors , vol. ii, s. v. 

Lye, Thomas, an English Nonconformist clergy- 
man, flourished about the middle of the 17th century. 
While minister at All-Hallows, Lombard Street, London, 
he was called upon to take oath against the king; re- 
fusing, he was ejected in 1651 ; reinstated, he was once 
more expelled, because of his refusal to take the oath of 
uniformity, in 1662. He was very popular among Puri- 
tan families. His Sermons were published (Lond. 1660, 
4to; 1662; 1681). See Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and Am. 
Authors , vol. ii, s. v. ; Stoughton, Eccles. llist. of Engl. 
(Church Restoration), i, 278. 

Lyell, Thomas, D.D., a minister of the Protestant 
Episcopal Church, was born in Richmond County, Ya., 
May 13, 1775. Though educated in the Protestant Epis- 
copal Church, he became in early life a Methodist, and 
officiated on the Frederick Circuit, Va., also in Provi- 
dence, R. L, and was chaplain to Congress. In 1804, 
however, he became rector of Christ’s Church, N. Y., and 
remained ever after in that connection. In 1803 he was 
made A.M. by Brown University, and in 1822 D.D. by 
Columbia College. Through a long ministry he held 
on the even tenor of his way, and was an active mem- 
ber of almost eveTy institution connected with the dio- 
cese of New York. lie died March 4, 1848. — Sprague, 
A muds, v, 495. 

Lyford, William, an English theologian and zeal- 
ous Calvinist, was born in 1598 at Perpmere (Berk- 
shire) ; graduated at Oxford ; became a fellow of Mag- 
dalen College ; entered the Church ; became vicar of 
Sherborne, Dorsetshire, and spent the remainder of his 
life there. lie died in 1653. Among other sermons 
and treatises are published, Cases of Conscience pro- 
pounded in the Time of Rebellion (which preaches tol- 
erance to all parties) : — Principles of Faith and of a good 
Conscience (Lond. 1642 ; Oxford, 1652, 8vo) : — An A pol- 
ogy for our public Ministry and Infant Baptism (Lond. 
1652, 1653, 4to): — The plain J fan's Senses exercised to 
discern both good and evil (ibid. 1655, 4to). See Hoefer, 
Kvuc. Biog. Generate , vol. xxxii, s, v. ; Thomas, Diet, of 
Biog. and Mythol . s. v. ; Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and A mer . 
A uthorSj s. v. 

Lyle, John, AAI., a Presbyterian minister, was bom 
in Rockbridge County, Ya., October 20, 1769, and gradua- 
ted at Liberty Hall in 1794. Soon after he was employed 
in teaching, pursued his theological studies, and was li- 
censed in 1797. He was ordained in 1799, and in 1800 
took charge of the churches of Salem and Sugar Ridge, 
in Clark County. In 1805 he was appointed a mission- 
ary within the bounds of the Cumberland Presbytery, 
and subsequently a commissioner of the General Assem- 
bly. He removed to Paris, Bourbon Co., Ivy., in 1807, 
established an academy, and at the same time preached 


to the churcncs of Cave Ridge and Concord. He next 
supplied the church of Mount Pleasant, in Cynthiana, 
Harrison County, and passed the summer of 1814 in the 
counties of Bourbon, Harrison, Nicholas, and Fayette, 
preaching chiefly to the colored people. Having been 
instrumental, between 1815 and 1818, in the settlement 
of ministers on the field of his own labors, he devoted 
the rest of his life to missionary service, in which he 
was successfully engaged till his death in Paris, Ivy., 
July 22, 1825. lie published Contributions to Periodi- 
cals: — A New American English Grammar (1804); — A 
Sermon on the Qualifications and Duties of Gospel Min- 
isters (1821). — Sprague, A finals, iv, 178. 

Lyman, Henry, an American missionary, was born 
at Northampton, Mass., in 1810, and graduated at Am- 
herst College in 1829. He went as a missionary to Su- 
matra, and was killed there by the Battahs, with Mr. 
Munson, January 28, 1834. He published Condition * 'of 
Females in Pagan Countries . 

Lyman, Joseph, D.D., a Congregational minister, 
was born April 14, 1749, at Lebanon, Conn, lie gradu- 
ated at Yale College in 1767, was chosen tutor in 1770, in 
which position he remained two years, and was installed 
pastor in Hatfield, Mass., March 4, 1772, where he died 
March 27, 1828. He was elected president of the Hamp- 
shire Miss. Society in l812,vice-pTesident of the American 
Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions in 1819, 
and president in 1823. Dr. Lyman published several oc- 
casional Sermons (1787-1821). — Sprague, A muds, ii, 10. 

Lyman, William, IXD., a Presbyterian minister, 
was born ahout 1763, and was educated at Yale College, 
where he graduated in 1784. He was pastor at Haddam, 
Conn., and China, N. Y., and died in 1833. The College 
of New Jersey honored him with the doctorate in divin- 
ity in 1808. Dr. Lyman published four Occasional Se ? •- 
mans (1806, 1807, 1810). See Drake, Diet. Amer. Biog. 
p. 570 ; Allibone, Diet. Brit, and A mer. Authors, ii, s. v. 

Lynch, Thomas M., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church South, was born in Wilkerson Coun- 
ty, Miss., August 1,1826, was converted at Oxford, Ga., 
while a student at the university, at once joined the 
Church, and was licensed to preach in 1847, and shortly 
after was admitted to the Alabama Conference. His 
cultivated mind, his rare gifts in oratory, and his deep 
piety at once commended him to the love and confidence 
of the Conference. Elion Circuit was his first, and Ma- 
rianna and Appalaehicola his second appointment, when, 
in 1849, his health failed, and it became necessary for 
him to locate. By 1858 he had sufficiently recovered 
to re-enter upon his life-work, and he now consecutively 
served his church at Lowndesboro, Pineville, Prattville, 
and the Socapatoy Circuit. In the last-named placa 
his health was again affected by the extent of the work 
and arduousness of its duties, and he retired from active 
work. He died in Coosa County, Ala., April 18, 1867. 
*■ In all the relations of life he sustained the character of 
a gentleman of the highest type. Possessing a rich 
fund of knowledge, and gifted with conversational pow- 
ers that statesmen and courtiers might envy, he ever 
drew around him, bv the affability of his manners and 
sweetness of his spirit, a large circle of friends, and held 
them by an indissoluble cord.” As a preacher his word 
had power and unction. See Minutes of Conferences of 
M. E. Church South , iii, 128. 

Lynde, Sir Humphrey, an English writer of note, 
was born in 1579, and was educated first at Westminster 
School, and then at Christ Church, Oxford; was made 
bachelor of arts in 1600. He was a member of several 
Parliaments, and enjoyed other national honors, but he 
deserves a place here only on account of his works, 
among which are 1 la tufa (Lond. 1628, 8vo, and often) 
and Ancient Characters of the Visible Church , etc. lie 
died June 14, 1636. See Gen. Biog. Diet. s. v. 

Lyon, Asa, a Congregational minister, was born 
at Pomfret, Conn., Dec. 31, 1763, and graduated at Dart- 


LY OX 


588 


LYRA 


mouth College in 1790. He was pastor of the Congre- 
gational Church at Sunderland, Mass., from Oct. 4, 1792, 
to Sept. 23. 1793 ; at South Hess, Vt., from Dee. 21, 1802, 
to March 15, 1840; and was a member of Congress from 
Vermont from 1815 to 1817. He was appointed chief 
judge of Grand Isle County in 1805, 1806, 1808, and 
1813; and was during nine years a state representative. 
He was an able preacher. His published sermons and 
patriotic addresses show a high order of talent and 
scholarship. See Drake, Diet, of A mer. Biogr. s. v. 

Lyon, Hervey, a Presbyterian minister, was born 
in Walden, N. Y., Jan. 18, 1800, and was educated at 
Union College, pursued a course of theology at Prince- 
ton, N. J., and soon after removed to Ohio. Here, in 

1828, he was licensed to preach by the Presbytery of 

Huron, and ordained pastor of the Church in Vermil- 
ion. In 1830 he removed to Brownhelm, Ohio, and 
engaged in the occupation of teaching at the academy 
in Richfield, Ohio. lie died March 7, 1803. Mr. Lyon 
was a superior teacher, and much beloved by his pupils; 
as a Christian, he enjoyed a spirit remarkable for its 
depth and intensity. See Wilson, Presb. Hist. Almanac, 
1804, p. 309. (J. L. S.) 

Lyon, John C., a noted German minister in the 
Methodist Episcopal Church, was bom in Leonsberg, in 
the kingdom of Wiirtemberg, Germany, Feb. 11, 1802. 
His parents were of the Lutheran faith, and John re- 
ceived a Christian training. In 1817 he emigrated to 
this country, and some nine years later was brought 
nearer the cross, at once joined the Methodist Episcopal 
Church, and, after due preparation, entered the ministry, 
in which he continued for thirty-four years, preaching 
both to English and German congregations with great 
acceptance. He received consecutively the following 
appointments: 1828, Baltimore Conference, Huntington ; 

1829, Gettysburg!! ; 1830, Carlisle Circuit; 1831, Balti- 
more: 1832-33, Baltimore, Sharp Street, and Asburv; 
1834, superannuated; 1835, Lexington; 1836, Lewis- 
burgh Circuit ; 1837-38, 1 ioekingham ; 1839-40, Augus- 
ta; 1841, York; 1842-45, New York Conference, Second 
Street German Church ; 1846-48, Philadelphia ; 1849- 
52, presiding elder of New York German District; 1853- 
54, East Baltimore; 1855-56, New York, Second Street ; 
1*57, Fortieth Street; 1858-59, Philadelphia; 1860, 
Frederick City; 1861, East Baltimore. In 1862 he was 
superannuated, and died May 1G, 1868. “ Brother Lyon 
was an earnest, faithful worker in the Gospel, never tir- 
ing, esteeming all labor light which served to advance 
his Master’s glory. ... lie was a mighty man of God 
in the pulpit, a devout and holy man in life, a pleasant 
companion, a kind husband, a good father, a sweet singer 
in Zion, a useful laborer, turning many to righteous- 
ness.” — Coif. Minutes, 1869, p. 108. 

Lyon, Mary, a teacher and female philanthropist, 
bom in Buekland. Mass., Feb. 28, 1797, is noted as the 
founder of the Mount Holyoke Female Seminary in 
South Hadley, over which she presided until her death, 
March 5, 1849. A feature of her plan (at first much 
opposed) was the performance of the institution’s domes- 
tic labor by teachers and pupils, intending to give them 
independence of servants, self-denial, health, and inter- 
est in domestic duties. She set forth her views in Ten- 
dencies of the Principles embraced and the System adopted 
in the Mount Ilolyoke Female Seminary (1840), and in 
the Missionary Offering (18-13). See Hitchcock, Life 
and Labors of Mary Lyon (1851) ; Drake, Diet. ofAmer. 
Biography , s. v. 

Lyons, a city of France, situated on the Phone, 316 
miles by railway south-south-east of Paris, is noted in 
ecclesiastical history for two oecumenical councils which 
were held there: 

1. In 1215, consisting of 140H)ishops, and convened 
for the purpose of promoting the Crusades, restoring ec- 
clesiastical discipline, and dethroning Frederick II, em- 
peror of Germany. It was also decreed at this council 
that cardinals shoidd wear red hats. 


II. In 1274. There were 500 bishops and about 1000 
inferior clergy present. Its principal objeet was the re- 
union of the Greek and Latin churches. — Hook, Diction- 
ary; Smith, Tables of Church History ; London, Manual 
of Councils , s. v. 

Lyons, Israel, a noted English scholar of Jewish 
parentage, was born at Cambridge in 1709. and after the 
completion of his studies, mainly dependent upon his 
own efforts, he became instructor of Hebrew at the Uni- 
versity in Cambridge. He died in 1770. Besides val- 
uable contributions to mathematical science, he wrote 
The Scholar's Instructor , or Hebrew Grammar (1735, 
8vo; 2d ed., greatly enlarged, 1757): — Observations and 
Inquiries relating to various Parts of Scripture History 
(1761). This last-named work is supposed by some to 
have been written, however, by his father. See General 
Biographical Dictionary , s. v. 

Lyons, James Gilbourne, D.D., LL.D., an epis- 
copal clergyman and educator, a native of England, em- 
igrated to America in 1844, and began his clerical labors 
at St. Mary's Church, Burlington, N. J. In 1846 he re- 
moved to Philadelphia, and established himself as a 
teacher of the classics. His educational success secured 
him the position of principal of Haverford Classical 
School, which he held until his death, Feb. 3, 1868. 

Lyra (also Ly minis'), Nicholas de, so called from 
Lyre, in Normandy, the place of his nativity, was bom 
about 1270. lie entered the Order of the Franciscans 
at Verneuil in 1291, and completed his studies in Paris. 
Here he studied successfully, was admitted to the de- 
gree of doctor, and became a distinguished lecturer on 
the Bible. Besides his studies at the university, he pri- 
vately devoted himself to the acquisition of a thorough 
knowledge of Hebrew, and his association with converts 
of Jewish faith at this time has probably given rise to 
the opinion, even now held by some, that Nicholas de 
Lyra was born of Jewish parents, and was himself a 
convert to Christianity. II is own writings, however, 
flatly contradict this report, as has been shown by Wolf 
(. Bibliotheca , i and iii, s. v.) ; ami Nicholas himself tells 
us, in one of his works (the polemical treatise), that he 
had but little association with Jews, and depended main- 
ly upon the experience of other Christians for his delin- 
eation of Jewish character and customs (compare Griitz, 
Gesch. cl. Juden, vii, 513). His great learning, refined 
taste, and. eminent worth, raised him to the principal 
offices of his order, and secured him the friendship of 
the most illustrious persons of his age. He died at 
Paris October 23, 1340. It is especially as a writer that 
Lyra is justly celebrated, and. as has been frequently as- 
serted, he became, by his thorough expositions of the 
Scriptures, one of the greatest aids of the reformers of the 
16th century, whence the couplet on Luther’s exegetical 
labors by the enemies of the great German reformer : 

“ Si Lyra non lyraeset 
Lutherns non saltasset.” 

Nicholas de Lyra’s chef d’ceuvre is bis Postilhe perpetuce 
in universa Biblia (Rome, 1471-72,5 vols. fob; best edit. 
Antw. 1634,6 vols. fob), which brought him the title of 
“ doctor planus et utilis” — or, better, which immortalized 
the name of Lyra. The great merit of this commentary 
consists in the embodiment of the sober-spirited and in- 
genious explanations of Bashi, whose mode of interpre- 
tation Lyra regarded as his model, as he frankly states, 
“Similiter intendo non solum dicta doetorum Oatholi- 
eorum, sed etiam Hebneorum maxi me rabbi Salomoms, 
qui inter doetores l!ebra?os loeutus est rationalibus, ad 
declarationem sensus literalis inducere.” De Lyra even 
adopts the well-known Jewish four modes of interpreta- 
tion denominated t^“)S=TO, mystical; LTl, alle- 
gorical; spiritual ; 12*1*5, literal, which he thus ex- 
presses in verses in the same prologue (i. e. the first), 
from which the former quotation is made. 

“ Litera gesta docet, quid credas allegoria, 

MoraJis quid agas, quo tendas auagogia.” 

He gives, however, the preference to the literal sense. 


LYRE 


589 


LYSANIAS 


“All of them, says he, in the second prologue, “pre- 
suppose the literal sense as the foundation. As a build- 
ing declining from the foundation is likety to fall, so the 
mystic exposition which deviates from the literal sense 
must be reckoned unbecoming and unsuitable.” Even 
in the interpretation of the N. T., where Rashi failed him, 
acquaintance with the Rabbinical writings and Jewish 
antiquities enabled him to illustrate largely by allusion 
to the manners and customs of the Hebrews. He also 
wrote a treatise in defence of Christianity, and against 
Judaism, entitled Tmctutus fratris Nicolai de Lyra de 
Messia ejusque adventu, una cum responsible ad Judceo- 
rum aryumenta quatuordecim contra veritatem Evange - 
liorum, which he finished in 1309. It is generally ap- 
pended to his commentary, and is also given in the po- 
lemical work entitled the Hebrceomastix of Hieronymus 
de Sancta-fide (Frankf. 1602, p. 148 sq.). For the differ- 
ent editions of De Lyra’s works and translations into 
French and German, see Griisse, Tresor des Livres rares 
et precieux, s. v. ; see also Davidson, Sacred Hermeneu- 
tics (ed. 1843), p. 175 sq. ; Dr. Adam Clarke, Sacred Lit. 
s. v. ; Tvitto, Cyclop. Bill. Lit. ii, s. v. 

Lyre. See Harp. 

Lysa'nias (A voaviac, a common Greek name)' is 
mentioned by Luke, in chap, iii, 1, as tetrarch of Abilene, 
on the eastern slope of the anti-Lebanon, near Damas- 
cus, at the time when John the Baptist began his min- 
istry, A.D. 25. See Abila. It happens, however, that 
Josephus speaks of a prince named Lysanias who ruled 
over a territory in the neighborhood of Lebanon in the 
time of Antony and Cleopatra, and that he also mentions 
Abilene as associated with the name of a tetrarch Ly- 
sanias, while recounting events of the reigns of Calig- 
ula and Claudius. These circumstances have given to 
Strauss and others an opportunity for accusing the evan- 
gelist of confusion and error, but we shall see that this 
accusation rests on a groundless assumption. 

(a.) What Josephus says of the Ljsanias who was 
contemporary with Antony and Cleopatra (i.e. who lived 
sixty years before the time referred to by Luke) is, that 
he succeeded his father Ptolemy, the son of Mennreus, in 
the government of Chaleis, under Mt. Lebanon (JPar, i, 
13, 1; Ant. xiv, 7,4), and that he was put to death at 
the instance of Cleopatra (.1 nt. xv, 4, 1), who seems to 
have received a good part of his territory. It is to be 
observed that Abila is not specified here at all, and that 
Lysanias is not called tetrarch. 

(6.) What Josephus says of Abila and the tetrarchv 
in the reigns of Caligula and Claudius (i. e. about twen- 
ty years after the time mentioned in Luke’s Gospel) is, 
that the former emperor promised the “tetrarchy of Ly- 
sanias” to Agrippa xviii, 6, 10), and that the latter 
actually gave to him “Abila of Lysanias” and the terri- 
tory near Lebanon (Ant. xix, 5, 1 ; comp. War, ii, 12,8). 

Amid the obscurity which surrounds this name, sev- 
eral conjectures have been indulged in, which we will 
here notice. 

1. According to Eusebius (whom others have follow- 
ed, such as Bede and Adriehomius; see Corn, a Lapid. 
in Luc. iii, 1), Lysanias was a son of Herod the Great. 
This opinion (the untenableness of which is shown by 
A alesius, on Eusebius, 1 list. Eccles. i, 9, and by Sealiger, 
Animadver. on Euscb. Citron, p. 178) has no other foun- 
dation than the fact that the evangelist mentions Lysa- 
nias with Herod Antipas and Philip. 

2. To the older commentators, such as Casaubon (On 
Baronins, Ann. xxxi, Num. 4), Sealiger (loc. cit.), and 
others (sec Corn, a Lap. and Grotius, ad loc.), this dif- 
ference ot dates presented no difficulty. Allowing his- 
torical credit to Luke (on which subject see Dr. Mill, 
Pantheistic Pnncip. pt. ii, p. 16 sq.), no less than to Jose- 
phus, they at once concluded that two different princes 
of the same name, and possibly of the same family, were 
referred to by the two writers. (See also Kuinol, On 
Luke iii, 1 ; Krebsius, Observ. p. 110-113 ; and Robinson, 
Biblioth. Sacr. v, 81), 

3. Ibis reasonable solution, however, was unsatisfac- 


tory to the restless critics of Germany. Strauss and 
others (wdiose names are mentioned by Bleek, Synopt. 
Erhl. i, 156, and Meyer, Komment. ii, 289) charge the 
evangelist with “a gross chronological error;” a charge 
which they found on the assumption that the Lysanias 
of Chaleis mentioned by Josephus is identical with the 
Lysanias of Abilene, whom Luke mentions. This as- 
sumption is supported by a hypothesis which is incapa- 
ble of proof, namely, that Abilene, being contiguous to 
Chaleis, w T as united to the latter under the rule of Lysa- 
nias, the son of Ptolemy. It must, however, be borne 
in mind that Josephus nowhere speaks of Abilene in 
connection with this Lysanias ; nor, indeed, does he men- 
tion it at all until many years after the notice by Luke. 
He calls Antony’s victim simply ruler of Chaleis, More- 
over, it is of importance to observe that the tetrarchical 
division of Palestine and neighboring districts was not 
made until after the death of Herod the Great; so that, 
in his haste to inculpate the evangelist, Strauss, in ef- 
fect, attributes to the historian, whom he invidiously 
opposes to Luke as a better authority, an amount of in- 
accurate statement which, if true, woidd destro} r all re- 
liance on his history; for we have already seen that Jo- 
sephus more than once speaks of a “ tetrarchy of Lysa- 
nias, ” whereas there were no “ tetrarchies” until some 
thirty years after the death of Ptolemy’s son Lysanias. 
It is, therefore, a juster criticism to conclude (against 
Strauss, and with the earlier commentators) that in such 
passages as we have quoted above, wherein the histori- 
an speaks of “Abila of Lysanias” and “the tetrarchy 
of Lysanias,” that a later Lysanias is certainly meant; 
and that Josephus is not only accurate himself, but a 
voucher also for the veracity of Luke, But there is yet 
stronger evidence to be found in Josephus of the unten- 
ableness of Strauss’s objection and theory. In his Jew- 
ish War (ii, 12,8) the historian tells us that the empe- 
ror Claudius “removed Agrippa [the second] from Chal- 
ets [the kingdom, be it remembered, of Strauss’s Lysa- 
nias] to a greater kingdom, giving him in addition the 
kingdom of Lysanias" (Ik It rijg XaXricog 'Aypimrav 
tig ytiZ,ova jSaaiXtiav ptTUTi^rqtn . . . 7rpoot$i]Kt c't 
Tt)v rt Avaaviov j3a<nXtiav). Ebrard exposes the ab- 
surdity of Strauss’s argument by drawing from these 
words of Josephus the following conclusion — inevitable, 
indeed, on the terms of Strauss — that Agrippa was de- 
prived of Chaleis , receiving in exchange a larger king- 
dom, and also Chaleis! (See Ebrard’s Gospel Hist. 
[Clark], p. 145, 146 ) The effect of this reductio ad ab- 
surdum is well put by Dr. Lee (Inspiration [1st ed.], p. 
394, note], “ Hence, therefore, Josephus does make men- 
tion of a later Lysanias [on the denial of which Strauss 
has founded his assault on Luke], and, by doing so, fully 
corroborates the fact of the evangelist’s intimate ac- 
quaintance with the tangled details of Jewish history 
in his day.” Many eminent writers have expressly ac- 
cepted Ebrard’s conclusion, including Meyer (loc. cit.') 
and Bleek (loc. cit.). Patritins concludes an elaborate 
examination of the entire case with the discovery that 
“the later Lysanias, v r hom Luke mentions, was known 
to Josephus also, and that, so far from any difficulty ac- 
cruing out of Josephus to the evangelist’s chronology, 
as alleged by objectors to his veracity, the historian’s 
statements rather confirm and strengthen it” (Be Evan- 
geliis, iii, 42, 25). It is interesting, also, to remark that, 
if the sacred writer gains illustration from the Jewfish 
historian in this matter, he also repays him the favor, 
by helping to clear up w r hat w r oukl otherwise be unin- 
telligible in his statements; for instance, w r hen Jose- 
phus (A?tf. xvii, 17,4) mentions “ Batamea, with Tra- 
chonitis and Auranitis, and a certain part of w hat was 
called ‘ the house of Zenodorus,’ as paying a certain 
tribute to Philip” (ovv rtvi psoti oiicov rov Ztji’odiopov 
Xtyoptvov) ; and w r hen it is remembered that “ the house 
of ^Zenodorus” included other territory' besides Abilene 
(comp. Ant. xv, 10, 3, with War, i, 20, 4), we cannot but 
admit the force of the opinion advanced by Grotius (as 
quoted by Dr. Hudson, On the Antiq. xvii, 11, 4), that 


LYSCZYNSKI 


590 


LYSIAS 


« when Josephus says some part of the house or posses- 
sion of Zenodorns was allotted to Philip, he thereby de- 
clares that the larger part of it belonged to another. 
This other was Lysanias, whom Luke mentions” (see 
also Ivrebsius, Observat. p. 112). 

4. It is not irrelevant to state that other writers be- 
sides Strauss and his party have held the identity of 
Luke’s Lysanias with Josephus’s son of Ptolemy, and 
have also believed that Josephus mentioned but one Ly- 
sajiias. Hut (unlike Strauss) they resorted to a great 
shift rather than assail the veracity of the evangelist. 
Yalesius (on Eusebius, Hist. Eccles. i, 10), and, more re- 
cently, Paulas ( Comment . ad loe.), suggested an altera- 
tion of Luke’s text, either by an erasure of Ttrpapxovv- 
toq after ’A/3 i\?/r/)c» or retaining the participle and 
making it agree with <$>i\i7nrov as its subject (getting 
rid of A vcraviov as a leading word by reducing it to a 
mere genitive of designation by its transposition with 
Tr\Q — q. d. ri)Q Avaaviov 'Af3i\?]in]Q TtTpapxovvrog), as 
if Philip had been called by the evangelist “ tetrarch of 
Itunea, Traehonitis, and the Abilene of Lysanias.” This 
expedient, however, of saving Luke’s veracity by the 
mutilation of his words is untenable, not having any 
support from ]\1S. authority. 

5. Still others think it probable that the Lysanias men- 
tioned by Josephus in the second instance is actually 
the prince referred to by Luke. Thus, instead of a con- 
tradiction, we obtain from the Jewish historian a con- 
firmation of the evangelist; and the argument becomes 
very decisive if, as some think, Abilene is to be excluded 
from the territory mentioned in the story which has 
reference to Cleopatra. 

In conelusion.it is worth adding, that in modern times 
a coin has been discovered bearing the inscription Ao- 
aariov Ttrpapxov rai dpyifpfwc, and Pocoeke also found 
an inscription on the remains of a Doric temple, called 
Nebi Abel, the ancient Abila, fifteen English miles from 
Damascus, which makes mention of Lysanias , tetrarch 
of Abilene. Both the coin and the inscription refer to a 
period subsequent to the death of Herod (Pocoeke'sDc- 
scription of the East, II, i, 115, 11G; and Sestini, Lettei'e 
et Dissertutioni immismatiche, vi, 101, tab. 2, as quoted by 
Wieseler, Chromlog. Synops. p. 183). Similarly, the ge- 
ographer Ptolemy mentions an “Abila which bears the 
surname of Lysanias,” *Afii\a i7rtK\iftuoa Avaaviov (v, 
18). See Davidson’s Introduct. to X. T. p. 218. — Kitto; 
Smith. See Abilene. 

Lysczynski, Casimir, a martyr of philosophical 
atheism, descended from a noble family of Lithuania, 
was educated in the Jesuit college of Wilna, where he 
greatly distinguished himself by his talents, but from 
whence he was finally expelled on account of his singu- 
lar religious views. lie then commenced to study law, 
and in 1G80 was appointed one of the judges of Brzeski. 
in Lithuania. lie now turned his attention again to 
theology, and wrote, in the form of remarks on Aistedt’s 
Natural Theology , a lengthy refutation of the proofs of 
the existence of God. lie used in his arguments some 
incautious expressions, and on a journey to Warsaw he 
was arrested, Oct. 31, 1G88, on the plea that, by denying 
the existence of God, the author of all law, Lysczynski 
had become an outlaw. An ecclesiastical tribunal, pre- 
sided over by the bishop of Livonia, was appointed to 
try his case. A former friend of Lysczynski appeared 
as his accuser, and, after the incriminating books had 
been examined, he was sent before the diet to be pun- 
ished. The states went again over the whole case. 
Brszcska repeated his charges, maintaining, among oth- 
er things, that in using in his works the expression “ ita 
non athei credimus,” Lysczynski had declared himself 
an atheist, and denied the existence of God by asserting 
that, God did not create man, but that man invented 
God. Lysczynski answered that he had intended his 
works as an examination of the proofs of the existence 
of God, mentioning the fundamental objections of un- 
believers only as a preliminary argument, and that he 
meant to live and die in the communion of the Clmreh 


in which he was brought up. His defence, however, 
was not deemed satisfactory', and the senate condemned 
him to suffer death at the stake. The royal verdict was 
that Lysezynski’s MSS. should be publicly burned by 
the executioner along with himself, and that the house 
in which he wrote his works should be torn down. 
The sentence was aftenvards altered, and he was be- 
headed before being burned, March 31, 1G89. See C. F. 
Ammon, C. Lysczynski , ein Beit ray z. Gesch. d. ulealen 
Atheismns (Gotting. 1802) ; Herzog, Beal- Envy Hop. viii, 
G28. (J. N. P.) 

Lyser (also Leiser or Leyser), an eminent Luther- 
an theologian, was born at Winnenden, in Wiirtemberg, 
March 18, 1552, and was educated at the University of 
Tubingen. In 1573 he became pastor at Gellersdorf, in 
Austria, where he soon distinguished himself as a preach- 
er. He often preached also in Vienna, and thus became 
acquainted with the emperor Maximilian II. He was 
made D.D. by the University of Tubingen July 1G, 157G, 
being then under 25 years old. After remaining for two 
years at the court of the elector August of Saxony, he 
became pastor and professor at Wittenberg. After the 
adoption of the “ Formula Concordia?,” he and J. Andrea 
devised a new organization for the university; he was 
also commissioned to revise the text of the Lutheran 
translation of the Bible, etc. After the death of the 
elector August in 158G, Calvinism began to regain the 
ascendency in Saxony, and Lyser left Wittenberg, gen- 
erally regretted by the university and the community, 
to accept a call to Brunswick as coadjutor or vice-super- 
intendent. lie, however, returned to Wittenberg in 
1592, and shortly after became preacher at the court of 
Dresden. Here he continued in the faithful discharge 
of his arduous duties, honored not only by the prince, 
but also by the emperor Rudolph. He died February 22, 
1610. II is principal works are a continuation of Chem- 
nitz’s Jlarmonia IV Evangelist arum (which was com- 
pleted by John Gerhard), Erldnterungen u. drei Fragen 
(1598), and a number of Predigten, particularly I ’ ierLand - 
tags-prediyten (1G05). See Polyc. Leyser III, Vfficium 
pietatis , quod C. D. Polyc. Leysero debuit et per solr it pro - 
nepos (Lpz. 170G) ; Gleieh, Ammles ecclesiastici ; Adami, 
Yit. tlieol.; Spizel , Tempi, hon. ; Erdmanns, Lebensbeschr. 
d. Wittenb. Theol. etc. ; Herzog, Real-Encyhl. viii, G28 sq. 

Lys'ias (A votac, a common Greek name), the name 
of two men mentioned, one in the Apocrypha, and the 
other in the New Testament. 

1. A Syrian “nobleman of the blood royal” whom 
Antioehus Epiplianes, when setting out for Persia, ap- 
pointed guardian of his son, and regent of that part of 
his kingdom which extended from the Euphrates to the 
borders of Egypt (1 Macc. iii, 32; 2 Maec. x, 11 ; com- 
pare Josephus. A tit. xii, 7, 2 ; Appian, De rebus Syr. 4G). 
Acting under the special orders of the king, Lysias col- 
lected a large force for the purpose of carrying on a war 
of extermination against the Jews. This army, under 
the command of the generals Ptolemy, Nieanor, and Gor- 
gias, was surprised and put to flight by Judas Maeeabai- 
us near Emmaus (1 Maec. iii,3S-iv, 18; Josephus, Ant. 
xii. 7, 3, 4). In the following year, B.C. 1G5, Lysias him- 
self invaded Jnda?a with a still larger army, and joined 
battle with Judas in the neighborhood of Betlisura. I he 
Syrians were again defeated, and so decisively that Judas 
was able to accomplish his great purpose, the purifica- 
tion of the Temple, and the re-establislimcnt of divine 
worship at Jerusalem (1 Maec. iv, 28-61 ; Josephus, Ant. 
xii, 7, 5-7). Lysias retired to Antioch, and, while pre- 
paring for a fresh campaign, the death of Epiplianes left 
him in virtual possession of the supreme power. Short- 
ly afterwards (probably B.C. 1G3), with an army equal in 
number to the former two combined, with three hundred 
war-chariots and two-and-thirty elephants, and accom- 
panied by the young king Antioehus Eupator, he again 
entered Judiva "from the side of Idumaea. Having taken 
the fortified city of Betlisura, he advanced to Jerusalem 
and laid siege to the Temple. Meeting here with a 
stouter resistance than he had anticipated, and hearing 


LYSTRA 


LYSIMACHUS 591 


that Philip, a rival claimant to the guardianship of the 
king, was returning from Persia, he hastily concluded a 
peace with the Jews, and set out for Antioch, On reach- 
ing this city he found it in the possession of his rival. 
In the engagement which followed Philip was defeated 
and slain. Another and more formidable opponent, 
however, soon appeared in the person of Demetrius So- 
ter, first cousin of the king, who, escaping from Rome, 
landed at Tripolis, and laid claim to the throne. The 
people rose in his favor, and Antiochns and Lysias were 
seized and put to death (1 Macc. vi-vii, 2 ; 2 Mace, xiii- 
xiv, 2 ; Joseph. A nt . xii, 9, 10 ; Appian, De rebus Syr. 47). 

In the second hook of Maccabees an account is given 
at some length of an invasion of Jtutoa by Lysias, made 
before the final invasion, but after the deatli of Epipha- 
nes (2 Macc. xi). It is scarcely possible to reconcile 
this with the more trustworthy narratives of the first 
book, and it is clear from 2 Macc. ix, 28-x, 10, that the 
writer is not following a strictly chronological order in 
this part of his history. Internal evidence seems to fa- 
vor the opinion thatthis narrative has been compiled 
from separate and partial accounts of the two invasions 
referred to in 1 Macc. iv-vi, the writer too hastily in- 
ferring that they described the same event. — Kitto. 
“There is no sufficient ground for believing that the 
events recorded are different (Patritius, De Consensu 
Macc. § xxvii, xxxvii), for the mistake of date in 2 
Macc. is one which might easily arise (compare Werns- 
dorf, De fide Macc. § lxvi ; Grimm, on 2 Macc. xi, 1). 
The idea of Grotius that 2 Macc. xi and 2 Macc. xiii are 
duplicate records of the same event, in spite of Ewald’s 
support ( Geschichte , iv, 3G5, note), is scarcely tenable, 
and leaves half the difficulty unexplained.” — Smith. 

2 . Claudius Lysias, the cliiliarch (yi/Xtapyoc, “chief 
captain”) who commanded the Roman troops in Jeru- 
salem during the latter part of the procuratorship of 
Felix, and by whom Paul was secured from the fury of 
the Jews, and sent under guard to the procurator Felix 
at Ciesarea (Acts xxi, 31-38; xxii, 24-30; xxiii, 17-30; 
xxiv, 7, 22). A.D. 55. Nothing more is known of him 
than what is stated in these passages. From his name, 
and from Acts xxii, 28, it may be inferred that he was a 
Greek who had become a Roman citizen, llis proper 
rank appears to have been that of military tribune , and 
his note to his superior officer is an interesting specimen 
of Roman military correspondence (comp. Werusdorf, Cl. 
Lysice 0 ratio. Ilelmst. 1743). See Paul. 

Lysim'achus (Avoiyaxog, a frequent Greek name), 
the. name of two men mentioned in the Apocrypha. 

1. “ The son of Ptolenueus of Jerusalem,” commonly 
supposed to be the translator into Greek of the Book of 
Esther (see the close of the Sept, version). The Apoc- 
ryphal “ rest of the Book of Esther,” A.V., says, “In the 
fourth year of the reign of Ptolemams and Cleopatra, 
Dositheus, who said he was a priest and Levite, and 
Ptolemaeus his son, brought this epistle of Phurim, which 
they said was the same, and that Lysimachus, the son 
of Ptolemceus, that was at Jerusalem, had interpreted it” 
(xi, 1). There is, however, no reason to suppose that 
the translator was also the author of the additions made 
to the Hebrew text. See Esther, Apocryphal Ad- 
ditions to. 

2 . A brother of the Menelaus whom Antiochns ap- 
pointed high-priest (B.C. cir. 171). Menelaus left him 
temporarily “in his stead in the priesthood,” and en- 
couraged him to commit many sacrileges. Thus he 
roused the indignation of the common people, who rose 
against him and killed him (2 Macc. iv, 29, 39). The 
Vulgate erroneously makes him the successor instead of 
the deputy of Menelaus. — Kitto. 

Lysons, Daniel, an English divine and writer, 
eldest son of the Rev. Samuel Lysons, rector of Rod- 
marton, in Gloucestershire (1804-413), was educated at 
Gloucester and at St. Mary’s Hall, Oxford, at which uni- 
versity he attained the degree of M.A. in 1785. Later 
he filled the curacy of Putney. He died Jan. 8, 1834. 
He published a sermon or two, and a History of the Or- 


igin and Progress of the Meeting of the three Choirs of 
Gloucester , Worcester, and Hereford; but his fame rests 
entirely upon his topographical works, which are excel- 
lent for their laborious research, accuracy of description, 
and useful record of matters which most probably would 
otherwise have been irrecoverably lost. On this point 
consult the English Cyclopaedia, s. v., and Allibone, Diet, 
of British and A merican A uthors, s. v. 

Lys'tra (>) Avarpa, Acts xiv, G, 21 ; xvi, 1 ; rd 
A vorpet, Acts xiv, 8; xvi, 2; 2 Tim. iii, 11), a city in 
Asia Minor, of much interest in the history of Paul and 
Timothy. 

We are told in the 14th chapter of the Acts that Paul, 
and Barnabas, driven by persecution from Iconium (ver. 
2), proceeded to Lvstra and its neighborhood, and there 
preached the Gospel. In the course of this service a 
remarkable miracle was worked in the healing of a lame 
man (ver. 8). This occurrence produced such an effect 
on the minds of the ignorant and superstitious people 
of the place that they supposed that the two gods, Mer- 
cury and Jupiter, who were said by the poets to have 
formerly visited this district in human form [see Lyca- 
onia], had again bestowed on it the same favor, and 
consequently were proceeding to offer sacrifice to the 
strangers (ver. 13). The apostles rejected this worship 
with horror (ver. 14), and Paul addressed a speech to 
them, tinning their minds to the true Source of all the 
blessings of nature. The distinct proclamation of Chris- 
tian doctrine is not mentioned, but it is implied, inas- 
much as a Church was founded at Lystra, which in 
post-apostolic times was so important as to send its 
bishops to the ecclesiastical councils (Hierocles, Synced. 
p. 675). The adoration of the Lystrians was rapidly 
followed by a change of feeling. The persecuting Jews 
arrived from Antioch in Pisidia and Iconium, and had 
such influence that Paul was stoned and left for dead 
(Acts xiv, 19). On his recovery, he withdrew, with 
Barnabas, to Derbe (ver. 20), but before long retraced 
his steps through Lystra (ver. 21), encouraging the new 
disciples to be steadfast. It is not absolutely stated that 
Paul was ever in Lystra again, but, from the general 
description of the route of the third missionary journey 
(xviii, 23), it is almost certain that he was. See Paul. 

It is evident from 2 Tim. iii, 10, 11, that Timothy 
was one of those who witnessed Paul’s sufferings and 
courage on the above occasion ; and it can hardly be 
doubted that his conversion to Christianity resulted 
partly from these circumstances, combined with the 
teaching of his Jewish mother and grandmother, Eu- 
nice and Lois (2 Tim. i, 5). Thus, when the apostle, 
accompanied by Silas, came, on his second missionary 
journey, to this place again (and here we should notice 
iiow accurately Derbe and Lystra are here mentioned 
in the inverse order), Timothy was already a Chris- 
tian (Acts xvi, 1). Here he received circumcision, 
“because of the Jews in those parts” (ver. 3) ; and from 
this point began his connection with Paul’s travels. We 
are doubly reminded here of Jewish residents in and 
near Lystra. Their first settlement, and the ancestors 
of Timothy among them, may very probably be traced 
to the establishment of Babylonian Jews in Phrygia 
by Antiochns three centuries before (Josephus, A nt. xii, 
3, 4). Still it is evident that there was no influential 
Jewish population at Lystra: no mention is made of 
any synagogue, and the whole aspect of the scene de- 
scribed by Luke (Acts xiv) is thoroughly heathen. As 
to its condition in heathen times, it is worth while to 
notice that the words in Acts xiv, 13 (r on Stag too 
bvTog 7 rpb rtjg TroXeiog') would lead us to conclude that 
it was under the tutelage of Jupiter. Walch, in his 
Spicilegium Antiqnitatum Lyst.rensium (Dissert, in Acta 
Apostolorum , Jena, 17GG, vol. iii), thinks that in this 
passage a statue, not a temple, of the god is intended. 

Pliny (v, 42) places Lystra in Galatia, and Ptolemy 
(v, 4, 12) in Isauria; but these statements are quite 
consistent with its being placed in Lycaonia by Luke, 
as it is by Hierocles ( Synecd . p. 675). — Smith. This 


LYSTRA 


592 


MAACAII 


city was south of Iconium, but its precise site is uncer- 
tain, as well as that of Derbe, which is mentioned along 
with it. Col. Leake remarks that the sacred text ap- 
pears to place it nearer to Derbe than to Iconium; for 
I\-iuI, on leaving that city, proceeded first to Lystra, 
and thonee to Derbe; and in like manner returned to 
Lystra, to Iconium, and to Antioch of l'isidia (see Walch, 
lJi.es. in Act. A post, iii, 173 sq.). He also observes that 
this seems to agree with the arrangement of Ptolemy 
(v, 4, 12), who plaees Lystra in Isauria, and near Isaura. 
which seems evidently to have occupied some part of 
the valley of Sidy Slich r, or Bey Shelir. Under the 
Greek empire, Homonada, Isaura, and Lystra, as well as 
Derbe and Laramla, were all included in the consular 
province of Lycaonia, and were bishoprics of the metro- 
politan see of Iconium. Considering all the circum- 
stances, Col. Leake inclines to think that the vestiges 
of Lystra may be sought with the greatest probability 
of success at or near Wiran Khatun , or Knot tin Serai , | 
about thirty miles to the south of Iconium. “ Nothing,” 
says this able geographer, “ can more strongly show the 
little progress that has hitherto been made in a knowl- 
edge of the ancient geography of Asia Minor than that 
of the cities which the journey of St. Paul has made so 
interesting to us, the site of one only (Iconium) is yet 
certainly known” ( Tour and Geogr. of Asia Minor, p. 
102). Mr. Arundell supposes that, should the ruins of 
Lystra not be found at the place indicated by Col. Leake, 
they may possibly be found in the remains at Kara - 
hissar, near the lake Bey-shelir ( Discoveries in Asia 
Minor). — Kit to. Still more lately, Mr. Hamilton {Re- 
searches in Minor, ii. 319) identifies its site with 
the ruins called Bin-bir-Kil isseh (the “Thousand and 
one churches”), at the base of a conical mountain of vol- 
canic structure named the Karadagh (generally thought 
to be those of Derbe. but which, according to his argu- 
ments, must be sought elsewhere, perhaps at Divle), as 
being more considerable (a bishop of Lystra sat in the 
Council of Chalecdon, according to Ilierocles. Synced, p. 
G75), and on the direct road from Iconium to Derbe. 
Another traveller ascended the mountain, and says, “On 
looking down I perceived churches on all sides of the 
mountain, scattered about in various positions. . . . In- 
cluding those in the plain, there are about two dozen in 
tolerable preservation, and the remains of perhaps forty 
may be traced altogether” (Falkner in Convbeare and 
Howson, St. Paid, i, 202). Comp. Manuert, Geogr. VI, 
ii, 139 sq.; Forbiger, Ilarnlb. ii, 322. 


Lytle, David, a minister of the Methodist Episco- 
pal Church, was born, of Presbyterian parentage, at Sa- 
lem, N. Y., Oct. 31, 1820, was converted in the Metho- 
dist Episcopal Church in 1847, joined the Church in 1848, 
was licensed to preach in 1854, and joined the Troy 
Conference. lie successively preached at Granville, 
(1857) Argvle and North Greenwich, (1859) Whitehall, 
(1801) Meehanicsville, (18G3) Third Street Church, 
Troy, (1805) Westport, (1807) North Chatham, and last- 
ly at Bock City Falls, N. Y., where he died October 13, 
1809. He “was possessed of a sound understanding, 
good judgment, and a kind and sympathizing nature. 
He was ardent and firm in his friendships, a kind hus- 
band and father, a faithful Christian, a good preacher, 
excelling as a pastor.” During his second year at Ar- 
gvle an epidemic broke out ; but he continued at his post 
! of duty, nursing the sick, and giving counsel and advice 
to the dying. See Conf. Minutes, 1870, p. 140. 

Lyttleton, Charles, LL.D., an English divine, 
born at Haglcv, Worcestershire, in 1714, was educated 
at Eton and at University College, Oxford ; rector of 
Alvechurch, Worcester, in 1742; dean of Exeter in 1748; 
bishop of Carlisle in 1702, and president of the Society 
of Antiquaries in 1705. He died Dec. 22, 17G8. He 
published one sermon (Lond. 1705, 4to), and left various 
interesting scientific works. See Allibone, Diet, of Brit, 
and A mer. A nthors , vol. ii, s. v. 

Lyttleton, George, Sir, an English peer and 
celebrated politician, who was born in Worcestershire in 
1708-9, and educated at Eton and Christchurch, Ox- 
ford ; entered Parliament in 1730, held several high po- 
litical offices, was raised to the peerage in 1759, and died 
in 1773, is noted also as the author of Obserrations on 
the Coni'ersion and Apostlcship of St. Paul (1747, 8 vo, 
and often; last edit. 1854, 12mo), a work which elicited 
much praise for the able defence it furnishes for the 
truths of Christianity, or, as Lelarnl ( Deistical Winters, 
p. 150 sq.) says, constitutes of itself “a demonstration 
sufficient to prove Christianity to be a divine revela- 
tion.” Another work of lord George Lyttleton of inter- 
est to ns is his Dialogues of the Dead (1700). lie had 
a son, Thomas, who died young, and who was as con- 
spicuous for profligacy as his father for virtue. See 
Johnson, Lives of the Poets , iii, 391-400; Phillimore, 
Life of Lord Lyttleton, (1845); Loud. Quart. Pee. 1840 
(June); Monthly Revieic, 1772 (April and May); 1774 
(December); Allibone, Diet, of British and American 
A uthors , ii, 1150. 


m. 


Ma'acah (Heb. MaakahL p, oppression, Sept. 
Ma«y«, but in Gen. xxii, 24, Moya ; in 1 Chron. ii, 48 ; 
iii, 3, Mwyd ; in 1 Chron. vii, 15, 10, Mooyd ; in 1 Chron. 
ix, 35, M o<uy« ; in 1 Chron. xi, 43, Maya ; Vulg. Maa- 
cha ; Auth. Vers. “Maacah” only 2 Sam. iii, 3; x, 0, 8), 
the name of a place and also of nine persons. See also 
Bktii-iuaaoiiaii. 

1. A city and region at the foot of Mount Ilermon, 
not far from Geshur, a district of Syria (Josh, xiii, 13; 
2 Sam. x, 0, 8; l Chron. xix, 7). Donee the adjacent 
portion of Syria is called Aram-Maacah, or Syria of Ma- 
nehah (“ Syria-Maachlth.” 1 Chron. xix, 0). It appears 
to have been situated at the southerly junction of Ceelc- 
Syria and Damasccue-Syria, being bounded by the king- 
dom of Bohob on the north, by that of Geshur on the 
south, and bv the mountains on either side of the Up- 
per Jordan, on the east and west. See Gesiiui:. The 
little kingdom thus embraced the southern and eastern 
declivities of Ilermon, and a portion of the rocky pla- 
teau of I tune a (Porter’s Damascus. i,319; comp. Joum. 
of Sac. Lit. July, 1854, p. 310). The Israelites seem to 
have considered this territory as included in their grant, 
but were never able to get possession of it (Josh, xiii, 
13). In the time of David this petty principality had 


a king of its own, who contributed 1000 men to the 
grand alliance of the Syrian nations against the Jewish 
monarch (2 Sam. x, 0, 8). The lot of the half-tribe of 
Manasseh beyond the Jordan extended to this country, 
as had previously the dominion of ( >g, king of Bashan 
(Dent, iii, 14 ; Josh, xii, 5). The Gentile name is Ma- 
ucalithite ‘Sept. Maya3i, but Maaya34 in 2 

Sam. xxiii, 24, MaycrSd in 1 Chron. iv, 19, MioyaSti 
in Jer. xl. 8; Auth. Version “Maachathite,” but “Maa- 
cliathi” in Deut. iii, 14), which is also put for the people 
(Deut. iii, 14; Josh, xii, 5; xiii, 11, 13; 2 Kings xxv, 
23). Near or within the ancient limits of the small 
state of Maacah was the town called for that reason 
Abel beth-maacah, perhaps its metropolis, which is rep- 
resented by the modern Abil el-Kamh , situated on the 
west side of the valley and stream that descends from 
Merj Ayun towards the Iluleh, and on a summit, with 
a large" offset on the south. Sec Ahel-uetii-M aa- 
cii aii. Kosenmiiller explains the name Maacah to 
press, to press together, which seems to denote a region 
inclosed and hemmed in by mountains, a land of val- 
leys. The name of this region is Anglicized every- 
where “Maachah” in the Auth. Vers., except in 2 Sam. 
iii, 3 ; x, 0, 8. Once (Josh, xiii, 13, second clause) it is 


MAACAH 


593 


MAARATH 


written in the original Mnacath (Hebrew Maakath 
PD373, Sept. MayaS/ Yulg. M achat i, Anth.Yers. “Ma- 
achathites”). The identification of the Chaldee version 
with the district of Epicairus (’Earn caipog), mentioned 
by Ptolemy (v, 1G, 9) as lying between Callirrhoe and 
Livias, as also that of the Syriac (on 1 Chron.) with 
Char an, according to Rosenmiiller (Alterth. l.ii) a tract 
in the district of the Ledja (Burckhardt, i, 350), is mere- 
ly traditionary (Poland, Palcest. p. 1 18). 

2. The last named of the four children of Nahor by 
his concubine Renmah, probably a son, although the 
sex is uncertain (Gen. xxii, 24). B.C. cir. 2040. Ew- 
ald arbitrarily connects the name with the district of 
Maachah in the Hermon range ( Gesch . i, 414, note 1). 

3. The sister of Hupham (Huppira) and Shupham 
(Shuppim), and consequently granddaughter of Benja- 
min; she married Maehir, by whom she had two sons 
(1 Chron. vii, 15, 16). B.C. post. 1856. See Gilead. 

4. The second named of the concubines of Caleb (son 
of Hezron), by whom she had several children (1 Chron. 
ii, 48). B.C. ante 1658. 

5. The wife of Jeliiel and mother of Gibeon (1 Chron. 
viii, 29 ; ix, 35). B.C. cir. 1658. 

6. A daughter of Talmai, king of Geshur; she became 
the wife of David, and mother of Absalom (2 Sam. iii, 
3). B.C. 1053. In 1 Sam. xxvii, 8, we read of David’s 
invading the land of the Geshurites, and the Jewish 
commentators (in Jerome, ad Reg.) allege that he then 
took the daughter of the king captive, and, in conse- 
quence of her great beauty, married her, after she had 
been made a proselyte according to the law in Dent. xxi. 
But this is a gross mistake, for the Geshur invaded by 
David was to the south of Judah, whereas the Geshur 
over which Talmai ruled was to the north, and was re- 
garded as part of Syria (2 Sara, xv, 8). See Geshuk. 
The fact appears to be that David, having married the 
daughter of this king, contracted an alliance with him, 
in order to strengthen his interest against Ishbosheth in 
those parts. Josephus gives her name M a\dpi] ( Ant . 
vii, 1,4). See David. 

7. The father of lianan, which latter was one of Da- 
vid’s famous body-guard (1 Chron. xi,43). B.C. ante 
1046/ 

8. The father of Shepliatiah, which latter was the 
military chief of the tribe of Simeon under David and 
Solomon (1 Chron. xxvii, 16). B.C. ante 1014. 

9. The father of Achish, which latter was the king 
of Gath, to whom Shimei went in search of his runaway 
servants, and thus forfeited his life by transcending the 
bounds prescribed by Solomon (1 Kings ii, 39). B.C. 
ante 1010. lie appears to have been different from the 
Maoch of 1 Sam. xxvii, 2. See Achish. 

10. A daughter of Abishalom, the wife of Rehoboam, 
and mother of Abijam (1 Kings xv, 2). B.C. 973-953. 
In verse 10 we read that Asa’s “ mother’s name was Ma- 
achah, the daughter of Abishalom.” It is evident that 
here “ mother” is used in a loose sense, and means 
“grandmother,” which the Maachah named in verse 2 
must have been to the Asa of verse 10. It therefore 
appears to be a great error to make two persons of them, 
as is done by Calmet and others. The Abishalom who 
was the father of this Maachah is called Absalom in 2 
Chron. xi, 20-22, and is generally supposed by the Jews 
to have been Absalom, the son of David ; which seems 
not improbable, seeing that Rehoboam’s two other wives 
were of his father’s family (2 Chron. xi, 18). In 2 Chron. 
xiii,2, she is called “Michaiah, the daughter of Uriel 
of Gibeah.” But Josephus says that she was the daugh- 
ter of Tamar, the daughter of Absalom {Ant. viii, 10, l), 
and consequently his granddaughter. This seems not 
unlikely, and in that case this Tamar must have been 
the wife of Uriel. See Abi jail It would appear that 
Asa’s own mother was dead before he began to reign : 
for Maachah bore the rank and state of queen-mother 
(resembling that of the sultaness Yalide among the 
Turks), the powers of which she so much abused to the 
encouragement of idolatry, that Asa commenced his re- 

V.— P r 


forms by “removing her from being queen, because she 
had made an idol (lit. a fright) in a grove” (1 Kings xv, 
10-13; 2 Chron. xv, 16). 

Maacath. See Maacaii, 1. 

Ma'achah (Gen. xxii, 24; 1 Kings ii, 39; xv, 2, 10, 
13; 1 Chron. ii, 48; iii, 2; vii, 15, 16; viii, 29; ix, 35; 
xi, 43; xix, 6, 7; xxvii, 16; 2 Chron. xi, 20, 21,22; xv, 

16) . See Maacaii. 

Maach'athi (Dent, iii, 14), Maach'athites 
(Josh.xii, 5; xiii, 11, 13 [in the second occurrence it 
should be Maacatli] ; 2 Sam. xxiii, 34; 2 Kings xxv, 
23; 1 Chron. iv, 19; Jer. xl,8). See Maacaii, 1. 

Ma'adai (Ileb. Maaday’, ornamental; Sept. 

Mooft'a), one of the “sons” of Bani who divorced his 
Gentile wife after the exile (Ezra x, 34). B.C. 459. 

Maadi'ah (lleb. Maddgah', ornament of 

Jehovah; Septuag. Naadiag, Ynlg. Madia'), one of the 
priests who returned to Jerusalem with Zerubbabel 
(Neh. xii, 5) ; evidently the same with the Moadiaii 
(Ileb. Mocidgah', i"P*|U*V2, festival of Jehovah; Sept. 
Maadat , Yulg. Moadia), whose son Piltai is mentioned 
in verse 17 (where some connection with one Miniamin 
is obscurely noted) ; the true pointing being perhaps 
Moddgali ', which will make both forms coin- 
cide. B.C. 536. 

Ma'ai (Heb. Jfaay', perhaps compassionate ; 
Sept, has two names, AapdfMa, the first syllable of the 
former being apparently taken from the last of the pre- 
ceding name Gilalai ; Yulg. Maai), one of the priests 
appointed to perform the music at the celebration of the 
completion of the walls of Jerusalem after the captivity 
(Neh. xii, 36). B.C. 446. 

Maa'leh-acrab'bim (Ileb. Madleh'-A Irabbim', 
nbr.r, the ascent of the scorpions , i. q. scor- 
pion-hill; in Numb, xxxiv, 4, Septuag. civafiaoic ’Atcpa- 
f3ttv, Auth.Yers. “ the ascent of Akrabbim / in Josh.xv, 
3, t rpoffavctfiaaig ’Aicpal3iv m , in Judg. i, 36, cirdficiGig 
’Aicpafiiv, “the going up to Akrabbim;” Ynlg. every- 
where ascensus scorpionis), a pass on the south-eastern 
border of Palestine. See Akrabblm. 

Maa'leh-adum'mim (Ileb. Met dleh '-A du mm im 
nb^'O, ascent of A ditmmim ; Sept. e’tvajSaoig 
[also 7ro6<Tj3«<Tic and 7rpoaavetl3aaig ] 'Acvgpiv, Yulg. 
uscensio A dommim, Auth.Yers. “ the going up of Adum- 
mim”),a dangerous pass near Gilgal (Josh.xv, 7 ; xviii, 

17) . See Aduaimlm. 

Maan, John, a French historian and theologian, was 
born at Mans near the opening of the 17th century; 
was prebend of Tours in 1648; official and grand-vicar 
to the archbishop of Tours in 1651, and died about 1667. 
His works are Antiqui Casus reserrati in dicecesi Tu- 
ronensi (1648, 4to), written by order of the bishop of 
Tours : — Scuictci et Metrop>olitana Ecclesia Turonensis , 
sacrorumpontificum suorum ornata virtutibus , etc. (1667). 
See Iloefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Ma'ani (M aavi. v. r. B«aW), the ancestor of sev- 
eral who had married Gentile wives after the captivity 
(1 Esdr. ix, 34) ; evidently the Bani (q. v.) of the lleb. 
list (Ezra x, 38). 

Ma'arath (Ileb. Maarath ', r/ i"0, desolation ; Sept. 
MorapwS’, Vulg. Mareth), a place in the mountains of 
Judah, mentioned between Gedor and Beth-anoth (Josh, 
xv, 59). De Saulcy suggests a place which he calls 
Kharbet el-Merassas, south-east of Jerusalem (.Narra- 
tive, ii, 17) ; and Schwarz declares it is a village called 
Magr , west of Ekron (Palest, p. 107) : both far from the 
indications of the text, which require a locality north of 
Hebron (Kcil’s Comment, ad loc.). It may be represent- 
ed by the ruins marked as Mersia on Yan dc Yelde’s 
Map (1858), on the road from Hebron to Bethlehem, 
about half way between Bereikut and Solomon’s Pools, 
at Urtas; but on the second edition of his Map (1865) 
this place disappears, and we have in the required re- 


MAASEIAII 


594 


MABILLON 


gion unappropriated only the ruins Merino, on a little 
stream just north of Kulin, evidently the “ruined tower 
called Merrina, seen by him on the high ground south 
of wady Arub” ( Memoir , p. 247). 

Maasei'ah (lldb. Madseyah', l"Pw!?/2,or [1 Chron. 
xv, 18, 20; xxiii,I; 2Chron.xxv, 11 ; xxviii,7; xxxiv, 
8; Jer. xxv, 4], Maascya'hu , sirPiriVE, the work of Je- 
hovah ; Sept. MaaoYa, with many slight various read- 
ings), the name of several men. 

1. One of the Levites of the second class, appointed 
porters of the Temple under David (1 Chron. xv, 18), 
and also musicians “ with psalteries upon Alamoth” (ver. 
20). B.C. 1014. 

2 . The son of Adaiah, and one of the “captains of 
hundreds” whom Jelioiada associated with himself in re- 
storing the young king Jehoasli to the throne (2 Chron. 
xxiii, 1). B.C. 877. 

3. A chieftain in the time of Uzziah, who had charge 
of the military in a subordinate rank (2 Chron. xxvi, 
11). B.C. 808. 

4 . The “ king’s son,” killed by Zichri, the Ephraim- 
itish hero, in the invasion of Judah by Pekah, king of 
Israel, during the reign of Ahaz (2 Chron. xxviii, 7). 
The personage thus designated is twice mentioned in 
connection with the “governor of the city” (1 Kings 
xxii, 20 ; 2 Chron. xviii, 23), and appears to have held 
an office of importance at the Jewish court (perhaps 
acting as viceroy during the absence of the king), just 
as the queen dowager was honored with the title of 
“king’s mother” (compare 2 Kings xxiv, 12 with Jer. 
xxix, 2), or gehirdh , i. e. “ mistress,” or “ powerful lady.” 
See jM a L cniAii. For the conjecture of Geiger, see Jo- 
asii, 4. — Smith. Perhaps, however, the individual here 
referred to was literally one of the sons of Ahaz. B.C. 
cir, 738. 

5 . The “governor of the city,” one of those sent by 
king Josiah to repair the Temple (2 Chron. xxxiv, 8). 
B.C. 623. The date and rank render it not improbable 
that he was the Maaseiati (Iieb. Machseyah', 

whose refuge is Jehovah; Sept. Mono-mac v. r. Macr- 
rro/nc, etc.), the father of Neriah, and grandfather of 
Baruch and Seraiali, which latter were two persons of 
note to whom Jeremiah had recourse in his divine com- 
munications (Jer. xxxii, 12 ; li, 59) ; and in that case he 
is likewise probably identical with Melchi, the son of 
Addi, and father of Neri, in Christ’s maternal genealogy 
(Luke iii, 28). 

6. The son of Shallum, apparently a priest, since he 
had a chamber in the Temple, and was one of its custo- 
dians (Jer. xxxv, 4). B.C. COG. 

7 . The father of the priest Zephaniah or Zedekiah, 
which latter was twice sent by the king with a message 
of inquiry to Jeremiah, and was denounced by the 
prophet for falsely encouraging the people (Jer. xxi, 1 ; 
xxxvii, 3; xxix, 21, 25). B.C. ante 589. 

8 . Son of Ithiel and father of Kolaiah, a Benjamite, 
one of whose descendants resided at Jerusalem after the 
exile (Neh. xi, 7). B.C. long ante 53G. 

9 . One of the descendants of Judah who resided at 
Jerusalem after the captivity; he was the son of Ba- 
ruch, and his genealogy is traced back to one Shiloni 
(Neh. xi, 5). B.C. 53G. In the corresponding narra- 
tive of 1 Cliron. ix, 5, apparently the same person is 
called Asaiaii. 

10 . One of the priests of the kindred of Jeshua, who 
agreed to divorce their Gentile wives after the captiv- 
ity (Ezra x, 18). B.C. 459. 

11 . Another priest, one of the “sons” of llarim, who 
divorced his Gentile wife after the exile (Ezra x. 21). 
B.C. 459. Perhaps it was he (apparently a priest) who 
formed one of the chorus that celebrated the completion 
of the new city walls (Neh. 'xii, 42). B.C. 446. 

12 . Still another priest, of the “sons” of Pash nr. who 
divorced his Gentile wife after the return from Babylon 
(Ezra x, 22). B.C. 459. Perhaps the same with one 


of the priests who celebrated with trumpets the rebuild- 
ing of the walls of Jerusalem (Neh. xii, 41). B.C. 446. 

13 . An Israelite, of the “sons” of Pahath-moab, who 
divorced his Gentile wife after the Babylonian captivity 
(Ezra x, 30). B.C. 459. 

14. The son of Ananiah, and father of Azariah, which 
last repaired part of the walls of Jerusalem after the ex- 
ile (Neh. iii, 23). B.C. ante 446. 

15 . One of the principal Israelites who stood on Ez- 
ra's right hand while lie read and expounded the law 
to the people (Neh. viii, 4). B.C. cir. 410. He is per- 
haps identical with one of the popular chiefs who joined 
in the sacred covenant with Nehemiah (Neh. x, 25). 
B.C. cir. 410. 

16 . One of the priests who assisted the Levites in 
expounding the law to the people as it was read by Ezra 
(Neh. viii, 7). B.C. cir. 410. 

Maa'siai (Iieb. Masay', or, as it probably 

should be pointed, Maasay', worker , or perhaps 

contracted for Maaseiah ; Sept. v. r. M actoaici ; 

Yulg. Maasai), the son of Adiel, a descendant of Immer, 
and one of the priests resident at Jerusalem at or after 
the captivity (1 Chron. ix, 12). B.C. prob. 536. 

Maasi'as (Maa<xa/«c), the son of Sedeeias and fa- 
ther of Baruch (Bar. i, 1); evidently the same as Maa- 
seiaii (Jer. li, 59), 5 (q. v.). 

Ma'ath (Maa3-, of unknown, but prob. Heb. origin), 
a person named as the son of Mattatliias and father of 
Nagge (Neariah), in Christ’s maternal ancestry (Luke 
iii, 26) ; but, as no such name occurs in the pedigree in 
the O. T., and as it would here unduly extend the time 
of the lineage, we may reasonably conjecture this name 
has been accidentally interpolated from the Matthat of 
ver. 24. (See Dr. Barrett, in Clarke’s Comment, ad loc.) 

Ma'az (Heb. Ma ' (its, wrath ; Sept. Made), 

the first named of the three sons of Ram, the son of Je- 
rahmeel, of the descendants of Judah (1 Chron. ii, 27). 
B.C. post 1658. 

Maazi'ah (Heb. Madzyah', Neh. x, 8, or 

Maazya'ha , *!“PT:7:c, 1 Chron. xxiv, 18, strength [or 
peril, rather consolation , from the Arabic] of Jehovah; 
Sept, respectively Maa£ia and Maa£d\ [v. r. Maatrat] ; 
Vulg. respectively Maazia and Maazian), the name of 
two priests. 

1. The head of the last of the twenty-four sacerdotal 
“courses” as arranged by David (1 Chron. xxiv, 18). 
B.C. 1014. 

2 . One of the priests who signed the sacred covenant 

with Nehemiah (Neh. x, 8). B.C. cir. 410. “ From 

the coincidence between many of the names of the priests 

I in the lists of the twenty-four courses established by 
David, of those who signed the covenant with Nehe- 
miah (Neh. xii), it would seem either that these names 
were hereditary in families, or that they were applied 
i to the families themselves. This is evidently the case 
with the names of the ‘heads of the people’ enumerated 
in Neh. x, 14-27” (Smith). 

Mab'da'i ( Na(3cai ), one of “the sons of Maani” 
who divorced their Gentile wives after the captivity (1 
Esdr. ix, 34); evidently the Bexaiaii (q. v.) of the He- 
brew list (Ezra x, 35). 

Mabillon, Jean, a celebrated Benedictine preach- 
er, and one of the most distinguished men of the 17th 
century, was born at St. Pierremont, in the diocese of 
Kheinis, Nov. 23, 1632, studied at the college of Rheims, 
and joined the congregation of St. Maur in 1651. He 
began his literary career by assisting D’Acliery in his 
labors upon his vast historic recneil entitled Spicihgium , 
and by an edition of the works of St. Bernard, “which 
attracted the notice of eeelesiastieal scholars, and fur- 
nished a sure pledge of the value of his future labors” 
(Dowling). In 1668 lie came forward with a part of his 
original production, A da Sanctorum Ordinis S. Jienedicti 
(completed in 1702), one of the greatest historical works 


MABILLON 


595 


MACARIUS 


extant. He now became the general favorite of eccle- 
siastical students, and soon was brought to the notice also 
of his sovereign, Louis XIV, who sent him on literary 
missions, as the result of which we have from him Mu- 
seum Italiciun (1689), a kind of antiquarian itinerary of 
Italy. Besides descriptions of the towns and their at- 
tractions, it contains valuable dissertations on ecclesias- 
tical history and palaeography; also a very explicit com- 
mentary on the ritual of the various services, or liturgy, 
and rites of the Roman Church. (He had previously 
published De Liturgia Gallicana lihri ires [1685], in 
which he compares the (iallican with the Mozarabic lit- 
urgy). Another work of great importance from the pen 
of Mabillon is the Lett res el Ecrits sur les Etudes Monas- 
tiques , containing a curious controversy between the 
abbe De Ranee, the founder of the order of the Trappists 
(q. v.) and the Benedict hies. De Ranee', in his ascetic 
enthusiasm, had forbidden his monks all scientific stud- 
ies, and, indeed, all reading except the Breviary anil a 
few monastic tracts. The rest of the clergy, both secu- 
lar and regular, took the alarm, and Mabillon was re- 
quested to defend monastic studies and learning as per- 
fectly compatible with piety and religious discipline, as 
the Benedictine order had fully proved. Mabillon 
promptly complied with the request, and published his 
Trade in 1691. It was received with great applause, and 
■was at once translated into Latin and other languages. 
See Range for the reply. 11 is fame spread rapidly, and 
he was recognised as one of the leading scholars of his 
day. In 1701 he was chosen member of the Academy 
of Inscriptions. In 1703 he came before the public with 
the first volume of his chef-d’oeuvre, Anmdes Ordinis S. 
Benedict i. Henceforth, until the day of his death (Dec. 
27, 1707), Mabillon faithfully applied himself to the 
completion of this work, which all critics are agreed is 
“among the most important works which have been 
written on the history of the Church” (Dowling). It 
should certainly be found on the shelves of every real 
student of Church History. It commences with the 
year 480 — that of the birth of St. Benedict— and goes 
down to 1157 (covering in all 0 vols. folio. Mabillon 
himself completed vols. i-iv, extending to 1066; Mas- 
suet completed vol. v [published in 1713], and Martene 
vol. vi [published in 1739]; for the different editions, 
see Ceillier, Hist, des A uteurs sucres, xiv, 498), It con- 
tains an account of St. Benedict, discusses his rules, and 
everything in any way pertaining to the order. The 
work, besides including a somewhat complete history of 
the secular affairs of the times, contains a minute ac- 
count of the doctrines, the ceremonies, the controversies 
of the Church age by age, with a statement of the writ- 
ings of each individual whose life is depicted. Of the 
manner in which the work is done we will let Dowling 
(Bit rod. to the Crit. Study of Eccles. History, p. 144 sq.) 
speak. “ Flis (Mabillon’s) unbounded learning, and his 
penetrating and comprehensive mind, enabled him to 
discover new truths, and detect and expose inveterate 
errors. II is amiable moderation and unaffected candor 
introduced into the discussion of ecclesiastical subjects a 
better tone and spirit. But this was not the full extent 
of the services which he rendered to Church History. 
r fhe monastic habit could not restrain his mental inde- 
pendence, nor his religious peculiarities make him feel 
as a vulgar controversialist. He was the most promi- 
nent of a new race of scholars, who communicated to the 
whole subject a different character; who separated it 
from polemical theology, and assumed as a first principle 
that its subject-matter was not controversy, but facts. 
It was a new thing to see a congregation of monks tak- 
ing a lead in a literary movement; but such was the 
ease. The genius of Mabillon did much to purify and 
ennoble Church History. Excited by his example and 
precepts, the French Benedictines devoted themselves 
in an admirable spirit to the cultivation of ecclesiastical 
learning, and distinguished themselves in the republic 
ol letters by the publication of a number of critical, phil- 
ological, and antiquarian works connected with such 


studies, not more remarkable for their erudition than 
for their moderation and candor.” 

Mabillon, by the intended publication of a treatise, De 
Cultu Sanctorum iynotorum , came near being involved 
in a hot controversy with the authorities of his Church. 
The book, which aimed to point out some abuses con- 
cerning the worship of relics, was on the eve of anony- 
mous publication when it was secured by the Congrega- 
tion of the Index, and placed among the forbidden ones. 
He quietly submitted to the exceptions of the authorities, 
and prepared a new edition purged from the objection- 
able passages. In his new preface he says : “ lltee nova 
editio non temere nee proprio arbitrio a me facta cat, sed 
ad Ejus nutum et imperium, penes quem residet sumrna 
pnecipiendi auctoritas!” In return for his ready sub- 
mission he was to be rewarded by the cardinal’s hat, but 
the intended honor came too late to be of any service in 
Mabillon’s terrestrial course. Mabillon wrote also I)e 
Re Diplomaticu librisex, accedunt Commentarius de c.nti- 
quis Regum Francorum Palatiis: Veterum Script ura- 
rum varia Specimina, etc., a work much esteemed. 
These and other later works were collected under the 
title Oav rages Posthumes de J. Mabillon et de Thierry 
Rninart, Benedictines de la Congregation de St. Maur 
(Paris, 1724, 3 vols. 4to). A complete list of all his 
works is given in Herzog, Reul-Encyklop. viii, G35. See, 
besides the authorities already mentioned, Vietiville, 
Bibl.historique d. 4 uteurs de la Congregation de S. Maur; 
D. Tassin, Hist. Litter, de la Cong, de S. Maur ; C. de 
Malan, Hist, de Mabillon ; Valery, Corresp. de Mabillon 
et de Montfaucon ; lloefcr, Xouv. Biog. Generale, xxxii, 
437. (J.ll.W.) 

Mabon, John Scott, an eminent educator of the 
(Dutch) Reformed Church, was born in Scotland in 1784 ; 
came to this country with his parents in 179G; gradu- 
ated with high honors at Union College (1806), and at 
the theological seminary in New Brunswick (1812); 
was tutor in Union College 1814-15; rector of the gram- 
mar school of Rutgers College 1815-25; temporary pro- 
fessor of Hebrew in the theological seminary at New 
Brunswick 1818-19. From this time until his death 
he taught privately, the last fourteen years at Hacken- 
sack, N. J. Mr. Mabon was an exact scholar and a pro- 
found thinker, a rigid disciplinarian, and a skilful and 
enthusiastic instructor. His life was a battle with ill 
health and adversity. There was something truly he- 
roic in his independent spirit, ever struggling for the 
mastery of unusual difficulties, and for the accomplish- 
ment of his life-work. His piety was chastened by al- 
most continual trials. His religious life was one of pro- 
found convictions and broad and deep experience. Small 
of stature, with an intellectual head, and a frail, bent 
frame, courtly in his demeanor, and retiring in disposi- 
tion, he was an old-fashioned Christian gentleman, and 
a teacher to whom many a minister of the Gospel and 
men of other professions still look up with veneration 
and thankfulness for their thorough training and ability. 
He died April 27, 1849. See Sprague’s Annals, vol. ix ; 
Corwin’s Manual ; Personal Recollections of J. S. Mabon. 
(W.J.R.T.) 

Maboul, Jacques, a French pulpit orator, born of 
a distinguished family in Paris in 1650, was a long time 
grand vicar of Poitiers, and from 1708 until his death 
in May, 1722, bishop of Alert. II is works are O raisons 
funebres (1749, 12mo) — very eloquent : — Memoircs (on 
constitution Unigcnitus ) (1749, 4to). Sec Iloefer, Xouv. 
Biog. Generale , s. v. 

Mac-, a frequent initial of Scotch and Irish names, 
being the Gaelic for son. Those in which it is thus 
written in full are given below in order. For others, see 
under the abbreviated form M‘- or Me-. 

Mac'alon (MairaAajj')i a place whose natives to 
the number of 122 returned from the captivity (1 Esdr. 
v, 21) ; evidently the Michmasii (q. v.) of the Hebrew 
lists (Ezra ii, 27; Neh. vii,3l). 

Macarius is the name of several distinguished 


MACARIUS 


59G 


MACCABEE 


Christians of the early centuries. Among them the 
most important are, 

1. Macarius ^-EGYrnrs, or, as he is sometimes sur- 
named, the Great, or the Elder, was born, according to 
Eusebius, in Upper Egypt, about the year 300. He was 
a disciple of St. Antonins (some say of St. Ephrem), and 
while yet a youth was distinguished for his asceticism, 
which won for him the surname of iraivapioytpmv. At 
the age of thirty he entered upon a life of asceticism, in 
the wilderness of Seete or Seetis, a part of the great 
Libyan desert, and there he remained until about 340, 
when he was ordained priest. He died about 390. Pal- 
ladios relates several extraordinary miracles said to have 
been performed by this saint ; among others, a resurrec- 
tion which he accomplished for the purpose of confound- 
ing a heretic. During the persecution of the Egyptian 
monks by the Arian bishop Lucius of Alexandria, in the 
reign of Valens, Macarius was banished to an island of 
the Nile, but allowed to return afterwards. There is 
yet in Libya, according to Tischendorf ( Deise'in d. Ori- 
ent ), a convent which bears his name. He left 50 hom- 
ilies (Greek edit. Morel, Paris, 1559 ; J. G. Pritius, Leipz. 
1098), seven ascetic treatises, together with a number 
of apophthegmata (J. G. Pritius, Leipzig, 1099). Both 
these works have been translated into German by G. 
Arnold, under the title Ein Denkmul d. alt, Christenihums ^ 
(Gosl. 1702), and by N. Casseder (Banb. 1819). H. J. 1 
Floss has published a very able criticism on them, to- j 
get her with several formerly unknown letters and frag- j 
ments (Col. 1850). J. Hambcrgcr gives a selection from 
them in his St tinmen a us d.JJeiligthum d. christl. M ystik 
u. Theosophie. 

2 . Macarius of Alexandria, also called koXitikuc, 
the tmensman , a contemporary of the preceding, was by 
trade a baker, but became subsequently a diseiple of St. 
Antonins, having been baptized when about forty years 
of age. lie also embraced an ascetic life, and became 
the spiritual adviser of over 5000 monks. Palladius re- 
lates a number of miracles said to have been wrought 
by him. lie was likewise one of the victims of the per- 
secution instituted by Valens, and died, according to Til- 
leinont (Me moires, viii, G26), in 394, but according to Fa- 
bric] us (Bihlioth, Greeca, viii, 3G5), in 404, aged nearly a 
hundred years. He is said to have been the author of I 
some regulations for monks contained in the Codex reg- I 
vlarum, colleetns a sane to Bencdicto A namensi, auetus a J 
JJolstenio (Rome, H!G1,2 vols. 4to) ; and a homily, mpi 1 
Itudov xp v\ijg Fikciuov rai afiapTioXujv (J. Tollius, Itin- 
erar. Ital, Traj. 1G9G; Cave, Hist. Lit. i ; Gallandi, vii), | 
which latter, however, is by some ascribed to a monk 
called Alexander. Mosheim ( Eccles . I list, book ii, cent. 

i v. pt. ii, chap, iii) says of him and his work : ‘‘ Perhaps, 
before all others who wrote on practical piety, the pref- 
erence is due to Macarius, the Egyptian monk; from 
whom, after deducting some superstitious notions, and 
what savors too much of Origenism, we may collect a 
beautiful picture of real piety." He is commemorated 
by the Romish Church Jan. 12, and by the Greek Jan. 
19. See Smith, Diet, of Greek and Bom. Biog. and My- 
thol. vol. ii, s. v. : Ceillier, A uteurs saerec, vii, 709, 712. 

3. Macarius of Antioch, a patriarch in the Church 
of Antioch in the 7th century, is noted for his avowal, 
at the third Constantinopolitan Council (A.l). GS0-S1), i 
of his belief in the doctrine ** that Christ’s will was that j 
of a God-man (StavcpiKi'iv)." See Monotiielites. He 
and his followers (known as Macarians') were banished , 
cm this account. 11 is Travels were written down by his | 
attendant archdeacon, Paul of Aleppo, in Arabic, and 
were published in an English dress in 1829-37, in 2 vols. 

4 to. See Smith, Diet, of Greek and Daman Biog. and 
Mgthol. ii, 875 (4) ; MilmanT Gibbon, Decline and Fall 
of the Daman Empire, iv, 553. 

4. Macarius of Ireland flourished gbout the close 
of the 9th century. He is said to have propagated in 
France the tenet, afterwards maintained by Averrhoes, 
that one individual intelligence or soul performed the 
spiritual and rational functions in all the human race. 


5. Macarius of Jerusalem. There were two bish- 
ops by this name ; one flourished in the 4tli century, the 
other in the 6th. The former became bishop A.L). 313 
or 314, and died in or before A.D. 333. lie was present 
at the Council of Nice, and is said to Lave taken part 
in the disputations against the Arians. The latter was 
elected bishop A.D. 544, but the choice was disapproved 
by the emperor Justinian I, because he was accused of 
avowing the obnoxious opinions of Origen, and Eutvch- 
ius was appointed instead. Macarius was, however, af- 
ter a time, reinstalled (about A.D. 5G4), and died about 
574. A homily of his, De invent lone Capitis Preecurso - 
ris, is extant in IMS. See Smith, Diet, of Greek and Do- 
man Biog. ii, 87 G. 

Macassar, the most southern portion of Celebes, 
situated in lat. 4° 35—5° 50' S., and long. 119° 25'— 
120° 30' E., and traversed by a lofty chain of mountains, 
formerly the greatest naval power among the Malay 
states, is divided into the Dutch possessions and Malay 
IToper ; the latter, of little importance, is governed by 
a native king, who pays tribute to the Netherlander. 
The Portuguese were the tirst Europeans to form a set- 
tlement in Macassar, but they were supplanted by the 
Dutch, who, after many contests with the natives, grad- 
ually attained to supreme power. In 1811 it fell into 
the hands of the British, who in 1814 defeated the king 
of Boni, and compelled him to give up the regalia of Ma- 
cassar. In 1816 it was restored to the Dutch, and contin- 
ues to enjoy a fair share of the mercantile prosperity of 
the Netherlands’ possessions in the Eastern Archipelago. 

The natives are among the most civilized and enter- 
prising, but also t lie most greedy of the Malay race. 
See Malays. They carry on a considerable trade in 
tortoise-shell and edible nests, grow abundance of rice, 
and raise great numbers of horses, cattle, sheep, and 
goats; fishing is also one of the principal employments. 
They are chiefly adherents to Mohammedanism, which 
secured its hold in the Malay Archipelago in the 14th 
century, and to this day continues to proselyte the Ma- 
cassars for the religion of the Crescent. For the diffi- 
culties in the way towards Christianizing the Malayan 
race, see Malay Archipelago. 

Macaulay, Aulay, an English divine, was born 
near the opening of the 18th century, and was educated 
at the University of Glasgow, lie was minister of the 
church and parish of Cardross, Dumbartonshire, and 
died in 1797. He published a sermon on the Peculiar 
Advantages of Sunday Schools (1792, 8vo); also other 
sermons. See Lond. Gentl. Mag. 1810 (June), p. 535 sq. 

Macaulay, Zachary, F.R.S., an English philan- 
thropist, of Scottish descent, born in 1759, father of the 
historian, a merchant, fought forty years with William 
Wilberforce in promotion of the British anti-slavery 
movement. lie died in 1838. See Lond. Gentl. Mag. 
(March, 1838, p. 323; Dee. 1838, p. G78); Thomas, Diet, 
of Biog. and Mythol. s. v. 

Macauley, Thomas, D.l)., LL.D., a Presbyterian 
minister of note, was born in 1777, and was educated at 
Union College, where he afterwards tilled a professor’s 
chair, lie subsequently entered the ministry, and died 
May 1 1, 1862, as pastor of the Murray Street Church in 
New York City. 

Macbride, John David, D.C.L., F.S.A., an emi- 
nent English Oriental scholar and author, was born in 
Norfolk, England, in 1788, and was educated at Exeter 
College, Oxford, where he became a fellow. lie was in 
1813 appointed principal of Magdalen Hall, and nomi- 
nated to the readership in Arabic, and kept these posi- 
tions until his death in 18G8. Ilis principal works are, 
Diatessaron, or Harmony of the Gospels (used in Oxford 
University) : — Mohammedanism : — Lectures on the A rti- 
cles of the United Church of England and Ireland (1853) : 
—Lectures on the Epistles (1858). See New A m. Cyclop. 
Annual for 18G8. p. 445. 

Mac'cabee (Maccaile'us), a title (usually in the 
plural oi MaKKafialoi, *• the Maccabees”)? which was 


MACCABEE 


597 


MACCABEE 


originally the surname of Judas, one of the sons of Mat- 
tathias (see below, § iii), but was afterwards extended 
to the heroic family of which he was one of the noblest 
representatives, and in a still wider sense to the Pales- 
tinian martyrs in the persecution of Antioehus Epiph- 
anes [see 4 Maccabees], and even to the Alexandrine 
Jews who suffered for their faith at an earlier time. See 
3 Maccabees. In the following account of the Mac- 
cabman family and revolution we shall largely borrow 
from the articles in Kitto’s and Smith’s Dictionaries. 

I. The Name.— The original term Maccabee (o Mofc- 
KctjSaiog) has been variously derived. Some have main- 
tained that it was derived from the banner of the tribe 
of Dan, which contained the last letters of the names 
of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Others imagine that 
it was formed from the combination of the initial let- 
ters of the Hebrew sentence, “ Who among the gods 
is like unto thee, Jehovah ?” (Exod. xv, 11; Hebrew 
*i, 3, 3 , E), which is supposed to have been inscribed 
upon the banner of the patriots; or, again, of the ini- 
tials of the simply descriptive title, “ Mattathias, a priest, 
the son of Johanan.” But, even if the custom of form- 
ing such words was in use among the Jews at this early 
time, it is obvious that such a title would not be an in- 
dividual title in the first instance, as Maccabee undoubt- 
edly was (1 Macc. ii, 4), and still remains among the 
Jews (Baphall, Hist, of the Jev-s, i, *249). Moreover, the 
orthography of the word in Greek and Syriac (Ewald, 
Geschichte, iv, 352, note) points to the form “ 1 3p'2, and 
not “C3E. Another derivation has been proposed, 
which, although direct evidence is wanting, seems sat- 
isfactory. According to this, the word is formed from 
PCp^S, “a hammer” (like Malachi, Ewald, iv, 353, n.), 


giving a sense not altogether unlike that in which 
Charles Martel derived a surname from his favorite 
weapon, and still more like the Malleus Scotorum and 
Malleus Ilcereticorum of the Middle Ages. 

Although the name Maccabees has gained the widest 
currency, that of A smonecans, or Hasmonceans, is the 
proper name of the family. The origin of this name 
also has been disputed ; but the obvious derivation from 
Chashmon ’ Aaapm'axoQ ; comp. Gesenius, The- 

saur. p. 534 5), great-grandfather of Mattathias, seems 
certainly correct. How it came to pass that a man, 
otherwise obscure, gave his name to the family, cannot 
now be discovered ; but no stress can be laid upon this 
difficulty, nor upon the fact that in Jewish prayers 
(Herzfe'ld, Geschichte d.Jud. i, 264) Mattathias himself 
is called Jlashmonai. In Psa. lxviii, 32 we meet with 
a word CSSpH, to the supposed singular of which, 
“ppn, the name in question is commonly referred. In 
this case it might have been given to the priest of the 
course of Joarib to signify that he was a wealthy or a 
powerful person. In Josh, xv, 27 we find a town in the 
tribe of Judah called p' -pn, from which this name 
might equally be derived. Ilerzfeld’s proposed deriva- 
tion from CDn, “ to temper steel,” is fanciful and ground- 
less. The word in the first instance appears more like 
a family than a personal name. The later Hebrew form 
is "’SOTS H'n. See Zipser, Benennung der Makkabaer (in 
the Ben- Chanan jah , 1860). See As monas ax. 

II. Pedigree. — The connection of the various members 
of the Maeeabaean family will be seen from the table 
given below. 

III. History of the War of Independence , involving that 


THE ASMONiEAN FAMILY. 

Chasmon (“of the sous of Joarib,” comp. 1 Chron. xxiv, 7). 

Johauan (’iwdi'i/>i?)* 

Simeon {lunew v, Simon. Comp. 2 Pet. i, 1). 

Mattathias (Matthias, Joseph. War, i, 1, 3), 
t B.C. 1G7. 


Johanan (Johannes) Simon Jndas Eleazar Jonathan 

(Gaddis) (Thassi), (Maccabreus), (Avaran), (Apphns), 

(“Joseph” in 2 Macc. viii, 22), t B.C. 135. t B.C. 161. t B.C. 163. t B.C. 143. 

t B.C. 161. 


Judas Johannes Ilyrcanus I, Mattathias, Daughter to Ptolemseus 

t B.C. 135. t B.C. 106. t B.C. 135. (l Macc. xvi, 11, 12). 


Salome (Alexandra) to Aristobulus I, Antigonns, Janmeus Alexander to Alexandra, Son. Son. 
t B.C. 105. t B.C. 105. t B.C. 78. j 


Aristobulus II, 
t B.C. 40. 

L_ 


Antigonus, 
t B.C. 37. 


Mariamne to Ilerod the Great, Aristobulus, 

t B.C. 20. t B.C. 35. 


Hyreauus II, 
t B.C. 30. 


Alexandra to Alexander, 
t B.C. 28. I t B.C. 40. 


of the Individuals of the Family. — 1 . The first of this 
family who at tamed distinction was the aged priest 
Mattathias, who dwelt at Modin, a eit\ T west of Jeru- 
salem and near the sea, of which the site has yet been 
but partly identified by modern research. lie was the 
son of John, the son of Simon, the son of Asamona;- 
us, as Josephus tells us, and was himself the father of 
five sons — John, otherwise called Gaddis; Simon, called 
Thassi; Judas, called Macc abacus; Eleazar, called Ava- 
ran ; and Jonathan, surnamed Apphns. Ewald remarks 
that Simon and John were favorite names in this family. 
After the expulsion of Antioehus Epiphanes from Egypt 
by the Romans, that monarch proceeded to vent his rage , 


and indignation on the Jews. B.C. 168. See Axtio- 
chus. lie massacred vast numbers of them in Jerusa- 
lem on the Sabbath, took the women captives, and built 
a fortress on Mount Zion, which he used as a central po- 
sition for harassing the people around. He ordered one 
Athenneus to instruct the inhabitants of Juda?a and Sa- 
maria in the rites of the Grecian religion, with a view 
to abolishing all vestiges of the Jewish worship. Hav- 
ing succeeded in bringing the Samaritans to renounce 
their religion, he further went to Jerusalem, where he 
prohibited the observance of all Jewish ceremonies, 
obliged the people to eat swine’s flesh and profane the 
Sabbath, and forbade circumcision. The Temple was 


MACCABEE 


598 


MACCABEE 


dedicated to Olympian Jove, and his altar erected upon I 
the altar of burnt-offering, which the first book of Mac- I 
cabees, apparently quoting Daniel, calls the setting up 
of the abomination of desolation. When, therefore, Apel- 
les. the king's officer (Josephus, Ant. xii, 0,2), came to 
Modin to put in force the royal edict against the nation- 
al religion, he made splendid offers to Mattathias if he 
would comply. The old man, however, not only refused, 
but publicly declared his determination to live and die 
in the religion of his fathers; and when a certain Jew 
came forward openly to sacrifice in obedience to the 
edict, lie slew him upon the altar. He slew, moreover, 
the king’s commissioner, and destroyed the altar. Then, 
offering himself as a rallying-point for all who were 
zealous for the law, he fled to the mountains. Many 
others, with their wives and children, followed his ex- 
ample, and fled. They were pursued, however, by the 
officers of Antiocluis, and, refusing even to defend them- 
selves on the Sabbath day, were slain to the number of 
1000. On this occasion the greatness of Mattathias 
displayed itself in the wise counsel he gave his compan- 
ions and countrymen, which passed subsequently into 
the ordinary custom, that they should not forbear to 
tight upon the Sabbath day in so far as to defend them- 
selves. While in this position, lie was joined by the 
more austere of the two parties which had sprung up 
among the Jews after the return from the captivity, 
viz. the Assidreans, i. e. the Hasidim, or pious [see Cha- 
sidim] ; and the Puritans, who subsequently became the 
Pharisees. They not only observed the written Taw, 
but superadded the constitutions and traditions of the 
elders, and other rigorous observances. The other party 
were called the Tsaddikim, or righteous, who contented 
themselves with that only which was written in the 
Mosaic law. Thus strengthened, Mattathias and his 
comrades carried on a sort of guerrilla warfare, and ex- 
erted themselves as far as possible to maintain and en- 
force the observance of the national religion. Feeling, 
however, that his advancing age rendered him unfit for 
a life so arduous, while it warned him of his approaching 
end. he gathered his sons together like the patriarchs of 
old, exhorted them to valor in a speech of great piety 
and faithfulness, and having recommended Simon to the 
office of counsellor or father, and Judas to that of captain 
and leader, died in the year 1G6, and was buried in the 
sepulchre of his fathers at Modin. The speech which 
he is said to have addressed to his sons before his death 
is remarkable as containing the first distinct allusion to 
the contents of Daniel, a book which seems to have ex- 
ercised the most powerful influence on the Maccabaean 
conflict (1 Macc. ii, CO ; comp. Josephus, A nt. xii, G, 3). 

2. Mattathias himself named Judas, apparently his 
third son, as his successor in directing the war of inde- 
pendence (1 Mace, ii, GO). The energy and skill of ” the 
Maccakee" (o M aKxafiatoc ), as Judas is often called in 
2 Macc., fully justified his father’s preference. It ap- 
pears that he had already taken a prominent part in the 
first secession to the mountains (2 Macc. v. 27, whore 
Mattathias is not mentioned), and on receiving the chief 
command he devoted himself to the task of combining 
for common action those who were still faithful to the 
religion of their fathers (2 Macc. viii, 1). llis first en- 
terprises were night-attacks and sudden surprises, which 
were best suited to the troops at his disposal (2 Macc. 
viii, G, 7), and, when his men were encouraged by these 
means, he ventured on more important operations, and 
met Apollonius (1 Mace, iii, 10-12), the king’s general, 
who had gathered a large, army at Samaria, of which 
place he was governor, in the open field, lie totally de- 
feated his army, and slew him. lie then divided the 
spoils, and took the sword of Apollonius for a trophy, 
which he used all his life afterwards in batt-Ie. Exas- 
perated at the defeat of Apollonius, Scroll (1 Macc. iii, 
13-24), who was general of the army of Ciele-Syria, got 
together a force, partly composed of Jews, and came 
against Judas as far as Bethhoron, where he pitched his 
camp. This place, which had been rendered memorable 


many centuries before as the site of Joshua’s great vic- 
tory over the allied forces of the Canaanites, was des- 
tined now to witness a victory scarcely less glorious, 
wrought by a small band of Jews, spent and hungry, 
against the disciplined troops of Syria. Scron was com- 
pletely overthrown, and his army scattered. Antiochus, 
though greatly enraged at this dishonor to his arms, 
was nevertheless compelled, by the condition of his treas- 
ury, to undertake an expedition to Armenia and Persia, 
with a view to recruiting his exhausted finances (1 Macc. 
iii, 27-31). He therefore left Lysias, one of his highest 
lieutenants, to take charge of his kingdom, from the 
lliver Euphrates to the confines of Egypt, and having 
intrusted his son Antiochus to his care, and enjoined 
Lysias to conquer JiuUea and destroy the nation of the 
Jews, he went into Persia. The success of Judas called 
for immediate attention. The governor of Jerusalem 
was urgent in his entreaties for assistance ; Lysias there- 
fore sent an army of 20,000 men, under the command of 
Nicanor and Gorgias. into Judrea. It was followed by 
another of the same number, with an addition of 7000 
horse, under Ptolemy Macron, the son of Dorymenes, as 
commander-in-chicT. The united forces encamped in 
the plains of Emmaus. To oppose this formidable host 
Judas could only muster G000 men at Mizpeh. Here, 
as Samuel had done a thousand years before at a like 
period of national calamity, he fasted and prayed, and, 
in compliance with the Mosaic injunction, advised those 
who were newly married, or had built houses, and the 
like, to return to their homes. This reduced his num- 
ber to one half. The heroic spirit of Judas, however, 
rose against every difficulty, and he marched towards 
Emmaus. B.C. 1GG. Having heard that Gorgias had 
been dispatched with a force ofGOOO men to surprise him 
in the passes by night, he instantly resolved to attack 
the enemies’ camp, lie rushed upon them unexpect- 
edly, and completely routed them ; so that when Gor- 
gias returned, baffled and weary, he was dismayed at 
finding his camp in flames. In the brief struggle which 
ensued the Jews were victorious, and took much spoil. 
The year following, Lysias gathered together an army 
of GO, 000 chosen men, with 5000 horse, went up in per- 
son to the hill-country of Judaea, and pitched his camp 
at a place called Bcthsnra, the Bethzur of the Old Test. 
Here Judas met him with 10,000 men, attacked his van- 
guard, and slew 5000 of them, whereupon Lysias retreat- 
ed with the remainder of his army to Antioch. After 
this series of triumphs Judas proceeded to Jerusalem. 
There he found the sanctuary desolate, shrubs growing 
in the courts of it, and the chambers of the priests thrown 
down ; so he set to work at once to purify the holy places 
and restore the worship of God (1 Macc. iv, 3G. 41-53) 
on the 25th of Kislev, exactly three years after its profa- 
nation (1 Macc. i, 59; Grimm on 1 Mace, iv, 59). In 
commemoration of this cleansing of the Temple, the Jews 
afterwards kept for eight days annually a festival which 
was called Lights, and was known as the Feast of Dedi- 
cation (John x, 22). See Dedication, Feast of. Ju- 
das, having strongly fortified the citadel of Mount Zion, 
and placed a garrison at llethsura, made an expedition 
into lduma?a. The Syrians meanwhile, frustrated in 
their efforts against Judiea, turned their attention to 
Galilee and the provinces beyond Jordan. A large army 
from Tyre and Ptolemais attacked the north, and Timo- 
t liens laid waste Gilead, whereupon Judas determined 
to divide his army into three. He himself, with Jona- 
than, led t'OOO men across the Jordan into Gilead; his 
brother Simon he sent with 3000 into Galilee; and the 
rest he left behind, under the command of Joseph, the 
sou of Zaeharias, and Azarins, for the protection of Ju- 
diva, with strict injunctions to act only on the defensive. 
These orders, however, they imprudently violated by an 
attack upon the sea-port Jamnia. where they met with a 
signal repulse. But the Maccabees in Gilead and Gali- 
lee were triumphant as usual, and added to their renown. 

Antiochus Epiphanes, meanwhile, had died in his Per- 
sian expedition, B.C. 1G4, and Lysias immediately pro- 


MACCABEE 


599 


MACCABEE 


claimed his son, Antiochus Eu pat or, king, the true heir, 
Demetrius, the son of Scleucus, being a hostage at Home. 
One of the first acts of Lysias was directed against the 
Jews, lie assembled an enormous army of 100,000 men 
and 32 elephants, ami proceeded to invest Bcthsura. 
The city defended itself gallantly. Judas marched from 
Jerusalem to relieve it, and slew about 5000 of the Syr- 
ians. It was upon this occasion that his brother Elca- 
zar sacrificed himself by rushing under an elephant 
which he supposed carried the young king, and stab- 
bing it in the belly, so that it fell upon him. The Jews, 
however, were compelled to retreat to Jerusalem, where- 
upon Bethsura surrendered, and the royal army ad- 
vanced to besiege the capital. Here.the siege was re- 
sisted with vigor, but the defenders of the city suffered 
from straitness of provisions, because of its being the 
sabbatical year. They would therefore have had to 
surrender; but Lysias was recalled to Antioch by reports 
of an insurrection under Philip, who, at the death of 
Antiochus, had been appointed guardian of the young 
king. lie was consequently glad to make proposals of 
peace, which were as readily accepted by the Jews. He 
had no sooner, however, effected an entrance into the 
city than he violated his engagements by destroying 
the fortifications, and immediately set out with all haste 
for the north. There Demetrius Sotcr, the lawful heir 
to the Syrian throne, encountered him, and, after a strug- 
gle, Antiochus and Lysias were slain, leaving Demetrius 
in undisputed possession of the kingdom. 

Menelaus, the high-priest at this time, had purchased 
his elevation to that rank by selling the sacred vessels 
of the Temple. Hoping to serve his own ends, lie join- 
ed himself to the army of Lysias, but was slain by com- 
mand of Antiochus. Onias, the son of the high-priest 
whom Menelaus had supplanted, fled into Egypt, and 
Alcimus or Jacimus, not of the high-priestly family, 
was raised to the dignity of high-priest. By taking 
this man under his protection, Demetrius hoped to weak- 
en the power of the Jews. He dispatched Bacchides 
with Alcimus to Jerusalem, with orders to slay the Mac- 
cabees and their followers. Jerusalem yielded to one 
who came with the authority of the high-priest, but Al- 
cimus murdered sixty of the elders as soon as he got 
them into his power. Baechidcs also committed sundry 
atrocities in other parts. No sooner, however, had he left 
Judaea than Maccaboeus again rose against Alcimus, and 
drove him to Antioch, where he endeavored as far as 
possible to injure Judas with the king. Upon this De- 
metrius sent Nicanor with a large army to reinstate Al- 
cimus, and when lie came to Jerusalem, which was still 
held by the Syrians, he endeavored to get Judas into 
his power by stratagem, but the plot being discovered, 
lie was compelled to meet him in the field. They join- 
ed battle at Capliarsalama, and Nicanor lost about 5000 
men ; the rest fled to the stronghold of Zion. Here he 
revenged himself with great cruelty, and threatened yet 
further barbarities unless Judas was delivered up. As 
the people refused to betray their champion, Nicanor 
was again compelled to fight. He pitched his camp 
ominously enough in Bethhoron; his troops were com- 
pletely routed, and lie himself slain. The next act of 
Jiulas was to make an alliance with the Romans, who 
entered into it eagerly ; but no sooner was it contracted 
than the king made one more determined effort for the 
subjugation of Palestine, sending Alcimus and Bacchi- 
des, with all the flower of his army, to a place called 
Berea or Rethzetho, apparently near Jerusalem. The 
Roman alliance seems to have alienated many of the ex- 
treme Jewish party from Judas (J/Vr/r. Hhunuka, quoted 
by Raphall, Hist, of Jews, i, 325). Moreover, the terror 
inspired by this host was such that Judas found himself 
deserted by all but 800 followers, who would fain have 
dissuaded him from encountering the enemy. His reply 
was worthy of him: “If our time be come, let us die 
manfully for our brethren, and let ns not stain our hon- 
or.” lie fought with such valor that the right wing, 
commanded by Bacchides, was repulsed and driven to a 


hill called Azotus or Aza, but the left wing doubled 
upon the pursuers from behind, so that they were shut 
in, as it were, between two armies. The battle lasted 
from morning till night. Judas was killed, and his fol- 
lowers, overborne by numbers, were dispersed. Ilis 
brothers Jonathan and Simon received his body by a 
treaty from the enemy, and buried it in the sepulchre 
of his fathers at Modin, B.C. 161. Thus fell the great- 
est of the Maccabees, a hero worthy of being ranked 
with the noblest of his country, and conspicuous among 
all, in any age or clime, who have drawn the sword of 
liberty in defence of their dearest and most sacred rights. 

3. After the death of Judas the patriotic party seems 
to have been for a short time wholly disorganized, and 
it was only by the pressure of unparalleled sufferings 
that they were driven to renew the conflict. For this 
purpose they offered the command to Jonathan, sur- 
named Apphus the wary), the youngest son of 

Mattathias. The policy of Jonathan shows the great- 
ness of the loss involved in his brother’s death. He 
was glad to seek safety fjjom Baechidcs among the pools 
and marshes of the Jordan (I Mace, ix, 42), whither he 
was pursued by him. At the same time, also, his broth- 
er John was killed by a neighboring Arab tribe. Jon- 
athan took occasion to revenge his brother’s death upon 
a marriage-party, for which lie lay in wait, and then re- 
pidsed an attack of Bacchides, and slew a thousand of 
his men. At this point Alcimus died, and Bacchides, 
after fortifying the strong towns of Judiva, returned to 
Antioch ; but upon Jonathan again emerging from his 
hiding-place, Bacchides came back with a formidable 
army, and was for some time exposed to the desultory 
attacks of Jonathan, till weary of this mode of fighting, 
or for other reasons, he thought it fit to conclude a peace 
with him, and returned to his master. B.C. 158. The 
Maccabee was thus left in possession of JiuUca (1 Macc. 
ix, 73), and had not long afterwards an opportunity of- 
fered him of consolidating his position ; for there sprung 
up one Alexander Balas, who was believed to be a son 
of Antiochus Epiphanes, and laid claim to the throne 
of Syria. Demetrius and Alexander mutually competed 
for the alliance of Jonathan, but Alexander was success- 
ful, having offered him the high-priesthood, and sent 
him a purple robe and a golden crown — the insignia ol' 
royalty — and promised him exemption from tribute as 
well as other advantages. Jonathan thereupon assumed 
the high-pricsthood, and became the friend of Alexan- 
der, who forthwith met Demetrius in the field, slew him, 
usurped his crown, and allied himself (B.C. 150) in mar- 
riage with Cleopatra, the daughter of Ptolemy Philome- 
tor, king of Egypt. Jonathan was invited to the wed- 
ding, and was made much of at court. In return, he at- 
tacked and defeated Apollonius, the general of Deme- 
trius Nicator, who aspired to his father’s throne, be- 
sieged Joppa, captured Azotus, and destroyed the tem- 
ple of Dagon. The prosperity, however, of Alexander 
was of short duration, for Ptolemy, being jealous of his 
power, marched with a large army against him, and af- 
ter putting him to flight, seized his crown, and gave his 
wife to Demetrius. On the other hand, the overthrow 
of Alexander was speedily followed by the death of Ptol- 
emy, and Demetrius was left in possession of the throne 
of Syria. Jonathan, meanwhile, besieged Jerusalem, 
and, leaving it invested, repaired to Antioch. Demetrius 
not only welcomed, but entered into a treaty with him, 
upon terms that greatly augmented the power of the 
Maccabee. After this Demetrius disbanded the greater 
part of his army and lessened their pay, which being a 
course contrary to that pursued by former kings of Syria, 
who kept up large standing armies in time of peace, 
created great dissatisfaction, so that upon the occasion 
of Jonathan writing to him to withdraw his soldiers 
from the strongholds of Judaea, he not only complied, 
but was glad to ask for the assistance of 3000 men, who 
were forthwith sent to Antioch. Here they rendered 
him signal service in rescuing him from an insurrec- 
tion of his own citizens which his behavior to them had 


MACCABEE 


GOO 


MACCABEE 


aroused. His friendship for Jonathan, however, was 
soon at an end, and, contrary to his promises, he threat- 
ened to make war upon him unless he paid the tribute 
which previous kings had exacted. This menace might 
have been carried out had not a formidable antagonist 
at home arisen in the person of Trvplio, who had for- 
merly been an officer of Alexander Balas, and had es- 
poused the cause of his young son Antioehus Theos. 
This man attacked Demetrius, defeated him in battle, 
captured his city, drove him into exile, and placed his 
crown on the head of Antioehus, B.C. 144. One of the 
first acts of the new king was to ingratiate himself with 
Jonathan; he therefore confirmed him in the high- 
priesthood, and appointed him governor over Judcea and 
its provinces, besides showing him other marks of favor. 
His brother Simon he appointed to be general over the 
king's forces from what was called the Ladder of Tyre, 
viz., a mountain lying on the sea-coast between Tyre 
and Ptolemais, even to the borders of Egypt, Jonathan, 
in return, rendered good service to Antioehus, and twice 
defeated the armies of Demetrius, lie then proceeded 
to establish his own power fiy renewing the treaty 
with Rome, entering into one also with Lacedaemon, and 
strengthening the fortifications in Judaea. He was des- 
tined, however, to fall by treachery, for Trvplio, having 
persuaded him to dismiss a large army he had assem- 
bled to support Antioehus, decoyed him into the city of 
Ptolemais, and then took him prisoner. The Jews im- 
mediately raised Simon to the command, and paid a 
large sum to ransom Jonathan. Try pho, however, took 
the money, but, instead of releasing Jonathan, put him 
to death, and then, thinking that the main liinderance 
to his own ambitious designs was removed, caused An- 
tiochus to be treated in the same manner. Thus fell 
the third of the illustrious Maccaba?an race, who distin- 
guished himself nobly in the defence of his country, 
B.C. 143. When Simon heard of his brother’s death he 
fetched his bones from Bascama, where he had been 
buried, and had them interred at Modin. Here he 
erected to his memory a famous monument of a great 
height, built of white marble, elaborately wrought, near 
which he placed seven pyramids, for his father and 
mother and their five sons, the whole being surrounded 
with a stately portico. For many years afterwards this 
monument served the purpose of a beacon for sailors, and 
it was standing in the time of Eusebius. See Modin. 

4. The last remaining brother of the Maceabee family 
was thus Simon, surnamed “ Thassi” (Qctooi, Qaaattj ; 
the meaning of the title is uncertain. Michaelis [(irlmm, 
on 1 Macc. ii] thinks that it represents the Chaldee 
“'llHFi). As above related, when he heard of the de- 
tention of Jonathan in Ptolemais by Try pho, he placed 
himself at the head of the patriot party, who were al- 
ready beginning to despond, and effectually opposed the 
progress of the Syrians. His skill in war had been 
proved in the lifetime of Judas (1 Macc. v, 17—23). and 
lie bad taken an active share in the campaigns of Jona- 
than, when he was intrusted with a distinct command 
(1 Macc, xi, 50). He was soon enabled to consummate 
the object for which his family had fought gloriously, 
hut in vain. When Trvplio, after having put Jonathan 
to death, murdered Antioehus, and seized the throne, 
Simon made overtures to Demetrius H (B.C. 143) 
against Trypho. lie was consequently confirmed in 
his position of sovereign high-priest, lie then turned 
his attention to establishing the internal peace and se- 
curity of his kingdom, lie fortified Bethsura, Jamnia, 
Joppa, and Caza. and garrisoned them with Jewish sol- 
diers. The Lacedivmouians sent him a flattering em- 
bassy, desiring to renew their treaty; to Lome also he 
sent a shield of gold of immense value, and ratified his 
league with that nation. See Spartan. lie moreover 
took the citadel of Jerusalem 4>v siege, which up to this 
time had always been occupied by the Syrian faction; 
and, besides pulling it down, even levelled the hill on 
which if was built, with immense labor, that so the 
Temple might not be exposed to attacks from it. Un- 


der the wise government of this member of the Asmo- 
ntean family Judtea seems to have attained the greatest 
height of prosperity and freedom she had known for 
centuries, or even knew afterwards. The writer of the 
first book of the Maccabees evidently rejoices to remem- 
ber and record it. “ The ancient men,” he says, ik sat 
all in the streets communing together of good things, 
and the young men put on glorious and warlike apparel. 
He made peace in the land, and Israel rejoiced with 
great joy. For even 7 man sat under his vine and his 
fig-tree, and there was none to fray them” (xiv, 9, 11, 
12). This time of quiet repose Simon employed in ad- 
ministering justice and restoring the operation of the 
law. He also beautified the sanctuary, and refurnished 
it with sacred vessels. 

In the mean time Demetrius had been taken prisoner 
in an expedition against the Parthians, whereupon his 
brother Antioehus Sidctes immediately endeavored to 
overthrow the usurper Trypho. Availing himself of a 
defection in his troops, he besieged him in Dora, a town 
upon the sea-coast a little south of Mount Carmel. Si- 
mon sent him 2000 chosen men, with arms and money, 
but Antiocbus was not satisfied with this assistance 
while he remembered the independence of Palestine, 
lie therefore refused to receive them, and, moreover, dis- 
patched Athenobius to demand the restoration of Joppa, 
Gaza, and the fortress of Jerusalem, or else the payment 
of a thousand talents of silver; hut when the legate saw 
the magnificence of the high-priest’s palace at Jerusa- 
lem he was astonished, and as Simon deliberately re- 
fused to comply with the terms of the king’s message, 
and offered by way of compensation orlv a hundred tal- 
ents fur the places in dispute, Athenobius was obliged 
to return disappointed and enraged. Trypho meanwhile 
escaped from Dora by ship to Oithosia, a maritime town 
in Phoenicia, and Antioehus, having deputed Ccndcbaeus 
to invade Judaea, pursued him in person. The king’s 
armies proceeded to Jamnia, and, having seized Cedron 
and fortified it, Cendebauis made use of that place as a 
centre from which to annoy the surrounding country. 
Simon at this time was too old to engage actively in 
the defence of his native land, and there lore appointed 
j his two eldest sons, Judas and John Hyreanus, to suc- 
ceed him in the command of the forces. They forthwith 
set themselves at the head of 20,000 men, and marched 
from Modin to meet the king’s general : they utterly 
discomfited and scattered his host, drove him to Cedron, 
and thence to Azotus, which they set on tire, and after- 
wards returned in triumph to Jerusalem. But destruc- 
tion threatened their house from nearer home; for Ptol- 
emy, the son of Abubus, who had married a daughter of 
Simon, and was governor in the district of Jericho, with 
plenty of money at his command, aspired to reduce the 
country under his dominion, and took occasion, upon a 
visit that Simon paid to that neighborhood, to invite 
him and two of his sons, with their followers, to a ban- 
quet, and then slew them (1 Macc. xvi, 11-1G). John 
alone, whose forces were at Gaza, now survived to carry 
on the line of the Maccabees, and sustain their glory, 
B.C. 135. He likewise bad been included in the treach- 
erous designs of Ptolemy, but found means to elude 
them. With the death of Simon the narrative of the 
first hook of the Maccabees concludes. 

5. We trace now the fortunes of the next member of 
the family, John IIyrcaxus. Having been unani- 
mously proclaimed high-priest and ruler at Jerusalem, 
his first step was to inarch against Jericho, and avenge 
the death of his father and brothers. Ptolemy held 
there in his power the mother of 1 lyreanus and her sur- 
viving sons, and, shutting himself up in a fortress near to 
Jericho — which Josephus calls Dagon, and Ewald Dok 
— he exposed them upon the wall, scourged and tor- 
mented them, and threatened to throw them down head- 
long unless llyreanus would desist from the siege. This 
had the effect of paralyzing the efforts of llyreanus, and, 
in spite of his heroic mother’s entreaties to prosecute it 
I with vigor, and disregard her sufferings, caused him to 


MACCABEE 


601 


MACCABEE 


protract it till the approach of the sabbatical year 
obliged him to raise the siege. Ptolemy, after kill- 
ing the mother and brethren of Hyrcanus, tied to Phil- 
adelphia .(“ Kabbath, of the children of Ammon”), 
which is the last we hear of him. It is not easy to 
see why Milman calls this reason of the sabbatical year, 
which "is the one assigned by Josephus, “ improba- 
ble.” Ewald assigns the approach of that year as a 
reason for the flight of Ptolemy to Zeno, the tyrant of 
Philadelphia, because it had already raised the price of 
provisions, so that it became impossible for him to re- 
main. Antioch us meanwhile, alarmed at the energy 
displayed by John, invaded Judrea, burning up and des- 
olating the country on his march, and at last besieging 
him in Jerusalem. lie compassed the city with seven 
encampments and a double ditch, and Hyrcanus was 
reduced to the last extremities. On the recurrence, 
however, of the Feast of Tabernacles, Antioch us granted 
a truce for a week, and supplied the besieged with sac- 
rifices for the occasion, and ended with conceding a 
peace, on condition that the Jews surrendered their 
arms, paid tribute for Joppa and other towns, and gave 
him 500 talents of silver and hostages. On this occa- 
sion Josephus says that Hyrcanus opened the sepulchre 
of David, and took out of it 3000 talents, which he used 
for his present needs and the payment of foreign merce- 
naries. This story is utterly discredited by Prideaux, 
passed over in silence by Milman, but apparently be- 
lieved by Ewald. Some time afterwards, having made 
a league with Antiochns, he marched with him on an 
expedition to Parthia, to deliver Demetrius Nicator, the 
king’s captive brother. This expedition proved fatal 
to Antiochns, who w r as killed in battle. Demetrius, 
however, made his escape, and succeeded him on the 
throne of Syria, whereupon Hyrcanus availed himself 
of the opportunity to shake off the Syrian yoke, and es- 
tablish the independence of JucUea, which was main- 
tained till the time of the subjugation by the Homans, 
lie took two towns beyond the Jordan, Samega and 
Medaba, as w T ell as the city of Sieliem, and destroyed 
the hated Samaritan temple on Mount Gerizim, which 
for 20b years had been an object of abhorrence to the 
Jew r s, He then turned his arms towards Idumaea, w r here 
lie captured the towns of Dora (Ewald spells it Adora) 
and Marissa, and forced the rite of circumcision on the 
Idumieans, who ever afterwards retained it. lie pro- 
ceeded further to strengthen himself by renewing a 
treaty, offensive and defensive, with the Homans. De- 
metrius, meanwhile, had little enjoyment of his king- 
dom. He was unacceptable to the arm)', who besought 
Ptolemy Phvscon to send them a sovereign of the fam- 
ily of Seleucus, and he accordingly chose for them Al- 
exander Zebina, a pretended son of Alexander Balas. 
Demetrius was beaten in the tight which ensued be- 
tween them, and subsequently slain; whereupon Alex- 
ander took the kingdom and made a league with Hyr- 
canus. He found a rival, however, in the person of 
Antiochns Grypus, the son of Demetrius, who defeated 
and slew him. The struggle which now took place be- 
tween the brothers Grypus and Cyziccnus, rivals for the 
throne, only tended to consolidate the power of lly rea- 
lms, who quietly enjoyed his independence and amassed 
great wealth. He likewise made an expedition to Sa- 
maria, and reduced the place to great distress by siege. 
His sons Antigonus anti Aristobulus were appointed to 
conduct it ; and when Antiochus Cyziccnus came to the 
relief of the Samaritans, he was defeated and pu£ to 
flight by Aristobulus. Cyziccnus, however, returned 
■with a re-enforcement of 6000 Egyptians, and ravaged 
the country, thinking to compel Hyrcanus to raise the 
siege. The attempt was unsuccessful, and he retired, 
leaving the prosecution of the Jewish war to two of his 
officers. They likewise failed, and, after a year, Sama- 
ria fell into the hands of Hyrcanus, who entirely demol- 
ished it, and, having dug trenches on the site, hooded it 
with water. After this, Hyrcanus, who himself belonged 
to the sect of the Pharisees, was exposed to some indig- 


nity from one of their party during a banquet, which 
exasperated him so far that he openly renounced them, 
and joined himself to the opposite faction of the Saddu- 
cees. This occurrence, however, does not seem to have 
prevented him from passing the remainder of his days 
happily. He built the palace or castle of Baris on a rock 
within the fortitications of the Temple. Here the princes 
of his line held their court. It was identical with what 
Herod afterwards called Antonia. There is some con- 
fusion as to the length of his reign. It probably lasted 
about, thirty years, lie left live sons. With him ter- 
minates the upper house of the Asmonreaus or Macca- 
bees, B.C. 107. 

6. Aristobulus succeeded his father as high-priest 
anti supreme governor. He was the first, also, after the 
captivity, who openly assumed the title of king. He 
threw his mother, who claimed the throne, into prison, 
and starved her to death. Three of his brothers, also, 
he heltl in bonds. Antigonus, the other one, by whose 
help he subdued Itunea or Auranitis, a district at the 
foot of the Anti-Libaims, was killed by treachery; and, 
after a year of misery and crime, Aristobulus died. Ilis 
wife, Salome or Alexandra, immediately released his 
brethren, and Alexander Jaumeus was made king. One 
of his brothers, who showed signs of ambition, he slew, 
the other one he left alone. His first military act was 
the siege of Ptolemais, which was in the hands of the 
Syrians. The inhabitants sought help from Ptolemy 
Lathvrus, who governed Cyprus, but fearing the army 
of 30,000 men he brought with him, declined to open 
their gates to him, whereupon lie attacked Gaza and 
Dora. Alexander pretended to treat with him for the 
surrender of these places, and at the same time sent to 
Cleopatra, the widow of Phvscon, for a large army to 
drive him from Palestine. He detected the duplicity 
of this conduct, and took ample vengeance on Alexan- 
der by ravaging the country. He also defeated him 
with the loss of 30,000 men. Judsea was saved by a 
large army from Cleopatra, commanded by Chelcias and 
Ananias, two Jews of Alexandria. They pursued Ptol- 
emy into Ccele- Syria, and besieged Ptolemais, which 
was reduced. Alexander next invaded the country be- 
yond Jordan. I lore, also, he was defeated, but not there- 
by discouraged from attacking Gaza, which, after some 
fruitless attempts, he captured and totally destroyed. 
His worst enemies, however, 'were the Pharisees, who 
had great influence with the people, and a seditioh arose 
during the Feast of Tabernacles, in which the troops 
slew 6000 of the mob. He again invaded the trans- 
| Jordanic country, and was again defeated. The Jews 
rose in rebellion, and for some years the land suffered 
the horrors of civil war. The rebels applied for aid to 
Demetrius Euchamis. brother of Ptolemy Lathvrus, and 
king of Damascus, who completely routed Alexander. 

I A sudden change of fortune, however, put him at the 
head of 60,000 men, and he marched in triumph to Jeru- 
salem, where he took signal vengeance on his subjects. 
The rest of his life was peaceful. After a reign of twen- 
ty-seven years he died, B.C. 79, solemnly charging his 
wife Alexandra to espouse the Pharisaic party if she 
| wished to retain her kingdom. Ilis eldest son, Hyrca- 
nus 11, became high-priest, Aristobulus, the younger 
son, espoused the opposite party to his mother. In or- 
der to employ his active mind, the queen sent him north- 
wards to check the operations of Ptolemy, king ofC’hal- 
! cis. lie got possession of Damascus, and won the affec- 
tions of the army. After a reign of nine years his moth- 
er died. B.C. 70, and Aristobulus forthwith marched to- 
wards Jerusalem. Hyrcanus and the Pharisees seized 
his wife and children as hostages, and met his army at 
Jericho, but were discomfited, and Aristobulus enLered 
Jerusalem and besieged his brother in the tower of Ba- 
ris. At length they agreed that Hyrcanus should re- 
I tire to a private station, and that Aristobulus should be 
king. This was a fatal blow to the Pharisees. But 
| there was a worse enemy waiting for the conqueror. 

I This was none other than Autipater, the Idumieau, who 


3IACCABEE 


C02 


MACCABEE 


had been made general of all Idumaea by Alexander Jan- 
njvus. lie -was wealthy, active, and seditious, and pos- 
sessed, moreover, of great inlluence with the deposed 
Jlvrcanus. Suspicious of the power, successes, and de- 
signs of Aristobulus, he persuaded his brother Ilvrcanus 
to fly to Petra, to Aretas, king of Arabia, and with his 
help an army of 50,000 men was marched against Aris- 
tobulus. The Jews were defeated, and the usurper fled 
to Jerusalem, where he was closely besieged by Aretas, 
Antipater, and Ilvrcanus. Here, however, deliverance 
was at length brought by Scaurns, the general of Pom- 
pey, who, having come to Damascus, and finding that 
the city had been taken by iMetellus and Lollius, him- 
self proceeded hastily into Jiukea. Ilis assistance was 
eagerly sought by both parties. Aristobulus offered him 
400 talents, and Hyrcauns the same; but as the former 
was in possession of the treasure, Scaurus thought that 
his promises were the most likely to be fulfilled, and 
eonsecpientlv made an agreement with Aristobulus, 
raised the siege, and ordered Aretas to depart, lie then 
returned to Damascus ; whereupon Aristobulus gathered 
an army, defeated Aretas and Ilvrcanus, and slew G000 
of the enemy, together with Phalion, the brother of An- 
tipater. Shortly after Pompey himself came to Damas- 
cus, when both the brothers eagerly solicited his protec- 
tion. Antipater represented the cause of Ilvrcanus. 
Pompey, however, who was intent on the subjugation 
of Petra, dismissed the messengers of both, and on his 
return from Arabia marched directly into Judaea. Aris- 
tobulus fled to Jerusalem, but, finding the city too dis- 
tracted to make good its defence, offered to surrender. 
Gabinius was sent forward to take possession; mean- 
while the soldiery had resolved to resist, and when he 
came he was surprised to find that the gates were shut 
and the walls manned. Pompey, enraged at this ap- 
parent treachery, threw Aristobulus into chains, and ad- 
vanced to Jerusalem. The fortress of the Temple was 
impregnable except on the north, and, notwithstanding 
his engines, Pompey was unable to reduce it for three 
months; neither could he have done so then had it not 
been for the Jewish scruples about observing the Sab- 
bath. The Romans soon found that they could prose- 
cute their operations on that day without disturbance, 
and after a time the battering-rams knocked down one 
of the towers, and the soldiers effected an entrance (mid- 
summer, B.C. Go) on the anniversary of the capture of 
the city by Nebuchadnezzar. Great was the astonish- 
ment of Pompey at finding the Holy of Holies empty, 
without an image or a statue. The wealth he found in 
the building he magnanimously left untouched; Hyr- 
canus he reinstated in the high-priesthood; the coun- 
try he laid under tribute; the walls he demolished; 
Aristobulus and his family he carried captives to Rome. 
Alexander, the son of Aristobulus, on the journey made 
his escape, and. raising a considerable force, garrisoned 
Machawus, Hyrcania, and the stronghold of Alexandri- 
on. Gabinius, however, subdued him. but had no soon- 
er done so than Aristobulus likewise escaped from Rome, 
and intrenched himself in Alexandrion. He was taken 
prisoner, and sent in chains to Rome. At the entreaty 
of his wife, who had always espoused the Roman cause, 
Antigonus his son was released, but lie remained a pris- 
oner. Alexander, with 80,000 men, once more tried his 
strength with the Romans on the field of battle, but was 
put to flight. He was subsequently executed by IMe- 
tellus Scipio at Antioch, I».C. 49. Thus Ilyrcanns re- 
tained the sovereignty, but Antipater enjoyed the real 
power; he contrived to ingratiate himself with Casar, 
who made him a Roman citizen and procurator of all 
Jiukea. He began to rebuild the walls of Jerusalem, 
and made his eldest son. Phasaol, governor of that city; 
and bis younger son, Ilerod, governor of Galilee. The 
latter soon began to distinguish himself against the ban- 
ditti that invested the hills. He carefully contrived 
also to make friends with the Roman governor of Syria, 
as a step to his own aggrandizement. His riches ena- 
bled him to do this by means of enormous bribes. He 


found, however, a troublesome enemy in Antigonus, the 
son of Aristobulus, who allied himself with the Partis- 
ans, and for a time held Jerusalem and kept Herod in 
check. At jMasada, also, a city on the west coast of the 
Dead Sea, Antigonus was nearly successful, until Herod 
at last compelled him to raise the siege. He afterwards 
suffered a defeat by Herod, and was finally vanquished 
by the Roman general Sosius, who, in derision, called 
him by the female name Antigona, and sent him in 
chains to Antony, by whom, at the request of Ilerod, 
he was put to death, B.C. 37. Thus fell the last of the 
Maccabees, who seemed to inherit something of their an- 
cient spirit. Hyrcamis, who, before this, had been inca- 
pacitated for the priesthood by having his cars cut off, 
was subsequently, B.C. 30, in his eightieth year, put to 
death by Ilerod. The latter, meanwhile, by Augustus 
and Antony, was made king of Judrea, and consolidated 
his throne by liis marriage with Mariamne, a woman of 
incomparable beauty, the daughter of Alexander, son of 
Aristobulus. by Alexandra, the daughter of Ilyrcanns II, 
and therefore granddaughter to both brothers. In her 
the race of the Asmomeans came to an end, and by her 
marriage passed into the Idumiean line of the Ilerodians. 

7. Two of the first generation of the Maccaba?an fam- 
ily still remain to be mentioned. These, though they 
did not attain to the leadership of their countrymen 
like their brothers, shared their fate — Eloazar, by a no- 
ble act of self-devotion; John, apparently the eldest 
brother, by treachery. The sacrifice of the family was 
complete, and probably history offers no parallel to the 
undaunted courage with which such a band dared to 
face death, one by one, in the maintenance of a holy 
cause. The residt was worthy of the sacrifice. The 
Maccabees inspired a subject-people with independence; 
they found a lew personal followers, and they left a na- 
tion. 

IH. National Effects of the Maccaheean Revolution . — 
1. The great outlines of the Maccabtean contest, which 
are somewhat hidden in the annals thus briefly epito- 
mized, admit of being traced with fair distinctness, 
though many points must always remain obscure from 
our ignorance of the numbers and distribution of the 
Jewish population, and of the general condition of the 
people at the time. The disputed succession to the 
Syrian throne (B.C. 153) was the political turning-point 
of the struggle, which may thus be divided into two 
great periods. During the first period (B.C. 1G8-153) 
the patriots maintained their cause with varying suc- 
cess against the whole strength of Syria; during the 
second (B.C. 153-139) they were courted by rival fac- 
tions, and their independence was acknowledged from 
time to time, though pledges given in times of danger 
were often broken when the danger was over. The 
paramount importance of Jerusalem is conspicuous 
throughout the whole war. The loss of the Holy City 
reduced the patriotic party at once to the condition of 
more guerrilla bands, issuing from ‘‘the mountains” or 
“the wilderness” to make sudden forays on the neigh- 
boring towns. This was the first aspect of the war (2 
Mace. vii. 1-7 : comp. 1 Macc. ii, 45) ; and the scene of 
the early exploits of Judas was the hill-country to the 
north-east of Jerusalem, from which he drove the in- 
vading armies at the famous battle-fields ol Beth-horon 
and Emmaus (Nicopolis). The occupation of Jerusalem 
closed the first act of the war (B.C. 1G5); and after this 
Judas made rapid attacks on every side— in Idumiea, 
Ammon, Gilead, Galilee — but he made no permanent 
settlement in the countries which he ravaged. Beth- 
sura was fortified as a defence of Jerusalem on the south ; 
but the authority of Judas seems to have been limited 
to the immediate neighborhood of Jerusalem, though 
the influence of his name extended more widely (1 
Macc. vii. 50, t) yi) Toi'for). On the death of Judas the 
patriots were reduced to as great distress as at their first 
rising; and. as Bacchides held the keys of the moun- 
tains of Ephraim” (ix, 50), they were forced to find a 
refuge in the lowlands of Jericho, and, after some slight 


MACCABEE 


603 


MACCABEE 


successes, Jonathan was allowed to settle at Michmash 
undisturbed, though the whole country remained abso- 
lutely under the sovereignty of Syria. So far it seemed 
that little had been gained when the contest between 
Alexander Balas and Demetrius I opened a new period 
(Ii.C. 153). Jonathan was empowered to raise troops : 
the Jewish hostages were restored, many of the for- 
tresses were abandoned, and apparently a definite dis- 
trict. was assigned to the government of the high-priest. 
The former unfruitful conflicts at length produced their 
full harvest. The defeat at Eleasa, like the Swiss St. 
Jacob, had shown the worth of men who could face all 
odds, and no price seemed too great to secure their aid. 
When the Jewish leaders had once obtained legitimate 
power they proved able to maintain it, though their 
general success was checkered by some reverses. The 
solid power of the national party was seen by the slight 
effect which was produced by the treacherous murder 
of Jonathan. Simon was able at once to occupy his 
place and carry out his plans. The Syrian garrison 
was withdrawn from Jerusalem, Joppa was occupied as 
a sea-port, and “four governments” (Ttaaaptg vof.io f,xi, 
57 ; xiii,37) — probably the central parts of the old king- 
dom of Judah, with three districts taken from Samaria 
(x, 38, 39), were subjected to the sovereign authority of 
the high-priest. 

2. The war, thus brought to a noble issue, if less fa- 
mous, is not less glorious than any of those in which a 
few brave men have successfully maintained the cause 
of freedom or religion against overpowering might. 
The answer of Judas to those who counselled retreat (1 
Macc. ix, 10) was as true-hearted as that of Leonidas; 
and the exploits of his followers will bear favorable 
comparison with those of the Swiss, or the Dutch, or 
the Americans. It would be easy to point out parallels 
in Maccabaean history to the noblest traits of patriots 
and martyrs in other countries ; but it may be enough 
here to claim for the contest the attention which it 
rarely receives. It seems, indeed, as if the indifference 
of classical writers were perpetuated in our own days, 
though there is no struggle — not even the wars of Joshua 
or David — which is more profoundly interesting to the 
Christian student; for it is not only in their victory 
over external difficulties that the heroism of the Macca- 
bees is conspicuous: their real success was as much im- 
perilled by internal divisions as by foreign force. They 
had to contend on the one hand against open and subtle 
attempts to introduce Greek customs, and on the other 
against an extreme Pharisaic party, which is seen from 
time to time opposing their counsels (1 Macc. vii, 12- 
18). It was from Judas and those -whom he inspired 
that the old faith received its last development and 
final impress before the coming of our Lord. 

3. For that view of the Maccabiean war which re- 
gards it only as a civil and not as a religious conflict is 
essentially one-sided. If there were no other evidence 
than the book of Daniel — whatever opinion be held as 
to the date of it — that alone would show how deeply the 
noblest hopes of the theocracy were centred in the suc- 
cess of the struggle. When the feelings of the nation 
were thus again turned with fresh power to their an- 
cient faith, we might expect that there would be a new 
creative epoch in the national literature; or, if the form 
of Hebrew composition was already fixed by sacred 
types, a prophet or psalmist would express the thoughts 
of the new age after the models of old time. Yet, in 
part at least, the leaders of Maccabiean times felt that 
they were separated by a real chasm from the times of 
the kingdom or of the exile. If they looked for a 
prophet in the future, they acknowledged that the spirit 
of prophecy was not among them. The volume of the 
prophetic writings was completed, and, as far as ap- 
pears, no one ventured to imitate its contents. But the 
Ilagiographa, though they were already long fixed as a 
definite collection [see Canon], were equally far re- 
moved from imitation. The apocalyptic visions of 
Daniel [see Daniel] served as a pattern for the vi- 


sions incorporated in the book of Enoch [see Enoch, 
Book of]; and it has been commonly supposed that 
the Psalter contains compositions of the Maccabiean 
date. This supposition, which is at variance with the 
best evidence that can be obtained on the history of 
the Canon, can only be received upon the clearest inter- 
nal proof; and it may well be questioned whether the 
hypothesis is not as much at variance with sound inter- 
pretation as with the history of the Canon. The ex- 
treme forms of the hypothesis, as that of Hitzig, who 
represents Psa. i, ii, xliv, lx, and all the last three books 
of the Psalms (Psa. lxxiii-cl) as Maccabaean (Grimm, 1 
Macc. Einleit . § 9, 3), or of Just. Olshansdn (quoted by 
Ewald, Jahrb . 1853, p. 250 sq.), who is inclined to bring 
the whole Psalter, with very few exceptions, to that 
date, need only be mentioned as indicating the kind of 
conjecture which finds currency on such a subject. The 
real controversy is confined to a much narrower field; 
and the psalms which have been referred with the 
greatest show of reason to the Maccabaean age are Psa» 
xliv, lx, Ixxiv, lxxix, Ixxx, lxxxiii. It has been ar- 
gued that all these speak of the dangers to which the 
house and people of God were exposed from heathen 
enemies, at a period later than the captivity; and the 
one ground for referring them to the time of the Mac- 
cabees is the general coincidence which they present 
with some features of the Greek oppression. But, if it 
were admitted that the psalms in question are of a later 
date than the captivity, it by no means follows that 
they are Maccabaean. On the contrary, they do not 
contain the slightest trace of those internal divisions of 
the people which were the most marked features of the 
Maccabtean struggle. The dangers then were as much 
from within as from without; and party jealousies 
brought the divine cause to the greatest peril (Ewald, 
Psabnen , p. 355). It is incredible that a series of Mac- 
cabiean psalms should contain no allusion to a system 
of enforced idolatry, or to a temporizing priesthood, or 
to a faithless multitude. While the obscurity which 
hangs over the history of the Persian supremacy from 
the time of Xehemiah to the invasion of Alexander 
makes it impossible to fix with any precision a date to 
which the psalms can be referred, the one glimpse which 
is given of the state of Jerusalem in the interval (Jose- 
phus, Ant. xi, 7) is such as to show that they may well 
have found some sufficient occasion in the wars and dis- 
orders which attended the decline of the Persian power 
(comp. Ewald). It may, however, be doubted whether 
the arguments for a post-Babylonian date are conclu- 
sive. There is nothing in the psalms themselves which 
may not apply to the circumstances which attended the 
overthrow of the kingdom ; and it seems incredible that 
the desolation of the Temple should have given occasion 
to no hymns of pious sorrow. 

4. The collection of the so-called Psalms of Solomon 
furnishes a strong confirmation of the belief that all the 
canonical Psalms are earlier than the Macenbtean aera. 
This collection, which bears the clearest traces of unity 
of authorship, is, almost beyond question, a true Macca- 
bjean work. There is every reason to believe (Ewald, 
Geschichte, iv, 343) that the book was originally com- 
posed in Hebrew; and it presents exactly those charac- 
teristics which are wanting in the other (conjectural) 
Maccabtean Psalms. “ The holy ones” (oi offtoi , CT^DH 
[see Assiileans] ; ot 0o/3oi'/(fuoi rbv Kenton) appear 
throughout as a distinct class, struggling against hypo- 
crites and men-plcasers, who make the observance of 
the law subservient to their own interests (Psa. Sol. iv, 
xiii-xv). The sanctuary is polluted by the abomina- 
tions of professing servants of God before it is polluted 
by the heathen (Psa. Sol. i, 8 ; ii, I sq. ; viii, 8 sq. ; xvii, 
15 sq.). National unfaithfulness is the cause of national 
punishment; and the end of trial is the “justification” 
of God (Psa. Sol. ii, 1G; iii, 3; iv, 9; viii, 7 sq. ; ix). 
On the other hand, there is a holiness of works set up in 
some passages which violates the divine mean of Scrip- 
ture (Psa. Sol. i, 2, 3; iii, 9) ; and, while the language 


MACCABEE 


604 


MACCABEE 


is fell of eolioes of tlie Old Testament, it is impossible 
not to fed that it wants something which we find in all 
the canonical writings. The historical allnsions in the 
Psalms of Solomon are as unequivocal as the description 
which they give of the state of the Jewish nation. An 
enemy “ threw down the strong walls of Jerusalem,” and 
“ Gentiles went up to the altar” (Psa. Sol. ii, 1-8 ; comp. 

1 Mace. i> 31). In his pride “ he wrought all things in 
Jerusalem, as the Gentiles in their cities do for their 
gods” (Psa. Sol. xvii, 16). “ Those who loved the as- 

semblies of the saints (ovvaywyug o< ri'wn), wandered 
(lege t7rXortiinro) in deserts” (Psa. Sol. xxvii, 19; comp. 

1 Macc. i, 54 ; ii, 28) ; and there “ was no one in the midst 
of Jerusalem who did merey and truth” (Psa. Sol. xvii, 
17 ; comp. 1 Mace, i, 38). One psalm (viii) appears to 
refer to a somewhat later period. The people wrought 
wickedly, and God sent upon them a spirit of error, lie 
brought one “from the extremity of the earth” (viii, 
10; compare 1 Maec. vii, 1— “ Demetrius from Pome”). 
“ r Phe princes of the land met him with joy” (I Maec. 
vii, 5-8); and he entered the land in safety (1 Maec. vii, 
9-12 — Bacchides, his general), “ as a father in peace” (1 
Macc. vii, 15). Then “he slew the princes and every 
one wise in counsel” (1 Macc. vii, 16), and “ poured out 
the blood of those who dwelt in Jerusalem” (1 Macc. vii, 
17). The purport of these evils, as a retributive and 
purifying judgment, leads to the most remarkable feat- 
ure of the Psalms, the distinct expression of Messianic 
hopes. In this respect they offer a direct contrast to 
the books of Maccabees (1 Macc. xiv, 41). The sorrow' 
and the triumph are seen together in their spiritual as- 
pect, and the expectation of “an anointed Lord” (ypr<T- 
rbg Kvpiog, Psa. Sol. xvii, 36 [xviii, 8] ; comp. Luke ii, 
11) follow s directly after the description of the impious 
assaults of Gentile enemies (Psa. Sol. xvii; comp. Dan. 
xi, 45; xii). “Blessed,” it is said, “are they who are 
born in those days, to see the good things which the 
Lord shall do for the generation to come. [When men 
are brought] beneath the rod of correction of an anoint- 
ed Lord (or the Lord’s anointed, imb paflSov tt atcifiag 
Xpiorav Kvpiov ) in the fear of his God, in wdsdom of 
spirit, and of righteousness, and of might” .... then 
there shall be a “good generation in the fear of God, in 
the days of mercy” (Psa. Sol. xviii, 6-10). 

5. Elsewhere there is little which marks the distin- 
guishing religious character of the sera. The notice of 
the Maccabtean heroes in the book of Daniel is much 
more general and brief than the corresponding notice of 
their great adversary, but it is not, on that account, 
less important as illustrating the relation of the famous 
chapter to the simple history of the period which it em- 
braces. Now'here is it more evident that facts are shad- 
owed forth by the prophet only in their typical bearing 
on the development of God’s kingdom. In this aspect 
the passage itself (Dan. xi, 20-35) will supersede in a 
great measure the necessity of a detailed comment: “At 
the time appointed [in the spring of B.C. 168] he [Anti- 
ochus Epiph.] shall return and come toward the south 
[Egypt] ; but it shall not be as the first time, so also the 
last time [though his first attempts shall be successful, 
in the end he shall fail]. For the ships of Chittim [the 
Romans] shall come against him , and he shall be cast 
down , and return , and be very wroth against the holy cov- 
enant ; and he shall do [his will]; yea , he shall return , 
and hare intelligence with them that forsake the holy cov- 
enant (compare Dan. viii, 21,25). And forces from him 
[at his bidding] shall stand [ remain in Judaea as garri- 
sons; comp. 1 Macc. i, 33, 31] ; and they shall pollute the 
sanctuary , the stronghold , and shall take away the daily 
[sacrifice]; and they shall set up the abomination that 
maketh desolate [1 Macc. i, -45-47], And such as do 
wickedly against (or rather such us condemn") -the cove- 
nant shall be corrupt [to apostasy] by smooth words ; but 
the people that know their God shall be strong and do [ex- 
ploits]. And they that understand [know' God and his 
law] oniony the people shall instruct many : yet they shall 
full by the sword and by fame , by captivity and by spoil 


[some] days (I Macc. i, 60-64). Note when they shedl 
fall , they shall be Itofpen with a little help (1 Macc. i, 28 ; 

2 Macc. v, 27 ; Judas Macc. w ith nine others . . .); and 
many shall cleave to them [the faithful followers of the 
law] with hypocrisy [dreading the prowess of Judas: 1 
Macc. ii, 46, and yet ready to fall away at the first op- 
portunity, 1 Maec. vii, 6]. And some of them of under- 
standing shall fall, to make trial among them, and to purge 
and to make them white, unto the time of the end ; because 
[the end is] yet for a time appointed .” From this point 
the prophet describes in detail the godlessness of the 
great oppressor (ver. 36-39), and then his last fortunes 
and death (ver. 40-45), but says nothing of the triumph 
of the Maccabees or of the restoration of the Temple, 
which preceded the last event by some months. This 
omission is scarcely intelligible unless w’e regard the 
facts as symbolizing a higher struggle — a truth wrongly 
held by those who Irom early times referred ver. 36-45 
only to Antichrist, the antitype of Antioclius — in which 
that recovery of the earthly temple had no place. At 
any rate, it shows the imperfection of that view of the 
whole chapter by which it is regarded as a mere tran- 
scription of history. 

6. The history of the Maccabees does not contain 
much which illustrates in detail the religions or social 
progress of the Jews. It is obvious that the period 
must not only have intensified old beliefs, but also have 
called out elements which were latent in them. One 
doctrine at least, that of a resurrection, and even of a 
material resurrection (2 Maec. xiv, 46), was brought out 
into the most distinct apprehension bv suffering. “It 
is good to look for the hope from God, to he raised up 
again by him” (t raXiv draorgoto^at viz’ avrov), w r as 
the substance of the martyr’s answer to liis judge; “as 
for thee, thou shalt have no resurrection to life” (dvde- 
raatg tig Zooijv, 2 Maec. vii, 14; comp, vi, 26; xiv, 46). 
“ Our brethren,” says another, “ have fallen, having en- 
dured a short pain leading to everlasting life, being un- 
der the covenant of God” (2 Macc. vii, 36, ttovoi% dtr- 
vaov njc). As it was believed that an interval elapsed 
between death and judgment, the dead were supposed 
to be in some measure still capable of profiting by the 
intercession of the living. Thus much is certainly ex- 
pressed in the famous passage, 2 Macc. xii, 43-45, though 
the secondary notion of a purgatorial state is in no way 
implied in it. On the other hand, it is not very clear 
how far the future judgment w'as supposed to extend. 
If the punishment of the wicked heathen in another life 
had formed a definite article of belief, it might have 
been expected to be put forward more prominently (2 
Mace, vii, 17, 19,35, etc.), though the passages in ques- 
tion may be understood of sufferings after death, and 
not only of earthly sufferings; hut for the apostate Jews 
there w'as a certain judgment in reserve (vi,2G). The 
firm faith in the righteous providence of God shown in 
the chastening of his people, as contrasted with his neg- 
lect of other nations, is another proof of the widening 
view of the spiritual world which is characteristic of 
the epoch (2 Maec. iv, 16, 17; v, 17-20; vi, 12-16, etc.). 
The lessons of the captivity were reduced to moral 
teaching; and in the same way the doctrine of the min- 
istry of angels assumed an importance which is without 
parallel except in patriarchal times. See 2 Maccabees. 
It was perhaps from this cause also that the Messianic 
hope w’as limited in its range. The vivid perception of 
spiritual truths hindered the spread of a hope which 
had been cherished in a material form ; and a pause, as 
it were, was made, in which men gained new' points of 
sight from which to contemplate the old promises. 

7. The various glimpses of national life which can be 
gained during the period show, on the whole, a steady 
adherence to the Mosaic law. Probably the law was 
never more rigorously fulfilled. The importance of the 
Antiochian persecution in fixing the canon of the Old 
Testament has already been noticed. See Canon. The 
books of the law were specially sought out for destruc- 
tion (1 Macc. i, 56, 57 ; iii, 48), and their distinctive 


MACCABEE 


605 


MACCABEE 


value was in consequence proportionately increased. To 
use the words of I Macc., “the holy books” (r« (3t(3\ia 
n't uyict Tit tv yfotrin were felt to make all other 

comfort superfluous (1 Mace, xii, 9). The strict observ- 
ance of the Sabbath (1 Mace, ii, 32 ; 2 Mace, vi, IT; viii, 
2G, etc.) and of the sabbatical year (1 Macc. vi, 53), the 
law of the Nazarites (l Macc. iii, 49), and the exemp- 
tions from military service (1 Macc. iii, 56), the solemn 
prayer and fasting (L Macc. iii, 47 ; 2 Macc. x, 25, etc.), 
carry us back to early times. The provision for the 
maimed, the aged, and the bereaved (2 Macc. viii, 28,30), 
was in the spirit of the law; and the new Feast of the 
Dedication was a homage to the old rites (2 Macc. i, 9), 
while it was a proof of independent life. The interrup- 
tion of the succession to the high-priesthood was the 
most important innovation which was made, and one 
which prepared the way for the dissolution of the state. 
After various arbitrary changes the office was left va- 
cant for seven years upon the death of Alcimus. The 
last descendant of Jozadak (Onias), in whose family it 
had been for nearly four centuries, fled to Egypt, and 
established a schismatic worship; and at last, when the 
support of the Jews became important, the Maceabaean 
leader, Jonathan, of the family of Joarib, was elected to 
the dignity by the nomination of the Syrian king (1 
Macc. x, 20), whose will was confirmed, as it appears, by 
the voice of the people (comp. 1 Macc. xiv. 35). 

8. Little can be said of the condition of literature and 
the arts which has not been already anticipated. In 
common intercourse the Jews used the Aramaic dialect 
which was established after the return : this was “ their 
own language” (2 Macc. vii, 8,21,27 ; xii, 37) ; but it is 
evident from the narrative quoted that they understood 
Greek, which must have spread widely through the in- 
fluence of Syrian officers. There is not, however, the 
slightest evidence that Greek was employed in Pales- 
tinian literature till a much later date. The descrip- 
tion of the monument which was erected by Simon at 
Modin in memory of his family (1 Macc. xiii, 27-30) is 
the only record of the architecture of the time. The 
description is obscure, but in some features the structure 
appears to have presented a resemblance to the tombs 
of Porsena and the Cnriatii (Pliny, //. A, xxxvi, 13), 
and perhaps to one still found in Idumaea. An oblong 
basement, of which the two chief faces were built of 
polished white marble (Josephus, Ant. xiii, 6, 5), sup- 
ported “seven pyramids in a line ranged one against 
another,” equal in number to the members of the Mac- 
cabiean family, including Simon himself. To these he 
added “ other works of art (jmjyaioyjuarfl), placing round 
(on the two chief faces?) great columns (Josephus adds, 
each of a single block), bearing trophies of arms and 
sculptured ships, which might be visible from the sea 
below.” The language of 1 Macc. and Josephus im- 
plies that these columns were placed upon the basement, 
otherwise it might be supposed that the columns rose 
only to the height of the basement supporting the tro- 
phies on the same level as the pyramids. So much, at 
least, is evident, .that the characteristics of this work — 
and probably of later Jewish architecture generally — 
bore closer affinity to the styles of Asia Minor and 
Greece than to that of Egypt or the East, a result which 
would follow equally from the Syrian dominion and the 
commerce which Simon opened by the Mediterranean 
(l Macc. xiv, 5). See Modin. 

9. The only recognised relics of the time are the coins 
which bear the name of “Simon,” or “ Simon, prince 
(nasi) of Israel,” in Samaritan letters. The privilege 
of a national coinage was granted to Simon by Anti- 
ochus VII, Sidetes (1 Macc. xv, 6, KOj.ifxa tdtov vopiapa 
T V i and numerous examples occur which have 

the dates of the first, second, third, and fourth years of 
the liberation of Jerusalem (Israel, Zion) ; and it is a re- 
markable confirmation of their genuineness, that in the 
first year the name Zion does not occur, as the citadel 
was not recovered till the second year of Simon’s su- 
premacy, while after the second year Zion alone is found 


(Bayer, De Xummis, p. 171). The privilege was first 
definitely accorded to Simon in B.C. 140, while the first 
year of Simon was B.C. 143 (1 Macc. xiii, 42); but this 
discrepancy causes little difficulty, as it is not unlikely 
that tlie concession of Antiochus was made in favor of a 
practice already existing. No date is given later than 
the fourth year, but coins of Simon occur without a 
date, which may belong to the last four years of his life. 
The emblems which the coins bear have generally a 
connection, with Jewish history — a vine-leaf, a cluster 
of grapes, a vase (of manna?), a trifid flowering rod, a 
palm branch surrounded by a wreath of laurel, a lyre (I 
Macc. xiii, 51), a bundle of branches symbolic of the 
Feast of Tabernacles. The coins issued in the last war 
of independence by Bar-cochba repeat many of these 
emblems, and there is considerable difficulty in distin- 
guishing the two series. The authenticity of all the 
Maccabican coins was impugned by Tychsen {Die Un - 
achtheit d. Jud. Miinzen . . . bewiesen . . . O. G, Tych- 
sen, 1779), but on insufficient grounds. He was answer- 
ed by Bayer, whose admirable essays {De Xu m mis Ilebr. 
Samaritanis, Val. Ed. 1781 ; Vindiciie . . . 1790) give 
the most complete account of the coins, though he reck- 
ons some apparently later types as Maccaba?an. Eck- 
hel {Doctr. Numm. iii, 455 sq.) has given a good account 
of the controversy, and an accurate description of the 
chief types of the coins. Compare De Saulcy, Nnmism. 
Judaique ; Ewald, Geseli. vii, 366, 476. See Money. 

IV. Literature. — The original authorities for the his- 
tory of the Maccabees are extremely scanty; but for 
the course of the war itself the first book of Maccabees 
is a most trustworthy, if an incomplete witness. See 
Maccabees, Books of. The second book adds some 
important details to the history of the earlier part of 
the struggle, and of the events which immediately pre- 
ceded it; but all the statements which it contains re- 
quire close examination, and must be received with 
caution. Josephus follows 1 Macc., for the period which 
it embraces, very closely, but slight additions of names 
and minute particulars indicate that he was in posses- 
sion of other materials, probably oral traditions, which 
have not been elsewhere preserved. On the other hand, 
there are cases in which, from haste or carelessness, he 
! has misinterpreted his authority. From other sources 
little can be gleaned. Hebrew and classical literature 
furnishes nothing more than a few trifling fragments 
which illustrate Maccabsean history. So long an inter- 
val elapsed before the Hebrew traditions were commit- 
ted to writing, that facts, when not embodied in rites 
or precepts, became wholly distorted. Classical writers, 
again, were little likely to chronicle a conflict which 
probably they could not have understood. Of the great 
work of Polybius — who alone might have been expect- 
ed to appreciate the importance of the Jewish war — 
only fragments remain which refer to this period ; but 
the omission of all mention of the Maccabrean campaign 
in the corresponding sections of Livy, who follows very 
closely in the track of the Greek historian^seems to prove 
that Polybius also omitted them. The account of the 
Syrian kings in Appian is too meagre to make his si- 
lence remarkable; but indifference or contempt must be 
the explanation of a general silence which is too wide- 
spread to be accidental. Even when the fall of Jerusa- 
lem had directed unusual attention to the past fortunes 
of its defenders, Tacitus was able to dismiss the Macca- 
biean conflict in a sentence remarkable for scornful care- 
lessness. “During the dominion of the Assyrians, the 
Medes, and the Persians, the Jews,” he says, “were the 
most abject of their dependent subjects. After the Mac- 
edonians obtained the supremacy of the East, king An- 
tiochus endeavored to do away with their superstition, 
and introduce Greek habits, but was hindered by a Par- 
thian war from reforming a most repulsive people” (tt- 
terrimam gentem , Tacitus, Ilist. v, 8). 

For a table of contemporary Syrian kings, see Anti- 
ociius ; and for further information, see Milman, /list, 
of the Jews. vol. ii ; Prideaux, Connection, vol. ii (Oxford, 


MACCABEES, BOOKS OF COG MACCABEES. BOOKS OF 


1838); Ewald, Geschichte des F. Israel , vol. iii , part ii ; 
llerzfeld, Geschichte ii Yolkes Isr. ; Baphall, IJist. of the 
Jews; Griitz, Gesch. d. ./ ttden, vol. iii ; Jost, Gesch . d. Is- 
rael iten ; Weber uml lloltzmami, Gesch, d. Vo Ikes Israel 
(Lcipsie, 1807, 2 vuls. 8vo), vol. ii, ch. iii. 

Maccabees, Hooks of (M atcKafiuuov a', etc.). 
Four books which bear the common title of “Macca- 
bees” are found in some MSS. of the Sept.; a fifth is 
found in an Arabic version. Two of these were included 
in the early current Latin versions of the Bible, and 
thence passed into the Vulgate. As forming part of the 
Vulgate, they were received as canonical by the Coun- 
cil of Trent, and retained among the A pocrypha by the 
Heformed churches. The two other books obtained no 
such wide circulation, and have only a secondary con- 
nection with the Maccabiean history. But all the books, 
though they differ most widely in character, and date, 
and worth, possess points of interest which make them 
a fruitful field for study. If the historic order were ob- 
served, the so-called third book woidd come first, the 
fourth would be an appendix to the second , which would 
retain its place, and the frst would come last; but it 
will be more convenient to examine the books in the 
order in which they are found in the MSS., which was 
probably decided by some vague tradition of their rela- 
tive antiquity. In the following account of these books 
we adopt much of the matter found in the dictionaries 
of Kit to and Smith. 

The controversy as to the mutual relations and his- 
toric worth of the first two books of Maccabees has given 
rise to much very ingenious and partial criticism. The 
subject was very nearly exhausted by a series of essays 
published in the last century, which contain, in the 
midst of much unfair reasoning, the substance of what 
has been written since. The discussion was occasioned 
by E. Frblich’s Annals of Syria ( A rotates .... Syrice 
. . . . numis veteribus illustrati, Vindob. 1744). In this 
great work the author — a Jesuit — had claimed para- 
mount authority for the books of Maccabees. This 
claim was denied by E. F. Wernsdorf in his Prolusio de 
fontibus historue Syrue in Libris Macc, (Lipsia?, 1746). 
Frblich replied to this essay in another, De fontibus hist, 
Syria? in Libris Macc. prolusio .... in examen vocata 
(Vindob. 1746), and then the argument fell into other 
hands. Wernsdorf \s brother (Gli.Wernsdorf) undertook 
to support his cause, which lie did in a Commentatio his- 
torico-critica de fide librorum Maccab . (Wratisl. 1747); 
and nothing has been written on the same side which 
can be compared with his work. By the vigor and free- 
dom of his style, by his surprising erudition and unwav- 
ering confidence — almost worthy of Bentley — he carries 
his readers often beyond the bounds of true criticism, 
and it is only after reflection that the littleness and 
sophistry of many of his arguments are apparent. But, 
in spite of the injustice and arrogance of the book, it 
contains very much which is of the greatest value, and 
no abstract can give an adequate notion of its power. 
The reply to Wernsdorf was published anonymously by 
another Jesuit : A nctoritus utriusque Libri Macc. cu- 
nonico-historica adserta . . , a quodam Soc. Jesu sacer- 
dote (Vindob. 1749). The authorship of this was fixed 
upon J. Khell (Wei to, Kinleit, p. 23, note); and while in 
many points Khell is unequal to his adversary, his book 
contains some very useful collections for the history of 
the canon. In more recent times, F. X. Fatritius (an- 
other Jesuit) has made a fresh attempt to establish the 
complete harmony of the books, and, on the whole, his 
essay (De Consensu utriusque Libri Macc. Koma?, 1856), 
though far from satisfactory, is the most able defence of 
the books which has been published. 

For a copious list of original editions, translations, 
and commentaries on the first three books of Maccabees, 
see Fiirst, Bibliotheca Judaiea, ii, 316 sq. , 

MACCABEES, the F1IIST Book of, the most im- 
portant one of the live apocryphal productions which 
have come down to us under tins common title. 

1. Title and Position of the Book. — In the editions of 


the Sept, which we follow, this book is called the first 
of Maccabees (MuKKa(3atiov a'), because in the MSS. it 
is placed at the head of those apocryphal books which 
record the exploits and merits of the Maccabiean family 
in their struggles for the restoration of their ancestral 
religion and the liberation of their Jewish compatriots 
from the Selcucidian tyranny. According to Origcn, 
however (comp. Eusebius, Hist. Eccles. vi, 25), the orig- 
inal Hebrew title of this book was SapflijO^iapficivt t\. 
Great difficulty has been experienced in the endeavor 
to obtain the exact Hebrew equivalent to these words. 
They have been resolved — 1, Into Vu P.HTJ (or Ti‘) 
7X "02, History of the Princes of the Sons of God , that 
is, of Israel (Michaelis, Orient. Biblioth. xii, 115, and 
most modern commentators). 2. Into ^Z'2 *VA' 

PS, The Sceptre of the Prince of the Sons of God, i. e. 
of Simon, w ho is called prince in 1 Macc. xiii, 41 ; xiv, 
47 (Bociiart, Buddeus, and Ewald, Geschichte d. V. Israel 
iv, 528). But this makes chapters xiii-xvi the princi- 
pal part of the book, and the rest a mere introduction. 
3. Into TA mn *Vw\ Princeps tempi t (i. e. pon- 

tifex maximus), Princeps filiorum Dei (i. e. dux populi 
Judaici), based upon the w r ords Sijuwt'oj dpytfpfwt; pt- 
y«\ot> uai arparffyou tcai pyovpivov ’loidaUov, 1 
Macc. xiii, 42 ; and tjri 2 tpioi’og dp\tfoDog tv 'SapapiX, 
ibid, xiv, 27 (Wernsdorf, Comment, de fide libb. Maccab. 
p. 173). 4. Into bx Sceptrum rebel- 

lium Dei, i. e. of the Syrian kings, who were regarded 
as rebelling against God because they persecuted the 
Jews (Junius, lluetius, etc.), or as llerzfeld, who es- 
pouses this solution of the words, explains it, the chas- 
tising rod of the apostates, which he submits is an appro- 
priate appellation of the Maccabaeans (Geschichte d. V. 
Isratl. i, 265). Wc incline to the first explanation, be- 
cause it escapes the censure which the second incurs, 
and is less artificial than the third and fourth. It must, 
however, be remarked that this title docs not occur in 
the Hebrew’ literature, and that both the ancient and 
modem Jews call the book “SO, The 

Book of the Ilashmonaans ; * 1 X2*l-£nb ‘jVl’XI, I. Hash- 
monceans; "’XPAA'n The Scroll of the Fam- 

ily of the Ilashmonaans, or simply n X!TPA‘n rPPA, The 
Scroll of the llashmonveans, after the title Ilashmonaans, 
or A shmonanns, by which the Maccaba?an family are 
denominated. Sec Maccabee. 

Though the book occupies the first position, it ought, 
according to the historic order, to be the fourth of Mac- 
cabees. inasmuch as its narrative commences at a later 
period than the other throe books. Tradition, however, 
in determining the priority of position, was evidently 
guided by the age and the intrinsic value of these books, 
since 1 Macc. is obviously the oldest, and surpasses the 
other three books in importance. Cotton, in bis trans- 
lation of the Maccabees, lias departed from this tradition- 
al and commonly accepted arrangement, and placed the 
first book as second in order. 

II. Contents and Division. — This book contains a lucid 
and chronological history of the tyrannical proceedings 
of Antiochus Epiphancs, commencing with the year 
B.C. 175, and of the scries of patriotic struggles against 
this tyranny, lirst organized by Matt at bias, H.C. 168, 
down to settled sovereignty and the death of Simon, B.C. 
135, thus embracing a period of forty years. 

1. The first part, of which Mattathias is the hero, 
comprises eliap. i-ii, 70, and embraces a period from the 
commencement, of Antiochus Epiphaness reign to the 
death of Mattathias, B.C. 175-167. 

2. The second part , of which Judas Maceaba?us is the 
hero, comprises .chap, iii, 1-ix, 22, and describes the ex- 
ploits and fame of this defender of the faith, B.C. 167- 
160. 

3. The third part, of which Jonathan, the high-pricst, 
surnamed Apphus (Antyovg — A'lSH, the simulator, the 
sly one), is the hero, comprises cli. ix, 23-xii, 53, and re- 


MACCABEES, BOOKS OF 607 MACCABEES, BOOKS OF 


cords the events which transpired during the period of 
his government, 13. C. 160-143. 

4. The fourth part , of which Simon, surnamed Thassi 
(0a<x<xi=^12nn, the flourishing) is the hero, comprises 
ch. xiii, 1-xvi, 24, and records the events which occur- 
red during his period of government, 13.C. 143-135. 

Hi. Historical and Religious Character . — There is no 
book among all the Apocrypha which is distinguished 
by greater marks of trustworthiness than 1 Maccabees. 
Simplicity, credibility, and candor alike characterize its 
description of friends and foes, victories and defeats, 
hopes and fears. When the theme so animates the 
writer that he gives expression to his feelings in lyric 
effusions (e. g. i, 25-28, 37-40 ; ii, 7-13. 49-68 ; iii, 3-9, 
18-22; iv, 8-1 1,30-33, 38; vi, 10-13; vii,37, 38, 41, 42), 
no poetic exaggerations and hyperboles deprive the de- 
scription of its substantially historic character. When 
recording the victories of his heroes, struggling for their 
liberties and their religion, he wTests no laws of nature 
from their regular course to aid the handful of Jewish 
champions against the fearful odds of their heathen op- 
pressors ; and when speaking of the arch-enemy, Anti- 
ochus Epiphanes (i, 10, etc.), he indulges in no unjust 
and passionate vituperations against him. Yet lie marks 
in one expressive phrase (p/£« dgapnnXog) the charac- 
ter of the Syrian type of Antichrist (comp. Isa. xi, 10; 
Dan. xi, 36). If no mention is made of the reckless 
profligacy of Alexander Balas, it must be remembered 
that his relations to the Jews were honorable and lib- 
eral, and these alone fall within the scope of the history. 
So far as the circumstances admit, the general accuracy 
ol the book is established by the evidence of other au- 
thorities; but for a considerable period it is the single 
source of our information. Even the few historical and 
geographical inaccuracies in the description of foreign 
nations and countries, such as the foundation of the 
Greek empire in the East (1 Mace, i, 5-9), the power 
and constitution of ltome (viii, 1-16), “ the great city 
Elymaias, in the country of Fersia” (vi, 1), etc., so far 
from impairing the general truthfulness of the narrative 
when it confines itself to home and the immediate past, 
only show how faithfully the writer has depicted the 
general notions of the time, and for this reason are of 
intrinsic value and instructive. The subjugation of the 
Galatians, who were the terror of the neighboring peo- 
ple (comp. Livy, xxxviii,37), and the conquest of Spain, 
the Tarsliish (ch. viii, 3) of Phoenician merchants, are 
noticed, as would be natural from the immediate inter- 
est of the events; but the wars with Carthage are 
wholly omitted (Josephus adds these in his narrative, 
Ant. xii, 10, 6). The errors in detail — as the capture of 
Antiochus the Great by the Romans (ver. 7), the num- 
bers of his armament (ver. 6), the constitution of the 
Roman senate (ver. 15), the one supreme yearly officer 
at Rome (ver. 16; compare xv, 16) — are only such as 
might be expected in oral accounts; and the endurance 
(ver. 4, fiaicooSvpia), the good faith (ver. 112), and the 
simplicity of the republic (ver. 14, ovk tTrtSrero ovdi'tg 
avT&v SidSijga Kai ov i TipufidXovro rropcpvpav werrf 
dSpiivdyvat iv avnj, contrast i, 9), were features likely 
to arrest the attention of Orientals. 

That the writer used written sources and important 
official documents in his history is evident from viii, 2, 
etc. ; x, 18, etc., 25-45 ; xi, 30-37 ; xii, 5-23 ; xiii, 36-40 ; 
xiv, 25, etc. ; xv, 2-9; xvi, 23, 24; some of these pas- 
sages being expressly described as copies (dvriyoaepa). 
It is questionable whether the writer designed to give 
more than the substance of the originals. Some bear 
clear marks of authenticity (viii, 22-28; xii, 6-18), while 
others are open to grave difficulties and suspicion ; but 
it is worthy of notice that the letters of the Syrian kings 
generally appear to be genuine (x, 18-20, 25^45; xi, 
30-37; xiii, 36-40; xv, 2-9). 

Though the strictly historical character of the book 
precludes any description of the religious and theological 
notions of the day, so that no mention is made in it of 
a coming Messiah or a future state, even in the dying 


speech of Mattathias, wherein he exhorts his sons to sac- 
rifice their lives for the law of God and the covenant of 
their fathers, and recounts the faith and rewards of Abra- 
ham, Joseph, Phinehas, Joshua, Caleb, David, Elijah, 
TIananiah, Azariah, Mishael, and Daniel (ii, 49-60), yet 
the whole is permeated with the true spirit of religion 
and piety. The writer mentions the time from which 
“ a prophet was not seen among them” (1 Macc. ix, 27) 
as a marked epoch; and twice he anticipates the future 
coming of a prophet as of one 'who should make a direct 
revelation of the will of God to his people (iv, 46), and 
supersede the temporary arrangements of a merely civil 
dynasty (xiv, 4 1). God is throughout acknowledged as 
overriding all the machinations of the enemy, and prayer 
is offered up to him for success after all the preparations 
are made for battle, and before the faithful host en- 
counter their deadly enemies (iii, 18, 19,44,48, 53,60; 
iv, 10, etc., 24, 25, 30, etc. ; v, 34, 54 ; vii, 36-38, 41, 42 ; 
ix, 45, etc.) ; and even the tyrant Antiochus Epiphanes 
is made to acknowledge in his dying hour that he is 
punished for profaning the Temple and destroying the 
inhabitants of Judaea (vi, 8-13). The absence of even 
the remotest allusion to a future state in the hour of 
death, or to a resurrection of the dead, it must be con- 
fessed, rather favors the conclusion of the ingenious but 
daring critic, Dr. Geiger, rabbi at Breslau, that the au- 
thor of this book was a Sadducee (comp. Urschrift unci 
Uebersetzung der Bibel , p. 216 sq.). 

IV. Author , Date , and Original Language. — All that 
can be said with certainty about the author of this book 
is that he was a Palestinian Jew. This is indicated by 
the whole spirit which pervades the book, by the lively 
sympathies which the writer manifests for the heroes 
whom he describes, and by his intimate acquaintance 
with the localities of Palestine. 

Not so certain, however, is its date. Frideaux, Mi- 
chaelis, Hengstenberg, Bertheau, VTelte, Scholtz, Keil, 
and others, though discarding the notion of Lapide, 
Huet, etc., that John Ilvreanus was the author, are yet 
of opinion that the concluding words, rd Xoi7rd rwnXo- 
yu/v ’itodvvov Kai tojv 7roXf/iwr avrov . . . ISoi) ravra 
yiypa7rrai *Vi fiifiXicp ifgepiov apygepwavviig avrov y 
df ov eytvifii] dpxieptcg gird rbv naripa avrov (xvi, 
24), plainly show that the book was written during the 
government of this high-priest, perhaps about B.C. 120- 
106, inasmuch as this passage only gives the terminus 
a quo of the high-priesthood of John, without the ter- 
minus ad 27/em,thns indicating that John was still living, 
and that his pontificate was not as yet terminated. Af- 
ter the close of the priesthood, or after the death of 
John, this remark would be snperfiuous, because no 
reader could take the words, “ diary of his priesthood," 
in any other sense than that they denote a chronicle of 
the whole duration of it from the beginning to the end. 
Nor can the words ewe; rijg ijg’i oag ravrqg, in xiii, 30, 
be adduced as implying a later date; for it was some- 
thing remarkable that, in those days of war and devas- 
tation, the sepulchre which Simon made for his family 
in Modin remained between twenty and thirty years 
unhurt. Eichhorn, Ilertholdt, De Wette, Ewald, Grimm, 
and others, however, maintain that the book was writ- 
ten after the death of John Ilvreanus, oscillating be- 
tween B.C. 105 and 64. 

The language of the book does not present any strik- 
ing peculiarities. Both in diction and structure it is 
generally simple and unaffected, with a marked and yet 
not harsh Hebraistic character. The number of pecul- 
iar words is not very considerable, especially when com- 
pared with those in 2 Maccabees. Some of these are 
late forms, as xpoyteo (xpoyt^co), xi, 5, 11 ; vcotrig, 

i, 39 ; orrXoSorsu), xiv, 32; dcnriSlffKrj, iv,57; Si LXoogat, 
iv. 8, 21; v, 4; xvi, 6; ogrjpa, viii, 7 ; ix, 63, etc. ; d<pat- 
pega, xv, 5; reXcuviioSai, xiii, 39; igovcndZicrSai, x, 
70; or compounds, such as rt7ro(T/cop7r(^o>,xi, 55; e7riow- 
rpk<p to, xiv, 44; StiXotpiixoc, viii, 15; xvi, 5; 0ovo/cro- 
vta, i, 24. Other words are used in new or strange 
seuses, as aSpvvio, viii, 14; irapdaracug , xv, 32; Sia- 


MACCABEES, BOOKS OF 608 MACCABEES, BOOKS OF 


oto\»/, viii.7. Some phrases clearly express a Shemitic 
idiotn (ii, *18, dovvcu icipag Tip dpapT.x i, 23; x, 62 ; xii, 
‘23). anti the intluence of the Sept, is continually per- 
ceptible (e. g. i, 54 ; ii, Go ; vii, 17 ; ix, 23 ; xiv, 9). Jo- 
sephus undoubtedly made use of the Greek text (Ant. 
xii, 5 sq.). 

That this book, however, was originally written in 
Hebrew is not only attested by Origen, who gives the 
Hebrew title of it (see above, § i), and by St. Jerome, 
who saw it (“Maccabteorum primum librum Hebraicum 
reperi” — Prol. Gal. ad Libr. R eg.), but is evident from 
the many Hebraisms which are literal translations of 
the Hebrew (comp. icai tiTOtpcioSj] i) fiamXtia =j-rH 
rvzbs, i, 16, with Sept. 1 Sam. xx, 31 ; 1 Kings ii, 12; 
tig ciafSoXov Trovi]pbv=V' m \ i, 3G; iv Tip iXiip 

cii)Tov — TlDn3, ii, 57, with Jer. ii, 2-, a.7ro\\vf.uvovg 
= iii, 9 ; anb yirovg rijg fiaotXtiag = 

iii, 32, with Jer. xii, 1), as well as from the 
difficulties in the Greek text, which disappear on the 
supposition of mistakes made by the translator (com- 
pare Kcil tadaSi) t) y i) tni rovg KCiTOiKOVVTag avrijv— 
PPrrT' U?2"irVl, i,28; iyirtro o vabg av- 

ti}q dbg uvijp «co£oc = nT22 i. e. lirP2 

'^“ l X n^-^yiijS; see also ii, 34; iii, 3; iv, 19,24, 
etc.). The Hebrew of this book, however, like that of 
the later canonical writings of the O. T., had a consid- 
erable admixture of Aramaic expressions (compare i.5; 
iv, 19; viii, 5; xi, 28; and Grimm’s Comment . on these 
passages). 

As to the Ileb. Megillath A ntiochus (D-V-2X rb}-) 
still existing, which was first published in the editions 
of the Pentateuch of 1491 and 1505 along with the oth- 
er Megilloth ; is given in the Spanish and Italian Bitual 
for the Festivals (CHITFI^) of 1555-5G, etc.; is insert- 
ed, with a Latin translation, in Bartolocci's Bibliotheca 
Magna Rabbinica, i,383; is printed separately, without 
the translation (Berlin, 17G6); and which has recently 
been republished by Jellinek in his Beth Ha-Midrash , 
i. 142-146 — this simply gives a few of the incidents of 
the Maccabrean wars, and makes John, the high-priest 
who it says slew Nicanor in the Temple, play the most 
conspicuous part. It tells us that Antioclius began per- 
secuting the Jews in the 23d year of his reign and 213th 
after the building of the second Temple ; and that the 
descendants of the Maccabees, who crushed the armies 
of this tyrant, ruled over Israel 206 years, thus follow- 
ing the chronology of the Talmud (comp. .4 boda Zara . 9 
a ; Seder Olam Suita ; De Bossi, ,1/cor Enajim, c. xxvi ; 
Zunz, Gotiesdienst.Vortrcige, p. 134). That the Aramaic 
(Chaldee), which was for the first time published by 
Filipowski, together with the Hebrew and an English 
version (London, 1851), is the original, and that the He- 
brew is a translation, may be seen from a most cursory 
comparison of the two texts. The Hebrew version 
slavishly imitates the phrases of the Aramaic original 
instead of giving the Hebrew idioms. Thus, for in- 
stance, the Chaldee !"Q is rendered in the He- 
brew version by FlSUf Sir^XZ, instead of TVZ ; 

•pbxb "pbx by nbxb nbx, instead of rna bx trx 
or inm bx etc. It is perfectly astonishing that 
this document, which was evidently got up about the 
7th century of the Christian a?ra, to be recited on the 
Feast of Dedication in commemoration of the Macca- 
bnean victories over the enemies of Israel, should be re- 
garded by nengstenberg(t7V»?/5?e?ic.ss if Daniel. English 
transl., p. 237) as the identical “Chaldee copy of the first 
book of Maccabees to which Origen and Jerome refer.” 
Kengstenberg, moreover, most blunderingly calls the 
Hebrew version published ljy Bartolocci the Chaldee. 

The date and person of the Greek translator of the 
first book of Maccabees are wholly undetermined, but 
it is unlikely that such a book would remain long un- 
known or untranslated at Alexandria. 


V. Canonicity and Importance of the Booh. — This book 
never formed a part of the Jewish canon, and is ex- 
cluded from the canon of sacred books in the catalogues 
ofMelito, Origen, the Council of Laodicea, St. Cyril, St. 
Hilary, St. Athanasius, St. Jerome, etc. In the Chron- 
icle of Eusebius it is put in the same category as the 
writings of Josephus and Africanns, so as to distinguish 
it from the inspired writings. Still the book is cited 
with high respect, and as conducive to the edification 
of the Church, at a very early period (August. De Cirii. 
Dei , lib. xviii, c. 36). The councils at Hippo and Car- 
thage (A.D. 393 and 397) first formally received it into 
the canon, and in modern times the Council of Trent 
has settled for the Catholic Church all disputes about 
its canonical authority by putting it into the catalogue 
of inspired Scripture. 

But, though the Protestant Church rejects the decis- 
I ions of these councils, and abides by the ancient Jewish 
canon, yet both the leaders of the Deformation and 
modern expositors rightly attach great importance to 
this book. The great value of it will be duly appreci- 
ated when it is remembered that it is one of the very 
few surviving records of the most important, but very 
obscure period of Jewish history between the close of 
the 0. T. and the beginning of the N. T. It is, there- 
fore, not to be wondered at that the far-seeing Luther 
remarks, in his introduction to the translation of this 
book — “ This is another of those books not included in 
the Hebrew Scriptures, although in its discourses and 
description it almost equals the other sacred books of 
Scripture, and would not have been unworthy to be 
reckoned among them, because it is a very necessary 
and useful book for the understanding of the prophet 
Daniel in the eleventh chapter” (Vorrede avf das erste 
Buch M accabivorum , German Bible, ed. 1536). It is rath- 
er surprising that the Anglican Church has not pre- 
scribed any lessons to be read from this book. A refer- 
ence to 1 Maec. iv, 59, however, is to be found in the 
margin of the A. V., John x, 22. 

XT. Versions and Literature. — The hooks of Macca- 
bees were not included by Jerome in his translation of 
the Bible. “The first book,” he says, “ I found in He- 
brew” (j Prol. Gal. in Regl), but he takes no notice of the 
Latin version, and certainly did not revise it. The ver- 
sion of the two books which has been incorporated in 
the Bomish XTdgate was consequently derived from the 
old Latin current before Jerome’s time. This version 
was obviously made from the Greek, and in the main 
follows it closely. Besides the common text, Sabatier 
has published a version of a considerable part of the 
first book (cap. i-xiv, 1) from a very ancient Paris MS. 
(S. Germ. 15) in 1751, which exhibits an earlier form of 
the text. Angelo Mai has also published a fragment 
of another Latin translation, comprising chap, ii, 49-64, 
which differs very materially from both texts ( Spicile - 
gium Romanorum , ix, 60 sq.). The old Syriac version 
given in the Paris and London Polyglots, and by De 
Lagarde, Libri Yeteris Tcstamenti A pocryphi Syrktce 
(Lond. 1861), is, like the Latin, made literally from the 
Greek. 

Of commentaries and exegetical helps we specially 
mention the works of Drusius and Grotius, reprinted in 
the Critici Sacri ; Calmct, Commentaire Literal , etc., 
vol. viii (Paris, 1724); Micliaelis, Deutsche Utberseizung 
des 1 Maccab. Bis mit A merhh. (Gottingen und Leipsic, 
1778); Eichhorn, Einleit. in die apohyphischcn Schrift. 
d. A . T. (Leipsic, 1795), p. 218-248 ; Hengstenberg, Gen - 
uineness of Daniel (English transl., Edinburgh, 1847), p. 
235-239, 267-270; Cotton, The Jive Books if Maccabees 
(Oxford, 1832) ; Ewald, Geschichte des Voiles Israel , iv, 
526 sq. ; the masterly work of Grimm, Kurzgefasstes ex- 
egeiisches Handbuch zu den Apokryphen (Leipsic, 1853) ; 
Geiger, Urschrif't und Uebersetzung der Bibel (Breslau, 
1857), p. 206-219. See Apocrypha. 

MACCABEES, tiie SECOND Book of, according to 
the order of the Sept., which is followed both by the an- 
cient versions and modern expositors of the Apocrypha. 


MACCABEES, BOOKS OF 609 MACCABEES, BOOKS OF 


I. Position. — This book ought, according to the his- 
toric order, to be the first of the Maccabees, because its 
narrative begins with an event which occurred in the 
reign of Selcucus Philopator, about B.C. 180, i. e. four 
years earlier than the preceding book. Its being placed 
second in order is evidently owing to the fact that it is 
both of a later date and of less intrinsic worth than the 
one denominated the first of the Maccabees. Cotton, in 
his translation of the Maccabees, has put this book as 
the third of Maccabees. 

II. Design, Contents , and Division. — The design of this 
book is to admonish and encourage the Jews to keep 
the religion of their fathers, and especially to inculcate 
in the Israelites resident in Egypt a reverence for the 
Temple in Jerusalem, urging them to take part in the 
celebration of the festivals instituted to commemorate 
the dedication of the Temple as the sacred and legiti- 
mate place for divine worship (x, 6), and the defeat of 
Nicanor (xv, 86). To effect this design, the writer gives 
a condensed history of the Maccabees’ struggles for their 
religion and sanctuary, beginning with the attempts of 
Heliodorus to plunder the Temple, cir. B.C. 180, and ter- 
minating with the victory of Judas Maecabams over Ni- 
canor, B.C. 161. The whole narrative, therefore, which 
is partly (iii, l-iv, 6) anterior to 1 Macc., partly (iv, 7- 
vii, 42) supplementary to the brief summary in 1 Macc. 
i, 10-64, and partly (vii, 1-xv) parallel with 1 Macc. iii, 
l-vii.48, embraces a period of about nineteen years, and 
is divided into three sections, each of which is made to 
terminate with the great event commemorated by the 
festival which the writer is so anxious that his Egyp- 
tian brethren should celebrate. 

1. The first section (i, 1-ii, 32) comprises two epistles, 
the relation of which to the substance of the book is ex- 
tremely obscure. The first (i, 1-9) is a solemn invita- 
tion to the Egyptian Jews to celebrate “ the feast of 
tabernacles in the month Casleu” (i. e. the feast of the 
dedication, i, 9), as before they had sympathized with 
their brethren in Jiukea in “the extremity of their 
trouble” (i, 7). The second (i, 10— ii, 18, according to 
the received division), which bears a formal salutation 
from “ the council and Judas” to “Aristobulus . . . and 
the Jews in Egypt,” is a strange, rambling collection of 
legendary stories of the death of “Antioch us,” of the 
preservation of the sacred fire and its recovery by Ne- 
hemiah, of the hiding of the vessels of the sanctuary by 
Jeremiah, ending, if, indeed, the letter can be said to 
have any end — with the same exhortation to observe 
the feast of dedication (ii, 10-1S). Then follows an ac- 
count given by the writer of this hook of the sources 
from which he derived his information, and of the 
trouble he had in compiling it (ii, 19-32). 

2. The second section (iii, 1-x, 9) gives important in- 
formation about the origin of the persecutions (iii, 1- 
vii, 42), which is simply hinted at in 1 Macc., and then 
describes and supplements (in viii, 1-ix, 29) the events 
recorded in 1 Macc., concluding with the dedication of 
the Temple (x, 1-9), which is the great object of the 
book, cir. B.C. 180-165. 

3. The third section (x, 10-xv, 37) records the vari- 
ous victories of the Jews, terminating in the crowning 
success of Judas Maccabeus and the death of Nicanor, 
which led to the institution of the feast commemorating 
the victory over him, B.C. 164-161. 

This is followed by an epilogue (xv, 38-40) which is 
wanting in Coverdale’s (after the Zurich) Bible ; in 
Matthew’s, 1537; in Cranmer’s, 1539; and in the vari- 
ous reprints of these editions; and which the Geneva 
Bible, 1560, followed by the Bishops’, 1568, was the first 
to insert. 

The latter two of the above sections, taken together, 
present several natural subdivisions, which appear to 
coincide with the “five books” of Jason on which it was 
based. The first (ch. iii) contains the history of Heli- 
odorus, as illustrating the fortunes of the Temple before 
the schism and apostasy of part of the nation (cir. B.C. 
180). The second (ch. iv-vii) gives varied details of 
V.-Q q 


the beginning and course of the great persecution — the 
murder of Onias, the crimes of Menelaus, the martyrdom 
of Eleazar, and of the mother with her seven sons (B.C. 
175-167). The third (ch. viii-x, 9) follows the fortunes 
of Judas to the triumphant restoration of the Temple 
sendee (B.C. 166, 165). The fourth (x, 10-xiii) includes 
the reign of Antiochus Eupator (B.C. 164-162). The 
fifth (ch. xiv, xv) records the treachery of Alcimus, the 
mission of Nicanor, and tlie crowning success of Judas 
(B.C. 162, 161). Each of these divisions is closed by a 
phrase which seems to mark the end of a definite sub- 
ject (iii, 40; vii, 42; x, 9; xiii, 26; xv, 37); and they 
correspond, in fact, with distinct stages in the national 
struggle. 

III. A utlior, Date , and original Language. — The com- 
piler of this book distinctly declares that the original 
author of it, or of the “'five books” from which he con- 
densed the narrative before us, was “ Jason of Cyrene ” 
(ii, 23). Ilerzfeld thinks that this Jason is the same as 
Jason, the son of Eleazar, whom Judas Maccabams sent 
with Eupolemus as envoy to Borne after the defeat of 
Nicanor to conclude a treaty with the Romans (1 Macc. 
viii, 17 ; Josephus, A nt. xii, 10, 6); because it is only a 
Hellenistic Jew who, being master of the Greek lan- 
guage, would be qualified for such a mission to a foreign 
court. This hypothesis, moreover, explains the other- 
wise anomalous circumstance that this book, which re- 
cords the Maccabasan struggles, goes no further in its 
history than the victory over Nicanor, inasmuch as up 
to this point Jason was an eye-witness to the exploits of 
Judas, and was sent to Rome after this most important 
event; and it is confirmed by the accurate knowledge 
which the writer displays of the events (iv, 21 sq. ; viii, 
1 sq. ; ix, 29 sq. ; x, 12, 13; xiv, 1 ; Herzfeld, Oeschichte 
d. Yolkes Israel, i, 445 sq.). Accordingly, the original 
work must have been written about B.C. 160, immedi- 
ately after the victory over Nicanor, and prior to the 
defeat and death of Judas (1 Macc. ix, 16-18), which 
brought new calamities upon the Holy City, and again 
transferred the power to the heathenishly-inclined Jews 
under the pontificate of Alcimus (1 Macc. ix, 23-29). 
The errors in the order of the events and of history 
must be ascribed to the epitomator, whose great object 
was not to narrate history faithfully, but to make the 
facts harmonize with his design. 

As a Cyrenian Jew. Jason most naturally composed 
his work in Greek ; and Jerome's testimony, “ Secundus 
[Machabreorum liber] Gnecus est, quod ex ipsa quoque 
phrasi probari potest” (Prof. Gal.), is fully borne out by 
the style of the epitome. (See below.) The epitoma- 
tor or compiler of the present book was a Hellenistic 
Jew, residing in Palestine, and must have lived a con- 
siderable period after the events transpired. The date 
of the compilation is put within the limits B.C. 150-124. 
The two epistles with which the book begins do not 
proceed from Jason, and are of a much later date, though 
the first purports to have been written B.C. 124, or 188 
of the Seleuchke; and the second, by mentioning a re- 
cent deliverance from great perils, evidently implies 
that it was written after the news of the death of Anti- 
ochus Epiphanes, i. e. 148 of the Seleuchke. The orig- 
inal language of these letters seems to be Hebrew. In- 
deed, Geiger shows that the difficult passage, d<f oi) 
aTzkori] T ao(t)v teal oi per avrov cnrb Trjg ciyiag yljg 
tcai ri}g fiacnXeiag (i, 7), which is ambiguous, and, as 
commonly understood, represents Jason and his com- 
panions as apostatizing from the land and the kingdom, 
is, when retranslated into Hebrew, pOSO *iD HSJD 
’inpn “irx shown to mean, 

from the time that Jason and those who sided with him 
from the holy land and the kingdom, apostatized ; 
either standing for -H i."YT, royal descent (comp. 2 
Kings xxv, 25; Jer. xli, 1 ; Ezek. xvii, 13; Dan. i, 3), 
or referring back to r -TN in the sense of ull 
(2 Sam. xii, 26), i. e. those who call themselves after the 
sacred ground of the royal residence. The same is the 


610 


MACCABEES, BOOKS OF 


MACCABEES, BOOKS OF 


case with i, 9, 18, where the Feast of Dedication is most 
extraordinarily called the Feast of Tabernacles , which 
can only be explained when the passages are retranslated 
into Hebrew. Now the Hebrew for \va uyqrt rug 
y'jf-itpag ri)g <ria)V07ri)yiaq rov XactXeu pqvog (i, 9) is 

03 £3 in sn "unn ; and for 7 va Kcii avroi 
ayijrt rijg acqvoTrqyiag ( Rat ) row 7rvp6g (i, 18) is 
trsn .“M PS DPX E3 *unn When it is borne 

in mind that the expression 5n, which is the general 
term for feast in earlier Hebrew (Exod. x, 9 ; xii, 14 ; 
Lev. xxiii, 89), was afterwards used for the feast of 
tabernacles (I Kings viii, 2; 2 Chron. v, 3; Josephus, 
Ant. viii, 4, 1), it will at once be seen that the translator 
of these epistles, instead of rendering the word in ques- 
tion simply by yeast, attached to it the later sense of 
the specific festival, which he was evidently led to do 
by the fact that both these festivals are of eight days’ 
duration, and that the feast of tabernacles is mentioned 
in x, 6. So also 8iavoi£ai n)v icapdtav vpaiv tv np 
vofiyj avrov (i, 4) is a translation of DEE? PTE" 1 

nmi ro. 

The style of the book is extremely uneven. At 
times it is elaborately ornate (iii, 15-39; v, 20; vi, 12- 
16,23-28; vii, etc.), and, again, it is so rude and broken 
as to seem more like notes for an epitome than a finished 
composition (xiii, 19-26); but it nowhere attains to the 
simple energy and pathos of the first book. The vocab- 
ulary corresponds to the style. It abounds in new or 
unusual words. Many of these are forms which belong 
to the decay of a language, as dXXo^vXKjpog, iv, 13 ; vi, 
24; 'E Wjivivfiog, vi, 13 (iptyarurpog, iii, 9); iraapoc, 

vii, 37; Swpaicujpoe, v, 3 ; GTrXayxmGpog, vi,7, 21 ; vii, 
42; or compounds which betray a false pursuit of em- 
phasis or precision : dup7rip7rXi}pt, iv, 40; err tvXaflCtcr- 
Sai, xiv, 18; KartvSiKrtlv, xiv, 43 ; i TpoaavaXtytcrSrai, 

viii, 19; 7 Tpoov 7 rofupv{]<TKio, xv, 9; cvvtKKevTtiv, v, 26. 

Other words are employed in novel senses, as ctVTtpoXo- 
yt7v, xiii, 22; el<jKvicXuG$at, ii, 24; tvaTrdvn}Tog> xiv, 
9; 7 r(<pn£pw{ttvog f xi, 4 ; \pv\iKujc, iv, 37 ; xiv, 24. Oth- 
ers bear a sense which is common in late Greek, as 
ciKXtpth'y xiv, 8; avnZvyij, ix, 2; xiii, 26; ?utXi]\pig, 
iii, 32; ix, 4; Qpvaaaofiat, vii, 34; 7TfOJ- 

oKvSiZ a>, vii, 4. Others appear to be peculiar to this 
book, as cid<jTaX(Tig, xiii, 25; £vo 7 rtTi]fia f v, 20; irpoa- 
'jrvpovv, xiv, 11; 7 roXtporoocptlv, x, 14, 15; o7rXoAo- 
ytiv, viii, 27, 31 ; cnrevSravaTiZetv, vi, 28; doZucog, viii, 
35; avFpoXoyia, xii, 43. Hebraisms are very rare (viii, 
15; ix, 5; xiv, 24). Idiomatic Greek phrases are much 
more common (iv, 40; xii, 22; xv, 12, etc.); and the 
writer evidently had a considerable command over the 
Greek language, though his taste was deformed by a 
love of rhetorical effect. 

IV. lFistorical and Religious Character. — As the 
avowed design of the book is religio-didactic and paroe- 
netic, the aim of the writer was not to recount a series 
of dry facts in chronological order, but rather to select 
such events from the period on which he treats, and ar- 
range, embellish, and comment upon them in such a 
manner as should most strikingly set forth to his Egyp- 
tian brethren the marvellous interposition of God to 
preserve the only legitimate and theocratic sanctuary 
in Jerusalem. Hence the desire to point out the signal 
punishment of the wicked according to the principle in 
eo genere quisque punitur, in quo peccavit (v, 9, 10; ix, 
5,6; xiii, 8; xv, 32, 33); the moral reflections (v, 17- 
20; vi, 12-16; ix, 8-10; xii, 43-45); the colored de- 
scriptions (iii, 14-23; v, 11-20); the exaggerated ac- 
count of the martyrdom of the seven brothers and their 
mother, which king Antiochns, for the sake of effect, is 
made to witness in Jerusalem (vi, 18-vii, 42); the enor- 
mous numbers of the enemy slain by a handful of Jews 
(viii, 24, 30; x, 23, 31; xf, 11; xii, 16,* 19, 23, 26, 28; 
xv, 27) ; the numerous and strange miracles (iii, 25-27 ; 
v, 2, 3 ; x, 29-31 ; xi, 8-10; xv, 12, etc.) ; the historical 
and chronological inaccuracies, e. g. making Antiochus 
witness the death of the Jewish martyrs (vii, 3) ; the 


death of Antiochus (ch.ix) ; the representing of the sacri- 
fices as having been renewed after two years’ interruption 
(2 Macc. x, 3, comp, with 1 Macc. iv, 52, 54 ; i, 54, 59) ; 
the description of the different battles which the Jews 
fought between the purification of the Temple and the 
death of Antiochus (2 Macc, viii, 30; x, 15-38; xii, 2- 
43, comp, with 1 Macc. v); the campaign of Lysias (2 
Macc. xi, 12, comp, with 1 Macc, iv, 26-32); etc. But 
apart from these embellishments, traditional stories, in- 
versions of events, etc., which, in accordance with an- 
cient usage, the author adopted in order to carry out his 
design, and in spite of the fact that the two letters with 
which the book begins are now generally given up as 
spurious, the best critics accept the groundwork of the 
facts as true. Grimm, whose elaborate, thorough, and 
impartial comment on this book is unparalleled, has 
shown that there is no ground to question the historical 
import of the most important section (chap, iv-vi, 10), 
which is not only most consistent in itself, hut fits most 
appropriately the space of 1 Macc. i, 10-64 ; or the truth- 
fulness of cli. iii, when stripped of the miraculous. He 
says that its truthfulness, within the specified limits, is 
supported by the fact that, 1. Notwithstanding the many 
differences, it agrees in not a few portions with 1 Mac- 
cabees, though both these books are perfectly indepen- 
dent of each other; and, 2. In four events which it re- 
cords anterior to 1 Maccabees, it agrees with Josephus, 
who is entirely independent of it, viz. the account of 
the Temple at Gerizim (vi, 2, comp, with Josephus, A nt. 
xii, 5, 5); the execution of Menelaus at Beroea (xiii, 3- 
8, comp, with Josephus, Ant. xii, 9, 7); the landing of 
Demetrius at Tripolis (xiv, 1) ; and of the priestly in- 
trigues (ch. iv) which were the cause of the protracted 
series of struggles between the Jews and the Syrian 
monarchs. 

The religious character of the book is one of its most 
important and interesting features. God is throughout 
recognised as ordaining even the most minute affairs of 
his people; the calamities which befel them are looked 
upon by the Jews as a temporary visitation for their 
sins (iv,16,17; v, 17-20; vi, 12-17; vii, 32, 33; xii, 40); 
and the sufferings which come upon the righteous in 
this common visitation are regarded as atoning for the 
sins of the rest of the people, and staying the anger of 
God (vii, 38). The book, moreover, shows that the in- 
terposition of angels for the salvation of the people (x, 
29, etc.; xiii, 2, etc.), and supernatural manifestations 
(iii, 25; v, 2, etc.; xiii, 2, etc.), which play a very im- 
portant part in the N. T., were of no common occurrence. 
What is, however, most striking, is, that not only did 
the Jews then believe in the surviving of the soul after 
the death of the body, in the resurrection of the dead, 
and in their reunion with those near and dear to them 
(vii, 6, 9, 11, 14, 23, 29, 36), but that God does not irrev- 
ocably seal the eternal doom of man immediately after 
his departure, and that the decision of our heavenly 
Father may be influenced by the prayers and sacrifices 
of the surviving friends of the departed (xii, 43-45). 
This passage also shows that the offering of sacrifices 
for the dead must have been common in those days, in- 
asmuch as it is spoken of in very commendable terms. 
The striking distinction between the religious senti- 
ments of this book and those of the former goes far to 
justify Geiger’s conclusion that “the two books of 
Maccabees are party productions; the author of the first 
was a Sadducee, and a friend of the Maccabiean dynasty, 
while the author or epitomator of the second was a 
Pharisee, who looked upon the Maccabees with suspi- 
cion” ( Urschrift , p. 206). Still the second book, like 
the first, contains no hopes about the coming of a Mes- 
siah. 

V. Canonicify . — Though portions of this hook are in- 
corporated in the Jewish writings, and forin a part of 
the ritual, viz., the martyrdom of the seven brothers 
and their mother (ch. vi, 1-42), which is not only men- 
tioned in the Talmud ( Gittin , 57, b), the Midrash of the 
ten commandments (ed. Jellinek, Beth Ila-Midrash , i, 


MACCABEES, BOOKS OF 611 MACCABEES, BOOKS OF 


70, etc.), Midrash Jalkut {On Dent, section &OFi,301,b), 
etc., but is interwoven in the service for the Feast of 
Dedication (compare The Jozer , *2 "pIX); the 

martyrdom of Elcazar (ch. vi, 18-3 L), also embodied in 
the same service, and described by Josippon, who also 
speaks of the wonderful appearance of the horsemen, 
and other circumstances narrated in 2 Mace, (compare 
Josippon , lib. ii, c. ii-iv, ed. Breithanpt, p. 172 sq.), yet 
the book was never part of the Jewish canon. Hence, 
even if it could be shown more unquestionably that the 
apparent parallels between 2 Mace, and diverse passages 
in the N. T. (compare 2 Macc. i, 4, with Acts xvi, 14 ; 2 
Macc. v, 19, with Mark ii, 27 ; 2 Macc. vi, 19 ; vii, 2, etc., 
with Heb. xi, 35; 2 Macc. vii, 14, with John v, 29; 2 
Macc. vii, 22, etc.; xiv, 46, with Acts xvii, 24-2G ; 2 
Macc. vii, 36, with Rev. vi, 9 ; 2 Macc. viii, 2, with Luke 
xxi, 24; Rev. xi, 2; 2 Macc. x, 7, with Rev. vii, 9 ; 2 
Macc. xv, 3-5, with Eph. vi, 9) are actual quotations, it 
would only prove that the apostles, like the rest of their 
Jewish brethren, alluded to the incidents recorded in 
this book without regarding the book itself as canoni- 
cal. The only references, however, to be found in the 
A. V. are from Heb. xi, 35, 3G, to 2 Macc. vi, 18, 19 ; vii, 
7, etc. ; and vii, 1-7 ; but even these are disputed, and 
it is quite possible that the author of the Epistle to 
the Hebrews refers to the sufferings of the Essenes 
(compare Ginsburg, The Essenes , etc., Longman, 18G4, p. 
36). In harmony with the decisions of the Jewish 
Church, this book is excluded from the canon of sacred 
books in the catalogues of Melito, Origen, the Council 
of Laodicea, St. Cyril, St. Hilary, etc. (compare Du Pin, 
History of the Canon , London, 1699, i, 12). Jerome em- 
phatically declares: “ J hiccahceorum libros legit quidem 
ecclcsia, sed eos inter canonicas scripturas non recipit” 
( Prof, in Pi'ov.) ; and Augustine, though stating that 
this book, like 1 Macc., was regarded by the Christians 
as not unuseful, yet expressly states that the Jews did 
not receive it into the canon {Contra ep. Gaudent. i, 31), 
and draws a distinction between it and the canonical 
Scriptures {De Civ. Dei , xviii, 36). The Council of 
Trent, however, has settled (April 8, 1546) the canon- 
icitv of it for the Roman Church. The Protestant 
Church generally agrees with Luther, who remarks, 
“We tolerate it because of the beautiful history of the 
Maccabaian seven martyrs and their mother, and oth- 
er pieces. It is evident, however, that the writer was 
no great master, but produced a patchwork of various 
books; he has likewise a perplexing knot in ch. xiv, in 
Razis, who committed suicide, which was also trouble- 
some to Augustine and other fathers. For such exam- 
ple is of no use, and is not to be commended, though it 
may be tolerated and charitably explained. It also de- 
scribes the death of Antiocluis, in ch. i, differently from 
1 Macc. To sum it all up: Just as 1 Macc. deserves to 
be adopted in the number of sacred Scriptures, so 2 
Macc. deserves to be thrown out, though there is some- 
thing good in it” ( 1 'or rede aufdas Zu-eite Buck Macca- 
bceorum , in the German Bible, cd. 1536). 

VI. Versions and Literature. — There are two ancient 
versions of this book, a Latin and a Syriac. The Latin, 
which was current before Jerome, and does not always 
follow closeh" the Greek, is now incorporated in the Ro- 
man Vulgate, while the Syriac, which is still less literal, 
is given both in vol. iv of the London Polyglot and by 
De Lagarde, Libri Veteris Testamenti Apocryphi Syriace 
(Lond. 1861). The Arabic so-called version of 2 Macc. 
is really an independent work. See Maccabees, Fifth 
Book of. 

01 commentaries and exegetical helps, we may men- 
tion W hitaker, A Disputation on Ilohf Scripture , Parker 
Society (Cambridge, 1849), p. 93-102; Whiston, A Col- 
lection of A uthentick Records (London, 1727), i, 200-232 ; 
Hasse, Das and. Buck der Makk. neu iibers. m. A nmerk. 
(Jena, 1786); Eichhorn, Einleitung in die apok. SchriJ'ten 
d.Alten Test. (Leipzig, 1795), p. 249-278 ; Bertheau, De 
Secundo Maccabeeor. libro (Gotting. 1829); Cotton, The 


Five Books of Maccabees (Oxford, 1832), p. 148-217; 
Ewald, Geschichte des Volkes Israel , iv, 530 sq. ; Schhin- 
kes, Epistohe que Secundo Maceab. libro, cap. i-ii, 9, legi - 
tur exjdicatio, commentat. crii. (Colon. 1854) ; Ilerzfeld, 
Geschichte des Volkes Israel (Nordhausen, 1854), i, 443- 
456; Patritius, De Consensu utriusque libri Maccabeeor. 
(Rom. 1856); Geiger, Urschrift und Uebersetzungen der 
Bibel (Breslau, 1857), p. 219-230; and, above all, the val- 
uable work of Grimm, Kurzgefasstes exegetisches Hand- 
buck zu 0. Apokryphen d.Alten Testaments , pt. iv (Leipz. 
1857). See Apocrypha. 

MACCABEES, The THIRD Book of, not given in 
the Romish Vulgate, the Apocrypha of the A. V., nor in 
Protestant versions generally, but still read in the Greek 
Church. 

I. Title and Position. — This book is improperly called 
the “third of Maccabees,” since it does not at all record 
the exploits of the Maccabivan heroes, but narrates 
events of an earlier date. It, however, derives its name 
from the fact that this appellation, which originally be- 
longed to Judas, was afterwards used in the sense of 
martyrs, and was extended to the Alexandrian Jew3 
who suffered for their faith’s sake either immediately 
before or after the Maccabiean period. In the Synopsis 
of the Pseudo- Athanasius, it is apparently also called 
Ptolemaica , from the name of the royal hero (compare 
MaKKajSuiKit fiijSXia o' UroXipaiKci, p.432, ed. Migne, 
for which Credner, Grimm, etc., suggest that the true 
reading is M aKKafiaiicit nai YlroXtpaiKct, and that this 
book is to be understood by n roXty . — Grimm, Comment. 
p. 220). Properly speaking, this book ought to precede 
the two former productions, and occupy the frst posi- 
tion, since it is prior in time to both the first and second 
Maccabees. But tradition has assigned to it a third 
position, because it came into circulation later than the 
others, and was regarded as being of third-rate impor- 
tance. Cotton, in his edition of the Five Books of Mac- 
cabees, has placed it as “ 1 Maccabees.” 

II. Design and Contents. — The design of this book is 
to comfort the Alexandrian Jews in their sufferings for 
their faith in the God of Abraham, and to encourage 
them to steadfastness and perseverance by recounting 
to them the experience of the past, which most unques- 
tionably shows that the theocracy cannot perish ; that, 
though tyrants might vent their rage on the chosen peo- 
ple, the Lord will not suffer the enemy to triumph over 
them, but will appear for their deliverance, and avenge 
himself on their persecutors, as well as put to confusion 
those of the Israelites who have apostatized from their 
ancestral religion. To illustrate this, the writer nar- 
rates the following incident from the dealings of Provi- 
dence with his covenant people : Ptolemy IV (Philopa- 
tor), on returning from his victory over Antiochus the 
Great (B.C. 217), was waited upon by envoys from Jeru- 
salem to congratulate him on his success, which made 
him visit the Holy City and offer sacrifices in the Tem- 
ple; but he was seized with a desire to penetrate into 
the Holy of Holies (i, 1-11), and as the entreaties of the 
people failed to make the king relinquish his outrageous 
desire, the high-priest Simon prayed to the King of 
kings, who immediately chastised this insolent heathen 
by throwing him down paralyzed on the ground (ii, 1- 
23). Enraged at this, the king wreaked his vengeance, on 
his arrival in Egypt, on the Alexandrian Jews, ordering 
that they should be deprived of their citizenship and be 
branded with an ivy leaf unless they agreed to be in- 
itiated into the orgies of Bacchus (ver. 24-30). See 
Dioxysus. A few complied, hut the bulk of the chosen 
people refused to apostatize from their ancestral relig- 
ion (ver. 31,32). Not content with this order, which 
was thus generally evaded or despised, he commanded 
all the Jews in the country to be arrested and sent to 
Alexandria (ch. iii). This was done as well as might 
be, though the greater part escaped (iv, 18), and the 
gathered multitudes were confined in the Hippodrome 
outside the city (comp. Josephus, A nt. xvii, 6. 5). The 
resident Jews, who showed sympathy for their country- 


MACCABEES, BOOKS OF 61 

men, were imprisoned with them, and the king ordered 
the names of all to be taken down preparatory to their 
execution. Here the first marvel happened : the scribes 
to whom the task was assigned toiled for forty days 
from morning till evening, till at last reeds and paper 
failed them, and the king’s plan was defeated (ch. iv). 
However, regardless of this, the king ordered the keeper 
of his elephants to drug the animals, live hundred in 
number, with wine and incense, that they might tram- 
ple the prisoners to death on the morrow. The Jews 
had no help but in prayer, and here a second marvel 
happened : the king was overpowered by a deep sleep, 
and when he awoke the next day it was already time 
for the banquet which he had ordered to be prepared, so 
that the execution was deferred. The Jews still prayed 
fur help; but when the dawn came, the multitudes were 
assembled to witness their destruction, and the ele- 
phants stood ready for their bloody work. Then was 
there another marvel: the king was visited by deep 
forgetfulness, and chided the keeper of the elephants 
for the preparations which he had made, and the Jews 
were again saved. But at the evening banquet the 
king recalled his purpose, and with terrible threats pre- 
pared for its immediate accomplishment at daybreak 
(ch. v). Then Eleazar, an aged priest, earnestly pray- 
ed for his people (vi, 1-15), and, just as he finished pray- 
ing, the royal train and the elephants arrived at the 
Hippodrome, when suddenly two angels appeared in 
terrible form, visible to all but the Jews, making the af- 
frighted elephants go backwards and crush the soldiers 
(ver. 10—21). This changed the king's anger into pity, 
and, with tears in his eyes, he at once “set free the sons 
of the Almighty, heavenly, living God,” and made a 
great feast for them (ver. 22-30), To commemorate 
this marvellous interposition of their heavenly Father, 
the Jews instituted an annual festival, to be celebrated 
“ through all the dwellings of their pilgrimage for after 
generations” (ver. 31-41). The faithful Jews had not 
only their mourning turned into joy, and the royal pro- 
tection for the future, but were permitted by the king 
to indict condign punishment on those of their brethren 
who had forsaken the religion of their fathers in order 
to escape the temporary sufferings; “thus the most high 
God worked wonders throughout for their deliverance” 
(vii, 1-23). 

111. Historical Character . — Though the panenetic de- 
sign of the book made the writer so modify and embel- 
lish the facts which he records as to render them most 
subservient to his object, yet the assertion of Dr. David- 
son. that “the narrative appears to be nothing but an 
absurd Jewish fable” ( Introduction to the 0. T. iii, 454), 
is far too sweeping. That the r/rowuhcorl' of it is true, 
as Tableaux rightly remarks ( The 0. and X. Test, con- 
nected, part ii, book ii, anno 2 1C), is attested by collateral 
history. 1. The account it gives of Ptolemy’s expedi- 
tion to Coele-Syria, and his victory over Antioehus at 
Kaphia (i, 1—7), is corroborated both by Polybius (v, 40, 
53-71, 70-87) and Justin (xxx, 1). 2. The character 

which it ascribes to Ptolemy — that he was cruel, vicious, 
and given to the orgies and mysteries of Bacchus — is 
literally confirmed both by Plutarch, who, in his essay 
l loir to distinguish Flatterers f rom Friends , says, “ Such 
praise was the ruin of Egypt, because it called the ef- 
feminacy of Ptolemy, his wild extravagances, loud pray- 
ers, his marking with an ivy leaf (koiVwj'), and his 
drums, piety” (cap. xii ; compare, also In Chomene, cap. 
xxxiii and xxxvi), and by the author of the Greek Fty- 
mologicon, who tells us that Philopator was called G al- 
ias because he was marked with the leaf of an ivy, like 
the priests called G alii, for in all the Bacchanalian so- 
lemnities they were crowned with ivy (TdXAoc o <pi\o- 
7 runup UroXejuaiog cut to kkxgov Karaarix^at 

ojc oi rdWoi, etc.). 3. Josephus’s deviating account 
(Apion, ii, 5) of the events here recorded', which shows 
that he has derived his information from an independent 
source, proves that something of the sort did actually 
take place, although at a different time, namely, in the 


2 MACCABEES, BOOKS OF 

reign of Ptolemy VII (Pliyscon). “The king,” as he 
says, “exasperated by the opposition which Onias, the 
Jewish general of the royal army, made to his usurpa- 
tion, seized all the Jews in Alexandria, with their wives 
and children, and exposed them to intoxicated ele- 
phants. But the animals turned upon the king’s friends, 
and forthwith the king saw a terrible visage which for- 
bade him to injure the Jews. On this he yielded to the 
prayers of his mistress, and repented of his attempt; 
and the Alexandrine Jews observed the day of their de- 
liverance as a festival.” The essential points of the 
story are the same as those in the second part of 3 Mac- 
cabees. and there can be but little doubt that Josephus 
has preserved the events which the writer adapted to 
his narrative. 4. The statement in vi, 30, that they in- 
stituted an annual festival to commemorate the day of 
their deliverance, to be celebrated in all future time, the 
fact that this festival was actually kept in the days of 
Josephus (comp. ib. ii. 5), and the consecration of a pil- 
lar and synagogue at Ptolemais (vii, 20), are utterly un- 
accountable on the supposition that this deliverance was 
never wrought. The doubts which De Wette ( Einlei - 
tung. sec. 305), Ewakl (Geseh.d.V. I. iv. 535 sq.). Grimm 
( Comment . p. 217), and Davidson ( Introd . iii, 455) raise 
against the historic groundwork of this narrative, are 
chiefly based upon the fact that Dan. xi, 11, etc., does 
not allude to it. Those critics, therefore, submit that 
the book typically portrays Caligula, who commanded 
that his own statue should be placed in the Temple, un- 
der the guise of a current tradition respecting the mur- 
derous commands of Ptolemy VII (Phvseon) against the 
Jews, transferred by mistake to Ptolemy Philopator. If 
it be true that Ptolemy Philopator attempted to enter the 
Temple at Jerusalem, and was frustrated in his design 
— a supposition which is open to no reasonable objec- 
tion — it is easily conceivable that tradition may have 
assigned to him the impious design of his successor, or 
the author of 3 Maccabees may have combined the two 
events for the sake of effect. Tile writer, in his zeal to 
bring out the action of Providence, has colored his his- 
tory, so that it has lost all semblance of truth. In this 
respect the book offers an instructive contrast to the 
book of Esther, with which it is closely connected both 
in its purpose and in the general character of its inci- 
dents. In both a terrible calamity is averted by faith- 
ful prayer ; royal anger is changed to royal favor, and 
the punishment designed for the innocent is directed to 
the guilty. But here the likeness ends. The divine re- 
serve, which is the peculiar characteristic of Esther, is 
exchanged in 3 Maccabees for rhetorical exaggeration, 
and once again the words of inspiration stand ennobled 
by the presence of their later counterpart. 

IV. Author, Original Language. Integrity , and Date . — 
It is generally admitted that the author of this book 
was an Alexandrian Jew, and that he wrote in Greek. 
This, indeed, is evident from its ornate, pompons, and 
fluent stylo, as well as from the copious command of ex- 
pression which the writer possessed. Though this book 
resembles 2 Maccabees in the use of certain expressions 
(e. g. dytpwyoc, 3 Mace, i, 25; ii, 3, comp, with 2 Macc. 
ix, 7) in the employment of purely Greek proper names 
to impart a Greek garb to Jewish things and ideas (3 
Macc. v, 20,42; vii. 5, comp, with 2 Macc. iv, 47), etc., 
yet the style of the two books is so different that it is 
impossible to claim for them the same author. The au- 
thor of this book surpasses 2 Maccabees in offensively 
seeking after artificial, and hence very frequently ob- 
scure phrases (e.g. i, 0, 14, 17, 10; ii. 31; iii, 2; iv, 5, 11; 
v, 17 ; vii. 5). in poetic expression and ornamental turns 
(i, 8; ii, 10, 31; iii, 15: iv, 8; v, 20, 31,47; vi, 4, 8, 20), 
in bombastic sentences to designate very simple ideas 
(e. g. fyo/ton fTvrbraa3 , ai = Tpi\e u% i, 19 ; Iv Trptafit'ag 
rt)v ijXiKiav XtXoyywe, vi, 1), in using rare words or 
such as occur nowhere else (e. g. i, 20 ; ii, 29 ; iv, 20 ; v, 
25; vi, 4, 20), or using ordinary words in strange senses 
(e. g. i, 3. 5 ; iii, 14 ; iv, 5 ; vii, 8; compare Grimm, Com- 
tnent . p. 214). There is also an abruptness about the 


MACCABEES, BOOKS OF Cl 3 MACCABEES, BOOKS OF 


book (e. g. its beginning with 6 ds ftiXoTraTwp, and its 
reference, in tmv 7rpo«7ro$f$e<yjus*'wr, 5i, 25, to some pas- 
sage not contained in the present narrative), which has 
led to the supposition that it is either a mere fragment 
of a larger work (Ewald, Davidson, etc.), or that the be- 
ginning only has been lost (Grimm, Keil, etc.). Against 
this, however, Gratz rightly urges that it most thor- 
oughly and in a most complete manner carries through 
its design. 

All the attempts to determine the age of the book are 
based upon pure conjecture, and entirely depend upon 
the view entertained about its contents, as may be seen 
from the two extremes between which its date has been 
placed. Thus Allin ( Judgment of the Jeivish Church, p. 
67) will have it that “it was written by a Jew of Egypt, 
under Ptolemy Philopator. i. e. about B.C. 200 while 
Grimm places it about A.D. 39 or 40. 

V. Canonicity . — Like the other Apocrypha, this book 
was never part of the Jewish canon. In the Apostolic 
canons, however, which are assigned to the 3d century, 
it is considered as sacred writing (Can. 85) ; Theodoret, 
too (died cir. A.D. 457), quotes it as such (in Dan. xi, 
7). Still it was never accepted in the Western churches, 
and formed no part of the Iloman Vulgate ; it was there- 
fore not received into the canon of the Catholic Church, 
nor inserted as a rubric in the Apocrypha contained in 
the translation of the Bible made by the Reformers. 

VI. Versions and Literature . — The Greek is contained 
in the Alexandrian and Vatican MSS., and is given in 
Valpy’s edition of the Sept. The oldest version of it is 
the Syriac, which is very free, and full of mistakes; it 
is given in the London Polyglot, and has lately been 
published by De Lagarde, Libri Veter is Testamenti A poc- 
ryphi (London, 1861). The first Latin version of it is 
given in the Complutensian Polyglot ; another Latin ver- 
sion, by F. Nobilius, is given in the London Polyglot ; 
the first German translation, as far as we can trace it, is 
given in the Zurich Bible printed by Froschover (1531) ; 
another, by Joachim Ciremberger, appeared in Witten- 
berg (1551): De Wette, in the first edition of his trans- 
lation of the Bible, made conjointly with Augusti (1809- 
14), also gave a version of this book, which is now ex- 
cluded from his Bible; and another German version is 
given in Gutmann’s translation of the Apocrypha (Alto- 
na, 1811). The first English version was put forth by 
Walter Lynne in 1550, which was appended, with some 
few alterations, to the Bible printed by John Daye 
(1551), and reprinted separately in 1563 ; a new and 
better version, with some notes, was published by Whis- 
ton, A uthentick Records (Lond. 1727), i, 162-208 ; a third 
version, made by Crutwell, is the Bible with Bp. Wilson's 
Notes (Bath, 1785) ; and a fourth version, with brief but 
useful notes, was made by Cotton, The Five Boohs of 
Maccubees (Oxford, 1832). 

Of exegetical helps we mention Eichhorn, Einleitung 
in d. apokr. Schriften d.A. T. (Leips. 1795), p. 278-289; 
Ewald, Geschichte des Volkes Israel, iv, 535 sq. ; Ilerz- 
feld, Geschichte des Volkes Israel, i, 457, etc.; Gratz, Ge- 
schichte tier Juden (2d edition, Leips. 1863), iii, 444, etc. ; 
Gaab, Ilandbuch zum philologischen Verstehen der apo- 
kryph iscl ten- tick riften d. A . T. (Tubing. 1818), ii, 614 sq.; 
and especially Grimm, Kurzgefasstes exegetisches Iland- 
buch zu den Apakryphen d. 4. T. (Leips. 1857), p. 213 sq. 

MACCABEES, the FOURTH Book of (a), though 
not given in the Roman Vulgate, and therefore not in- 
serted in the Apocrypha contained in the Bibles trans- 
lated by the Reformers, yet exists in Greek in two lead- 
ing texts. One, which, on account of its more extensive 
circulation, may be called the received or common text, 
is contained in the early edition of the Sept, printed at 
Strasburg, 1526, Basel, 1545 and 1550, Frankfurt, 1597, 
Basel, 1582, and in the editions of Josephus’s work, and 
is given in its purest form in Bekker's edition of Jose- 
phus (Leips. 1855-56, 6 vols.). The other is the Alex- 
andrian, or that of the Codex Alexandrinus, and is the 
more ancient and preferable one; it is contained in the 
editions of the Sept, by Grabe and Breitinger, and is 


adopted, with some few alterations after the common 
text, in Apel’s edition of the Apocrypha (Leipsic, 1837). 
See Schaaek, De libro tig MaKKaf3aiovg quiJosepho tri- 
buitur (Kopenhagen, 1814). 

I. Title . — This book is called 4 Maccab. (MaKKafial- 
(oi' E ?) TSTCipT ) ; rail' MaKKafiaiicwv fitfiXog) in the va- 
rious MSS., in the Codex Alexandrinus, by Philostorgius 
and Syneellus (p. 529, 4, and 530, 17, ed. Dind.) ; in Cod. 
Paris. A, it is denominated 4 Maccab., a Treatise on 
Reason (XlaKKaftu'uov rsTapToc wspi atoippovog Xoyi j- 
pov), by Eusebius ( Uist.Ecclesiast . iii, 10, b) and Jerome 
(Catal. Script. Ecclesiast .) it is called On the Supremacy 
of Reason (we pi avroKpciropog Xoytapov), and in the 
editions of Josephus’s works, Josephus's Treatise on the 
Maccabees (<P\a/3. ’UnGqwov elg M caacafiaiovg X uyog). 

II. Design, Division, and Contents . — The design of this 
book is to encourage the Jews, who — being surrounded 
by a philosophical heathenism, and taunted by its moral 
and devout followers with the trivial nature and appar- 
ent absurdity of some of the Mosaic precepts — were in 
danger of being led astray from their faith, to abide 
faithfully by the Mosaic law, and to stimulate them to 
observe in every way their ancestral religion, by con- 
vincing them of the reasonableness of their divine law, 
and its unparalleled power to control the human pas- 
sions (comp, xviii, 1, 2). To carry out this design the 
book is divided into two parts, opening with an intro- 
duction, as follows: 

1. The introduction, comprising eh. i, 1-12, contains 
the resume of the whole book, and the grand problem for 
discussion, viz. whether the rational will, permeated and 
regulated by true piety, has perfect mastery over the 
passions (on avToFtawoTog \_avroKpdriop ] egti rw v wa- 
Su>v evge(37)q XoytCpog). 

2. The fist part, comprising ch. i, 13— iii, 19, contains 
a philosophical disquisition on this problem, giving a 
definition of reason, or the rational will, and of the wis- 
dom which is to be gained by studying the Mosaic law, 
and which shows itself in the four cardinal virtues — 
discernment, justice, prudence, and fortitude; describes 
the different passions, and shows that reason, pervaded 
by piety, has the mastery over them all, except forget- 
fulness and ignorance. 

3. The second part, comprising chap, iii, 20-xviii. 20, 
demonstrates the proposition that sanctified reason has 
the mastery over the passions by giving a summary of 
the Maccabrean martyrdoms (iii, 20-iv, 26) narrated in 
2 Macc. iii; iv, 7-17; v, 1-vi, 11; describes the mar- 
tyrdom of Eleazar (v, 1-vii, 19) and the seven brothers 
(viii, 1-xii, 16), with moral reflections on it (xiii, 1-xiv, 
10), as well as the noble conduct and death of their 
mother (xiv, 11-xvii, 6), and then deduces the lessons 
to be learned from the character and conduct of these 
martyrs (xvii, 7 -xviii, 2), showing that the Israelites 
alone are invincible in their struggles for virtue (on 
povoi wcudeg 'Efipaiioj' vw ip dpsrijg stair ctvtKijToi). 
Ch. xviii, 21-23, is evidently a later addition. 

III. Author', Date, and Original Language. — In har- 
mony with the general tradition, Eusebius (/list. Eccles. 
iii, 10), Jerome ( Catalog . Script. Eccles. s. v. Josephus), 
Photins (ap. Philostorgius, Hist. Eccles. i), Suidas (s. v. 
'Ubagwog,'), many MSS., and the early editions of the 
Sept. (Strasburg, 1526 ; Basle, 1545 ; Frankfurt, 1595), as 
well as the editions of Josephus’s works, ascribe the au- 
thorship of this book to the celebrated Jewish historian 
Flavius Josephus. But this is utterly at variance with 
the style and structure of the book itself, and has most 
probably arisen from a confusion of names, as the work 
may have been written by some one of the name of Jo- 
sephus, or from the fact that it was regarded as supple- 
menting this historian, and hence was appended to his 
writings. Not only is the language quite different from 
that of Josephus’s writings, but — 1. In 4 Maec. all the 
proper names in the Bible, except 'itpoaoXvpa and 
’EA*a£«poc, are retained in their Hebrew form, and 
treated as indeclinable (e. g. ’A/Spnd/q ’laadic, No if), 
whereas Josephus gives them a Greek termination. 2. 


MACCABEES, BOOKS OF 014 MACCABEES. BOOKS OF 


Fourth Macc. derives its historical matter from 2 Mace., 
as we have seen in the preceding section, or perhaps 
from the original work of Jason ; while Josephus mani- 
fests utter ignorance about the existence of this work. 
3. The historical blunders contained in this book (iv, 15, 
2G; v, 1 ; xvii, 22, 23, etc.) are such as Josephus would 
never have committed. 4. The form and tone of the 
book unquestionably show that the writer was an Alex- 
andrian Jew, who resided in Egypt or somewhere far 
away from the Holy Land — comp, iv, 5, 20, etc., where 
the writer speaks of “our fatherland” i. e. the Holy 
Land far away. From this and other passages in which 
the Temple is spoken of as still existing, and from the 
fact that xiv, 9 speaks of the Egyptian Jews as having 
enjoyed external peace and security at the time when 
this book was written, Grimm dates it before the fall of 
Jerusalem and the persecutions of the Egyptian Jews 
by Caligula, i. e. B.C. 39 or 40. 

That the Greek is the original language of the book 
requires no proof. The style is very pompous, flowing, 
vigorous, and truly Greek. The author’s eloquence, 
however, is not the spontaneous outburst of a heart in- 
spired with the grandeur of the divine theme (f vaefitut) 
upon whieli be discourses, but is produced artificially by 
resorting to exclamations and apostrophes (v, 33, etc. ; 
vii, G, 9, 10, 15; viii, 15, 16; xi, 14, etc.), dialogues and 
monologues (viii, 16-19; xvi, 5-10), far-fetched figures 
and comparisons (vii, 1, etc.; xiii, 6; xvii, 3, 5, 7), and 
he abounds in air at Xtyoptra (i, 27, 29; ii, 9; iv, 18; 
vi, 6, 17 ; vii, 11 ; viii, 15; xi, 4; xiii, 24; xiv, 15, 18; 
xv, 26; xvii, 5). 

IV. Canonicitif and Importance. — Among the Jews 
t his book is hardly known, and though some of the fa- 
thers were acquainted with it, and Gregory of Nazian- 
zum, Augustine, Jerome, etc., quoted with respect its 
description of the Maccaba?an martyrs, vet it was never 
regarded as canonical or sacred. As a historical docu- 
ment the narrative is of no value. Its interest centres 
in the fact that it is a unique example of the didactic 
use which the Jews made of their history. Ewald (Ge- 
schichtc , iv, 556) rightly compares it with the sermon 
of later times, in which a scriptural theme becomes the 
subject of an elaborate and practical comment. The 
philosophical tone of the book is essentially stoical, but 
the stoicism is that of a stern legalist. The dictates of 
reason are supported by the remembrance of noble tra- 
ditions, and by the hope of a glorious future. The pros- 
pect of the life to come is clear and wide. The faithful 
are seen to rise to endless bliss; the wicked to descend 
to endless torment, varying in intensity. But while 
the writer shows, in this respect, the effects of the full 
culture of the Alexandrian school, and in part advances 
beyond his predecessors, he offers no trace of that deep 
spiritual insight which was quickened by Christianity. 
The Jew stands alone, isolated by character and by 
blessing (comp. Gfrbrer, Philo, etc., ii, 173). Still the 
book is of great importance, inasmuch as it illustrates 
the history, doctrines, and moral philosophy of the Jew- 
ish people prior to the advent of Christ. It shows that 
the Jews believed that human reason, in its natural 
state, has no power to subdue the passions of the heart, 
and that it is only able to do it when sanctified by the 
religion of the Bible (v. 21, 23; vi, 17 ; x, 18); that the 
souls of all men continue to live after t lie death of the 
body; that all will rise, both righteous and wicked, to 
receive their judgment for the deeds done in the body 
(v, 35; ix, 8; xii, 13, 14; xvi, 22; xvii, 17, In'); that 
this is taught in the l*entateueh (comp, xvii, 18, with 
Dcut. xxxiii, 3); and that the death of the righteous is 
a vicarious atonement (vi, 29). Allusion seems also to 
be made in the X. T. to some passages of this book 
(comp, vii, 18, with Luke xx, 37 ; Matt. xxii. 32 ; ]\lark 
xii, 26; Rom. vi, 10; xiv, -8; Gal. xi, IQ: 4 Macc. xii, 11, 
with Acts xvii, 26: 4 Mace, xiii, 14, with Luke xvi, 22, 
23 : 4 Mace, xvi, 22, with Luke xx, 37). 

V. I ’era ions and Kxegdical Helps . — The book was 
translated into Syriac, the MS. of which is in the Am- 


brosian Library of Milan ; into Latin, but loosely, by 
Erasmus; and again, greatly improved, by Combefis, 
1 iibliothecce Grcecorum patruin auctorium novissimum 
(parsi, Paris, 1672). This version is in the editions of 
Josephus by Havercamp, Obertliiir, and Diiulorf. Both 
a Latin and French version are given by Calmet, Com- 
ment. literal, in Scripturam V. et- X. Test, iii, 702 sq. ; a 
very loose English version was first published by L’Es- 
trangc in his Translation of Josephus (Lond. 1702) ; and 
an improved translation is given by Cotton, The Five 
Boohs of Maccabees (Oxford, 1832). 

Of exegctical helps we mention Reutlinger, These 
d'exegese sur le iv livre des Maccabees (Strasburg, 1826) ; 
Gfrbrer, Philo u. d. A lex.-Theosopkie , ii, 175 sq. ; Diihne, 
Jud.-Alex. Pelig.-Philos. ii, 190 sq.; Ewald, Geschichte 
des Voiles Israel, iv, 554 sq.; the elaborate commentary 
of Grimm, Kurzgefasstes excgctisches llandb. z. d. A pokr. 
d. A. T. (pt. iv, Leips. 1857), p. 285 sq.; Keil, Einleitung 
in d. A. T. (1859), p. 69 b, sq. 

MACCABEES, the FOURTH Book of (&).— 
Though it is certain that the foregoing book is that 
which old writers described, Sixtus Senensis (Biblia 
Saneta, p. 37, cd. 1575) gives a very interesting account 
of another fourth book of Maccabees which he saw in a 
library at Lyons, which was afterwards burnt. It was 
in Greek, and contained the history of John Hyrcamis, 
continuing the narrative directly after the close of the 
first book. Sixtus quotes the first words: Kni furd ro 
dirOKTavSijrat rhv iytvifirf ’UxjdvrjQ vtig av- 

Toii dpxitptvg dvr gvtov, but this is the only fragment 
which remains of it. The history, he says, was nearly 
the same as that in Josephus, Ant. xiii, though the style 
was very different from his, abounding in Hebrew idioms. 
The testimony is so exact and explicit that we can see 
no reason for questioning its accuracy, and still less for 
supposing (with Calmet) that Sixtus saw only the so- 
called fifth book, which is at present preserved in Arabic. 
See Maccabees, Fifth Book of. 

MACCABEES, the FIFTH Book of, an important 
chronicle of Jewish affairs, which was for the first time 
printed in Arabic in the Paris Polyglot (1645), and was 
thence copied into the London Polyglot (1657). 

I. Title. — The name, the fifth book of Maccabees, has 
been given to this production by Cotton, who placed 
it as fifth in his order of the books of Maccabees. Ac- 
cording to the remark at the end of chap, xvi, the first 
part of this book, i. e. chap, i, 1-xvi, 26, is entitled The 
second Book of Maccabees according to the Translation 
of the Hebrews , while the second part, i. e. chap, xvii, 1- 
lix, 96, is simply called The second Book of Maccabees. 
The fact that this second part gives the history of John 
Hyrcanus (ch. xx) lias led Calmet {Diet, of the Bible, s. 
v. Maccabees) and others to suppose that it is the same 
as the so-ealledybarM book of Maccabees, a unique MS. 
of which, written in Greek, Sixtus Senensis saw in the 
library of Sanctes Fagnimis, at Lyons, and which was 
afterwards destroyed by fire, so that the fifth of Macca- 
bees is sometimes also called the fourth. The descrip- 
tion of the MS. given by Sixtus Senensis {Bill. Panda, 
lib. i, see. 3) lias been printed in English by AVhiston 
{Authentic Pecords, i, 206, etc.) and Cotton, The five 
Books of Maccabees. Introd. p. xxxviii, etc. See Mac- 
cabees, Fofktii Book of (b). 

II. Contents. — This book contains the history of the 
Jews from Heliodorns's attempt to plunder the treasury 
at Jerusalem till the time when Herod revelled in the 
noblest blood of the Jews, and completed the tragedy 
of the Maceabivan princes by slaughtering his own wife 
Mariamne, her mother Alexandra, and bis own two sons 
Alexander and Aristobulus, i. e. B.C. 184 to B.C. 6, thus 
embracing a period of 178 years. The subjoined table 
shows the parallelism between the narrative recorded in 
this book and the accounts contained in 1 and 2 Macc. 
and tlic works of Josephus. 

III. Historical and Religious Character. — It will be 
seen from the annexed table that the first part of 
this production (i-xix), which embraces the Maccaba?an 


MACCABEES 


5 Macc. 

S3 

3 

U 

a 

3 

Joseph. 

Antiq. 

S 

Josephus. 

A nliq. 

War. 



iii 


xxvii 

xiii, 19 

i, 3 

u 



xii, 2 

xxviii 

xiii, 20, 21 

i, 3 

in 

i 

V 

xii, 6,7 

xxix 

xiii, 21, 22 

i, 3 

iv 


vi, 18-31 

[4 Macc. v, vi] 

xxx 

xiii, 23 






xxxi 

xiii, 24 

1,4 

V 


vii 

[4 Macc. viii-x, 

xxxii 

xiii, 24 

i, 4 




12; xv, 13-23] 

xxxiii 

xiii, 24 

i, 4 





xxxiv 

xiv, 1 

i, 5 

V! 

ii 


xii, 8 [liar, i, 2] 

XXXV 

xiv, 2, 3 

1, 5 





xxxvi 

xiv, 4-8 


vii 

ii, 49-iv 

viii 

xii, 8-11 

xxxvii 

xiv, 8 

i, 5 

viii 

vi 

ix 

xii, 13 

xxxviii 

xiv, 9, 10 

i, 6 

ix 

iv, 36, etc. 

X 

xii, 1 1 

xxxix 

xiv, 10 

i, 6 

X 

v 

X 

xii, 12 

xi 

xiv, 11 

i, 6, 7 

xi 


xi, xii 


xii 

xiv, 12 


xii 




xiii 

xiv, 14, 15 

5, 7 

xiii 

viii, 24, etc. 


xii, 17 

xliii 

xiv, 15 

i, 8 

xiv 


xii, 32-37 


xliv 

xiv, 16, 17 


XV 

vi 

xiii 

•xii, 14 

xiv 

xiv, 17, 18 

i, 9 

xvi 

vii, 3 

xiv, xv 

xii, 7 

xlvi 

xiv, 19 

i, 9 

xvii 

ix, 1-22 


xii, 18, 19 

xlvii 

xiv, 19, 20 

i, 9 

xviii 

ix, 28-72 


xiii, 1-10 

xlviii 

xiv, 22, 23 

i, 10 

xix 

xiii-xvi 


xiii, 11-14 

xlix 

xiv, 24, 25 

i, 11 

XX 



xiii, 15 

1 

xiv, 26, 27 

i, 11,12 

xxi 



xiii, 16, 17 

li 

xiv, 27 

i, 12 

xxii 



xiii, 17 

Iii 

xiv, 27 

i, 13 




xiii, 18 

liii 

xv, 1' 

i, 13 

xxiii 



xiii, 8, 20 

liv 

xv, 1,2,9 


xxiv 



xiii, 9 ; xvii, 3 ; 

iv 

xv, 2, 3 


xxv 



xviii, 2 

lvi 

xv, 6-8 

i, 14 




[liar, ii, 7] 

lvii 

xv, 9, 10 

i, 15 

xx vi 



xiii, 18 

1 viii 

xv, 11 

i, 17 




[War, i, 3] 

lix 

xvi, 1,2,6, 

i, 17 






7, 8, 11. 







12,16,17 



period, is to a great extent parallel with 1 and 2 Maec., 
whilst the second part, which records the post-Macca- 
b:ean history down to the birth of Christ (xx-lix), is 
parallel with Josephus, Ant. xiii, 15-xvi, 17 ; War, i, 3- 
17. The historical worth of 5 Mace, is therefore easily j 
ascertained by comparing its narrative with that of 1 and 
2 Macc., and with the corresponding portions of Jose- 
phus. By this means it will be seen that, notwith- 
standing its several historical and chronological blun- 
ders (compare 5 Macc. x, 1G, 17, with 2 Maec. x, 29 ; 5 
Macc. ix, with 1 Mace, vii, 7 ; 5 Macc. viii, 1-8, with 1 
Macc. ix, 73; xii,48; Joseph. A nt. xiii, II ; 5 Macc. xx, 
17, with A nt. xiii, 15; 5 Macc. xxi, 17, with Ant. vii, 
12), especially when recording foreign history (comp. 5 
Macc. xii), it is a trustworthy and valuable narrative. 
There can be no question that some of its blunders are 
owing to mistakes committed by transcribers (e. g. the 
name Felix , which stands five times for three different 
persons, 5 Macc. iii, 14; vii, 8, 34, eomp. with 1 Macc. 
iii, 10; 2 Maec. v, 22; viii, 33; the name Gorgias , 5 
Maec. x, is a mistake for Timotheus , as is evident from 
2 Macc. x; Joseph. Ant . xii, 11 ; so also two for nine, 5 
Macc. xix, 8); and that, as a 'whole, it is far more sim- 
ple and natural, and far less blundering and miraculous, 
and therefore more credible than 2 Macc. As to its re- 
ligious character, the book shows most distinctly that 
the Jews of those days firmly believed in the survival 
of the soul after the death of the body, in a general res- 
urrection of the dead, and in a future judgment (v. 12, 
13, 17, 22, 43, 48-51 ; lix, 14, etc.). 

IV. .4 uthor , Date, and Original Language — This book 
is a compilation, made in Hebrew, by a Jew who lived 
after the destruction of Jerusalem, from ancient Hebrew 
memoirs or chronicles, which were written shortly after 
the events transpired. This is evident from the whole 
complexion of the document, even in the translation — 
for the original has not as yet come to light — as may be 
seen from the few features here offered for considera- 
tion : 1. When speaking of the dead (xv, 11, 15; xii, 1 ; 
xxi, 17) the compiler uses the well-known euphemisms, 
Godbe merciful to him~^bv Cmi ; to whom 

= which eamc into vogue among 

the Jews in the Talmudic period (comp. Tosiphta Chul- 
lin, 100, a; Zunz, Zur Geschichte, p. 338), and arc used 
among the Jews to the present day, thus showing that 
the compiler was a Jew, and lived after the destruction 
of the Temple. 2. He calls the Hebrew Scriptures (iii, 
3, 9) the twenty-four books = a name 

which is thoroughly Jewish, and came into use long af- 
ter the close of the Hebrew canon ; leaves Torah (iT*.in), 
the Hebrew name for the Pentateuch, untranslated (xxi, 


615 MACCABEES, FESTIVAL OF THE 

9), in accordance with the Jewish custom ; speaks of 
the deity as the great and good God — bTO bx 

(i, 8, 13, 15 ; v, 27 ; vii, 21, 22 ; viii, 5, 11 ; ix, 4 ; x, 15 ; 
xi, 8 ; xii, 1 ; xv, 4 ; xvi, 24 ; xxviii, 4 ; xxxv, 9 ; xlviii, 
14; lvii, 35; lix, 58); and names Jerusalem the city of 
the holy house (xx, 17 ; xxi, 1 ; xxiii, 5; xxviii, 23, 34, 
37 ; xxx, 8 ; xxxv, 4, 83 ; xxxvi, 6, 38, 39; xxxvii, 3, 
5 ; xxxviii, 5 ; Iii, 7, 24 ; lix, G8) ; city of the holy house 
of God (xxxi, 10) ; or simply holy city (xvi, 11,17; xx, 
18; xxi, 2G; xxxiv, 7; xxxv, 32; xxxvi, 9, 19, 25; 
xxxviii, 3; xii, 15; xliii, 12; xlix, 5; 1, 1G; liv, 13, 2G; 
Iv, 27 ; lvii, 22 ; lix, 2) ; holy house (xx, 7, 17 ; xxiii, 3 ; 
xxxvi, 35 ; 1, 8 ; Iii, 19 ; liii, G ; lvi, 17, 44 ; lix, 35, G8) ; 
house of God (vii, 21 ; ix, 7 ; xi, 7 ; xv, 14; xvi, 1G, 17; 
xxi, II ; xx vii, 4 ; xxxiv, 10; li, 5; Iii, 31 ; liv, 13 ; Iv, 
20); the Temple he calls the house of the sanctuary = 
uJTpEll tVO (viii, 11), in accordance with the later 
Hebrew idiom. 3. This later date of the compilation 
of the book is corroborated by the fact that the compiler 
refers to the destruction of Jerusalem (xxi, 30), and to 
the period of the second Temple, as something past 
(xxii, 9). 4. He speaks of the original author of the 

book as a distinet person (xxv, 5; Iv, 25), and explains 
the original writer’s allusions (lvi, 45). 5. The original 

writer of the work must have lived before the destruc- 
tion of Jerusalem, for he terminates his narrative six 
years before this catastrophe, and does not know of any 
of the calamities which befcl his brethren after the con- 
quest of Palestine by Titus. His name is unknown ; all 
that we can gather from this book is that he is also the 
author of other historical works which are now lost, as 
lie himself refers to them (lix, 9G), and, judging from his 
terse and experienced style, it is not at all improbable 
that he was the public chronographcr. The book is en- 
tirely devoid of the Ilagadic legends which form a very 
striking characteristic of the Jewish productions of a 
later age. Gratz ( Geschichte der Juden, v, 281) identi- 
fies it with an Arabic chronicle written about A.D. 900, 
entitled “Torieh al Makkabain, Jussuff lbn-G’org’on,” 
History of the Maccabees , or Joseph b.-G orion, a part of 
which he says is printed in the London Polyglot under 
the title of A ?-abic Book of Maccabees, and the whole of 
which, extending to the time of Titus, is in two Bodleian 
MSS. (Uri, Nos. 782, 829). He moreover tells us that it 
is this work which the well-known Hebrew chronicler 
called Josippon [see Josirrox ben-Goriox] translated 
into Hebrew, and supplemented, and this he has prom- 
ised to prove at some future time. We must confess that 
we are unable to trace the identity; and we arc aston- 
ished at Dr. Davidson’s confident assertion that “ it is 
another form or recension of our book [i. e. 5 Mace.] 
which exists in the work of Joseph ben-Gorion or Josip- 
pon, a legendary Jewish history 7 ” {Introduction to the Old 
Testament , iii, 4GG). 

V. Versions and Literature. — Though this book is in 
our estimation as important as 2 Macc., yet there has 
hardly anything been done to elucidate its narrative. 
In the absence of the original Hebrew, the Arabic ver- 
sion of it, printed in the Paris and London Polyglots, 
is the text upon which we must rely. The editors of 
this version have not even given any account of the 
IMS. from which it has been taken. A Latin translation 
of it b} r Gabriel Sionita is given in both Polyglots ; a 
French translation is given in the appendix to De Sacy’s 
Bible: another French translation, by M. Baubrun, is 
given in vol.iii of Le Maitre’s Bible; and Calmet trans- 
lated chapters xx-xxvi, containing the history of John 
Ilyrcanus, which he thought Sixtus Scnensis had taken 
for the legitimate 4 Macc. The only English version 
of it is that by Cotton, The Five Books of Maccubees 
(Oxford, 1832). 

Maccabees, Festival of the. In the 4th cen- 
tury, when fasts and festivals had greatly multiplied, 
not only were festivals of Christian martyrs celebrated, 
but also those of some of the more eminent martyrs of 
the Old Testament. The conduct of the Maccabees (q. 



MACCARTHY 


G16 


MACE 


v.) ill opposing Antioclius Epiphanes (q. v.), and dying 
in defence of the Jewish law, seems to have been gen- 
erally celebrated at this time. The authors of that pe- 
riod are extravagant in their commendations of these 
patriots. Chrysostom has three homilies on the sub- 
ject. At Antioch there was a ehureli called by the 
name of the Maccabees; and Augustine, who wrote two 
sermons on their festival, calls them Christian martyrs. 
The reason assigned for the adoption of this festival 
was that, as these men had suffered martyrdom so 
bravely before Christ’s coming, what, would they not 
have done had they lived after him, and been favored 
with the death of Christ for their example? The Ro- 
man Martvrology places this festival on August 1st. 
Augustine and Gregory Nazianzen allude to this feast. 
— Farrar, Eccles. Diet . s. v. ; Eadie, Eccles. Cyclop . s. v. 

Maccarthy, Nicholas Tuite de, a noted Roman 
Catholic pulpit orator, was born of a noble family at 
Dublin, Ireland, May 19, 1769. llis parents removed to 
France on account of religious persecution, and Nicholas 
was educated at the College du Plessis, later at the Col- 
lege de Franee, and then at the Sorboune. During the 
Revolution he returned to his parents at Toulouse, and 
lived there in great retirement, his time devoted mainly 
to study. In 1814 he became a priest, and early gained 
for liimself distinction as a pulpit orator. In 1819 he 
entered the i: Society of Jesus.” Thereafter he travelled 
from place to place, preaching everywhere with great 
success. His name had already, in 1819, been regarded 
at court, and he had then declined a bishopric, prefer- 
ring his association with the Jesuits to an official posi- 
tion. In 1826 he was invited to preach before the royal 
household, and created quite a sensation. Now his 
name was placed among the foremost of the nation. 
After the fall of Charles X, Maccarthy moved to Savoy, 
and thence to Rome, where he died, May 3, 1833. His 
sermons, which were published in 2 vols. Svo (Paris, 
1836), were translated into German and other modern 
languages. See the excellent article in Hoefer, Xoui\ 
Bioy. Generate, xxxii, 482 ; Regensburg Real-Encyllopa- 
elie , s. v. 

Maccarty, Thaddeus, a Congregational minister, 
was born in Poston in 1721; graduated from Harvard 
University in 1739; studied theology three years, and 
was ordained pastor of the Congregational Church at 
Kingston, Mass., on Nov. 3, 1742. When Whitetield ap- 
peared in that region in 1745, he appointed a committee 
“ to prevent the intrusion of roving exhorters.” A false 
report spread that Whitefield was to open communion 
for him, whereupon his parishioners nailed the doors and 
windows, and Maccartliy’s request for dismission was 
granted, lie then preached in Worcester, Mass., from 
Nov. 27. 1746, until the time of his death, July 20, 1784. 
llis publications are, Farewell Sermon at Kingston (1745): 
— Two Discourses on the Day of the Annual Fast (before 
the expedition into Canada, 1759): and other sermons. 
JSee Sprague, Annals of the A mer. Pulpit , i, 423. 

Macclintock, Samuel, D.D., a Congregational 
minister, was born May 1, 1732, at Medford, Mass. ; grad- 
uated at Princeton in 1751, and in 1756 was ordained 
pastor in Greenland, N. II.. where he labored until his 
death, April 27, 1804, excepting only the Revolutionary 
period, when he acted as chaplain. He was a participant 
in the battle of Bunker llill. and figures prominently in 
Trumbull's picture of that great event, lie published 
A Sermon on the Justice of God in the Mortality of Man 
(1759): — The Artifices of Deceivers detected, and Chris- 
tians warned against them , a sermon (1770) : — Herodias, 
or Cruelty and Revenge the Effects of unlawful Pleasure, 
a sermon (1772) : — A Sermon at the Commencement of the 
new Constitution of Xew Hampshire (1784): — An Epis- 
tolary Correspondence with Rev. John C, Ogden (1791) : 
— The Choice, a sermon (1798} : — .1 n Ovation commem- 
orative of Washington (1800). See Sprague, A finals, i, 
525; Christum Examiner, 18 14, p. 404. 

Maccovius or Makowsky, John, a Polish Re- 


formed theologian and writer, was born at Lobzenic in 
1588 ; studied at the principal German universities; was 
received doctor of theology at Franecker in 1614; ap- 
pointed extraordinary professor of theology in that uni- 
versity in 1615; ordinary professor in 1616; and died in 
1644. He was particularly renowned as an opponent of 
the Jesuits, Soeinians, and Arminians, and by his severi- 
ty against the latter created many enemies. In his own 
Church he caused much disturbance by his attempts to 
restore the use of the scholastic method in the treat- 
ment of dogmatics. He used it first in his lectures, and 
afterwards also in his writings. See his Collegia theo- 
logica (Amstelod. 1623, 1631) : — Loci communes theologici 
(Fran. 1626) : — Distinctiones et regulee theologlcee et phi- 
losophies (published by Nicholas Arnold, Amsterd. 1656; 
Geneva, 1661). He was thereupon accused of heresy 
before the States of Friesland, at the instigation, it is 
said, of his colleague Sibrand Lubbertus. The affair was 
brought by Maccovius himself before the Synod of Dort, 
and a commission, having been appointed to investigate 
the case, reported that “ Maccovium nullius Gentilismi, 
Judaismi, Pelagianismi, Soeinianismi, aut alterius cujus- 
cunque hrereseos reum teneri ; immeritoque ilium fuisse 
accusatum. Peccasse eum, quod quibusdam ambiguis 
et obseuris phrasibus Scholastieis usus sit; quod Scho- 
lasticnm doeendi modum eonetur in Belgieis Academiis 
introducere ; quod eas selegerit qurcstiones disceptandas, 
quibus gravantur Ecelesia? Belgieie. Monendum esse 
eum, ut cum Spiritu saneto loquatur, non cum Bellar- 
mino aut Suarezio. Hoc vitio vertendum ipsi, quod dis- 
tinctionem suffieientue et efficientue mortis Christi as- 
seruerit esse futilem ; quod negaverit, hnmanum genus 
lapsum esse objeetum pnvdestinationis; quod dixerit, 
Deum velle et decernere peceata; quod dixerit, Deuni 
nullo modo velle omnium hominnm salutem ; quod dix- 
erit, duas esse eleetiones” (see Epp . eccl. et theol.pircest, et 
erud . viror. [Amst. 1684], p. 572 sq.). The synod adopt- 
ed the report, and acted accordingly. Still this did not 
purge the Reformed Church of the scholastic method, as 
neither Maccovius himself nor his disciples abandoned 
it. See J. Coeeeji Or. hah. in funere J. M. (1644) ; Bavle, 
Diet. Hist. et. Ci'it. iii, 290 sq. ; Heinrichs, Versuch einer 
Gesch. d. christi. Glauhensicahrheiten, p. 355; Sebrbckh, 
Christi . K. G. s . d. Ref. v, 148; Herzog, Real-EncyJdop. 
viii, 745; Hagenbach, Hist . of Doctr. ii, 170 sq. ; Gass, 
Dogmengesch. ii, 441 sq. See Scholasticism. 

Macdill, D AVin, D.D., a Presbyterian minister, 
was born in South Carolina, studied under the celebrated 
American Presbyterian pulpit orator and theologian Dr. 
John Mason, of New York, and commenced preaching 
in Ohio. Macdill spent the latter part of his life in suc- 
cessfully performing the duties of an editor and director 
in collegiate and theological institutions. He died June 
15, 1870. 

Mace, Francois, a French theologian and Biblical 
writer, was born in Paris in 1640, and became success- 
ively canon and eurate of Sainte-Opportune. He was 
i also counsellor and almoner to the king. He died in 
I Paris Feb. 5, 1721. His works are, Psaumes et Cantiques 
de VEglise (Paris, 1677): — Abrege historique, chronolo- 
| gique. et moral de VAncien et du Xonreau Testament (Par. 

, 1704, 2 vols. 12mo): — La Science de VEcriture Saint e, 
j reduite en quatre tables generales (Paris, 1708, 8vo), con- 
taining a comparison of the Old with the New Testa- 
ment : — Les Testaments des douze Patriarchies (Par. 1713, 
12mo) : — Meditations (of Busee, 2 vols. 12mo) : — L' Imi- 
tation de Jesus-Christ (Par. 1698-9) :—Epitres et Evan- 
giles des dimanches et fetes, et pour le Carcme et I'A vent 
(2d ed. Par. 2 vols. 12mo) : — Melanie, ou la veuve chari- 
table : — V Esprit de Saint A u gust in, ou analyse de tout 
les ouvrages de ce p'ere (5007 pages 8vo) : — Explication 
dcs Propheties de VA ncien et du Xonreau Testament qui 
prouvent que Jesus-Christ est le Fils de Dieu, le verita- 
ble Messie et que hi Religion Chretienne est la rraie et 
seule religion, ouvrage en deux parties et destine “ a con - 
fondre les atkees, les impies, les libertins, les Juifs, les he - 


MACED0 


617 


MACEDONIA 


retiques — Ilistoire critique lies papes depuis Saint 
Pierre jusqu'a A lexandre VII. See lloefer, Xouv. Biog. 
Generate , vol. xxxii, s. v. 

Macedo, Antonio, a Portuguese Jesuit and 
writer, was born at Coimbra in 1612. He was regent 
and instructor among the Jesuits, and passed two years 
in the African missions. He had charge of the confes- 
sional of the Vatican church until 1671, from which 
time he directed the College of Evora, and afterwards 
that of Lisbon. He died at Lisbon in 1693. His works 
are, among others, Elogia nonnulla et descriptio Corona - 
t ion is Christime , regime Suedes (Stockholm, 1650): — 
Lusitania infulata et purpurata , seu q)ontifdbus et car - 
dinalibus illustrata (Paris, 1663, 1673, 4to ) : — De Vita et 
Moribus Joannis de A Imeida (Padua, 1669 ; Rome, 1671) : 
— Did tutelares orbis Christiani (Lisbon, 1687). 

Mace do, Francisco de, a Portuguese Jesuit and 
prolific writer, was born at Coimbra in 1596, entered the 
Jesuit order at fourteen, and became successively teacher 
of rhetoric, philosophy, and chronology. In 1630 he 
left the Jesuits and entered the order of Cordeliers, with 
the surname Frangois de Saint- A ugustin , under which 
most of his works are published. He was called to the 
professorship of polemic theology in the College of the 
Propaganda at Rome, and afterwards (1657) visited 
Venice, lecturing de omni re scibili . He occupied the chair 
of moral philosophy at the University of Padua from 
1667 until the time of his death in May, 1680. In 1675 
he had composed 53 panegyrics, 60 Latin discourses, 32 
funeral orations, 123 elegies, 115 epitaphs, 212 dedica- 
tory epistles, 700 familiar epistles, 2600 epic poems, 110 
odes, 3000 epigrams, 4 Latin comedies, 2 tragedies, and 
1 Spanish satire, lie had a sharp discussion with car- 
dinal Ilona on the subject of consubstantiation, and with 
cardinal Noris on the monacliism of St. Augustine. 
Among his writings ar e Apotheosis S. Francisci Xaverii 
(Lisbon, 1620, 8vo), an epic poem : — Thesaurus Erudi - 
tionis pro sole , Virularium eloquent ice (denoting the au- 
thor’s vanity) : — Scrinium S. August ini de prcedestina- 
tione gratae et libero arbitrio (Paris, 1648, 4to; 3d edit. 
Loud. 1654) : — Controversia ecclesiastica inter F. F. Mi- 
no ns (1(553, 8vo) : — Lituus Lusitanus, contra tubam An- 
glicanam (Lond. 1652, 4to): — Encyclopaedia, in Agonem 
litteratorum product a (Rome, 1657): — De cladbus Patri, 
iv lib. (Rome, 1660) : — Theatrum Me teo rologicu m (Rome, 
1661, 8vo): — Schulee Theologice positives (Rome, 1664): 
— Medulla histories ecclesiastics emaculata : — Collutiones 
doctrince S. Thomas et Scoti, cum differentiis inter utrum- 
que (Padua, 1671, 2 vols.) : — Joannis Bona Doctrines de 
usu ferment ati in sacrificio missce (Ingolstadt [Venice], 
1673, 8vo; reprint Verona) : — Disquisitio de ritu azymi 
et ferment ati (Verona, 1673, 4to): — Myrothecium morale 
documentorum xiii (Padua, 1675, 4to) : — Schema Congre- 
gations S. Officii Romani cum elogiis cardinalium et co- 
rollarium de. infallibili auctoritate summi pontificis in 
mysteriis Jidei proponendis (Padua, 1676, 4to) : — Elogia 
poetica in Hemp. Venetian, cum iconibus (Padua, 1680); 
— De fncurnationis Mysterio (Padua, 1681), containing 
also Itinerarium sanefi A ugustini. See Hoefer, Xouv. 
Biog. Generate , s. v. ; Wetzer and Welte, Kirchen-Lexi- 
kon, xii, 748. 

Macedo'nia (MmcecWta, from a supposed founder 
Maceduus or Macedon), a name originally confined to 
the district hung north of Thessaly, east of the Car- 
dauian mountains (a prolongation of Mount Pindus), 
and west of the River Axius; but afterwards extended 
to the country lying to the north of Greece Proper, hav- 
ing on the east Thrace and the vEga?an Sea, on the west 
the Adriatic and Illyria, on the north Dardania and 
Mcesia, and on the south Thessaly and Epirus. “In a 
rough and popular description it is enough to say that 
Macedonia is the region bounded inland by the range 
of Ilrcmus or the Balkan northwards and the chain of 
Pindus westwards, beyond which the streams flow re- 
spectively to the Danube and Adriatic; that it is sep- 
arated from Thessaly on the south by the Cambunian 


hills, running easterly from Pindus to Olympus and the 
iEgaean ; and that it is divided on the east from Thrace 
by a less definite mountain boundary running south- 
wards from Hiemus. Of the space thus inclosed, two 
of the most remarkable physical features are two great 
plains, one watered by the Axins, which comes to the 
sea at the Thermaic Gulf, not far from Thessalonica ; 
the other by the Strymon, which, after passing near 
Philippi, flows out below Amphipolis. Between the 
mouths of these two rivers a remarkable peninsula pro- 
jects, dividing itself into three points, on the farthest 
of which Mount Atlios rises nearly into the region of 
perpetual snow.” The whole region was intersected by 
mountains (among these were the famous Olympus and 
Athos), which supplied numerous streams (especially 
the Strymon and Axius), rendering the intervening 
valleys and plains highly fruitful (Pliny, iv, 17 ; Mela, 

I ii, 3 ; Ptol. iii, 13). The natives were celebrated from 
the earliest times for their hardy independence and mil- 
itary discipline. The country is supposed to have been 
first peopled by Chittim or Kittim, a son of Javan (Gen. 
x, 4), and in that case it is probable that the Macedo- 
nians are sometimes intended when the word Chittim 
! occurs in the Old Testament. Macedonia was the orig- 
inal kingdom of Philip and Alexander, by means of 
whose victories the name of the Macedonians became 
celebrated throughout the East. The rise of the great 
empire formed by Alexander is described by the prophet 
Daniel under the emblem of a goat with one horn (Dan. 
j viii, 3-8). As the horn was a general symbol of power, 
the oneness of the horn implies merely the unity of that 
power. It is, however, curious and interesting to know 
that Daniel did describe Macedonia under its usual 
symbol, as gems and other antique objects still exist in 
which that country is represented under the figure of a 
one-horned goat. (See Murray’s Truth of Revelation 
Illustrated , and the art. Macedonia, in Taylor’s Cahnet.) 
• See Goat. Monuments are still extant in which this 
symbol occurs, as one of the pilasters of Persepolis, 
where a goat is depicted with one immense horn on his 
forehead, and a Persian holding the horn, by which is 



Persepolitan emblem of Macedou. 


intended the subjection of Macedon by Persia. In 
Esth. xvi, 10, Haman is described as a Macedonian, 


MACEDONIA 


618 


MACEDONIUS 


and in xvi, 14 lie is said to have contrived his plot for | 
the purpose of transferring the kingdom of the Persians 
to the Macedonians. This suniciently betrays the late 
date and spurious character of these apocryphal chap- 
ters; but it is curious thus to have our attention turned 
to the early struggle of Persia and Greece. Macedonia 
played a great part in this struggle, and there is little 
doubt that Ahasuerus is Xerxes. The history of the 
Maccabees opens with vivid allusions to Alexander, the 
son of Philip, the Macedonian king (’A \t£avdpog 6 rov 
<Pi\iirTrov 6 fiaoiXei'Q o MaKtcwv), who came out of 
the land of Chet dim and smote Darius, king of the 
Persians and Medes (1 Mace, i, 1), and who reigned first 
among the Grecians (ib. vi, 2). A little later we have 
the Roman conquest of Perseus, “king of the Citims,” 
recorded (ib. viii, 5). Subsequently in these Jewish 
annals we find the term “Macedonians” used for the 
soldiers of the Seleucid successors of Alexander (2 Macc. 
viii, 20). In what is called the Fifth Book of Macca- 
bees this usage of the word is very frequent, and is ap- 
plied not only to the Seleucid princes at Antioch, but to 
the Ptolemies at Alexandria (see Cotton’s Five Books 
of Maccabees, Oxf. 1832). When subdued by the Ro- 
mans (Livy, xliv) under Paulus yEmilius (B.C. 1G8), 
Macedonia was divided into four provinces (Livy, xlv, 
29). Macedonia Prima was on the east of the Strymon, 
and had Amphipolis for the capital. Macedonia Se- 
cunda stretched between the Strymon and the Axius, 



Coins of Macedonia. 


with Thessalonica for its metropolis. The third and 
fourth districts lay to the south and the west. Of two, 
if not three of these districts, coins arc still extant 
(Akcrraan, Numismatic Must, of the X. T. p. 43). Af- 
terwards (B.C. 142) the whole of Greece was divided 
into two great provinces, Macedonia and Achaia. Sec 
Acuaia; Greece. Macedonia therefore constituted a 
Roman province, governed by a proprietor, with the 
title of proconsul ( provincia proconsular™ %• Tacit. A n- 
nal. i, 7G ; Sueton. Claud. 2b), in the time of Christ and 
his apostles. (Sec fully in Smith's Did. of Class. Gear/. 
s. v.) The apostle Paul being summoned in a vision, 
while at Troas, to preach the Gospel in Macedonia, pro- 
ceeded thither, and founded the churches of Thessalo- 


nica and Philippi (Acts xvi, 9), A.D. 48. This occasions 
repeated mention of the name, either alone (Acts xviii, 
5; xix, 21; Rom. xv, 2G; 2 Cor. i, 16; xi, 9; Phil, iv, 
15), or along with Achaia (2 Cor. ix, 2; 1 Thess. i, 8). 
The principal cities of Macedonia were Amphipolis, 
Thessalonica, Pella, and Pelagonia (Livy, xlv, 29) ; the 
towns of the province named in the New Testament 
are Philippi, Amphipolis, Thessalonica, Neapolis; Apol- 
lonia, and Beroea. When the Roman empire was di- 
vided, Macedonia fell to the share of the emperor of the 
East, but in the 15th century it fell into the hands of 
the Turks. It now forms a part of Turkey in Europe, 
and is called Makdonia . It is inhabited by Walla- 
chians, Turks, Greeks, and Albanians. The south-eastern 
part is under the pasha of Salonika ; the northern under 
beys or agas, or forms free communities. The capital, 
Salonika, the ancient Thessalonica, is a commercial town, 
and the only one of any consequence, containing about 
70,000 inhabitants. (See Cellarii Notit. ii, 828 sq. ; Man- 
ner!, vii, 420 sq. ; Conybeare and Howson, i, 315.) On 
the question whether Luke includes Thrace in Mace- 
donia, see Thrace. “Nothing can exceed the interest 
and impressiveness of the occasion (Acts xvi, 9) when a 
new and religious meaning was given to the well-known 
din)p Ma/crdwy of Demosthenes (Phil, i, p. 43), and when 
this part of Europe was designated as the first to he 
trodden by an apostle. The account of St. Paul’s first 
journey through Macedonia (Acts xvi, 10-xvii, 15) is 
marked by copious detail and well-defined inci- 
dents. At the close of this journey he returned 
from Corinth to Syria by sea. On the next oc- 
casion of visiting Europe, though he both went 
and returned through Macedonia (Acts xx, 1- 
6), the narrative is a very slight sketch, and 
the route is left uncertain except as regards 
Philippi. Many years elapsed before St. Paul 
visited this province again ; but from 1 Tim. i, 
3, it is evident that he did accomplish the wish 
expressed during his first imprisonment (Phil, 
ii, 24). The character of the Macedonian Chris- 
tians is set before us in Scripture in a very favor- 
able light. The candor of the Beneans is highly com- 
mended (Acts xvii, 11); the Thessalonians were evi- 
dently objects of St. Paul’s peculiar affection (1 Thess. 
ii, 8, 17-20; iii, 10); and the Philippians, besides their 
general freedom from blame, are noted as remarkable 
for their liberality and self-denial (Phil, iv, 10, 14-19; 
see 2 Cor. ix, 2; xi, 9). It is worth noticing, as a 
fact almost typical of the change which Christianity 
has produced in the social life of Europe, that the fe- 
male element is conspicuous in the records of its intro- 
duction into Macedonia. The Gospel was first preached 
there to a small congregation of women (Acts xvi, 13) ; 
the first convert was a woman (ib. ver. 14) ; and, at least 
at Philippi, women were prominent as active workers 
in the cause of religion (Phil, iv, 2, 3). It should be 
observed that, in St. Paul’s time, Macedonia was well 
intersected by Roman roads, especially by the great Via 
Egnatia, which connected Philippi and Thessalonica, 
and also led towards Illyricum (Rom. xv, 19).” For the 
antiquities of this region, see Cousinery, Voyage dans le 
Macedoine (Paris, 1831); Leake, Travels in Northern 
Greece (London, 1835) ; compare also Holland, Travels 
in the Ionian Isles, etc. (Loud. 1812-13). 

Macedonian (M aKtdibv) occurs in the A. V. of 
the N. T. only in Acts xxvii, 2. In the other cases 
(Acts xvi, 9; xix, 29; 2 Cor. ix, 2, 4) our translators 
render it “ of Macedonia.” The “ Macedonians” arc also 
mentioned in the Apocrypha (Esth. xvi, 10, 14; 1 Macc. 
i, 1 ; 2 Macc. viii. 20). See Macedonia. 

Macedonians. See Macedonius. 

Macedonius, a patriarch of Constantinople, flour- 
ished in the 4th century. After the death of bishop Al- 
exander, of Constantinople, in 33G, Macedonius and Pau- 
lus became candidates for his succession. The latter was 
elected by the Athanasian party, but was soon after (338) 



MAC GILL 


619 


deposed by the emperor Constance, who put Eusebius 
of Nicomedia in his place. Upon the death of Euse- 
bius, Paul us was reinstated, but was again deposed by 
the Semi-Arian emperor, who in 342 pronounced Mace- 
donius patriarch, notwithstanding the opposition of the 
people, who rose in insurrection, resulting in great 
bloodshed (comp. Gibbon, Decline mid Fall of the Roman 
Eirqrire [Milman’s ed.],ii,357 sq.). The orthodox rival, 
however, succeeded, after a time, in making his influence 
felt throughout the country, and Macedonius was finally 
obliged to yield him the patriarchate. In 350, after 
having thoroughly reorganized his party, Macedonius 
returned, and by the aid of the civil authorities regain- 
ed the superintendence over the churches. His decided 
connection with the Semi-Arians, and the widening of 
the gulf between the Arians and Semi-Arians, proved, 
however, fatal to his credit, and in 360 his enemies suc- 
ceeded in securing his deposition by a synod at Con- 
stantinople. He is supposed to have died soon after. 
His followers at once adopted his name. The Macedo- 
nians are generally regarded as Semi-Arians of that 
period, especially those in and around Constantinople, 
in Thrace, and in the surrounding provinces of Asia 
Minor (Sozomen, iv, 27). There is, however, one point 
in which the Macedonians, although not opposed to, are 
yet distinguished from the Semi-Arians; it is their idea 
of the antagonism of the divinity and the homoousia of 
the Holy Spirit. On tlais point the Macedonians are 
identical with the Pneumatomachians, and therefore the 
latter finally joined the former. They professed that 
the Holy Spirit is a divine energy diffused throughout 
the universe, but denied its being distinct, as a person, 
from the Father and the Son (Epiphanius, Hceres. 74; 
Augustine, De Hceres. c. 52). In 381 Theodosius the Great 
assembled a council of one hundred and fifty bishops at 
Constantinople (second oecumenical), which condemned 
this doctrine, and the Macedonians soon after disappear- 
ed. See Mosheim, Eccles. Hist, i, 305 sq. (N. Y. 1854, 3 
vols. 8vo); llase, Hist, of the Christ. Church, p. 115 (X. 
York, 1855) ; Basilius, De Spirit u S. opp . (ed. Gam.), iii, 
1 sq. ; Thilo, Bibl.pp . Gr. dogm. i, 606 s. ; ii, 182 s. ; A. 
Maji, Nov. pair. bibl. t. iv (Rom. 1 847) ; Didymus, D Spir. 
Scto . interpr. Hier. (in Opp. Ilier. ed. Mart. IV, i, 494 sq.) ; 
Walch, Ketzergeschichte , vol. iii ; Bauer, Dreieinigkeits- 
lehre , vol. i ; Neander, Hist, of Christ. Dogmas , i, 350 sq. : 
Milman, Lat. Christianity, i, 334, 338 sq. (J. II. W.) 

Mac Gill, Stevenson, D.D., a Scotch divine of con- 
siderable note, was born at Port Glasgow Jan. 19, 1765, 
of pious parents. lie early chose the service of his 
Master, and conducted all his studies with a view to the 
ministry. He was educated at the University of Glas- 
gow, and was licensed to preach in 1790; was appoint- 
ed minister at Eastwood in 1791 ; was transferred m 1797 
to the Tron Church, Glasgow, and later (1814) was also 
made a professor of theology in his alma mater. He 
died Aug. 18, 1839. Dr. Mac Gill “ commended himself 
to every man’s conscience” not only by his ability in 
the pulpit, and his laborious visitations of his congrega- 
tion and parish, but by the Christian interest he took in 
the public institutions and charities of the city — in the 
active direction he assumed of the Infirmary, the Pris- 
ons, the Magdalene and Lunatic Asylums. His services 
were also most zealously and actively rendered to “the 
Society for benefiting the Highlands and Islands of 
Scotland by means of Gallic Schools,” “ the Propaga- 
tion of the Gospel in India,” and “the Missions on be- 
half of the Jews.” In 1800 Dr. Mac Gill originated a 
clerical literary society, to which for many years he act- 
ed as secretary. It was after receiving the full appro- 
bation and friendly criticism of this literary society that 
he favored the world with Considerations addressed to a 
1 oung Clergyman (1809, 12mo), a work which, on its first 
appearance, obtained an extensive circulation, and from 
the perusal of which no young minister can fail to de- 
rive great and permanent advantage. His sermons were 
published in 1839. See Eobt. Burns, Memoir of Dr. Mac 
Gill (Edinb. 1842, 12mo); Jamieson, Dictionary of Relig- 


MACHATJLT 

ions Biography, s. v.; Alii bone, Diet, of Brit, and Amen 
Authors, s. v. 

Machaerus (Max ai pouc), a strong fortress of Pe- 
rrea, first mentioned by Josephus in connection with Al- 
exander, the son of Hyrcanus I, by whom it was built 
{Ant. xii, 16, 3 ; H r « /■, vii, 6, 2). It was delivered by his 
widow to her son Aristobulus, who first fortified it against 
Gabinius {Ant. xiv, 5, 2), to whom it afterwards surren- 
dered, and by whom it was dismantled (ib. 4 ; compare 
Strabo, xvi, 762). Aristobulus, on his escape from Rome, 
again attempted to fortify it, but it was taken after two 
days’ siege (1 Yur, vii, 6). In his account of this last 
capture by Bassus, Josephus gives a detailed description 
of the place. It was originally a tower built by Alex- 
ander Jamiaius as a check to the Arab marauders. It 
was on a lofty point, surrounded by deep valleys, and 
of immense strength, both by nature and art (compare 
Pliny, Hist. Nat. v, 15). After the fall of Jerusalem it 
was occupied by the Jewish banditti. The Jews say 
that it was visible from Jerusalem (Schwarz, Palestine , 
p. 54). Its site was identified in 1806 by Seetzen with 
the extensive ruins now called Mkrauer, on a rocky 
spur jutting out from Jebel Attarus towards the north, 
and overhanging the valley of Zerka Main ( Reise , i, 
330-4). Josephus expressly states that it was the place 
of John the Baptist’s beheading (.4?*?. xviii, 5, 2), al- 
though he had said immediately before {ib. 2) that it 
was at the time in the possession of Aretas. See John 
the Baptist. 

Machar, John, D.D., a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in Brechin, Scotland, in 1798. He was educated at 
King’s College, Aberdeen, and afterwards at the Uni- 
versity of Edinburgh. On receiving license to preach, 
he became assistant to the parish minister, and in 1828 
emigrated to Canada, and took charge of the Church 
in Kingston, C. W. In 1833 he was moderator of the 
synod; and at a meeting of lay delegates, assembled 
from all parts of the province, he was nominated com- 
missioner to proceed to Britain, and attend to the inter- 
ests of the Canadian branch of the Church of Scotland 
in one of the crises of her history. From 1846 to 1853 
he was acting principal of Queen’s College, Kingston, in 
which institution, during several sessions, he taught th£ 
Hebrew classes, and examined the candidates for license 
in the Oriental tongues. He died Feb. 7, 1868. Dr. 
Machar’s attainments both in sacred and secular learn- 
ing were exact and varied; he was familiar with English 
literature, and could read with ease Hebrew, Greek, and 
the modern languages. He was always a close student, 
an earnest preacher, and a faithful pastor. See Wilson, 
Presb. Hist. Almanac, 1864, p. 388. (J. L. S.) 

Machault, Jacques, a French Jesuit, was bom 
at Paris in 1600; entered the order at eighteen, and af- 
terwards taught ethics and philosophy, and was rector 
at Alen^on, Orleans, and Caen. He died in 1680 at 
Paris. His works are, De Missionibus Paragnarue et 
aliis in America meridionali (Paris, 1636, 8vo) : — De Re- 
bus Japonicis (Paris, 1646, 8vo) : — De Regno Cochinchi- 
nensi (Paris, 1652, 8vo) : — De Missionibus in India (Paris, 
1659, 8vo): — De Missionibus religiosornm Soc. Jesu in 
Persule (Paris, 1659, 8vo) : — De Regno Madurensi (Paris, 
1663, Svo). See Hoefer, Nonv. Biog. Generate , s. v. 

Machault, Jean de, a French Jesuit, was horn 
at Paris Oct. 25, 1561 ; was admitted into the order in 
1579 ; became professor of rhetoric at the College de 
Clermont, Paris, and afterwards rector of the College of 
Rouen. He died as provincial of Champagne March 
25, 1619, at Paris. He published In Jacobi Thuani 
historiarum libros notatiofies lectoribns utiles et necessarae 
(Ingolstadt, 4to), which was condemned to be burned. 
See Hoefer, Xour. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Machault, Jean-Baptiste de, a French schol- 
ar and Jesuit, nephew' of the foregoing, was born at Paris 
in 1591. He taught rhetoric at Paris, and directed suc- 
cessively the colleges of Rouen and Nevers. He died at 
Pontoise May 22, 1640. His works are, among others, 


aiACIIBANAI 


620 


MACHPELAH 


S.Ansehni Ccintuariensis archiep. de Felicitate Sancto- 
rum Dissertation ex scriptore Fadinero Anglo , canon, reg- 
ulari (Paris, 1639, 8vo) : — Jlistoire des evcques d'Evreux : 
— Gesta a Soc. Jes . in Regno Sinensi, sEthiopico , et Ti- 
bctino. See Hoefer, Four. Biog. Generate , s. v. 

Mach'banai (Ileb. Makbamiay', binding , 

or perhaps dad with a mantle; Sept. Ma\;«/3arat v. r. 
INI E\\ai3apat ; Vnlg. Maehbanui), the eleventh of the 
Gatlite braves who joined David’s troop in the wilder- 
ness of Adullam (1 Chron. xii, 13). B.C. cir. 1061. 

Mach'benah (Heb. Mukbena', NJZZ'Z, something 
bound on, perh. a cloak; Sept. 31 a\a^i)va v. r. 3I«y«- 
pi)vd ; Yulg. Madibena ), apparently a place in the tribe 
of Judah founded by (a person of that name, the son of) 
Sheva (1 Chron. ii, 49), and probably situated in the 
vicinity of Gibeali, in connection with which it is men- 
tioned. It is thought to have been the same with Cab- 
box (Josh, xv, 40). 

Machet, Gerard or Girard, a French cardinal, 
confessor of Charles YI1, was born at Blois in 1380 ; en- 
tered the College de Navarre, Paris, in 1391 ; was made 
doctor of divinity in 1411 ; attached himself to the Col- 
lege de Navarre as professor, was made vice-chancellor of 
that institution, and as such addressed the emperor Sigis- 
mond in 1416. Driven from his college by the Burgun- 
dian invasion (May 30, 1418), he became the confessor 
of his pupil, the future emperor, Charles YI1. He lived 
a while at Lyons. Machet was one of the clergy who 
conducted the examination of the Maid of Orleans. His 
influence in Troyes, Champagne, was powerful in open- 
ing that city and province to the army of Charles VII. 
Machet was successively canon of Paris, Chartres, Tours, 
and in 1432 bishop of Castres. He died at Tours July 
17, 1448. See Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate , s. v. 

Ma'clli (Ileb. Mali', ^ZZ:, smiting; Sept. Ma/cy*', 
Yulg. Muchi), the father of Geuel, which latter was the 
commissioner on the part of the tribe of Gad to explore 
Canaan (Numb, xiii, 15). B.C. ante 1657. 

Ma'chir (Heb. Makir', “rz^, sold ; Sept. Maystp 
and Mayi'p), the name of two men. 

1. The oldest son of Manasseh (Josh, xvii, 1), who 
even had children born to him during the lifetime of Jo- 
seph (Gen. xl, 23). B.C. 1802. His descendants were 
called Macjiirites (‘^Z’Z, Sept. 31 ayftpt, Numb. xxvi, 
29), being the offspring of Gilead (1 Chron. vii, 17), 
whose posterity settled in the land taken from the 
Amorites (Numb, xxxii, 39, 40; Deut.iii, 15; Josh, xiii, 
31 ; 1 Chron. ii, 23), but required a special enactment as 
to their inheritance, owing to the fact that the grandson 
Zelophehad had only daughters (Numb, xxvii, 1 ; xxxvi, 
1 ; Josh, xvii, 3). Once the name of 31achir is put po- 
etically as a representative of the tribe of 31anasseh east 
(Judg. v, 14). His daughter became the mother of Se- 
gub by llezron in his old age (1 Chron. ii, 21). The 
mother of 31achir was an Aramitess, and his wife was 
Maachah, the granddaughter of Benjamin, by whom he 
had several sons (1 Chron. vii, 14-16). “The family of 
3Iachir come forward prominently in the history of the 
conquest of the trails- Jordan ic portion of the Promised 
Land. In the joint expedition of Israel and Ammon, 
their warlike prowess expelled the Amoritish inhabit- 
ants from the rugged and difficult range of Gilead, and 
their bravery was rewarded by 3Ioses by the assignment 
to them of a large portion of the district, ‘half Gilead’ 
(Josh, xiii, 31), with its rich mountain pastures, and the 
towns of Ashtaroth and Fdrei, the capitals of Og’s king- 
dom (Numb, xxxii. 39, 40; Deut. iii, 15; Josh, xiii, 31 ; 
xvii, 1). The warlike renown of the family of 31achir 
is given as the reason for this grant (Josh. xvii. 1), and 
we can see the sound policy oT assigning a'frontier land 
of so much importance to the safety of the whole coun- 
try, exposed at the same time to the first brunt of the 
Syrian and Assyrian invasions, and to the never-ceasing 
predator}' inroads of the wild desert tribes, to a clan 


whose prowess and skill in battle had been fully proved 
in the subjugation of so difficult a tract (Stanley, S. and 
Pal. p. 327)” (lvitto). “The connection with Benjamin 
may perhaps have led to the selection by Abner of 31a- 
lianaim, which lay on the boundary between Gad and 
3Ianasseh, as the residence of Ishbosheth (2 Sam. ii, 8) ; 
and that with Judah may have also influenced David 
to go so far north when driven out of his kingdom” 
(Smith). 

2. A descendant of the preceding, son of Ammiel, re- 
siding at Lo-debar, who maintained the lame son of 
Jonathan until provision w r as made for him by David’s 
care (2 Sam. ix, 4, 5), and afterwards extended his hos- 
pitality to the fugitive monarch himself (2 Sam. xvii, 
27). B.C. 1037-1023. Josephus calls him the chief of 
the country of Gilead {Ant. vii, 9, 8). See David. 

Ma'chirite (Numb, xxvi, 29). See 3Iaciiir, 1. 

Mach'mas (ftfaxj^s), 1 Maec. ix, 73; elsewhere 
3IicmiAsn (q. v.). 

Machnad'ebai (Heb. Maknadbay' , ^ZTSZ'E, perh. 
what is like the liberal ? other copies read 
J fabnadbay' ; Sept. 3Iayra£a«/3oo v. r. 3I«ya£u«/3ou ; 
Vulg. Mechnedebai), an Israelite of the sons of Bani who 
divorced his Gentile wife after the exile (Ezra x, 40). 
B.C. 459. 

Machpe'lah (Heb. Makpelah', rtZSZ^Z, probably a 
portion , but, according to others, double , and so the Sept. 
^< 7 rXof>£,Vulg. duplex), the name of the plot of ground 
in Hebron containing the cave which Abraham bought 
of Ephron the llittite for a family sepulchre (Gen. xxiii, 
9), where it is described as being located in one extrem- 
ity of the field, and in ver. 17 it is stated to have been 
situated “ before 31amre,” and to have likewise contain- 
ed trees. See Mamre. The only persons mentioned in 
Scripture as buried in this cemetery are Abraham, Isaac, 
and Jacob, with their wives Sarah, Kebekah, and Leah 
(Gen. xxiii, 19 ; xxv, 9 ; xlix, 30 ; 1, 13). “ Beyond the 
passages already cited, the Bible contains no mention 
either of the name 3Iachpelah or of the sepulchre of the 
patriarchs. Unless this was the sanctuary of Jehovah 
to which Absalom had vowed, or pretended to have vow- 
ed, a pilgrimage, when absent in the remote Geshur (2 
Sam. xv, 7), no allusion to it has been discovered in 
the records of David’s residence at Hebron, nor yet in 
the struggles of the 3Iaecabees, so many of whose bat- 
tles were fought in and around it” (Smith). “ It is a re- 
markable fact that none of the sacred writers refer to 
this celebrated tomb after the burial of Jacob, though it 
•was unquestionably held in reverence by the Jews in 
all ages. Josephus, in his short notice of the burial of 
Sarah, says that ‘both Abraham and his descendants 
built themselves sepulchres at’ Hebron {Ant. i, 14), and in 
another passage he states that the monuments of the 
patriarchs ‘are to this very time shown in Hebron, the 
structure of which is of beautiful marble, wrought after 
the most elegant manner’ ( I Var, iv, 9, 7). Jerome men- 
tions the mausoleum of Abraham at Hebron as standing 
in his day ( 0 nomast . s. v. Arboch); and in the Jerusa- 
lem Itinerary, a work of the 4th century, it is described 
as a quadrangular structure built of stones of wonderful 
beauty {I tin. Ilieros. ed.Wessel. p. 599). It is also men- 
tioned by Antoninus Martyr in the beginning of the 
7th century {Itin. 30) ; by Arculf towards its close (Ear- 
ly Travels in Pal., Bohn, p. 7); by Willibald in the 8th 
(ib. p. 20); by Sanvulf in the 12th {ib. p. 45) ; and by 
numerous others (see Bitter, Ha?, und Syr. iii, 237 sq.). 
From these notices, it appears to be certain that the 
venerable building which still stands is the same which 
Josephus describes. Hebron lies in a narrow valley 
which runs from 'north to south between low ridges of 
rocky hills. The modern town is built partly in the 
bottom of the vale and partly along the lower slope of 
the eastern ridge. On the hill-side, above the latter 
section of the town, rise the massive walls of the Haram, 
forming the one distinguishing feature of Hebron, con- 


MACITPELAH 


621 


MACIIPELAII 



Mosque at Hcbrou. 


gpicuous from all points. The building is rectangular, 
about 200 feet long by 1 1 5 wide, and 50 high. The walls 
are constructed of massive stones varying from 12 to 20 
feet in length, and from 4 to 5 in depth. Dr. Wilson 
mentions one stone 38 feet long and 3 feet 4 inches in 
depth, of ancient workmanship ( Lands of the Bible, 
i,3G6). The edges of the stones are grooved to the 
depth of about two inches, so that the whole wall has 
the appearance of being formed of raised panels, like the 
Temple-wall at Jerusalem. See Masonry. The exte- 
rior is further ornamented with pilasters, supporting 
without capitals a plain moulded eorniee. The build- 
ing is thus unique ; there is nothing like it in Syria. 
The style of its architecture, independent even of the 
historical notices above given, proves it to be of Jewish 
origin ; and it cannot be much, if at all, later than the 
days of Solomon. The interior of this massive and most 
interesting building was described about fifty years ago 
by a Spaniard, who conformed to Islam ism and assumed 
the name of Ali Bev ( Travels , i, 232). The Rev. J. L. 
Porter was assured when at Hebron, and subsequently 
by a mollah of rank who had visited the tombs of the 
patriarchs, that there is an entrance to the cave, which 
consists of two compartments, and that the guardian 
can on special occasions enter the outer one ( Handbook , 
p. G9). With this agree the statements of M. Pierotti, 
of Benjamin of Tudela, who gives a description of the 
caves {Kin. by Asher, p. 7G sq.), and of others (Wil- 
son, Lands of the Bible, i, 364 sq.). We cannot doubt 
that the cave of Maelipelah, in which the patriarchs 
were buried, is beneath this venerable building, and that 
it has been guarded with religious jealousy from the 
earliest ages; consequently, it is quite possible that 
some remains of the patriarchs may still lie there. Ja- 
cob was embalmed in Egypt, and his body deposited in 
this place (Gen. 1,2-13). It may still be there perfect 
as an Egyptian mummy. The Moslem traditions and 
the cenotaphs within the Haram agree exactly with the 
Biblical narrative, and form an interesting commentary 
on Jacob’s dying command — ‘ And he charged them . . . 
bury me with my fathers ... in the cave which is in 
the field of Maelipelah, which is before Mamre. . . . 
There they buried Abraham, and Sarah his wife; there 
they buried Isaac, and Eebekah his wife ; and there I 
buried Leah’ (Gen. xlix, 29-31). There also they buried 
Jacob. Now within the inclosurc are the six cenotaphs 
only, while the belief is universal among the Moham- 
medans that the real tombs are in the cave below. Pro- 


jecting from the west side of the Haram is a little build- 
ing containing the tomb of Joseph — a Moslem tradition 
states that his body was first buried at Sheehem, but 
was subsequently transferred to this place (Stanley, Jew- 
ish Church, i, 498). The Jews cling around this build- 
ing still, as they do around the ruins of their ancient 
Temple— taking pleasure in its stones, and loving its 
very dust. Beside the principal entrance is a little hole 
in the wall, at which they are permitted at certain times 
to pray” (Kitto). A belief seems to prevail in the town 
that the cave communicates with some one of the mod- 
ern sepulchres at a considerable distance outside of He- 
bron (Lowe, in Zeitung des Jndenth., June 1, 1839). The 
ancient Jewish tradition ascribes the ereetion of the 
mosque to David {Jichus ha- A both in Hottinger, Cippi 
Ilebr. 30), thus making it coeval with the pool in the 
valley below; but, whatever the worth of this tradition, 
it may well be of the age of Solomon, for the masonry 
is even more antique in its character than that of the 
lower portion of the south and south-western walls of 
the Haram at Jerusalem, which many critics ascribe 
to Solomon, while even the severest allows it to be of 
the date of Ilerod. The date must always remain a 
mystery, but there are two considerations which may 
weigh in favor of fixing it very early. 1. That, often as 
the town of Hebron may have been destroyed, this, be- 
ing a tomb, would always be spared. 2. It cannot, on 
architectural grounds, be later than Herod’s time, while, 
on the other hand, it is omitted from the catalogue 
given by Josephus of the places which he rebuilt or 
adorned” (Smith). The fullest historical notices of 
Maelipelah will be found in Ritter, Pal. mid Sy)\ vol. iii, 
and Robinson, Bib. Pes. vol. ii. The chief authorities are 
Areulf (A.D. 700); Benjamin of Tudela (A. I), cir. 1170); 
the Jewish tract Jichus ha-Aboth (in Hottinger, Cippi 
Jlebraici ; and also in Wilson, i, 3G5) ; Ali Bey ( Travels , 
A.D. 1807, ii, 232, 233); Giovanni Finati {Life by Bankes, 
ii, 23G); Monro {Summer Ramble in 1833, i, 243); Lowe, 
in Zeitung des Jndenth., 1839, p. 272, 288. In a note by 
Asher to his edition of Benjamin of Tudela (ii, 92), men- 
tion is made of an Arabic ATS. in the Bibliotheque Rov- 
ale at Paris, containing an account of the condition of 
the mosque under Saladin. This MS. has not yet been 
published. The travels of Ibrahim el-Khijari in 1G09- 
70, a small portion of which, from the manuscript in the 
Ducal Library at Gotha, has been published by 1 ueh, 
with translation, etc. (Leipzig, 1850), are said to con- 
tain a minute description of the mosque (Tuch, p. 2). 



MACI-IZOR 


022 


MACKENZIE 


The best description of the interior is that of Stanley, 
Jewish Church and Sermons in the. East (the two are 
identical), in which he gives the singular narrative of 
rabbi Benjamin, and a letter of M. Pierotti, which ap- 
peared in the Times immediately after the prince of 
Wales’s visit. A plan of the mosque is attached to 
Stanley’s narrative. The description given byAli Bey 
( Travels , vol. ii) is substantially the same as that of 
Dean Stanley. A few words about the exterior, a sketeh 
of the masonry, and a view of the town, showing the 
inclosure standing prominently in the foreground, will 
be found in Bartlett’s lUa£&s, etc., p. 216-210. A pho- 
tograph of the exterior, from the East (?), is given as 
No. 63 of Palestine as it is, by Iiev. G. W. Bridges. A 
ground-plan exhibiting considerable detail, made by two 
Moslem architects who lately superintended some re- 
pairs in the Ilaram, and given by them to Dr. Barelav 
of Jerusalem, is engraved in Osborn’s Palestine, Past and 
Present, p. 364. Thomson, Land and Pooh, ii, 385 sq., : 
gives some additional particulars; also Tristram, Land 
of Israel, p. 303 sq. Sec IIebiiox. 

Machzor (TiTn*2, i. e. cycle ) is the title of that part 
of Jewish liturgy which contains generally the prayers 
used in the synagogues on the Sabbath and feast-days, but 
principally those of the three most important festivals. 
They are usually rythmical, and arc the productions of 
the most eminent Jewish writers. Unfortunately, many 
of the modern Jews cannot understand them in the 
original, and are obliged to have recourse to translations. 
The first author of such a collection of Sabbath and 
feast-day prayers, Piutim (-"’UTS), is R. Eleazar ben- 
Jacob Kalir, usually known only as Kalir (“P^p), who 
lived in the second half of the 10th century. This was 
followed by others (Peitanim, 7 Tonjrai). The 

time of the Peitanim really closes with the 12tli Gentli- 
n’, although fragmentary works still appeared in the 
13th and 14th centuries. These collections vary gen- 
erally according to the nationality of the author, as di- 
vers rites and liturgies obtained in the synagogues of 
different countries. Thus there are Machzors according 
to the rites of the German, Polish, Spanish, and Italian 
Jews, and also translations from the Hebrew into the 
different languages, the use of which translations in the 
synagogues is, however, not general. The first scientific 
work on the Machzor is that of W. Heidenheim, pub- 
lished in 1S00. This author corrected the text by means 
of ancient MSS., according to the German and Polish 
rites, and added to it a commentary and a historical in- 
troduction. J 1 is work gave rise also to further researches 
on the Peitanim and liturgies by other modern Jewish 
writers. Among them may be mentioned Rapoport 
( Biographic. Kalirs, etc., in Pikkure Haittim, Vienna, 
1829-32), Zunz ( Gottesdienstl . Yortriige d.Juden, p. 380- 
395). s. I). Luzzatto am 

Einlcit. z. Machsor nach rom. Pitus, Livorno, 1856), and 
L. Landshuth (JlTd-Tl “V O nomast icon auctorum 
hymnorum Hebrecorum eorumque carminum , fasciculus i, 
Bcrol. 1857). There is a beautiful edition of the Maeh- 
zor, and a masterly version of it in German by the late 
Dr. Sachs, of Berlin. Sec Bartolocci, Piblioth, Marjna 
Rabbin, i, 672; iv, 307 sq., 322 sq. ; Wolf, Piblioth. llebr. 
ii, 1334-49 ; iii, 1200 sq. ; iv, 1049 sq. See Litukgy. 

Mac Ilvaine. See McIlvaink. 

Mackee, C. B., a Presbyterian minister and educa- 
tor, was born in Indiana County, Pa., March 28, 1792; 
was educated at the University of Pennsylvania, stud- 
ied theology in the Seminary of the Reformed Presby- 
terian Church, Philadelphia, and was licensed by Phila- 
delphia Presbyter}’ in 1819, and ordained in 1821. By 
untiring self-application he made himself a' thorough 
and critical scholar, especially in the ancient classics, 
ecclesiastical history, Biblical literature, and theology. 
In 1824 he was chosen professor oflanguages in Cincin- 
nati College, Ohio, which position lie held until 1835, 
when he accepted a call as pastor of a church in Roches- 


ter, N. Y. ; in 1861 lie removed to Washington, D. C., to 
accept an appointment in the government service. lie 
died June 5, 1866. Dir. Maekee was a man of great con- 
scientiousness, a profound scholar, a close thinker, and 
an instructor with rare capabilities for imparting knowl- 
edge. He published a small volume entitled A Critical 
Examination of the Offices of Christ. See Wilson, Presb. 
Hist. Almanac, 1868, p. 1 17. (J. L. S.) 

Mackellar, Angus, a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in Scotland near the close of the 18th century, was 
ordained to the charge of Carmunnock, in the west of 
Scotland, in 1812, accepted a call to Pencaitland in 1814, 
was moderator of the Church of Scotland in 1840, and 
when the disruption came was one of the acknowledged 
leaders of the Free Church. On leaving his country 
parish he removed to Edinburgh, and for sonic years 
exereised a sort of general superintendence over the 
missionary and educational interests of the Church. He 
was moderator of tlie Assembly of the Free Church in 
Scotland in 1852. He died May 11, 1859. See Wilson, 
Presb. Hist. A Imanac, 1860, p. 263. (J. L. S.) 

Mackenzie, Charles Frederick, D.D., a prel- 
ate of the Church of England, and one of the noblest 
characters of our day, was bom at Harcus Cottage, Pee- 
blesliire, Scotland, April 10, 1825, and was educated at 
Cambridge University, where he graduated with honor 
in 1848. After lecturing for a time at his alma mater, 
he decided upon the ministry, and was ordained by the 
bishop of Ely, and labored for some time in England as 
a parish minister. In 1854, bishop Sehvvn, of New Zea- 
land, returned to England, and pleaded earnestly for 
more laborers in the missionary field. Mackenzie felt 
persuaded that his duty lay in this direction, and in 1855 
he accepted the position of archdeacon of Natal, and 
went out with the noted Colenso. Ilis zeal in this new 
field, and his exemplary piety, are attested by all who 
knew Mackenzie at this time. In 1859 he returned to 
England to propose the establishment of other missions 
in Africa. Livingstone had just preceded him on a visit 
to England, and personally, as well as by the publica- 
tion of his book on Central Africa, had awakened an 
unprecedented enthusiasm for that country. The estab- 
lishment of a mission on the ground lately explored by 
Livingstone had just been determined upon, and Mac- 
kenzie’s arrival at this time led to his appointment as 
the head of it. He was consequently consecrated bish- 
op at Cape Town Jan. 1, 1861 ; four days after he sailed 
for the Zambesi, and. after some necessary explorations, 
settled for his work at a village named Magomero. The 
climate, which in his former work he had withstood so 
well, here soon undermined his health, and he died 
Jan. 31, 1862. “In any calling Mackenzie would have 
been distinguished for his fine natural qualities. His 
cheerfulness, gentleness, and simplicity, supported as 
they were by manly candor and enduring firmness of 
purpose, and guided by an innate purity and integrity 
that shrank from the faintest touch of wrong, could not 
fail to excite the admiration of the most worldly-minded. 
Consecrated as these qualities were to the service of re- 
ligion, and warmed by a glowing zeal that had nothing 
in common with fanaticism, they assume something like 
heroic proportions. Nor are the battles he fought, the 
victories he won, the sacrifices he made, for the great 
objects to which lie devoted his life, and the sufferings 
he endured, unworthy of a record among the achieve- 
ments of England’s illustrious sons.” The Christian 
spirit which the bishop manifested towards his Christian 
brethren of other churches is worthy of special mention, 
lie labored in concurrence with them with cordiality 
and good will. Ilis opposition to tlie slave-trade was 
decided, and made him many enemies. See Goodwin, 
Memoir of Pishop Mackenzie (Cambr. 1864. 8vo) ; Spec- 
tator (Loud.), March 5, 1864, p.269 ; Mrs. Yonge, Pioneers 
and Founders (Lond. 1871, 12mo), p. 285 sq. (J. II. W.) 

Mackenzie, Sir George, an eminent Scotch law- 
yer and politician, was born at Dundee in 1636, and was 


MACKEY 


623 


MACKINTOSH 


educated at St. Leonard’s College. lie deserves our no- 
tice, first, for his Religio Stoici, or a short Discourse 
upon several Divine and Moral Subjects (1663) ; his 
Moral Essay upon Solitude (1GG5) ; and his Moral Gal- 
lantly (1GG7); and also on account of his unhappy con- 
nection with the government of Charles II as criminal 
prosecutor in the memorable days of the Covenant. By 
his severity in this position he earned for himself the 
ugly name of the “ bluidy Mackenzie;” nor, we fear, can 
it be disproved — in spite of his liberal antecedents — that 
he became a willing instrument of despotism. He has, 
however, written a defence of himself, entitled A Vindi- 
cation of the Government of Charles IL After the Rev- 
olution Sir George retired to Oxford. He died in Lon- 
don May 2, 1G9I. See Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and A m. 
A uth. ii, 1175, where many references are to be found. 

Mackey, James Love, a Presbyterian minister, 
was born in Lancaster County, Pa., Jan. 26, 1820. His 
early educational privileges were few, but, being fond 
of study, he struggled hard to qualify himself for teach- 
ing. When fourteen years old he opened a school 
in his father’s house; subsequently he taught public 
school iu the neighborhood, attended Hopewell Acad- 
emy and New London Academy, Pa., and taught in the 
latter. lie entered the seminary at Princeton, N. J., 
resolved to do work in foreign missions. In 1849 he 
sailed for Corisco Island. In April of 1851 he founded 
the Evangasimba Mission, after surmounting many ob- 
stacles. In June of 1865 he returned to reside at home, 
and soon after became principal of the academy at New 
London, Pa. He died April 30, 1867. Mr. Mackey was 
a man thoroughly qualified for missionary labors ; his 
mental training, varied and accurate information, and 
scientific attainments, prepared him for the great work. 
See Wilson, Presb. Hist. Aim., 18G8, p. 119. (J. L. S.) 

Mackie, Josias, one of the earliest Presbyterian 
ministers who came to America, was born in Donegal 
County, Ireland. The year of his arrival in this coun- 
try is uncertain, but the first notice hitherto found of 
him bears date June 22, 1G92. His first settlement ap- 
pears to have been on the Elizabeth River, Va., where 
in all probability he became the successor of Francis 
Mackenzie, the first regular Presbyterian minister in 
America. After a formal oath in 1692, made publicly, 
and in confirmation of his belief in the Articles of Re- 
ligion, as allowed in the case of Dissenters, he was 
licensed. He selected three different places for public 
worship, many miles apart, on Elizabeth River. These 
were in the Eastern Branch, in Tanner’s Creek precincts, 
and in the Western Branch, to which was added, in 
1G9G, the Southern Branch. Here, with the care of a 
farm and a store, he found time to preach, but the rec- 
ord of his labors has not as yet been discovered. — 
Sprague, Annals, iii, 5. 

Mackintosh, Sir James, one of the most cele- 
brated literary characters of the I9th century, distin- 
guished alike as a philosopher, jurist, statesman, and 
historian was born at Aldourie, in the county of Inver- 
ness, Scotland, October 24, 1765. His early instruc- 
tion and training fell into the hands of his grandfather, 
a man of great excellence. In 1783 he entered King’s 
College, Aberdeen, where he formed an intimate ac- 
quaintance with the celebrated Robert Hall — a happy 
association which told upon the whole career of Mack- 
intosh. He himself records the great influence which 
l Tail’s society and conversation had on his mind. They 
lived in the same house, were constantly together, and 
led each other into controversies on the most abstruse 
points of theology and metaphysics. By their fellow- 
students they were regarded as the intellectual leaders 
of the university, and under their auspices a society was 
formed in King’s College, which was commonly desig- 
nated “The Hall and Mackintosh Club.” In 1784 he 
quitted King’s College as M.A., and removed to Edin- 
burgh. II is own inclinations were to the bar; family 
circutastances, however, obliged him to enter upon the 


study of medicine. But he by no means confined himself 
to his professional studies. “He mingled freely with 
the intellectual society of the place ; divided his studious 
hours between medicine, metaphysics, and politics, in- 
termingling with each excursions into its lighter litera- 
ture and passing or past controversies, and he became a 
prominent speaker in the medical, physical, and specu- 
lative societies.” Three years had been thus pleasantly 
spent when the time for his examination came, and, 
with diploma in hand, he turned southwards, and settled 
at London. It was a season of great political excite- 
ment when Mackintosh arrived in the great English 
metropolis, and, as the political arena was much more to 
his taste and inclination than walking the wards of a 
hospital, he improved the opportunity, and determined 
upon a strictly literary life. He supported himself for 
a while by writing lor the newspapers, at the same 
time engaged in philosophical studies. In 1791 he finally 
published his Vindicim Gallicce, in reply to Burke’s 
Reflections on the French Revolution — a work which, 
though containing juvenile errors, at once gave him 
great renown; three editions were sold within the first 
year of its appearance before the public. “In sober 
philosophic thought, sound feeling, and common sense, 
it greatly surpassed the splendid philippic against which 
it w r as directed, and was enthusiastically lauded.” The 
leading statesmen of England, among them Fox, Sher- 
idan, and others, sought the author’s acquaintance; and 
when the “Association of the Friends of the People” 
was formed, he was appointed secretary. Encouraged 
by this success, he turned to the legal profession in 
1789, was called to the bar in 1795, and attained high 
eminence as a forensic lawyer. In 1799 he delivered a 
course of lectures on the Laic of Nature and of Nations 
before the benchers of Lincoln’s Inn, which were at- 
tended by audiences of the most brilliant description. 
Later he was made recorder of Bombay, and in 1806 
was appointed judge of the Admiralty Court. His In- 
dian career was highly creditable to his capacity and 
honorable to his character. After his return to England 
he entered Parliament as Whig member for Nairn (1813). 
In 1818 he accepted the professorship of law in the 
college of Hailey bury, continuing, however, to take an 
active part in the political affairs of his country, as the 
representative of Knarcsborough in the nation’s council. 
In 1822, and again in 1823, he filled the honorable posi- 
tion of lord-rector of the University ol' Glasgow. In 
1828, his great attainments as a philosopher -were ac- 
knowledged by his selection to complete Dugald Stew- 
art’s unfinished dissertation on the “Progress of M eta- 
physical, Ethical, and Political Philosophy since the Re- 
vival of Letters in Europe” for the Encyclopaedia Britan - 
nica. Sir James Mackintosh (he was knighted in 1803) 
at once set to work, and in 1830 completed his part of the 
task, entitled Dissert, on the Progress of Ethical Philos- 
ophy chief y during the 18 th and l ( Mh Centuries. Un- 
fortunately, however, his professional and other duties, 
as well as sickness, had prevented him from treating 
the subject as carefully and completely as he might 
have desired, and so far curtailed the original plan that 
a survey of political philosophy and the history of the 
ethical philosophy of the Continent were left uunoticed. 
But, “notwithstanding these deficiencies,” says our dis- 
tinguished late countryman, Alexander H. Everett (N. 
Am. Revieic, xxxv, 451), “ it will be read with deep in- 
terest by students of moral science, and by all who take 
an interest in the higher departments of intellectual re- 
search, or enjoy the beauties of elegant language ap- 
plied to the illustration of 4 divine philosophy.’ It gives 
us, on an important branch of the most important of 
the sciences, the reflection of one of the few master- 
minds that are fitted by original capacity and patient 
study to probe it to the bottom.” See the article Eth- 
ics in vol. iii, p. 322 sq. lie died May 22, 1832. 

We have thus far sketched the life of Sir James Mack- 
intosh somewhat more in detail than the limited space 
of our Cyclopedia really warrants, in order to enable 


MACKLAURIN 6S 

our readers fully to appreciate the valuable services 1 
of this master-mind in the department of philosophy, 
not only so far as they were exerted directly, but also 
indirectly. It is not without reason that his distin- 
guished friend Robert Hall said “ that if Sir James 
Mackintosh had enjoyed leisure, and had exerted him- 
self, he would have completely outdone Jeffrey and 
Stewart, and all the metaphysical writers of our time” 

( ITorfo [Gregory’s edition, New York, 1833,3 vols.Svo], 
iii. 80). Neither can we afford to pass hastily by the 
man whom so eminent an authority as Morell (7/ ist. 
and Crit. View of the Speculative Philosophy of Europe 
in the 1 §th Century [N. Y. 1849, 8vo], p. 405) points out 
as one of the most eminent moralists of our day. “ The 
ardor, the depth, and the learning,” says Morell, “with 
which he combated the selfish systems, and pleaded for 
the authority and sanctity of the moral faculty in man, 
contributed perhaps more than any single cause, not of 
a religious nature, to oppose the bold advances of utili- 
tarianism, and infuse a healthier tone into the moral 
principles of the country. Without signifying our ad- 
herence to his peculiar theory respecting conscience 
[viz. “ that conscience, or the moral faculty, is not an 
original part of our constitution, but a ‘secondary for- 
mation.’ created at a later period of life by the effect of 
the association of ideas out of a variety of elements ex- 
isting in the mind” (comp. X. A . Per. xxxv, 451; also 
M'Cosh, Intuitions of the Mind, p. 253)], we still regard 
bis thoughts and speculations as taking eminently the 
right direction, and had he obtained leisure to mature 
liis views, and give them to the world in his own forci- 
ble and glowing style, it is the opinion of some best able 
to judge upon the subject (c. g. Robert Hall and Ur. 
Chalmers) that he would have placed the whole theory 
of morals upon a higher and more commanding position 
than it had ever occupied before in this country [Eng- 
land].” Resides this work on Ethical Philosophy (re- 
published Philad. 1834, 8vo). Mackintosh’s chief met- 
aphysical writings were published in the Edinburgh Re- 
view, to which lie frequently contributed (for a list of 
them, see Allibone). His Miscellaneous lEo/T-s, includ- 
ing the contributions to the Edinburgh Reviev:, were pub- 
lished in 1846, 3 vols. 8vo, and also in a single volume 
sq. crown 8vo. See Memoirs of the Life of the Riyht 
lion. Sir James Mackintosh , edited by his son, Robert 
James Mackintosh, Esq. (1835, 2 vols. 8vo) ; Eclinb. Rev. 
1835 (Oct.) ; Brit. Quart. Rev. 1846 (Nov.) ; Xorth Am. 
Rev. 1832 (Oct.) ; and especially the very elaborate and 
able article in Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and Am. Authors, 
ii. 1179-1188. (J. II. W.) 

Macklaurin, John, an eminent Scotch divine, 
was born in October, 1693, at Glcndaruel, Argvleshire, 
where his father was then pastor. John was unfortu- 
nately early made an orphan, and he was taken in care 
by his uncle, t lie Rev. David Macklaurin, who educated 
John for the ministry, first at Glasgow, and later at Lev- 
den, Holland. In 1717 he was licensed by the Presby- 
tery of Dumbarton, and two years after was appointed 
minister at Luss, on the west bank of Loch Lomond. 
In 1723 he was promoted to a more responsible charge, 
the north-west parish of Glasgow. Here he died, Sept. 
8. 1751, “deeply regretted by a numerous and attached 
congregation, as well as by the general community of 
Christians in Britain.” His sermons and essays, many 
of which have been published, have received the high- 
er commendations, and are even in our day in general 
favor with the clergy of Great Britain. The most val- 
uable are An Essay on the Prophecies relating to the 
Messiah, and three Sermons (Edinb. 1773, 8yo), said to 
have been the germ of the large and valuable work of 
bishop Hard On Pi'ophecy : l y rejudices against the Gos- 
pel; and his sermons On the Sins of Men not chargeable 
to God. and Glorying in the Cross of Christ, all contained 
in his Sermons and Essays, published hv the Rev. John 
Gillies (2d ed. London, 1772, 12mo), where may also be 
found an account of the life of John Macklaurin. See 
Jamieson, Cyclopedia of Religious Biography , s. v. ; 


4 MACLAINE 

Brown, Introductory Essay in Works of Macklaurin 
(1824). 

Macklin, Alexander, D.D., a Presbyterian divine, 
was born in Lambeg Parish, Down County, Ireland 
Jan. 15, 1808. After receiving a good academical train- 
ing, he graduated at Belfast College, Ireland ; studied 
theology in Hill Hall School, Belfast, under Dr. John 
Edgar; was licensed by Belfast Presbytery in 1830, and 
ordained in 1831. During this same year he emigrated 
to America, and in 1832 was installed pastor of the Pres- 
byterian Church in Clinton, N. J. ; in 1835 he accepted 
a call to the Scotch Presbyterian Church, Philadelphia, 
where he labored with great success until near his death, 
July 6, 1859. Dr. Macklin was a man of quick appre- 
hension and sound judgment, and of noble and generous 
impulses. He wrote a Tribute to the Memory of A rchi- 
bald Robertson, Esq., a ruling elder, which was published 
in a pamphlet in 1859. See Wilson. Presb. Hist. A Ima- 
jiac, 1861, p. 96. (J. L. S.) 

Macknight, James, D.D., an eminent Scotch di- 
vine, was born in Ayrshire in 1721. He studied in the 
University of Glasgow, but, like mau3 r of the Presbyte- 
rian divines both of his own country and of England, 
went abroad, and finished his studies at Leyden. On 
his return he entered the ministry in the Scotch Church 
(in 1753) as pastor of May bole, in Ayrshire. Here he 
spent sixteen years, during which time he prepared three 
works: A Harmony of the Gospels (Lond. 1756, 2 vols. 
4to), with copious illustrations, being, in fact, a life of 
Christ, embracing everything which the evangelists 
have related concerning him: — A new Translation of 
the Epistles (published in 1795 in 4 vols. 4to, and later 
in 6 vols. 8vo) : — and Truth of Gospel History (1763, 
4to). These works were favorably received, and are to 
this day highly esteemed. The Harmony has been re- 
peatedly printed, and to the later editions there are 
added several dissertations on curious points in the his- 
tory or antiquities of the Jews. The theology of them 
is what is called moderately orthodox. For these his 
valuable services to sacred literature Dr. Macknight re- 
ceived the rewards in the power of the Presbyterian 
Church to give. The degree of D.D. was conferred upon 
him by the University of Edinburgh. In 1769 he was 
removed from Mavbole to the more desirable parish of 
Jedburgh, and in 1772 lie became one of the ministers 
at Edinburgh. Here he continued for the remainder of 
his life, useful in the ministry and an ornament of the 
Church. He died Jan. 13, 1800. Of Dr. Maeknight’s 
translation of the epistles, universally regarded as his 
best production, Horne says that it is “a work of theo- 
logical labor not often paralleled. If we cannot always 
coincide with the author in opinion, we can always 
praise his diligence, his learning, and his piety — quali- 
ties which confer no trifling rank on any scriptural in- 
terpreter or commentator.” Dr. W. L. Alexander, how- 
ever, is not quite so commendatory of Dr. Mncknight’s 
scholarship : “This work, which was the result of thirty 
years’ labor, soon obtained and long kept a high repu- 
tation. Of late years it lias perhaps sunk into unmerit- 
ed neglect, for there is much in it well deserving the at- 
tention of the Biblical student. Its greatest defects are 
traceable to two causes — the author’s imperfect knowl- 
edge of the original languages of the Bible, and the want 
of fixed hermeneutical principles. In tracing out, how- 
ever, the connection of a passage, especially of an argu- 
mentative kind, lie often shows great ability.” See 
Life, by his son, prefixed to the Epistles (in the editions 
since LS06) ; Kitto, Bibl. Cyclop . s. v. ; English Cyclop . 
s. v. 

Maclaine, Archibald, D.D., an Irish divine, was 
born at Monaghan, Ireland, in 1722. lie was educated 
at the University of Glasgow, was minister of the Eng- 
lish Church at the Hague from 1745-94, and afterwards 
settled at Bath, in England. He died at Bath, Nov. 25, 
1K04. He published a Sermon (1752, Svo), Lettei's to 
Soame Jenyns (1772, 12mo), in defence of Christianity, 


MACURDY 


625 


MACLAY 

ami a very imperfect translation of Mosheim’s Ecclesias- 
tical History. 

Maclay, Archibald, D.D., or, as he was familiarly 
known by Christians of all denominations, “ Father Ma- 
clay,” a noted Baptist minister, was born in Kiilearn, 
Scotland, May 14, 1778, and in 1802 entered the minis- 
try at Kirkaldy, in Fifeshire. In 1804 he was appoint- 
ed a missionary to the East Indies, but the government 
objected, and he was obliged to stay at home. By ad- 
vice of his friends he quitted his native land, and in 
1805 emigrated to this country. Immediately after his 
arrival he commenced to preach, and built up a Church 
in Bose Street, New York. Hitherto his connection 
was with the Established Church of Scotland, but in 
1808 he united with the Baptists, and, most of bis con- 
gregation following his example, a new Church was or- 
ganized, known as the “Mulberry Street Church” (now 
the Tabernacle, Second Avenue Church), where he re- 
mained until 1837. Fie then resigned to become agent 
of the “ American and Foreign Bible Society” just or- 
ganized, and served this body to great advantage until 
1850, when he was called within the domain of his own 
denomination to succeed the late Dr. Cone as the second 
president of the “American Bible Union.” In this ca- 
pacity he made an official tour of England, presenting 
the claims of the Bible Union and collecting funds for 
the revision of the Bible, in which work that society is 
now engaged. In this mission he was very successful, 
owing, no doubt, to his fame as an eminent Baptist di- 
vine. One of the addresses made while abroad was trans- 
lated into several languages, and circulated in more than 
100,000 copies. On his return to this country he made 
a similar tour South, and with his usual success. In 
1856 he resigned his presidency of the Bible Union on 
account of dissatisfaction with the manner in which the 
internal affairs of the Bible Union were conducted. He 
continued to preach, and labored for his Master till 
within a few months of his death, May 2, 18G0. Dr. 
Maclay enjoyed the respect of his brethren in the min- 
istry, and the affection of all Christian people who knew 
him. “He was surpassed by no man in zeal, friendli- 
ness, and good sense. He was a safe counsellor, a cheery, 
hearty, healthy soul, as incapable of cant as of frivolit} r . 
It was evident to all who approached him that he was 
a man as well as a clergyman. He retained to the last 
that strong, homely, Scottish common-sense which ren- 
ders the sons of old Scotia indomitable and victorious 
all over the world. A man of more absolute and im- 
movable honesty never breathed.” (J. II. W.) 

Maclean, Archibald, an English Baptist minis- 
ter, was born May 1, 1733 (O, S.), at East Kilbride, in 
Lanarkshire. He was for many years pastor of the 
Baptist Church in Edinburgh, and was founder of the 
Baptist congregations in Scotland. lie died in Edin- 
burgh Dec. 12, 1812. Mr. Maclean published Para- 
phrase and Commentary on the Epistle to the Hebrews 
(Edinb. 1811-17, 2 vols. 12mo; Lond. 1819, 2 vols. 12mo; 
Aberdeen, 1847, 2 vols. 12mo). A collective edition of 
Maclean's works, including the above work, sermons, 
etc., with a memoir of his life and writings by Kev.W. 
Jones, was published (Lond. 1823, 6 vols. 8vo;, vol. vii, 
18.52, 18mo; Edinb. 6 vols. 12mo). — Kitto, Cyclop, of 
Bibl. Lit. vol. ii, s. v. ; Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and Am. 
Authors, s. v. 

Maclennan, James, a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church South, a native of Scotland, came to 
the United States in early manhood, furnished with a 
good classical education. He had been brought up in 
the bosom of the Established Church of Scotland, and 
fully believed all its doctrines, but, owing to his Calvin- 
istic views, had given himself no personal concern about 
his salvation. He was, however, awakened and con- 
verted during a revival of religion in Pontotoc, Miss., 
joined the Methodists, and, feeling it to be his duty to 
preach the Gospel, entered the Mississippi Conference 
Dec. 3, 1840. He took position at once in the Confer- 

y.—h r 


ence on account of his educational advantages. His 
first appointment was Jackson Station, then he preached 
in Lake Washington country, on the Mississippi River, 
and in 1849 was elected secretary of the Conference. 
For several years following he located; from 1863 to 
1867 he was presiding elder of the Granville District, 
and in 1865 was elected a delegate to the General Con- 
ference held in New Orleans in 1866. At the time of 
his death, in 1870, he was supernumerary on the Lake 
Lee and Leota Circuit. “Brother Maclennan was a 
man of strong character, ... a simple-hearted Chris- 
tian, dearly loved the Church of his choice, and literally 
laid his life a ‘living sacrifice upon her altars.’” — Min- 
utes of the M. E. Church South , 1870. 

Macmillanites. See Scotland, Reformed 
Presbyterian Church in. 

Macneile, Hugh, D.D., an Irish divine of note, 
was born in 1793, at Ballvcastle, in the county of An- 
trim, Ireland; was educated .at Trinity College, Dublin, 
where he received both the degree of A.M. and D.D. ; 
also the appointment of canon of Chester. In 1822 he 
married the daughter of Dr. Magee, late archbishop of 
Dublin, in whose family he had been tutor. After 
preaching for some years in London, where he attracted 
large congregations, chiefly at Charlotte-Street Chapel, 
Fitzroy Square, he became successively incumbent of 
St. Jude’s, Liverpool, and of St. Paul’s, Prince’s Park, 
near Liverpool. In 1868 he was made dean of Ripon. 
He died in 1872. He published The Church and the 
Churches , or the Church of God in Christ militant here 
on Earth (1847, 8vo): — Lectures on the Church of Eng- 
land (12mo) : — Lectures on the Prophecies of the Jews 
(1842, 12mo) : — Lectures on the Sympathies, etc., of our 
Saviour (12mo) : — Letters on Seceding from the Church 
(12mo) : — Sermons on the Second Advent (12mo) : — Sev- 
enteen Sermons (12mo). He also published' several sep- 
arate sermons, addresses, and controversial pamphlets. — 
English Cyclopaedia, s. v. 

Macon, Councils of ( Concilium Matisconense). 
Ecclesiastical councils were held in this city of Bur- 
gundy in 584 and 585. At the former there were enact- 
ments to regulate the clerical dress, and forbidding Jews 
“to appear in the streets from Matiuday Thursday until 
Easter Monday;” at the latter, over which Priscus, arch- 
bishop of Lyons, presided, enactments were passed — me- 
morial in the history of the Church — on the conduct of 
the laity towards the clergy. Among other things, it 
was required that whenever one of the laity met one of 
the clergy in the public streets, the former should make 
a lowly and reverent bow ; if both parties are on horse- 
back, then the layman should take off his hat ; but if the 
layman be on horseback and the clergy on foot, the for- 
mer is to dismount and make his obeisance. See Biddle, 
Hist, of Papacy, i, 240 ; Landon, Man. of Councils, i, 386-9. 

Macrobius, an ecclesiastical writer, flourished in 
the iirst half of the 4th century. lie was a preacher in 
the Church in Africa after Gennadius became entangled 
in the Donatist heresy, and as a Donatist bishop secretly 
labored at Rome at one time. Before his separation 
from the orthodox lie composed a discourse, Ad confes- 
soi'es et rirgines , in which he insisted principally upon 
the beauty and the sanctity of chastity. After his union 
with the Donatists he addressed a letter to the laity of 
Carthage, De Passione Maximiani et Tsaaci Donatis- 
tarum (published by Mabillon, Analecta [Paris, 1675], 
iv, 119, and Optatus [Paris, 1700, Amst. 1701, Antwerp, 
1702]). — I Ioefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate , xxxii, 607. 

Matron (MuKpiov, i. e. long-head; Vulg. Macer), 
the surname of Ptolemmus or Ptoleinee, the son of Dory- 
menes (1 Macc. iii, 38), and governor of Cyprus under 
Ptolemy Philometor (2 Macc. x, 12). 

Macurdy, Elisha, a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in Carlisle, Pa., Oct. 15, 1763 ; was educated at the 
Academy of Cannonsburg, and was licensed by the Pres- 
bytery of Ohio about 1799. His first labors were as a 
missionary in the regions bordering on Lake Erie. In 


MACW1I0RTER 


626 


MADAGASCAR 


June, 1800, he was ordained and installed pastor of the I 
united congregations of Cross Hoads and Three Springs. 
During this connection he had an important agency 
in the revival in Western Pennsylvania, and was one 
of those who formed the “ Western 3iiss. Society.” In 
1823 he went on a mission to Maumee, and on his return 
was obliged, from ill health, to resign his charge of the 
church of Three Springs, and to coniine himself to that 
of Cross Roads. He died July 22, 1845. See Spragne, 
Annals, iv, 241. 

Macwhorter, Alexander, D.D., a Presbyterian 
divine, born in Newcastle County, Delaware, July 15, 
1734; graduated at Princeton College, N. J., in 1757; 
settled near Newark in 1759; was employed as a mis- 
sionary to North Carolina in 17G4-G; was chaplain to 
Knox’s Brigade in 1778; settled in Charlotte, NX., in 
1779, but removed in 1780 to Newark, N. J., where he 
preached until his death, in July, 1807. In 1788 he was 
prominent in settling the Confession of Faith and form- 
ing the Constitution of the Presbyterian Church. The 
degree of D.D. was conferred on him by Yale College in 
177G. See Sprague, Annals, iii, 208 sq. 

Mad. See Madness. 

Madagascar, an island situated to the south-east 
of the African continent, in lat. 11° 57' — 25° 3S' S., and 
longitude about 43° — 51°; length, 1030 miles; greatest 
breadth, 350 miles; area estimated at 225,000 square 
miles, therefore covering a territory larger than the Brit- 
ish Isles, contains a population of nearly five millions. 

History tip to the Introduction of Christianity . — The 
early history of this interesting island is involved in the 
deepest mystery. It is supposed to have been known to 
the ancients, by whom it was generally considered as an 
appendage to the main land, and was probably discovered 
by the Phoenicians. As an island, we find it first men- 
tioned by Marco Polo, in the 13th century, as Mayascar 
or Madagascar ; but its discoverer is now admitted to 
have been the Portuguese Antao Gonsalves, who named 
it Isla de San Lourengo. The unhealthy climate made 
the stay of Europeans for a long time impossible. In 
1774, Europeans attempted to establish a colony at An- 
tongil Bay, on the eastern side of the island; it was 
mainly composed of Frenchmen; but, failing to receive 
encouragement and assistance from the French govern- 
ment, the settlement proved a failure. With the Chris- 
tian missionaries (1818) skilful mechanics and tradesmen 
entered Madagascar, and to-day the island contains, in 
spite of its unheal thfulness of climate, quite a number of 
Europeans. 

The natives consist of many tribes, of which the Jlovas 
inhabit the centre and northern portion of the island, 
and are at present so powerful as to hold in subjection 
most of the others. The features of the inhabitants of 
this section present a striking resemblance to those of 
the South Sea Islanders; they are evidently of different 
extraction from the other and darker tribes, whose feat- 
ures are wholly African. The men are generally well made, 
having finely-proportioned limbs, and usually present a 
high type of physiological development. The women 
are well formed and active, but by no means so prepos- 
sessing in feature as the other sex. The complexion 
of the Ilovas is ft ruddy brown or tawny color, while 
that of the other tribes is much darker. Another and 
very peculiar distinction is the long, straight hair of the 
former as compared to the woolly growth of their neigh- 
bors. The principal article of dress in use among the 
Ilovas is the lamba, a garment very similar to the Bo- 
man toga, and made of cotton or linen materials. 

The religion of these natives, not converts to Christian- 
ity, is strictly heathen. Mohammedanism never made its 
way to them, and has no converts among them. Aside 
from Christianity, they have no accurate conception 
of God. The Supreme Being they style Fragrant Prince. 
“Their ideas of a future state, and, indeed, their whole 
religious system, is indefinite, discordant, and puerile; it 
is a compound of heterogeneous elements, borrowed in 


part from the superstitious fears and practices of Africa, 
the opinions of the ancient Egyptians, and the prevalent 
idolatrous systems of India, blended with the usages of 
the Malayan Archipelago. There are no public temples 
in honor of any divinity, nor any order of men exclu- 
sively devoted to the priesthood, but the keeper of idols 
receives the offerings of the people, presents their re- 
quests, and pretends to give the response of the god. 
They worship also at the grave or the tomb of their an- 
cestors” (Newcomb, p. 521). They practice circumcis- 
ion, have the division of weeks into seven days, abstain 
from swine’s flesh, and follow other Jewish practices. 
Marriage is general, but polygamy prevails, and conju- 
gal fidelity scarcely exists among the non-Christianized. 

Introduction of Christianity . — In 181G, Radama, the 
king of the Ilovas, virtually even then the prince of all 
Madagascar, entered into diplomatic and commercial re- 
lations with the English. Only two years later — in 
1818 — Protestant missionaries set out for it, and ulti- 
mately this African isle became “one of the countries 
where the rapid and easy triumph of Christianity equals 
the most brilliant episodes in the history of Christian 
propagandism,” and a lasting rebuke to those Roman 
Catholics who have dared to pronounce Protestant mis- 
sions a failure. The first Protestant missionaries were 
sent out by the London Missionary Society; and their 
mission, from the beginning, was very successful. The 
whole Ilible was circulated in the native language; 
about one hundred schools were established, and from 
ten to fifteen thousand persons received Christian in- 
struction. Suddenly, however, Radama died (July 27, 
1828), and was succeeded by Ranavala Manjaka, a wom- 
an of great cruelty, and inimical to Europeans. With 
her accession to the throne of Madagascar opened a fiery 
ordeal of persecution, lasting for nearly thirty years. 
Europeans were banished from the isle ; the public pro- 
fession of Christianity was forbidden; churches and 
schools were closed, and many of the members of the 
churches were persecuted to death. The conduct of the 
converts was most exemplary; by their constancy, and 
many by their death, they refuted the slanders of Ro- 
manists that the converts of the Protestant mission 
churches consist, for a large part, of men who seek to 
obtain a lucrative position. In 18G2 queen Ranavala 
Manjaka died, and her son was proclaimed king under 
the title of Radama II. With his accession to the throne 
of Madagascar the period of religious toleration recom- 
menced, and, although for a moment the assassination 
of the king (in 18G3; he was strangled, and his own wife 
selected as his successor, the government having been 
modified into a constitutional form) spread alarm among 
the Christians, the missionaries of the London Society 
resumed their labors, and they were agreeably surprised 
in seeing that, in spite of all persecution, the Christian 
congregations had maintained themselves. In 18G7, the 
erection of four memorial churches on places where the 
first martyrs of Christianity fell a prey to heathen super- 
stitions of Madagascar was projected; three of these 
have already been completed, and the fourth is in prog- 
ress. (See Christian A dvocate, Nashville, Tenn., Dec. 2, 
1871.) But the greatest triumph the Gospel achieved in 
Madagascar in 18G9 was when the now reigning queen, 
Ranavala II (she succeeded to the throne April 1, 1 808), 
and, with her, a majority of the natives, threw away 
their idols, and embraced Christianity much in the same 
way as the ancient Britons did many centuries ago. 
See the Missionary Advocate (N. Y., Pel). 15, 1870). 

Among those, particularly worthy of praise, for ser- 
vices rendered in the missionary efforts in Madagascar, 
is the Rev. William Ellis (died in July, 1872). By years 
of missionary labors performed in the South Sea Isl- 
ands he had become thoroughly acquainted with the 
missionary work; and when, by the death of Ranavala 
Manjaka. Madagascar seemed again open to the Europe- 
ans, he was selected by the London Missionary Society to 
visit the country, in company with Mr. Cameron, in or- 
der to ascertain the actual condition of things, with a 


MADAI 


627 


MADHAVACHARYA 


vtew to resuming missionary labor. The manner in 
which Mr. Ellis conducted the most delicate negotia- 
tions with the government of Madagascar, so as to se- 
cure an entrance for the Christian teachers to the coun- 
try, and the influence he exerted in high places, are well 
known to all persons acquainted with modern mission- 
ary enterprise. On three occasions he visited Mada- 
gascar, always on important missions, and always with 
signal success. He went before, and prepared the way 
for those who have gone in and occupied the field. On 
each occasion of his return to England he had marvel- 
lous things to tell of Madagascar and the prospects that 
were opening for the Church of God there. His J/ar- 
iyr Church of Madagascar, Madagascar Revisited (Lon- 
don, 1867, 8vo), and Three Visits to Madagascar *, give a 
history of that mission-field which leaves nothing to be 
desired (compare, however, Westminster Rev. April, 1867, 
p. 249). It was he, too, who completed and revised the 
translation of the Scriptures into the Malagasy lan- 
guage. 

The number of Christians in Madagascar is now es- 
timated at more than 300,000. in 1870, the English 
missionaries (Episcopalians, Methodists, and Friends), 
who have their head-quarters at the adjoining island 
of Mauritius (an English possession), had in operation 
1 42 schools, attended by 5270 pupils. The Roman Cath- 
olics have, since 1861, missionaries (Jesuits) in the isl- 
and, but they are maiiilv at the capital, Tamatave, and 
vicinity, and in the French possessions, the adjoining 
island of Reunion. See, besides the works of Ellis, al- 
ready mentioned, M‘Leod, Madagascar and its People 
(London, 1865) ; Oliver, Madagascar caul the Malagasi 
(London, 1866); J. Sibrec, Madagascar and its People 
(London, 1870) ; Chambers’s Cgclop . s. v. ; Newcomb, Cy- 
clop. of Missions, s. v. ; Edinb. Rev. 1867, p. 212; Grunde- 
mann, Missions- A tlas, No. 17 ; A r . Y. Methodist, 1867 ; N. 
Y. Christian Intelligencer , July 11, 1872. 

Ma'dai (Heb. Maday', ‘H'a, Sept. M«Joi, Gen. x, 2, 
a Mede [q. v.],as elsewhere rendered), the third son of 
Japhet (Gen. x, 2), from whom the Medes, etc., are sup- 
posed to have descended. B.C. post 2514. See Eth- 
nology. 

Madan, Martin, an Anglican divine, was horn near 
Hertford, England, in 1726. He first studied law, but 
finally entered the ministry, and was for a number of 
years chaplain to the Lock Hospital, London. lie died 
in 1790. Mr. Madan gained great notoriety by a work 
which he published in 1780, entitled Thebjpthora , a trea- 
tise on female ruin, in which he stoutly advocated the 
practice of polygamy. The pamphlets which his work 
elicited he replied to in a number of tracts. Madan’s 
object in advocating polygamy was the removal of se- 
duction. He was quite a pulpit orator; several of his 
sermons have been published. — Allibone, Diet, of Brit, 
and A merican A utkors, vol. ii, s. v. ; Darling, Cyclopcediu 
Bibliog. ii, 1920. 

Madan, Spencer (1), D.D., an Anglican prelate, 
was born about the middle of the 18th century; became 
bishop of Bristol in 1792, and of Peterborough in 1794. 
Fie died in 1813. Bishop Madan published several oc- 
casional Sermons (London, 1792, 8vo, and often), and a 
translation of Grotius's De Veritate Christiana Religionis 
(1781-83, 1813). See Gentleman's Magazine, 1837, i, 206. 

Madan, Spencer (2), D.D., an English divine, 
son of the preceding, was born in 1759; was educated at 
Westminster School and Trinity College, Cambridge; 
was rector first of Ibstoek, Leicestershire, and later of 
Thorp, in Staffordshire. He was also chaplain for the 
king about thirty years, and prebend of Peterborough. 
He died in 1836. He published several sermons. 

Madeira (a Portuguese word signifying wood, and 
given because of the unusual abundance of timber) is an 
island in the North Atlantic Ocean, off the N.W. coast 
of Africa, in lat. 32° 43' N., long. 17° W., with an area of 
345 sq. miles, and a population in 186S of 118.341, and 
belongs to Portugal. It constitutes a part of a group 


of islands sometimes called “the Northern Canaries,” 
which were discovered in 1419. The coasts of Madeira 
are steep and precipitous, rising from 200 to 2000 feet 
above sea-level, comprising few bays or landing-places, 
and deeply cut at intervals by narrow gorges, which 
give to the circumference the appearance of having been 
crimped. From the shore the land rises quickly to a 
height of 5000 feet; its highest point, the Pico Ruivo, 
is 6050 feet high. It is of volcanic origin, and slight 
earthquakes occasionally occur. The lower portions of 
the island abound in tropical plants, as the date-palm, 
plantain, sweet potato, Indian corn, coffee, sugar-cane, 
pomegranate, and fig. The fruits and grains of Europe 
are somewhat cultivated, but the country has until late- 
ly been mainly devoted to the cultivation of the vine 
and sugar-cane. Funchal, with a population of 25,000, 
is both the capital and port of the island. The climate 
is remarkable for its constancy. There is only 10° dif- 
ference between the temperatures of summer and winter, 
the thermometer in Funchal showing an average of 74° 
in summer and of 64° in winter. At the coldest season 
the temperature is rarely less than 60°, while in summer 
it seldom rises above 78°; but sometimes a waft of the 
leste, or east wind, raises it to 90°. The natives of Ma- 
deira are of a mixed race, principally of Portuguese, 
Moorish, and negro blood. “They are meagre, sallow, 
and short-lived, which is attributed to their want of 
wholesome food [the poorer classes chiefly subsist on 
the eddoc-root, sweet potatoes, and chestnuts], a life of 
drudgery, and a total disregard of cleanliness.” 

The Roman Catholic Church is the established re- 
ligion of Madeira, and until recently none other was 
tolerated. In 1839, I)r. Kalley, a physician, began to 
disseminate Protestant doctrines, and ultimately the 
Scotch Church took up the work most successfully be- 
gan by Dr. Kalley. The spirit of persecution, so general 
in Romish countries, was not wanting here, and there was 
great opposition to Protestantism. The first missionary 
to the island was the Rev. W. llewitson, who arrived 
there in 1845, but for a long time the opposition 'of the 
government was so severe that he was obliged to con- 
fine his labors mainly to Dr. Kalley’s converts. So un- 
comfortable were natives who chose the Protestant com- 
munion, that in 1846 some 800 of them left for Trinidad 
and for the United States. At present the Protestants 
have quite a hold on the country. Besides an English 
Church, there are other places of worship, including a 
Presbyterian Church in connection with the Free Church 
of Scotland. The educational institutions comprise the 
Portuguese College, and Lancasterian and government 
schools. See White, Madeira , its Climate and Scen- 
ery ; Schultze, Die Insel Madeira (Stuttg. 1864) ; Cham- 
bers’s Encyclop. s. v. ; Newcomb, Cyclopiedia of Mis- 
sions, s. v. 

Madhava is one of the names of the deity Vishnu 
(q.v.) in Hindu mythology and in Sanskrit poetry. 

Madhavacharya (i. e. Madhava, the Acharva or 
spiritual teacher'), one of the greatest Hindu scholars 
and divines of the mediaeval literature of India, is said 
to have been born at Pampa. a village situated on the 
bank of the river Tungabhadra, probably near the begin- 
ning of the 14th century. He was f»rime minister of 
Sangama, the son of Kampa, whose reign at Yijavana- 
gara commenced about 1336, and also under king Bukka 
f, who succeeded liarihara I about 1361. He died at 
the age of ninety, probably towards the close of the 14tli 
century. Madhavacharya is famed for his numerous 
and important works on Yedic, philosophical, legal, and 
grammatical writings of the ancient Hindus. The most 
important of these are his great commentaries oil the 
Rig-, Yajur-, and Sama-veda [see Veda] ; an exposition 
of the Mira ansa philosophy; a summary account of fif- 
teen religious and philosophical systems of Indian spec- 
ulation; some treatises on the Vedanta philosophy : an- 
other on salvation; a history of Sankara’s (q.v.) polem- 
ics against multifarious misbelievers and heretics; a 


MADIABUX 


C28 


MADNESS 


commentary on Para sara's code of law; a work on de- 
termining time, especially in reference to the observa- 
tion of religious acts: and a grammatical commentary 
on Sanscrit radicals and their derivatives. The chief 
performance of Mfidhava is doubtless the scries of his 
great commentaries on the Vedas, for without them no 
conscientious scholar could attempt to penetrate the 
sense of those ancient Hindu works. In these com- 
mentaries Madhava labors to account for the grammat- 
ical properties of Vedic words and forms, records their 
traditional sense, and explains the drift of the Vedic 
hymns, legends, and rites. So great was Madhavaehar- 
ya*s learning and wisdom that popular superstition as- 
signed them a supernatural origin. He was supposed to 
have received them from the goddess Bhuvaneswari.the 
consort of Siva, who, gratified by his incessant devotions, 
became manifest to him in a human shape, conferred on 
him the gift of extraordinary knowledge, and changed 
his name to Vidydranya (the “Forest of Learning”), a 
title by which he is sometimes designated in Hindu 
writings. — Chambers, Cyclopaedia, s. v, 

Madi'abun ([Ti^ou] 'HpafiaSovv v. r. MaFia- 
fiovv; Vulg. omits), a name interpolated in 1 Esdr. v, 
38 as that of a Levite -whose “ sons” assisted at the res- 
toration of the Temple under Zorobabel; but the Ileb. 
list (Ezra iii, 9) has nothing resembling or correspond- 
ing to it. 

Ma'dian (Judith ii,20: Acts vii,29). See Midi ax. 

Madison, James, D.D., an early Episcopal prelate 
in America, was born near Port Republic. Itockingham 
County. Va., Aug. 27, 1749; passed A.B. in the College j 
of William and Mary in 1772; was soon after admitted 
to the bar, which he abandoned for the ministry; in 
1773 became professor of mathematics in his alma ma- 1 
ter; in 1775 proceeded to England for ordination, was 
licensed for Virginia, but on his return resumed his du- 
ties as professor in his alma mater, of which he became 
president in 1777. He afterwards revisited England to 
see Cavallo and other scientific men. In 1784 he was 
changed to the chair of natural and moral philosophy. 
In 1788 he was chosen bishop of the Protestant Episco- 
pal Church in Virginia, and in 1790 was consecrated in 
England. Under his care the College of William and 
Mary advanced steadily in reputation. He discharged 
his duties with zeal and fidelity until his death, March G, 
1812. In his theology bishop Madison was much of a 
rationalist, and is charged by bishop Coxe (A m. Ch. Rev. 
Jan. 1872, p. 35 and 46) with having given “something 
worse than a negative support” to this dangerous ele- 
ment in the Church. He published some Sermons. Let - 
ters. and Addresses: also A Eulogy on Washington (1800). 
See Sprague, A nnals, v, 318; Drake, Dirt, o f A m. Biog. 
s. v. 

Madman. See Madness. 

Madmann'nak (Hebrew Madmannah', •"!£ 5*1^, 
dunghill ; Sept. MfCf/i ijvd and 'Waepgvd v. r. M a\apip 
and Mfc ; Vulg. Mcdemciut and Mad menu), a town in 
Ihe extreme south of Judah (Josh, xv, 31, where it is, 
mentioned between Ziklag and SansannalD. hence in- 
cluded in the territory afterwards assigned to Simeon. 
From 1 Chron. li, 49. it appears to have been founded 
or, rather, occupied by Shaaph (or perhaps by a son of 
his whose name it bore), the. son of Caleb’s concubine i 
Manchah. Eusebius and Jerome identify it with a 
town of their time called Meno'is {'Mijmotif). near the 
city of Gaza ( Onomast . p. S0\ Sec Madmkxaii. In- 
stead of Madmannah and Sansannah of Josh, xv, 31. the. 
parallel passage (Josh, xix, 5; comp. 1 Chron. iv, 31), 
enumerating the Simeonitish eitios. lias Betu-mauca- 
hotii and Ilazar-susim, probably the same respectively 
(Keifs Joshua, ad loe.\ Schwarz thinks {Palestine, p. 
101) that it was the Levittcal city Mandah, in which, 
according to the “Book of .lasher,” Simeon was buried; 
but this locality is wholly apocryphal. The first stage 
southward from Gaza is now el-Minyiiy (Robinson, Re- 
searches, i, 5G3), which, in default of a better, is suggest- 


ed by Kiepert (in his Map, 185G) as the modern repre- 
sentative of Menois, and therefore of Madmannah. A 
more plausible identification, however, is that of Van de 
Velde (Travels, ii, 130) of the modern ruined village 
Mirkih, west of the south end of the Dead Sea, as a rep- 
resentative of the ancient Beth-marcaboth. 

Mad'men (Heb. Madmen ', 'ja'ia, dunghill; Sept. 
iravaiq v. r. M acaifiijpd, 3 \ adapt] pa , and Madtvrjfid ; 
Vulg. silens), a Moabitish town, threatened with de- 
struction by the sword from the Babylonian invasion in 
connection with the neighboring Ileshbon (Jer. xlviii, 
2). Some (as llitzig, after the Sept., Vulg., etc.) regard 
it as an appellative; and in some editions of the Auth. 
Vers, it is actually printed “ O madmen !” The slight 
notice only affords an approximate location opposite the 
northern extremity of the Dead Sea. See Madmenaii. 

Madme'nah (Ileb. Madmenaii) !"I3'£V2, dunghill; 
Sept. NaStfiiivd, Vulg. Medemena), a town named in 
Isa. x, 31, where it is placed on the route of the Assyr- 
ian invaders, in the northern vicinity of Jerusalem, be- 
tween Nob and Gibeah. It has been confounded by 
Eusebius and Jerome with Madmannah, which is much 
too far southward to suit the context. “ Gesenius (Je- 
saias, p. 414) points out that the verb in the sentence is 
active — * Madmenaii fiies,’ not, as in the A. Vers., ‘ is re- 
moved’ (so also 31ichaelis,7>f&c7 fur Ungelehrten). Mad- 
menaii is not impossibly alluded to by Isaiah (xxv, 10) 
in his denunciation of Moab, where the word rendered 
in the Auth. Vers. ‘ dunghill’ is identical with that name. 
The original text (or Kethih), by a variation in the prep- 
osition for *VS-), reads the * waters of Madmenaii J 
If this is so, the reference may be either to the Madme- 
nali of Benjamin — one of the towns in a district abound- 
ing with corn and threshing-floors— or, more appropri- 
ate!}' still, to 3 1 admen, the Moabitish town. Gesenius 
(Jesaias, p. 78G) appears to have overlooked this, which 
might have induced him to regard with more favor a 
suggestion that seems to have been first made by Jo- 
I seph Kimelii” (Smith). 

Madness. The words rendered by “mad,” “mad- 
man,” k * madness,” etc., in the A. Vers., vary considerably 
in the Hebrew of the O. T. In Dent, xxviii, 28, 34; 1 
Sam. xxi, 13, 14, 15, etc. (pavia. etc., in the Sept.), they 
are derivatives of the root shaga'. “to be stirred 
or excite'd;” in Jer. xxv, 1G; 1, 38; li. 7; Eccles. i, 17, 
etc. (Sept. 7 Ttpapopd). from the root haluV, 1 ' to 

flash out,” applied (like the Greek <p\iyttv) either to 
| light or sound : in Isa. xliv, 25, from £20, sakhl'. “to 
make void or foolish” (Sept, (twpaivtir ) ; in Zecli. xii, 
4, from rvsn, tumuli', “to wander” (Sept. iKoracae ). 
In the X. T. they are generally used to render gaivtoSai 
or fiavta (as in John x, 20; Acts xxvi, 24; 1 Cor. xiv, 
23): but in 2 Bet. ii. 1G the word is 7 Tapa<t>poma, and in 
Luke vi. 11, droia. The term is used in Scripture in its 
proper and old sense of a raving maniac or demented 
person (Dent, xxviii, 34 : 1 Sam. xxi, 13; John x, 20; 
1 Cor. xiv. 23), and may he medically defined to be dc- 
i lirium without fever. Our Lord cured by his word sev- 
eral who were deprived of the exercise of their rational 
powers, and the circumstances of their histories prove 
: that there could neither be mistake nor collusion re- 
' speefing them. See Lunatic. How far madness may 
1 l>e allied to, or connected with demoniacal possession 
(as implied in one passage, John x. 20), is a very intri- 
cate inquiry; and whether 111 the present day (as per- 
haps anciently) evil spirits may not take advantage 
from distemperature of the bodily frame to augment 
evils endured by the patient is more than may be af- 
! firmed, though* the idea seems to be not absolutely re- 
( pugnant. to reason ( see Thomson, Land and Rook, i, 213). 
, See D.kmoniao. The term “mad” is likewise applied 
in Scripture, as in common life, to any subordinate but 
violent disturbance of the mental faculties, whether 
| springing from a disordered intellect (as by over-study, 


MADOX 


629 


MADRAS 


Acts xxvi, 24, 25 ; from startling intelligence, Acts xii, 
15 ; from preternatural excitement, Ilos. ix, 7 ; Isa. xliv, 
25; from resistance of oppression, Eccles. vii, 7; from 
inebriety, Jer. xxv, 10; li, 7 ; or simple fatuity, 2 Kings 
ix, 11 ; Jer. xxix, 26), or from irregular and furious pas- 
sion (e. g. as a persecutor, Acts xxvi, 11; Psa. cii, 8; 
from idolatrous hallucination, Jer. 1, 88 ; or wicked and 
extravagant jollity, Eccles. ii, 2). In like manner, 
“madness” expresses not only proper insanity (Dent, 
xxviii, 28, and so “madman,” 1 Sam. xxi, 15; Prov. 
xxvi, 18), but also a reckless state of mind (Eccles. x, 
13), bordering on delirium (Zech. xii, 4), whether in- 
duced by overstrained intellectual efforts (Eccles. i, 17 ; 

ii, 12), from blind rage (Luke vi, 12), or the effect of de- 
praved tempers (Eccles. vii, 25; ix,o; 2Pet.ii,6). Da- 
vid’s madness (1 Sam. xxi, 13) is by many supposed not 
to have been feigned, but a real epilepsy or falling sick- 
ness ; and the Sept, uses words which strongly indicate 
this sense (t-jri7rrev ini tolq 3Yo«c). It is urged in sup- 
port of this opinion that the troubles which David un- 
derwent might very naturally weaken his constitutional 
strength, and that the force he suffered in being obliged 
to seek shelter in a foreign court would disturb his im- 
agination in the highest degree. A due consideration, 
however, of the context and all the circumstances only 
serves to strengthen the opinion that it was feigned for 
obvious reasons (see Ivitto’s Daily Bible Illustr. ad loc.). 
“ It is well known that among Oriental, as among most 
semi-civilized nations, madmen were looked upon with 
a kind of reverence, as possessed of a quasi-sacred char- 
acter (see Lane, Mod. Eg. i, 346). This arises partly, 
no doubt, from the feeling that one on whom God’s hand 
is laid heavily should be safe from all other harm, but 
partly also from the belief that the loss of reason and 
self-control opened the mind to supernatural influence, 
and gave it therefore a supernatural sacredness. This 
belief was strengthened by the enthusiastic expression 
of idolatrous worship (see 1 Kings xviii, 26, 28), and 
(occasionally) of real inspiration (see 1 Sam. xix, 21-24; 
comp, the application of ‘mad fellow’ in 2 Kings ix, 11, 
and see Jer. xxix, 26; Acts ii, 13)” (Smith). 

Ma'don (Ileb. Madon “jiTEi, strife , as in Prov. xv, 
18, etc.; Sept. Mot *wv v. r. Mopwj'), a Canaanitish city 
in the north of Palestine, ruled over by a king named 
Jobab in the time of Joshua, who captured it (Josh, xi, 
1; xii, 19). Calmet (Diet. s.v.), arbitrarily conjecturing 
that Maron is the true reading, refers to M aroma, a 
small village of Syria thirty miles east of Antioch (Je- 
rome, Vit. Mai. 2), probably the place alluded to by Ptol- 
emy (v, 15, 8, Mooon'taf) as lying in the province of 
Chalcidice. Schwarz infers ( Palest . p. 90, 178) from 
liabbinical notices (chiefly a statement of the early Jew- 
ish traveller hap-Parcbi in Asher’s Benj. of Tudela, p. 
430) that the site is that of the present. Kefr Menda, a 
considerable village at the foot of the hills north of Dio- 
ctesarea, containing a very deep well and some traces of 
antiquity, which Dr. Bobinson (new edit, of Researches, 

iii, 103-111) is inclined to regard as marking the place 
of the Asochis of Josephus (Life, 41, 45, 68 ; War, i, 4,2 ; 
Ant. xiii, 12, 4), although admitting that the latter may 
be referred to Tell cd-Bedawiyeh, in the vicinity. 

“In the Sept, version of 2 Sam. xxi, 20, the Hebrew 
words *}YV2 ‘a man of stature,’ are rendered aviyy 

M cteldiv, i a man of Madon.’ This may refer to the town 
Madon, or may be merely an instance of the habit which 
these translators had of rendering literally in Greek let- 
ters Hebrew words which they did not understand. Oth- 
er instances will be found in 2 Kings vi,8; ix, 13; xii, 
9 ; xv, 10, etc.” (Smith). 

Madonna (Italian, My Lady), a term applied in 
the language of art to representations of the Virgin 
Mary. Such representations first made their appear- 
ance after the 5th century, when the Virgin was de- 
clared to be the “Mother of God.” The face of the 
mother is generally full, oval, and of a mild expression ; 
a veil adorns the hair. At first the lineaments of the 


Virgin’s countenance were copied from the older pic- 
tures of Christ, according to the tradition which de- 
clared that the Saviour resembled his mother. A chro- 
nological arrangement of the pictures of the Virgin 
would exhibit in a remarkable manner the development 
of the Homan Catholic doctrine on this subject. The 
Madonna has been a principal subject of the pencils of 
the great masters. The grandest success has been 
achieved by Itaphael (q. v.), in whose pictures of the 
Madonna there prevails now the loving mother, now 
the ideal of feminine beauty, until in that of St. Six- 
tus there is reached the most glorious representation of 
the “Queen of Heaven.” Murillo’s “Conceptions” also 
should be noticed here. See Murillo. One of these 
has lately been presented to the American public in 
chromo by the American art publisher Prang, of Boston. 

Among symbolic representations may be mentioned 
Mary with the white mantle, i. e. the mantle of love 
under which she receives the faithful; and the Virgin 
with the half-moon or with the globe under her feet, 
according to the meaning put upon the twelfth chapter 
of Kevelation. The Virgin was never represented with- 
out the Child until comparatively recent times. See 
Mrs. Jameson’s delightful work, Legends of the Madonna 
(3d ed. Lond. 1863, 8vo); Christian Remembrancer, 1868 
(July),p. 130; Old and Xew, 1872 (April). 

Madox, Isaac, D.D., an English divine, was born 
in London in 1697 ; was educated at one of the univer- 
sities of Scotland, and at Queen’s College, Cambridge ; 
was successively curate of St. Bride’s, domestic chaplain 
to Dr. Waddington, bishop of Chichester; rector of St. 
Vedast, in Foster Lane, London. In 1729 he was appoint- 
ed clerk of the closet to queen Caroline; in 1733 be- 
came dean of Wells; in 1736, bishop of St. Asaph; was 
translated to the see of Worcester in 1743, and died in 
1759. Dr. Madox published a number of Sermons (Lon- 
don, 1734-53), and a review of the first volume of Neal’s 
Hist, of the Puritans , entitled A Vindication of the Gov- 
ernment, Docti'ine , and Worship of the Church of Eng- 
land established in the Reign of Queen Elizabeth (1783, 
8vo). — Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and Amer. A u(ho?'s , s. v. ; 
Hook, Eccles. Biog. vii, 208. 

Madras, one of the three presidencies of the Indian 
Empire, occupies the greater part of the south of the 
peninsula of Hindustan, including the coast lands, Mal- 
abar, the Laccadive Islands, and the Coromandel coast, 
in all covering an area of 257,871 square miles, with 
38,969,280 inhabitants (of which, according to Behm, 
Geogr. Jahrbuch, 1870, eleven twelfths are Hindus, and 
some 80,000 adherents of Mohammedanism). The trib- 
utary states Mysore, Cochin, Travancore, Pudocotta, and 
Djayapur are virtually a part of Madras, and are there- 
fore included in our statistics of Madras. The capital 
of this presidency. is a city of like name, and is situated 
on the Coromandel coast, the western shore of the Bay 
of Bengal, in lat. 13° 5' X. It stretches along the coast, 
with its nine suburbs, for nine miles, with an average 
breadth of three and one half miles. Its inhabitants 
number 460,000 (1867), among them about 21,000 na- 
tive Christians. Madras was the first hold of the Eng- 
lish secured by the occupation of Fort George (situated 
on the coast midway between the north and south ex- 
tremities of the city) in 1639. It is now truly an Indo- 
European city. Like Calcutta and Bombay, it is a 
gathering-place for the missionaries of the different de- 
nominations and associations, and the basis for all mis- 
sionary enterprise in southern India. Madras is the 
seat of the Anglican see of Madras, established in 1835. 
The missionary societies at work there are the “ Society 
for the Propagation of the Gospel,” the “London Mission- 
ary Society,” the “Church Missionary Society” (which 
started in 1805'), the “ Wesleyan Missionary Society,” 
the “ Church of Scotland,” the “American Board” (com- 
menced there in 1836), and the “Free Church of Scot- 
laud.” Its principal buildings and institutions are the 
I Government House, a handsome edifice, though much 


MADIIUZZIUS 


630 


3IAFFIT 


inferior to the similar establishments in Calcutta, and 
even in Bombay; one of the tinest light-houses in the 
world ; the Scotch Church of St. Andrew, founded in 
ISIS, a stately and beautiful edifice ; a university, with 
three European professors, and numerous teachers both 
European and native, and containing a valuable muse- 
um and a library ; St. George’s Cathedral, from which a 
magnificent view of the city and its vicinity may be 
obtained, and containing several monuments by Chan- 
trev (including one of bishop Ileber), and some figures 
bvFlaxman. There are also male, military, and female 
orphan asylums, a medical school, a branch of the Koval 
Asiatic Society, the Madras Polytechnic Institution, the 
Government Observatory, a mint, eight established Epis- 
copal churches, among them a cathedral, besides numer- 
ous places of worship of other Christian denominations, 
and the Madras Club, to which members of the Bengal 
and Bombay clubs are admitted as honorary members. 
See Grnndemann, Missions- A this, No. 14 and 15; New- 
comb, Cyclop, of Missions, s. v., also under Hindostan; 
Wheeler, Madras in the Olden Times (Madras, 18G1-G2, 
3 vols. 8vo); Aikraan, Cyclop, of Missions, p. 148, 272. 
See India. 

Machuzzius, Christopher, a Roman Catholic ec- 
clesiastic of note, was born at Bologna in 1512, and was 
educated at the high-sehools of Bologna and Padua. 
He was ambassador of Ferdinand at Bologna, and in 
1530 became prince-bishop of Trent. In 1543 the bish- 
opric of Brixen was added to his livings. Later he be- 
came cardinal, lie died in 1578. — Regensburg Re al- 
Encgllopddie , vol. ix, s. v. 

Madura (1), an island in the Indian Ocean, the pos- 
session of the Netherlands, separated from Java on the 
north-east by the strait of Madura, contains about nine- 
ty-seven square miles, and is inhabited by 394,000 peo- 
ple, who adhere either to the religion of Brahma, or are 
of the Mohammedan faith — about evenly divided. The 
remains of Hindu temples, however, would lead us to 
the belief that Hinduism was once the prevailing relig- 
ion. As in Java, probably Brahmanism was crowded 
out by the inroads of the Mohammedans in the 14th 
century, when the Arabs invaded the country, Ma- 
dura is governed by natives, tributary to the Neth- 
erlands, and is divided into three kingdoms. The prod- 
ucts of the islands, which are included in the trade-re- 
turns of Java (q. v.), are sugar, tobacco, indigo, cocoa- 
nut oil, edible birds’ nests, etc.; but, owing to the extor- 
tions of the princes, agriculture is not flourishing. See 
Chambers, Cyclopedia, s. v. 

Madura (2), a maritime district in the south of 
British India, in the presidency of Madras (q. v.), has 
an area of about 10,700 square miles, and a population 
of 1,700,000. Eastward from the shore runs a narrow 
ridge of sand and rocks, mostly dry, and which almost 
connects Ceylon with the continent. Cotton is the chief 
commercial crop; and sugar-cane, betel-nut, and tobacco 
are also grown. In this district the “American Board” 
began its labors in 1834, and now sustains a very suc- 
cessful mission in fourteen stations. The Roman Cath- 
olics gained a strong hold here by the accommodation 
theory of Roberto dei Nobili in the opening of the 17th 
century. A vicariate, formerly a part of Pondicherry, 
was established for Madura in 1816, and is in the care 
of the Jesuits, who recommenced labors there in 1830. 
The principal town is Madura, ou the river Vygat. with 
several noteworthy public buildings, and the scat of a 
Roman Catholic and a Protestant mission. Madura, in 
former days, was the capital ofa kingdom, the. centre 
of South Indian culture and learning. See Grundemaun, 
Missions- A this, No. 14 and 15. See also India. 

Mae'lus (MaijXor v. r. M/X?/\oc, Vulg. Miehelus), 
given (1 Esdr. ix, 20) as the name of an Israelite whose 
posterity returned from Babylon, in place of the Mia- 
niin (q. v.) of the Hebrew text ( Ezra x, 25). 

Maffei, Bernard, a cardinal, and secretary of pope 
Paul III, was bom at Bergamo in 1514, and died in 1553. 


lie wrote a commentary on Cicero’s Letters, and some 
other works, which were highly esteemed in liis time. — 
Herzog, Reul-EncyJdopddie , viii, GG0. 

Maffei, Francesco Scipione de, a noted Ital- 
ian scholar, known chiefly as a dramatic writer, was born 
at Verona June 1, 1G75; studied at the Jesuit eollege of 
Parma, there led a literary life, went to Rome in lG98,and 
afterwards entered the army, and distinguished himself 
in the war of the Spanish Succession ; resumed his liter- 
ary pursuits, and died Feb. 11, 1755, Aside from his 
merely literary productions, he wrote some theological 
works, such as Jstoria teologica delle dottrine, e delle opin- 
ione corse ne, cinque primi secoli della chiesa inproposiio 
della divina grazia, del libero arbitrio e della predestina- 
zione (Tridenti, 1712; translated into Latin by the Jes- 
uit Frederick Eeissenberg [Franef.ad.M.1736]) : — Gian- 
senismo nuoro dimonstrato nelle conseguenze il medesimo 
(Venet. 1732). Among his works on morals, the most 
important is Della scienza chiamata carullaresca (Rom. 
1720, and often), in which he condemns duelling. His 
De tcatri antiche e. moderni (Verona, 1753) is a defence 
of the theatre as a moral institution. His collected 
works were published at Venice (1700, 18 vols. 8vo). — 
Herzog, Re ul-En cy klop. viii, GG1 ; Life and Times of 
Palleano (Rome, 1860, 2 vols. 8vo), vol. i and ii. 

Maffei, Giovanni Pietro, a noted Italian Jes- 
uit, was born at Bergamo about 153G; was for a time 
professor at Genoa, became in 1564 secretary of the gov- 
ernment at that place, and in 1565 joined the Jesuits, 
among whom he gained a great reputation. Brought 
to the notice of cardinal Henry, of Portugal, he was 
called to Lisbon, lie died in Tivoli in 1603. Maffei 
wrote De vita et moribus Sancti Ignatii Loyohc (Venet. 
1G85, and Berg. 1747) : — Hisioriarum indicationum libri 
srrij rerum a Societate Jesu in Oriente gestarum voiumen 
(Florentia?, 1588 ; often reprinted): — De n bus Japonicis 
libri v. At the request of Gregory XIII he wrote a his- 
tory of the reign of that pope, which remained in MS. 
until 1743, when it was published at Rome by Carlo 
Coquetines. A History of India, written by request of 
cardinal Henry, was published without Maffei's name, 
though he was its author. His collected works, accom- 
panied by a biographical sketch, were published under 
the style J. P. Maffei Opera omnia Latine scripia mine 
primnm in unum coipus collecta (Verona, 1747, 2 vols. 
4to). — Herzog, Real-Encyliop. viii, GG0. 

Maffei, Vegius, an Italian priest, canon of St. 
John of Lateran, was born at Lodi, in Lombardy, in 
1407, and died at Rome in 1458. lie enjoyed great 
reputation as a theologian and writer. His most im- 
portant work is Tract atus de eclucatione Uberorum et 
Claris corum stud its ac moribus (Paris, 1511). It was 
often reprinted, and was considered in its day one of the 
best on the subject of education. He also wrote Phila - 
lethes seu de amore rcritatis inrise et esculuntis dialogue ; 
de perseveraniia rvligioms ; de qnatuor homines rebus no- 
rissimis ; also biographies of St. Bernard of Sienna, St. 
Peter Oclestin, Augustine, and Monica, and a continua- 
tion of Virgil's sEneid in 13 vols., etc. — Herzog, Real- 
Encyklopadie , viii, 060. 

Maffit, .John Newland, a minister of the Method- 
ist Episcopal Church South, was born of Episcopal pa- 
rentage at Dublin, Ireland, Dec. 28, 1704; was destined 
for the mercantile profession by his parents, but, joining 
the XVeslevans in 1813, he determined upon the minis- 
try. Opposed l>y bis friends and family at borne, lie 
emigrated to this country in 1810, and not long after bis 
arrival became a member of the New England Confer- 
ence. For twelve succeeding years he was stationed in 
the different cities of New England, then removed to 
New York, acting thereafter only as a local preacher, 
moving at his own discretion, and preaching and lectu- 
ring at such points as offeree!. In 1835, conjointly with 
Rev. Lewis Garrett, lie issued in Nashville. Tenn., the 
iirst number of The Western Methodist (now Tin Chris- 
I thin Advocate , the central organ of the Methodist Epis- 


MAG 


631 


MAGDALA 


copal Church South). In 1836-1837 he was agent for 
La Grange College, in Alabama, and subsequently was 
elected to the chair of elocution and belles-lettres in 
that institution; but he gave little attention to its du- 
ties, and the chair was soon discontinued. In 1841 he 
was chaplain of the lower house of Congress. His ad- 
vent West and South-west was marked by a quickened 
religious interest in the popular mind. Vast assemblies 
gathered to hear him, and thousands, directly through 
his instrumentality, were added to the Church. Re- 
turning to New York, he became somewhat lax in his 
Church relations, and consequently lost his membership. 
In 1847 he removed to Arkansas, and there joined the 
Methodist Episcopal Church South, and was licensed to 
preach de novo . After laboring for a year or two with 
a success small in comparison with his previous history, 
he left Arkansas for the Gulf cities. Ilis last days were 
spent in carrying on a religious meeting in a small 
chapel of a suburban villa of Mobile, Ala. Public in- 
terest could no more be evoked by him who had been its 
master in the wilderness and in the city, as well as the 
street-preacher, the lecturer, or the camp-meeting lead- 
er. The spell was broken, or — the spiri t of the man. He 
died suddenly, of heart rupture, near Mobile, May, 1850. 
“Though amiable, he had the appearance of vanity, 
which provoked criticisms; and, though forgiving and 
gentle, his zeal in the prosecution of his Master's cause 
and his boldness in the rebuke of sin often waked up 
enemies. Ilis social relaxations were thought by many 
to run into indiscretions and follies that marred his 
character and his influence in private life. See Sprague, 
Annuls of the American Pulpit, vol. vii. (J. H. W.) 

Mag. See Rab-mag. 

Magalhseus, Gabriel de, a Portuguese mission- 
ary, was born at Pedrogao, near Cdimbre, in 1609; was 
admitted to the “Society of Jesus” when only sixteen, 
and, desiring to enter the missionary work, departed for 
Goa, India, in 1634. On his way he stopped at Macao, 
and was led to make an extended tour through China, 
and so great became his interest in that country that 
he abandoned his intention of proceeding to India, and 
preached Christianity in the Chinese empire with zeal 
and apparent success. At first he was in favor at court, 
but he fell into displeasure during the Christian persecu- 
tions, and barely saved his life. He died a peaceful 
death, May 6, 1677. He wrote several works on China. 
See lloefer, Xouv. Biog. Generate, xxxii, G62. 

Magalhaeus, Pedro de, a Portuguese theologian, 
was born at Torres- Vcdras about 1592; was for some 
time instructor in theology at the convent of the Do- 
minican order to which he himself belonged : and died 
in 1677. He published De Scientia Dei (Lisbon, 1866, 
4to) : — De Prcedestincitionis Excequatione (ibid. 1667, 4to ; 
Lyons, 1674) : — De Volnntate et de Trinit ate (ibid. 1669, 
4to). He also left several valuable works in MS. — Hoe- 
fer, Xouv. Biog. Generate , vol. xxxii, s. v. 

Magarita, Magarites, names given by some 
writers of the Middle Ages to the apostates from Chris- 
tianity, especially to such as became Mohammedans. 
The origin of the name is unknown. See Du Cange, s. 
v.; Herzog, Beal-Eneykiopadie, viii, 661. 

Mag'bish (Hebrew Magbish', '0*21*2, gathering ; 
Sept. Mayefitg, Vulg. Megbis), a man whose descendants 
(so Clericus, ad loc., who compares the Persian name 
Megabyzus, Herod, ii, 70, 160) to the number of 156 re- 
turned from Babylon with Zerubbabel (Ezra ii, 30). It 
is omitted in the parallel list (Neh. vii, 33, 34). Most 
interpreters regard it as the name of a place, probably 
in Palestine, and if so, doubtless in Benjamin, as the as- 
sociated names are those of localities in that tribe. But 
it was perhaps rather another form for that of the Mag- 
piash (q. v.) of Neh. x, 20, where some of the same 
names are mentioned in a similar connection. 

Mag'dala (MaycaXd [v. r. Mayacdn], prob. the 
Chald. emphatic form of the Hebrew bnas, J figdal, a 
tower ; see Paulus, Comm, ii, 437 sq.), a town in Galilee 


opposite the Sea of Tiberias (Otho, Lex. Babb. p. 401). 
It is mentioned only in Matt, xv, 39, as a place to which 
Jesus repaired after having crossed the lake, “ though 
the best MSS. (Sin., Vat., D.) read Magadan, which, 
Alford observes, ‘appears to have been the original read- 
ing, but the better-known name Magdala was substituted 
for it.’ It is not unusual, however, for Syrian villages 
to have two names, and for the same name to have dif- 
ferent forms. The parallel passage in Mark viii, 10 has 
Dalmanntha (AaA^«i'ou3«), though here also some 
MSS. read Magdala and some Magada (Alford, ad loc.). 
A close examination of the Gospel narrative, and a com- 
parison of the parallel passages in Matthew and Mark 
(Matt, xv, 39; xvi, 1-13, with Mark viii, 10-27), prove 
that Magdala or Magadan must have been situated on 
the western shore of the Sea of Galilee, and Dalmanutha 
was probably a village near it, for the whole shore of 
the lake was then lined with towns and villages. Eu- 
sebius and Jerome locate this place, which they call 
Magedan , on the east of the Sea of Galilee, and they say 
there was in tlieir day a district of Magedena around 
Gerasa (kul ion vvv ?/ Mayai&zw} 7rept ri]v Ytpdoav ; 
Onomast. s. v. Magedan). They also state that Mark 
(viii, 10) reads M ayatedv, though Jerome’s version has 
Dalmanutha. The old Latin version has Magada. In 
some editions of Josephus a Magdala is mentioned on 
the east side of the lake (Life, p. 24), but the best MSS. 
read Gamala (Robinson, B. B. ii, 397 ; Josephus, by Hud- 
son, ad loc.). Lightfoot places Magdala beyond Jordan, 
but his reasons are not satisfactory (Opera, ii, 413)” 
(Kitto). The above position on the western shore, al- 
though it has usually been located on the eastern (see 
Robinson’s Besear cites, iii, 278 ; Strong’s Harmony of the 
Gospels , § 70), is confirmed by the Jerusalem Talmud 
(compiled at Tiberias), which several times speaks of 
Magdala as being adjacent to Tiberias and Hamath, or 
the hot springs (Lightfoot, Chorog. Cent. cap. Lxxvi). It 
was a seat of Jewish learning after the destruction of 
Jerusalem, and the rabbins of Magdala are often men- 
tioned in the Talmud (Lightfoot, l. c.). M. De Sauley, 
however, takes an opposite view on all these points 
(Xarrative, ii, 355-357), as Pococke had done before 
(Observations, ii, 71). In the Gospels it is principally 
referred to as probably the birthplace of Mary Magda- 
len, i. e. the Magdalene (q. v.), or of Magdala. A small 
Moslem village, bearing the name of Mejdel, is now 
found on the shore of the lake about three miles north 
by west of Tiberias, and the name and situation are 
very strongly in favor of the conclusion that it rep- 
resents the Magdala of Scripture. It evidently (like 
the ancient town) derived its name from a tower or cas- 
tle, and here Buckingham found the ruins of an old 
structure of this kind (Trav. i, 404). He speaks of it 
as being a small village close to the edge of the lake, 
beneath a range of high cliffs, in which small grottoes 
are seen, with the remains of an old square tower, and 
some larger buildings of rude construction, apparently 
of great antiquity. “A large solitary thorn-tree stands 
beside it. The situation, otherwise unmarked, is digni- 
fied by the high limestone rock which overhangs it on 
the south-west, perforated with caves, recalling, by a 
curious though doubtless unintentional coincidence, the 
scene of Correggio’s celebrated picture. These eaves 
are said by Schwarz (p. 189) — though on no clear au- 
thority — to bear the name of Teliman, i. e. Talmanutha. 
‘A clear stream rushes past the rock into the sea, issu- 
ing in a tangled thicket of thorn and willow from a deep 
ravine at the back of the plain’ (Stanley, S. and P. p. 
382, 383). Jerome, although he plays upon the name 
Magdalene — ‘recte vocatam Magdalenen, id ist Turri- 
tam, ob ejus singularem lidei ac ardoris constantianT — 
does not appear to connect it with the place in question. 
B^v the Jews the word SOIS'C is used to denote a person 
who platted or twisted hair, a practice then much in use 
among women of loose character. A certain * Miriam 
Magdala’ is mentioned by the Talmudists, who is prob- 
ably intended for Mary Magdalene. (See Otho, Lex. 


MAGDALEN 


632 


MAGI 


Pabb.s. v. Maria; anti Buxtorf, Lex. Tulm. col. 389, 1459.) 
Magdalum is mentioned as between Tiberias and Ca- 
pernaum as early as by Willibald, A.D. 722; since that 
time it is occasionally named by travellers, among oth- 
ers Quaresmius, Elucidatio , p. 8(56 6,- Sir lb Guyllbrdc, 
Lylgrymage ; Breydenbach, p. 29; Bonar, Land of Prom- 
ise. p. 433, 434, and 549. Buchanan ( Clerical Furlough , 
p. 375) describes well the striking view of the northern 
part of the lake which is obtained from el-Mejdel” 
(Smith). This was probably also the Migdal-el (q. 
v.) in the tribe of Naphtali, mentioned in Josh, xix, 38. 
See Burckhardt, Syria , p. 559; Seetzen, in Monat. Cor- 
resp. xviii, 349 ; Fisk, Life , p. 316 ; Tobler, Dritte Wan- 
deruug, p. 46 ; Schubert, iii, 250. 

Mag'dalen (or Magdalene) (flaycaXipa), fem. 
adj. from Magdala), a surname regularly applied to one 
of the Marys in the Gospels, derived from her place of 
nativity or former residence, in order to distinguish her 
from the other Marys (Matt, xxvii, 56, 61 ; xxviii, 1 ; 
Mark xv, 40, 47; xvi, 1, 9; Luke viii, 2; xxiv, 10; 
John xix, 25; xx, 1, 18). See Magdala. 

Magdalen, religious Order of, a denomination 
given to divers communities of nuns, consisting gener- 
ally of reformed prostitutes; sometimes also called Mag- 
dalenettes. They were established at Naples in 1324, at 
Baris in 1492, at Mentz in 1542; and at Itonen and Bor- 
deaux in 1618. In each of these monasteries there w r ere 
three kinds of persons and congregations: (1) nuns 
proper and under vow, bearing the name of Si. Magda- 
len; (2) the congregation of St. Martha, composed of 
those not yet fully avowed ; (3) the congregation of St. 
Lazarus, composed of such as were detained by force. 
The Order of St. Magdalen at Lome was established 
by pope Leo X. Clement VIII settled a revenue on 
them, and further appointed that the effects of all pub- 
lic prostitutes dying intestate should fall to them, and 
that the testaments of the rest should be invalid unless 
they bequeathed to them a portion of their effects, at 
least a tifth part. The term originated in the mis- 
taken notion that Mary Magdalen, of whom we read in 
the Gospel, was a woman of bad character; a notion 
which is still very prevalent, notwithstanding the in- 
creased attention that has been given to the interpre- 
tation of holy Scripture. — Buck, Theol. Did. s. v. See 
Mary Magdalex. 

Magdalena de Pazzi, a saint of the Bomish 
Church, was born at Florence April 2, 1566. She be- 
longed to one of the highest families in Tuscany; was 
educated in the convent of the Hospitable Nuns of St. 
John the Little; refused to marry, and, May.27, 1584, 
took the veil in the Carmelite convent of St. Mary of 
the Angels. Iler name, hitherto Catharine de Gere de ’ 
Pazzi, was now changed to 31 aria Magdalena. She be- 
came wild in her religious enthusiasm, claimed to have 
visions, and to hold converse with the angels, with the 
Virgin, and even with Christ himself. She tilled divers 
otlices in her convent, and died May 25, 1607. Tope 
Urban VIII in the same year beatified her, and in 1669 
she was canonized by Alexander ATI. Her biography 
was written by her confessor Puccini, and her works 
were collected by the Carmelite Salvi of Bologna (A r en. 
1739). See Bolland, ad 25 Man; Baillet, T7es dts Saints; 
Bicliard et Giraud, Bibliotheque Sacree; Herzog, lleal- 
Encyliop. viii, 662 ; I loefer, Xouc. Piog. Gen., xxxii, 615. 

Magdeburg Centuries. See Centuries of 
Magdkrueg. 

Mag'diel (Heb. MagdieV, b endowed of God; 

Sept. AI ayfcii)\ and M tctt)\ v. r. AHron/pX), the success- 
or of Mibzar, and predecessor of Iram among the Edo- 
mitish chiefs who held sway along with t lie native 
princes in Mount Seir (Gen. xxxvi, 13; I Chfon. i, 54). 
B.C. ante 1619. 

Ma'ged (Ala/c* tqATilg. Mageth), a false Anglicizing 
(1 Maec. v, 36) of the name Makicd (1 Mace, v, 26). 

Magee, Thomas, a Methodist Episcopal minis- 


ter, was born in Limerick, Ireland, March 11,1822; was 
brought to America at nine years of age; was converted 
near Whitehall, Green Co., 111., in 1841 ; joined the Illi- 
nois Conference in 1843 ; was very successful as a min- 
ister, and in 1852 signally so as agent of the Illinois XVes- 
levan University. In 1852-3 he was stationed at Spring- 
field. He died at Bloomington, 111., Mar. 23, 1854. From 
orphanage and neglected wickedness, and after majority 
by the transforming power of grace and strenuous effort, 
Air. Magee became in fourteen years one of the foremost 
ministers of his Conference. His powerful frame, de- 
cided talents, and indomitable energy enabled him to 
labor mightily for God. — Minutes of Conferences , v, 476. 

Magee, William, D.D., a noted Anglican prelate, 
was born March 18, 1766, in the county of Fermanat, Ire- 
land, and was educated at the University of Dublin 
(Trinity College). He obtained all the college honors, 
and graduated A.B. in 1785, and in 1788 was elected a 
fellow. His friends desired him to enter the legal pro- 
fession, but he himself inclined to the ministry, and in 
1790 he was ordained, acting at this time as a tutor in 
his alma mater; later he became assistant professor of 
the Oriental languages, and in 1806 senior fellow and 
professor of mathematics. In 1812 he retired from the 
university, and accepted the livings of Kappagli,in Ty- 
rone, and Killyleagh, in Down ; in 1814 he was appoint- 
ed dean of Cork, and there became greatly celebrated as 
a pulpit orator. Notwithstanding the length of his dis- 
courses (he never preached less than one hour) he was 
followed by crowds, though no man less courted popu- 
larity. His sermons, his biographer says, “might be 
characterized as solid Gospel truth, strongly and plainly 
enforced in simplicity and sincerity.” Bishop Barring- 
ton, a contemporary, thus comments upon Dr. Magee’s 
eloquence : “ I have often heard and admired Air. Pitt, 
but while I am listening to my friend dean Magee I 
feel that if I were to shut my eyes I could fancy that 
Mr. Pitt was speaking.” In 1819 Dr. Magee was pro- 
moted to the bishopric of Baphoe ; in 1821, when George 
IA r visited Dublin, he was appointed by the king dean 
of the ATceregal Chapel at the castle ; and in 1822, after 
declining the archbishopric of Cashel, he became arch- 
bishop of Dublin. lie died Aug. 18, 1831. Archbishop 
Magee is noted particularly for his opposition to Roman- 
ism and Unitarianism. Against the latter he sent forth 
his Discourses on the Atonement and Sacrifice (1811, 
8vo; 2d edit. 1812, 2 vols. 8vo; 3d edit. 1816,3 vols. 8vo; 
7th edit. 1841, 1 vol. royal 8vo), universally pronounced 
one of the ablest critical and controversial works of 
modem times. Ilis IPorFs were published in 1842, in 
2 vols. 8vo, with a memoir of his life by Arthur II. Kin- 
ney, D.D. See, besides this Memoir in Worlett, the Dub- 
lin Cnicersity Jfagazine, xxvi, 480 sq. ; xxvii, 750 sq. ; 
Christian Observer , 1843 (May and June) ; Christian Ex- 
aminer, xxviii, 63 sq. ; Alii bone, Did. of British and 
. 1 merican A uthors, s. v. (J. II. XV.) 

Maghrebi. See Aaron iia-Risiion. 

Magi is the Latin form of the Greek term gdyoi , 
magians , rendered “wise men” in Matt, ii, 1,7, 16, and 
occurring likewise in the singular payor, “sorcerer,” 
with reference to Elymas (Acts xii, 6, 8). Compare the 
epithet Simon Magus. The term is still extant on the 
cuneiform inscriptions (see Olshausen, ad loo. Matt.). It 
corresponds to the Heb. 5*2, Mag. The term magi was 
used as the name for priests and wise men among the 
Medes, Persians, and Babylonians. So the word Pal- 
mag, in onr version of Jer. xxxix, 3, used as a proper 
name, properly signifies the jwince magus or chief of the 
magi. While the priests and literati were known by 
the general name of magi, they were also known by the 
name of wise men, and likewise Chaldeans (Isa. xliv, 
52 ; Jer. 1, 35 ; Dan. ii, 1 2-27 ; iv, 6, 18 ; v, 7, 8, 1 1 , 12, 15). 
To their number doubtless belonged the astrologers and 
star-gazers (Isa. xlvii, 13). So, also, the Chaldee sooth- 
sayers and dream-interpreters cither denote various or- 
ders of magi, or they are merely different names of the 


MAGI 


033 


MAGI 


same general class (Dan. i, 20 ; ii, 2 ; x, 27 ; iv, 7 ; v, 7, 
11). See M agio lax. In the following account of this 
important and interesting class, we largely use the arli- j 
exes in Kitto’s and Smith’s Dictionaries. 

I. Etymology of the Name . — In the Pehlvi dialect of 
the Zend, niogk means priest (Hyde, Relig. Vet. Pers. c. 
31) ; and this is connected by philologists with the San- 
scrit vinhat (great, ptyaq, and magnus ; Anquetil du 
Perron’s Zend- A vesta , ii, 555). The coincidence of a San- 
scrit may a, in the sense of illusion, magic,” is remark- 
able ; but it is probable that this, as well as the analo- 
gous Greek word, is the derived rather than the original 
meaning (comp. Eichhotf, Vergleichung der Sprache , ed. 
Kaltschmidt, p. 231). Hyde (1. c.) notices another ety- 
mology given by Arabian authors, which makes the word 
= cropt-cared (jrnrvis auribus ), but rejects it. Prideaux, 
on the other hand ( Connection , under B.C. 522), accepts 
it, and seriously connects it with the story of the pseu- 
do -Smcrdis who had lost his ears in Ilerod. iii, 63. 
Spanheiin (Dub. Evany, xviii) speaks favorably, though 
not decisively, of a Hebrew etymology. 

II. Their Original Seat. — This name has come to us 
through the Greeks as the proper designation of the 
priestly class among the Persians (Ilerod. i, 132, 140; 
Xenoph., Cyrop. viii, 1, 23; Plato, Alcib. i, 122; Diog. 
Laert. Praam. 1,2; Cicero, De Divin. i, 41 ; Apnl. Apol. 
p. 32 ed. Casaubon, p. 290 cd. Elmenhorst ; Porphyr. De 
Abst. 1. iv. ; Hesych. s. v. Mayog). It does not appear, 
however, that Magism was originally a Persian institu- 
tion, and it may be doubted if in its original form it ever 
existed among the Persians at all. 

The earliest notice extant of the magi is in the 
prophecies of Jeremiah (xxxix,3, 13), where mention is 
made of Kab-mag, a term which, though regarded in the 
A.V. as a proper name, is a compound of and 
and signifies chief magus , after the analogy of such terms 
as O'nO'H'l (chief eunuch ), i (chief butler), etc. 
(See below, § iv.) The Kab-mag of Jeremiah is the 
same as the Rub Signin al kol Chakimin (b^ 2*1 

p2pn >2) of Daniel (ii, 48); the ru>v Upeiov h Tiagpo- 
raroQ oi'c RafiuXwvioi icaXovoi XaXdaiovg of Diodorus 
Sic. (ii, 24) ; and the dp\ipayoQ °f the later Greek wri- 
ters (Sozomen, I list . Eccles, i, 13). This indicates the ex- 
istence among the Chaldieans of the magian institute 
in a regular form, and as a recognised element in the 
state, at a period not later than 600 years B.C. In Jer. 
1,35, it is evidently the same class that is referred to un- 
der the designation of the “wise men of Babylon.” In 
the time of Daniel we find the institute in full force in 
Babylon (Dan. ii, 2, 12, 18, 24 ; iv, 3, 15 ; v, 7, 8). From 
him we learn that it comprised five classes — the Char- 
timmim, expounders of sacred writings and interpreters 
of signs (i, 20; ii, 2; v, 4); the Ashaphim, conjurors (ii. 
10 ; v, 7, 1 1 ; comp, xlvii, 9, 1 2) ; the Mekashephim , exor- 
cists, soothsayers, magicians, diviners (ii, 2 ; comp. Isa. 
xlvii, 9, 13 ; Jcr. xxvii, 9) ; the Gozerim, casters of nativ- 
ities, astrologists (ii, 27 ; v,7, 11); and the Chasdim, Chal- 
dieans in the narrower sense (ii, 5, 10; iv. 4; v, 7, etc.; 
compare llengstenberg, Beit rage, i, 343 sq. ; Iliivcrnick, 
Comment iib. Daniel, p. 52 ; Gescnius, Thes. ad voc.). So 
much was Magism a Chaldican institution that the term 
Chtddcean came to be applied as a synonym for the class 
(Diod. Sic. ii, 29 sq. ; Strabo, xvi, 762 ; Diog. Laertius, 
Procem. 1 ; Cicero, de Divinat. i, 1 ; Curtius, Hist, iii, 3, 6; 
Josephus, War, ii, 7, 3; Aul. Gellius, xv, 20, 2; Apulei- 
us, A sin. ii, 228, etc.). 

Whether Magism was indigenous in Chakkea, and 
was thence carried to the adjacent countries, or was de- 
rived by the Chaldeans from Assyria, it is impossible 
now to determine with any certainty. In favor of its 
Assyrian origin it has been urged that the word V2 is 
found as the name of the Assyrian fire-priest (Movers, i, 
64, 240), and that the priests of the Assyrian Artemis 
at Ephesus were called Mcg-Abyzi (Strabo, xiv, 641). 
But on this nothing can be built, as we find the syllable 


Meg or Mag occurring in names and titles belonging to 
other peoples, as Mag-Etzer (fire-priest), the father of 
Artemis among the Phoenicians; Teker-Mag , Teker the 
Magus (on a Cilieian coin), etc. When it is considered 
that the Chaldcean was the older nation, and that the 
Assyrians derived many of their religious beliefs and in- 
stitutions from the Chaldeans (Kawlinson, Five Great 
Monarchies, i, 308; ii, 228), the probability is that they 
derived the institution of the magi also. That the in- 
stitution was originally Shcmitic is further confirmed 
by the Phoenician tradition preserved by Sanchoniathon 
(ap. Euseb. Prcep. Evang. i, 10), that Magos was a de- 
scendant of the Titans, and, with his brother Amynos, 
made men acquainted with villages and flocks. It must 
be confessed, however, that the word ^"2 has more ob- 
vious affinities in the Indo-Germanic than in the She- 
mitic tongues (see above, § i) ; but this can hardly be al- 
lowed to weigh much against the historical evidence of 
the existence of the magi in Shcmitic nations anterior 
to their existence among those of the Aryan stock. 

That Magism was not, as commonly stated, a Persian 
institution, is shown from several considerations : 1. The 
word does not appear to have existed in the Zend lan- 
guage; at any rate, it does not occur in the Zend-Avesta. 
2. The religious system of the ancient Persians was a 
system of Dualism, as the most ancient documents con- 
cur with the monumental evidence to prove (see Kaw- 
linson’s Herodotus, i, 426), but with this Magism had no 
affinity. 3. In the Zend-Avesta, the Ydtus, the practiccr 
of magical arts, is vehemently denounced, and men are 
enjoined to prav and present offerings against his arts, 
as an invention of the Dews. 4. Xenophon informs us 
(Cyrop.x iii, 1, 23) that the magi were first established in 
Persia by Cyrus (comp, also Ammian. Marc, xxiii, 6; 
Porphyr. De abstin. iv, 16, etc.), a statement which can 
be understood only, as Heeren suggests (I, i, 451 sq.), 
as intimating that the magian institute, which existed 
long before this among the Medes, was introduced by Cy- 
rus among the Persians also. 5. Herodotus (i, 101) states 
that the magi formed one of the tribes of the Medes; 
and he also attributes the placing of the pseudo-Smerdis 
on the Persian throne to the magi, who were moved 
thereto by a desire to substitute the Median for the Per- 
sian rifle (iii, 61 sq.; compare Ctesias, Persica, c. 10-1 5 ; 
Justin, Hist, i, 9; and the Behistun inscription as trans- 
lated by Sir II. Kawlinson ; see Kawlinson’s Herodotus, i, 
427). (3. Herodotus mentions that, after this attempt of 
the magi had been frustrated, it became a usage among 
the Persians to observe a festival in celebration of the 
overthrow of the magi, to which they gave the name of 
Magophonia (payotyovia), and during which it was not 
safe for any magus to leave the house (iii, 79 ; Agathias, 
ii, 25), a usage which could have had its origin only at 
a time when Magism was foreign to Persian beliefs and 
institutions. 7. We find no allusion to the magi in 
connection with any of the Medo-Persian kings men- 
tioned in Scripture, a circumstance which, though not of 
itself of much importance, falls in with the supposition 
that Magism was not at that time a predominant Per- 
sian institution. The probability is, that this system 
had its source in Chakkea, was thence propagated to 
Assyria, Media, and the adjoining countries, and was 
brought from Media into Persia, where it came at first 
into collision both with the national prejudices and with 
the ancient religious faith of the people. With this ac- 
cord the traditions which impute to Zoroaster, after he 
came to be regarded as the apostle of Magism, some- 
times a Parthian and sometimes a Bactrian origin. See 
Zokoastek. Eventually, however, Magism seems to 
have been adopted into or reconciled with Zoroasterism, 
perhaps by losing its original theosophic character, and 
taking on a more practical or thaumaturgic phase. 

III. Profane Accounts of the Order . — The magi were 
originally one of the six tribes (Ilerod. i. 101 ; Pliny, 
Hist. Nat. v, 29) into which the nation of the Medes 
was divided, who, like the Levites under the Mosaic in- 
stitutions, were intrusted with the care of religion, an 


MAGI 


634 


MAGI 


office which naturally, in those early times, made this 
caste likewise the chief depositaries of science and cul- 
tivators of art. Little in detail is known of the magi 
during the independent existence of the Median gov- 
ernment ; but under the Medo-Persian sway the magi 
formed a sacred caste or college, which was very famous 
in the ancient world (Xcnoph. Cyrop. viii, 1, 23; Am* 
mian. Alarcell, xxiii, G; Hecren, Ideen, i, 451 ; Sehlosscr, 
Universal Uebers. i, 278). Porphyry (Abst. iv, 16) says, 
“ The learned men who are engaged among the Persians 
in the service of the Deity are called magi;” and Sui- 
das, ‘‘Among the Persians the lovers of wisdom 
<ro(poi) and the servants of God are called magi.” Ac- 
cording to Strabo (ii, 1084, ed. Falcon.), the magi prac- 
ticed different sorts of divination — 1, by evoking the 
dead ; 2, by cups or dishes (Joseph’s divining-cup, Gen. 
xliv, 5) ; 3, by means of water. I>y the employment of 
these means the magi affected to disclose the future, to 
influence the present, and to call the past to their aid. 
Even the visions of the night they were accustomed to 
interpret, not empirically, but according to such estab- 
lished and systematic rules as a learned priesthood 
might be expected to employ (Strabo, xvi, 7G2; Cic- 
ero, De Divin . i, 41 ; yElian. Y. II. ii, 17). The success, 
however, of their efforts over the invisible world, as 
well as the holy office which they exercised, demanded 
in themselves peculiar cleanliness of body, a due regard 
to which and to the general principles of their caste 
would naturally be followed by professional prosperity, 
and this, in its turn, conspired with prevailing supersti- 
tion to give the magi great social consideration, and 
make them of high importance before kings and princes 
(Diog. Laert. ix, 7, 2) — an influence which they appear 
to have sometimes abused, when, descending from the 
peculiar duties of their high office, they took part in the 
strife and competitions of politics, and found themselves 
sufficiently powerful even to overturn thrones (Herod, 
iii, 61 sq.). These abuses were reformed by Zoroaster, 
who appeared, according to many authorities, in the 
second half of the 7th century before Christ. Fie was 
not the founder of a new system, but the renovator of 
an old and corrupt one, being, as he himself intimates 
(Zend-Avesta, i, 43), the restorer of the word which Or- 
muzd had formerly revealed, but which the influence of 
Dews had degraded into a false and deceptive magic. 
After much and long-continued opposition on the part 
of the adherents and defenders of existing corruptions, 
lie succeeded in his virtuous purposes, and caused his 
system eventually to prevail. lie appears to have re- 
modelled the institute of the magian caste, dividing 
it into three great classes: 1, Ilerbeds, or learners; 2, 
Mobeds, or masters; 3. Dcstur Mobeds, or perfect schol- 
ars (Zend-Av. ii, 171,201). The magi alone he allowed 
to perform the religious rites; they possessed the forms 
of prayer and worship; they knew' the ceremonies which 
availed to conciliate Orrnuzd, and were obligatory in the 
public offerings (Ilerod. i, 132). They accordingly be- 
came the sole medium of communication between the 
Deity and his creatures, and through them alone Or- 
muzd made his will known; none but them could see 
into the future, and they disclosed their knowledge to 
those only who were so fortunate as to conciliate their 
good will. Hence the power which the magian priest- 
hood possessed. The general belief in the trustworthi- 
ness of their predictions, especially when founded on 
astrological calculations, the all but universal custom of 
consulting the will of the divinity before entering on 
any important undertaking, and the blind faith which 
was reposed in all that the magi did, reported, or com- 
manded, combined to create for that sacerdotal caste a 
power, both in public and in private concerns, which has 
probably never been exceeded. Indeed the ‘soothsayer 
was a public officer, a member, if not the president, of 
the privy council in the Aledo- Persian court, demanded 
alike for show, in order to influence the people, and for 
use, in order to guide the state. Hence the person of 
the monarch was surrounded by priests, who, in differ- 


ent ranks and with different offices, conspired to sustain 
the throne, uphold the established religion, and concili- 
ate or enforce the obedience of the subject. The fitness 
of the magi for, and their usefulness to, an Oriental 
court were not a little enhanced by the pomp of their 
dress, the splendor of their ceremonial, and the number 
and gradation of the sacred associates. Well may Cy- 
rus, in uniting the Medes to his Persian subjects, have 
adopted, in all its magnificent details, a priesthood which 
would go far to transfer to him the affections of his con- 
quered subjects, and promote, more than an\ T other thing, 
his own aggrandizement and that of his empire. Nei- 
ther the functions nor the influence of this sacred caste 
were reserved for peculiar, rare, and extraordinary occa- 
sions, but ran through the web of human life. At the 
break of day they had to chant the divine hymns. This 
office being performed, then came the daily sacrifice to 
be offered, not indiscriminately, but to the divinities 
whose day in each case it was — an office, therefore, which 
none but the initiated could fulfil. As an illustration 
of the high estimation in which the magi w r cre held, it 
may be mentioned that it w'as considered a necessary 
part of a princely education to have been instructed in 
the peculiar learning of their sacred order, which was 
an honor conceded to no other but royal personages, ex- 
cept in very rare and very peculiar instances (Cicero, 
I)e Divin. i, 23 ; Plutarch, Themistocles). This magian 
learning embraced everything which regarded the high- 
er culture of the nation, being known in history under 
the designation of “the law of the Aledes and Persians.” 
It comprised the knowledge of all the sacred rites, cus- 
toms, usages, and observances, which related not merely 
to the worship of the gods, but to the whole private 
life of every worshipper of Orrnuzd — the duties which, 
as such, he had to observe, and the punishments which 
followed the neglect of these obligations, whence may 
be learned how necessary' the act of the priest on all oc- 
casions was. Under the veil of religion the priest had 
bound liimsclf up with the entire public and domestic 
life. The judicial office, too, appears to have been, in 
the time of Cambyses, in the hands of the magi, for 
from them was chosen the college or bench of royal 
judges, which makes its appearance in the history' of 
that monarch (Herod, iv, 31 ; vii, 104; comp. Esther i, 
13). Men who held those offices, possessed this learn- 
ing, and exerted this influence with the people, may 
have proved a check to Oriental despotism no less pow- 
erful than constitutional, though they were sometimes 
unable to guarantee their own lives against the wrath 
of the monarch (Herod, vii, 104; compare Dan. ii, 12); 
and they appear to have been well versed in those court- 
ly arts by which the hand that bears the sword is won 
to protect instead of destroying. Thus Cambyses, wish- 
ing to marry his sister, inquired of the magi (like Henry 
VIII) if the laws permitted such a union: “We have,” 
they adroitly answered, “ no law to that effect : but a 
law there is which declares that the king of the I’crsians 
may do what he pleases” (Hceren, Ideen, I, i, 451 sq. ; 
Hyde, Del. 1 \ t. Pcrsannn, cl), xxxi. p. 372 sq. ; Brisson, 
Princip. Pers. p. 170 sq.). 

Among the Greeks and Romans they were known 
under the name of Chakkeans (Strabo, xvi. 7G2; Diog. 
Laert. Proann. 1), and also of magi (Diog. Laert. viii, 1, 
3). They lived scattered over the land in different 
places (Strabo, xvi, 730; compare Dan. ii, 14), and had 
possessions of their own. The temple of Belus was em- 
ployed by them for astronomical observations, lmt their 
astronomy was connected with the worship of the heav- 
enly bodies practiced by the Babylonians (Diod. Sic. ii, 
31; Ephraom Syrus, Op. ii, 488 ; consult Idcler. in the 
Transactions, of the B< rlin Academy for 1824-25), and 
was specially directed to vain attempts to foretell the 
future, predict the fate of individuals or of communities, 
and sway the present, in alliance with augury, incanta- 
tion, and magic (Aid. (tell, iii, 10. 9; xiv, 1 ; Am. Alar- 
cell. xxiii. G ; p. 352, cd. Bipont ; Diod. Sic. ii, 29 ; comp. 
Isa. xlvii, 9, 13; Dan. ii). 


MAGI 


C35 


MAGI 


IV. Position occupied by the Magi in the period covered 
by the History of the 0. T. — In the Hebrew text the word 
occurs but twice, and then only incidentally. In Jer. 
xxxix, 3 and IB we meet, among the Chaltkean officers 
sent by Nebuchadnezzar to Jerusalem, one with the name 
or title of Rab-Mag (^“^^i). This word is interpret- 
ed, after the analogy of Rab-shakeh and Rab-saris, as 
equivalent to chief of the magi (Ewald, Propheten , and 
Hitzig, ad loc., taking it as the title of Xergal-Sharezer), 
and w r e thus find both the name and the order occupying 
a conspicuous place under the government of the Chal- 
dieans. It is clear that there were various kinds of wise 
men, and it is probable that these were classes belong- 
ing to one great order, which comprised, under the gen- 
eral name of magi, all who were engaged in the service 
of religion ; so that w r e find here an ample priesthood, a 
sacred college, graduated in rank and honor (see Ber- 
tholdt, 3 Excurs. zum Dan.; Gesenius, Comment, on Isa. 
ii,354 sq.). The word Rab-Mag (if the received etymol- 
ogy of magi be correct) presents a hybrid formation. 
The first syllable is unquestionably Shemitic, the last is 
all but unquestionably Aryan. The problem thus pre- 
sented admits of two solutions: (1.) If we believe the 
Chaldieans to have been a Hamitic people, closely con- 
nected with the Babylonians [see Ciiald.ean], we 
must then suppose that the colossal schemes of great- 
ness which showed themselves in Nebuchadnezzar’s con- 
quests led him to gather round him the wise men and 
religious teachers of the nations which he subdued, and 
that thus the sacred tribes of the Medes rose under his 
rule to favor anti power. His treatment of those who 
bore a like character among the Jews (Dan. i, 4) makes 
this hypothesis a natural one; and the alliance which 
existed between the Medes and the ChaliUeans at the 
time of the overthrow of the old Assyrian empire would 
account for the intermixture of religions systems be- 
longing to two different races. (2.) If, on the other 
hand, with Renan (Jlistoire des Langues Shemitiqnes , p. 
6G, 67), following Lassen and Ritter, we look on the Chal- 
dieans as themselves belonging to the Aryan family, and 
possessing strong affinities with the Medes, there is even 
less difficulty in explaining the presence among the one 
people of the religious teachers of the other. It is like- 
ly enough, in either case, that the simpler Median relig- 
ion which the magi brought with them, corresponding 
more or less closely to the faith of the Zend-Avesta, lost 
some measure of its original purity through this contact 
with the darker superstitions of the old Babylonian pop- 
ulation. From this time onward it is nuticeable that 
the names, both of the magi and Chaldieans are identi- 
fied with the astrology, divination, and interpretation of 
dreams, which had impressed themselves on the proph- 
ets of Israel as the most characteristic features of the 
old Babel religion (Isa. xliv, ‘25; xlvii, 13). The magi 
took their places among “the astrologers, and star- 
gazers, and monthly prognosticators.’’ 

It is with such men that we have to think of Daniel 
and his fellow-exiles as associated. They are described 
as “ten times wiser than all the magicians (Sept. pciyovg) 
and astrologers” (Dan. i, *20). Daniel himself so far sym- 
pathizes with the order into which he is thus, as it were, 
enrolled, as to intercede for them when Nebuchadnezzar 
gives the order for their death (Dan. ii, 24), and accepts 
an office which, as making him •* master of the magi- 
cians, astrologers, Chaldieans. soothsayers” (Dan. v, 11), 
was probably identical with that of the Rab-Mag who 
first came before us. May we conjecture that he found 
in the belief which the magi had brought with them 
some elements of the truth that had been revealed to his 
fathers, and that the way was thus prepared for the 
strong sympathy which showed itself in a hundred ways 
when the purest Aryan and the purest Shemitic faiths 
were brought face to face with each other (Dan. vi, 3, 
16, 26; Ezra i, 1-4: Isa. xliv, 28), agreeing as they did 
in their hatred of idolatry ' ’ 
of the “ God of Heaven ?” 


ence in which the magi were held : “ Then the king, 
Nebuchadnezzar, fell upon his face and worshipped Dan- 
iel, and commanded that they should offer an oblation 
and sweet odors unto him” (verse 46 ; see also verse 48). 
From the 49th verse it would seem not unlikely that 
the administration of justice in the last resort belonged 
to this priestly order, as we know it did to the hierarchy' 
of northern and more modern courts. (See Miinter, .4 n- 
tiq. A bhandlung. p. 144; Bleek, in Schleiermacher’s Theol. 
Zeitschr. iii, 277 ; I Iengsten berg’s Daniel, p. 341.) 

The name of the magi does not meet us in the Bibli- 
cal account of the Medo-Persian kings. If, how'ever, we 
identify' the Artaxerxes who stopped the building of the 
Temple (Ezra iv, 17-22) with the pseudo-Smerdis of 
Herodotus [see Artaxerxes] and the Gomates of the 
Behistun inscription, we may' see here also another point 
of contact. (Compare Sir Henry' Rawlinson’s translation 
of the Behistun inscription: “The rites which Gomates 
the magian had introduced I prohibited. I restored to 
the state the chants, and the worship, and to those fam- 
ilies which Gomates the magian had deprived of them” 
[Joiirn. of A siatic Soc. vol. x, and Blakesley'’s Herodotus , 
Excurs. on iii, 74]). The magian attempt to reassert 
Median supremacy', and with it probably' a corrupted 
Chaldaized form of Magianism, in place of the purer 
faith in Ormuzd of which Cyrus had been the propa- 
gator, would naturally be accompanied by' antagonism 
to the people whom the Persians had protected and sup- 
ported. The immediate renewal of the suspended work 
1 on the triumph of Darius (Ezra iv, 24 ; v, 1, 2 ; vi, 7, 8) 
falls in, it need hardly' be added, with this hypothesis. 
The story' of the actual massacre of the magi throughout 
the dominions of Darius, and of the commemorative 
magophonia (Herod, iii, 79), with whatever exaggera- 
tions it may be mixed up, indicates in like manner the 
* triumph of the Zoroastrian system. If we accept the 
traditional date of Zoroaster as a contemporary' of Dari- 
us, we may' see in the changes which he effected a re- 
vival of the older system. It is, at any rate, striking 
that the word magi does not appear in the Zentl-A vesta, 
the priests being there described as atharva (guardians 
of the fire), and that there are multiplied prohibitions 
in it of all forms of the magic which, in the West, and 
possibly' in the East also, took its name from them, and 
with which, it would appear, they' had already become 
tainted. All such arts, auguries, necromancy, and the 
like, are looked on as evil, and emanating from Ahriman, 
and are pursued by' the hero-king Feridoun with the 
most persistent hostility (Du Perron, Zend- A vesta, vol. i, 
part ii, p. 269, 424). 

The name, however, kept its ground, and with it prob- 
ably' the order to which it was attached. Under Xerx- 
es the magi occupy' a position which indicates that 
they had recovered from their temporary' depression. 
They are consulted by' him as soothsayers (Herod, vii, 
19), and are as influential as they' had been in the court 
of Asty'ages. They' prescribe the strange and terrible 
sacrifices at the Stn'mon and the Nine Ways (Herod, 
vii, 114). They' were said to have urged the destruc- 
tion of the temples of Greece (Cicero, De Legg. ii, 10). 
Traces of their intluence may' perhaps be seen in the re- 
gard paid by' Mardonius to the oracles of the Greek god 
that offered the nearest analogue to their own Mithras 
(Herod, viii, 134), and in the like reverence which had 
previously' been shown by the Median Datis towards 
the island of Delos (Ilerod. vi, 97). They' come before 
the Greeks as the representatives of the religion of the 
Persians. No sacrifices may' be offered unless one of 
their order is present chanting the prescribed pray'ers, 
as in the ritual of the Zend-Avesta (Herod, i, 132). No 
♦great change is traceable in their position during the 
decline of the Persian monarchy. The position of Ju- 
daea as a Persian province must have kept up some 
measure of contact between the two religious systems. 


The histories of Esther and Xehemiah point to the in- 
The acts which accompanied [ fiuence which might be exercised by' members of the 
his appointment serve as illustrations of the high rever- j subject-race. It might well be that the religious minds 


MAGI 


636 


MAGI 


of the two nations would learn to respect each other, 
and that some measure of the prophetic hopes of Israel 
might mingle with the belief of the magi. As an order 
they perpetuated themselves under the Parthian kings. 
The name rose to fresh honor under the Sassanid®. The 
classification which was ascribed to Zoroaster was rec- 
ognised as the basis of a hierarchical system, after other 
and lower elements had mingled with the earlier dual- 
ism, and might be traced even in the religion and wor- 
ship of the Parsees. 

V. T ransition-stages in the History of the Word and 
of the Order between the close of the 0. T, and the time 
of the X. T . — In the mean while the title magi was ac- 
quiring a new and wider signification. It presented it- 
self to the Greeks as connected with a foreign system 
of divination, and the religion of a foe whom they had 
conquered, and it soon became a by-word for the worst 
form of imposture. The rapid growth of this feeling is 
traceable perhaps in the meanings attached to the word 
by the two great tragedians. In JEsehylus ( Persce , 
291) it retains its old significance as denoting simply a 
tribe. In Sophocles {(Ed. Tyr . 387) it appears among 
the epithets of reproach which the king heaps upon 
Tiresias. The fact, however, that the religion .with 
which the word was associated still maintained its 
ground as the faith of a great nation, kept it from fall- 
ing into utter disrepute, and it is interesting to notice 
how at one time the good and at another the bad side 
of the word is uppermost. Thus the gayeia of Zoroas- 
ter is spoken of with respect by Plato as a Sewv Sepa- 
TTfiu, forming the groundwork of an education which 
he praises as far better than that of the Athenians {Al- 
cib. i, 122 a). Xenophon, in like manner, idealizes the 
character and functions of the order ( Cyrop . iv, 5, 16; 
6, G). Both meanings appear in the later lexicogra- 
phers. The word magos is equivalent to caraTeiov Kai 
(papgaKSvrgg, but it is also used for the Stooefiyg Kai 
SeoXoyog Kai itptvg (Hesych.). The magi, as an order, 
are oi irapd IIspoaTt; (piXoaotyoi Kai 0(Ao3fo/ (Suidas). 
The word thus passed into the hands of the Sept., and 
from them into those of the writers of the N. T., oscil- 
lating between the two meanings, capable of being used 
in either. The relations which had existed between the 
Jews and Persians would perhaps tend to give a promi- 
nence to the more favorable associations in their use of 
it. In Daniel (i, ‘20; ii, 2, 10, 27 ; v, 1 1) it is used, as 
has been noticed, for the priestly diviners with whom 
the prophet was associated. Philo, in like manner ( Quod 
omnis probus liber, p.792), mentions the magi with warm 
praise, as men who gave themselves to the study of na- 
ture and the contemplation of the divine perfections, 
worthy of being the counsellors of kings. It was per- 
haps natural that this aspect of the word should com- 
mend itself to the thcosophic Jew of Alexandria. There 
were, however, other influences at work tending to drag 
it down. The swarms of impostors that were to be met 
with in every part of the Human empire, known as 
“ Chahkvi,” “ Mathematiei,” and the like, bore this name 
also. Their arts were “artes magic®.” Though philoso- 
phers and men of letters might recognise the better mean- 
ing of which the word was callable (Cicero, De Divin. i, 
23, 41), yet in the language of public documents and of 
historians they were treated as a class at once hateful 
and contemptible (Tacitus, .1 nn. i, 32 ; ii, 27 ; xii, 22, 59), 
and, as such, were the victims of repeated edicts of ban- 
ishment. See Lcnormant, Chaldwan Magic (Loud. 1877). 

VI. The Magi as they appear in the X. T. — We need 
not wonder, accordingly, to find that this is the predom- 
inant meaning of the word as it appears in the N. T. 
The noun, and the verb derived from it {yaytia and //«- 
yti'ai), are used by Luke in describing the impostor, who 
is therefore known distinctively as Simon Magus (Acts 
viii, 9). Another of the same class (Bar-jesus) is de- 
scribed (Acts xiii,8) as having, in his cognohien Elymas, 
a title which was equivalent to Magus. See Elymas. 

In one memorable instance, however, the word retains 
(probably, at least) its better meaning. In the Gospel 


of Matthew, written (according to the general belief of 
early Christian writers) for the Hebrew Christians of 
Palestine, we find it, not as embodying the contempt 
which the frauds of impostors had brought upon it 
through the whole Homan empire, but in the sense 
which it had had of old, as associated with a religion 
which they respected, and an order of which one of 
their own prophets had been the head. In spite of pa- 
tristic authorities on the other side, asserting that the 
Mayot dizb dvaroX ojv of Matt, ii, I were sorcerers 
whose mysterious knowledge came from below, not from 
above, and who were thus translated out of darkness 
into light (Justin Martyr, Chrysostom. Theophylact, in 
Spanlieim, Dub. Evang. xix; Lightfoot, llor . Jhb. in 
Matt, ii), we are justified, not less by the consensus of 
later interpreters (including even Maldonatus) than by 
the general tenor of Matthew’s narrative, in seeing in 
them men such as those that were in the minds of the 
Sept, translators of Daniel, and those described by Philo 
— at once astronomers and astrologers, but not mingling 
any conscious fraud with their efforts after a higher 
knowledge. The vagueness of the description leaves 
their country undefined, and implies that probably the 
evangelist himself had no certain information. The 
same phrase is used as in passages where the express 
object is to include a wide range of country (compare 
dub dva-o\ibv, Matt, viii, 11 ; xxiv, 27 ; Luke xiii, 29). 
Probably the region chiefly present to the mind of the 
Palestinian Jew would be the tract of country stretching 
eastward from the Jordan to the Euphrates, the land of 
“the children of the East” in the early period of the 
history of the O. T. (Gen. xxix, 1 ; Judg. vi, 3 ; vii, 12 ; 
viii, 10). It should be remembered, however, that the 
language of the O. T., and therefore probably that of 
Matthew, included under this name countries that lay 
considerably to the north as well as to the east of Pal- 
estine. Balaam came from “ the mountains of the East,” 
i. e. from Pethor, on the Euphrates (Numb, xxiii, 7 ; 
xxii, 5). Abraham (or Cyrus ?) is the righteous man 
raised up “from the East” (Isa. xli, 2). The Persian 
conqueror is called “from the East, from a far country” 
(Isa. xlvi, 1 1). 

We cannot wonder that there should have been very 
varying interpretations given of words that allowed so 
wide a field for conjecture. Some of these arc, for vari- 
ous reasons, w r orth noticing. (I) The feeling of some 
early writers that the coming of the wise men was the 
fulfilment of the prophecy which spoke of the gifts of 
the men of Sheba and Seba (Psa.lxxii, 10, 15; compare 
Isa. lx, 6) led them to fix on Arabia as the country of 
the magi (Justin Martyr, Tertullian, Epiphanius, Cypri- 
an, in Spanheim. Dub. Evang. 1. e.), and they have been 
followed by Baronins, Maldonatus, Grotius, and Light- 
foot. (2) Others have conjectured Mesopotamia as the 
great seat of Chaldean astrology (Origen, Horn, in Matt. 
vi and vii), or Egypt as the country in which magic 
was most prevalent (Meyer, ad loc.). (3) The historical 
associations of the word led others again, with greater 
probability, to fix on Persia, and to see in these magi 
members of the priestly order, to which the name of 
right belonged (Chrysostom, Theophylact, Calvin, Ols- 
hausen), while llyde {Rel.Pers. 1. c.) suggests Parthia, 
as being at that time the conspicuous Eastern monarchy 
in which the magi were recognised and honored. 

It is, perhaps, a legitimate inference from the narra- 
tive of Matt, ii that in these magi we may recognise, as 
the Church has done from a very' early period, the first 
Gentile worshippers of the Christ. The name, by itself, 
indeed, applied as it is in Acts xiii, 8 to a Jewish false 
prophet, would hardly prove this; but the distinctive 
epithet “from the East” was probably intended to mark 
them out as different in character and race from the 
Western magi, Jews, and others, who swarmed over the 
Homan empire. So, when they come to Jerusalem, it is 
to ask, not after “ our king” or “ the king of Israel,” but, 
as the men of another race might do, after “ the king of 
the Jews.” The language of the O.-T. prophets and 


MAGI 


637 


MAGI 


the traditional interpretation of it are apparently new 
things to them. The narrative of Matt, ii supplies us 
with an outline which we may legitimately endeavor to 
fill up, as far as our knowledge enables us, with infer- 
ence and illustration. Some time after the birth of Je- 
sus there appeared among the strangers who visited Je- 
rusalem these men from the far East. They were not 
idolaters. Their form of worship was looked upon by 
the Jews with greater tolerance and sympathy than that 
of any other Gentiles (compare Wisd. xiii, G, 7). What- 
ever may have been their country, their statement indi- 
cates that they were watchers of the stars, seeking to 
read in them the destinies of nations. They said that 
they had seen a star in which they recognised such a 
prognostic. They were sure that one was born king of 
the Jews, and they came to pay their homage. It may 
have been simply that the quarter of the heavens in 
which the star appeared indicated the direction of Ju- 
dtea. It may have been that some form of the proph- 
ecy of Balaam, that a “star should rise out of Jacob” 
(Numb, xxiv, 17), had reached them, either through the 
Jews of the Dispersion, or through traditions running 
parallel with the O. T., and that this led them to recog- 
nise its fulfilment (Origen, c. Cels, i ; Horn, in Xum. xiii ; 
but the hypothesis is neither necessary nor satisfactory; 
comp. Ellicott, Ilulsean Lectures , p. 77). It may have 
been, lastly, that the traditional predictions ascribed to 
their own prophet Zoroaster, leading them to expect a 
succession of three deliverers, two working as prophets 
to reform the world and raise up a kingdom (Tavernier, 
Travels, iv, 8), the third (Zosiosh), the greatest of the 
three, coming to be the head of the kingdom, to con- 
quer Ahriman and to raise the dead (Du Perron, Zeml- 
Av. i, 2, p. 46 ; Hyde, c. 31 ; Ellicott, Ilulsean Lect. 1. c.), 
and in strange fantastic ways connecting these redeem- 
ers with the seed of Abraham (Tavernier, l. c.; and 
D’Herbelot, Biblioth. Orient, s. v. Zerdascht), had roused 
their minds to an attitude of expectancy, and that their 
contact with a people cherishing like hopes on stronger 
grounds may have prepared them to see in a king of 
the Jews the Oshanderbegha (*• Homo Mundi,” Hyde, l. 
c.) or the Zosiosh whom they expected. In any case 
they shared the “ vetus et constans opinio” which had 
spread itself over the whole East, that the Jews, as a 
people, crushed and broken as they were, were yet des- 
tined once again to give a ruler to the nations. It is 
not unlikely that they appeared, occupying the position 
of Destur-Mobeds in the later Zoroastrian hierarchy, as 
the representatives of many others who shared the same 
feeling. They came, at any rate, to pay their homage 
to the king whose birth was thus indicated, and with 
the gold, and frankincense, and myrrh which were the 
customary gifts of subject nations (comp. Gen. xliii, 1 1 ; 
Psa. Ixxii, 15; 1 Kings x, 2, 10; 2 Chron. ix, 24; Cant. 
iii,G; iv, 14). The arrival of such a company, bound 
on so strange an errand, in the last years of the tyran- 
nous and distrustful Herod, could hardly fail to attract 
notice aud excite a people among whom Messianic ex- 
pectations had already begun to show themselves (Luke 
ii.25, 3$). “ Herod was troubled, and all Jerusalem with 
him.” The Sanhedrim was convened, and the question 
where the Messiah was to be born was formally placed 
before them. It was in accordance with the subtle, fox- 
like character of the king that he should pretend to 
share the expectations of the people in order that lie 
might find in what direction they pointed, and then 
take whatever steps were necessary to crush them. See 
IIerod. The answer given, based upon the traditional 
interpretation of Mic. v, 2, that Bethlehem was to be the 
birthplace of the Christ, determined the king’s plans, 
lie had found out the locality. It remained to deter- 
mine the time: with what was probably a real belief in 
astrology, he inquired of them diligently when they had 
first seen the star. If he assumed that that was con- 
temporaneous with the birth, he could not be far wrong. 
The magi accordingly were sent on to Bethlehem, as if 
they were but the forerunners of the king’s own hom- 


age. As they journeyed they again saw the star, which 
for a time, it would seem, they had lost sigjit of, and it 
guided them on their way. (See Star in the East 
for this and all other questions connected with its ap- 
pearance.) The pressure of the crowds, which a fort- 
night, or four months, or well-nigh two years before, 
had driven Mary and Joseph to the rude stable of the 
caravanserai of Bethlehem, had apparently abated, and 
the magi, entering “the house” (Matt, ii, II), fell down 
and paid their homage and offered their gifts. Once 
more they received guidance through the channel which 
their work and their studies had made familiar to them. 
From first to last, in Media, in Babylon, in Persia, the 
magi had been famous as the interpreters of dreams. 
That which they received now need not have involved 
a disclosure of the plans of Ilerod to them. It was 
enough that it directed them to “return to their own 
country another way.” With this their history, so far 
as the N. T. carries us, comes to an end. 

It need hardly be said that this part of the Gospel 
narrative has had to bear the brunt of the attacks of a 
hostile criticism. The omission of all mention of the 
magi in a Gospel which enters so fully into all the cir- 
cumstances of the infancy of Christ as that of Luke, and 
the difficulty of harmonizing this incident with those 
which he narrates, have been urged as at least throwing 
suspicion on what Matthew alone has recorded. The 
advocate of the “mythical theory” sees in this almost the 
strongest confirmation of it (Strauss, Leben Jesu, i, 272). 
“There must be prodigies gathering round the cradle 
of the infant Christ. Other heroes and kings had had 
their stars, and so must he. He must receive in his 
childhood the homage of the representatives of other 
races and creeds. The facts recorded lie outside the 
range of history, and are not mentioned by any contem- 
porary historian.” The answers to these objections may 
be briefly stated. (1) Assuming the central fact of the 
early chapters of Matthew, no objection lies against any 
of its accessories on the ground of their being wonderful 
and improbable. It would be in harmony with onr ex- 
pectations that there should be signs and wonders indi- 
cating its presence. The objection therefore postulates 
the absolute incredulity of that fact, and begs the point 
at issue (compare Trench, Star of the Wise Men, p. 124). 
(2) The question whether this, or any other given nar- 
rative connected with the nativity of Christ, bears upon 
it the stamp of a mythus , is therefore one to be deter- 
mined by its own merits, on its own evidence; and then 
the case stands thus : A mythical story is characterized 
for the most part by a large admixture of what is wild, 
poetical, fantastic. A comparison of Matt, ii with the 
Jewish or Mohammedan legends of a later time, or even 
with the Christian mythology which afterwards gath- 
ered round this very chapter, will show how wide is the 
distance that separates its simple narrative, without or- 
nament, without exaggeration, from the overflowing 
luxuriance of those figments (comp. § VI I, below). (3) 
The absence of any direct confirmatory evidence in other 
writers of the time may be accounted for, partly at least, 
by the want of any full chronicle of the events of the 
later years of Herod. The momentary excitement of 
the arrival of such travellers as the magi, or of the 
slaughter of some score of children in a small Jewish 
town, would easily be effaced by the more agitating 
events that followed. The silence of Josephus is not 
more conclusive against this fact than it is (assuming 
the spuriousness of Ant. xviii, 4, 3) against the fact of 
the crucifixion and the growth of the sect of the Naza- 
renes within the walls of Jerusalem. (4) The more per- 
plexing absence of all mention of the magi in Luke’s 
Gospel may yet receive some probable explanation. So 
far as we cannot explain it, our ignorance of all, or 
nearly all, the circumstances of the composition of the 
Gospels is a sufficient answer. It is, however, at least 
possible that Luke, knowing that the facts related by 
Matthew were already current among the churches, 
sought rather to add what was not yet recorded. Some- 


MAGI 


63S 


MAGI 


thing, too, may have been due to the leading thoughts 
of the two Gospels. Matthew, dwelling chiefly on the 
kingly office of Christ as the Son of David, seizes natu- 
rally on the first recognition of that character by the 
magi of the East (comp, on the fitness of this, Mill, Pan- 
theistic Principles , p. 375). Luke, portraying the Son 
of Man in his sympathy with common men, in his com- 
passion on the poor and humble, dwells as naturally on 
the manifestation to the shepherds on the hills of Beth- 
lehem. ft may be added further that everything tends 
to show that the latter evangelist derived the materials 
for this part of his history much more directly from the 
mother of the Lord, or her kindred, than did the former ; 
and, if so, it is not difficult to understand how she might 
come to dwell on that which connected itself at once 
with the eternal blessedness of peace, good will, salva- 
tion, rather than on the homage and offerings of stran- 
gers, which seemed to be the presage of an earthly 
kingdom, and had proved to be the prelude to a life of 
poverty, and to the death upon the cross. 

Vll. Later Traditions which have gathered round the 
Magi of Matt. ii. — In this instance, as in others, what is 
told by the Gospel writers in plain, simple words has 
become the nucleus for a whole cycle of legends. A 
Christian mythology has overshadowed that which it- 
self had nothing in common with it. The love of the 
strange and marvellous, the eager desire to till up in de- 
tail a narrative which had been left in outline, and to 
make every detail the representative of an idea — these, 
which tend everywhere to the growth of the mythical 
element within the region of history, fixed rhemselves, 
naturally enough, precisely on those portions of the life 
of Christ where the written records were the least com- 
plete. The stages of this development present them- 
selves in regular succession. 

(1) The magi are no longer thought of as simply 
“ wise men,” members of a sacred order. The prophe- 
cies of Psa. lxxii; Isa. xlix, 7, 23; lx, 1G, must be ful- 
filled in them, and they become princes (“reguli,” Ter- 
tull. c. Jud. 9; c. Marc. 5). This tends more and more 
to be the dominant thought. When the arrival of the 
magi, rather than the birth or the baptism of Christ, as 
the first of his mighty works, comes to be looked on as 
the great epiphany of his divine power, the older title 
of the feast receives as a synonym, almost as a substitute, 
that of the Feast of the Three Kings. (2) The number 
of the wise men, which Matthew leaves altogether un- 
defined, was arbitrarily fixed. They were three (Leo 
Magn. Serm. ad Epiph .), because thus they became a 
symbol of the mysterious trinity (Hilary of Arles), or 
because then the number corresponded to the threefold 
gifts, or to the three parts of the earth, or the three 
great divisions of the human race descended from the 
sons of Noah (Bede, De Collect.). (3) Symbolic mean- 
ings were found for each of the three gifts. The gold 
they offered as to a king. With the myrrh they pre- 
figured the bitterness of the passion, the embalmment 
for the burial. With the frankincense they adored the 
divinity of the Son of God (Suicer, Thes. s. v. Mayoc ; 
Jirev. J tom. in Epiph. passim). (4) Later on, in a tra- 
dition which, though appearing in a Western writer, is 
traceable probably to reports brought back by pilgrims 
from Italy or the East, the names are added, and Gas- 
par, Melchior, and Balthasar take their place among 
the objects of Christian reverence, and are honored as 
the patron saints of travellers. The passage from Bede 
{De Collect .) is in many ways interesting, and as it is 
not commonly quoted by commentators, though often 
referred to, it may be worth while to give it : kk Primus 
dicitur fuisse Melchior, <pii senex et canus. barba pro- 
lixa et capillis, aiirum obtulit regi Domino. Secundus, 
nomine Caspar, juvenis imberbis, rubicundus, tliure, 
quasi Deo oblationc dignarDeum hoiioravit. Tcrtius 
fuscus. integre barbatus, Baltassar nomine, per myr- 
rliam tilium hominis moriturum professus.” The trea- 
tise De Collecfaneis is, in fact, a miscellaneous collection 
of memoranda in the form of question and answer. The 


desire to find names for those who have none given 
them is very noticeable in other instances as well as in 
that of the magi ; e. g. it gives those of the penitent 
and impenitent thief. The passage quoted above is 
followed by a description of their dress, taken obviously 
either from some early painting, or from the decorations 
of a miracle-play (comp, the account of such a perform- 
ance in Trench, Star of the Wise Men , p. 70). The ac- 
count of the offerings, it will be noticed, does not agree 
with the traditional hexameter of the Latin Church: 
“Caspar fert mvrrham, thus Melchior, Balthasar au- 
rum.” We recognise at once in the above description 
the received types of the early pictorial art of Western 
Europe. It is open to believe that both the description 
and the art-types may be traced to early quasi -dramatic 
representations of the facts of the nativity. In any such 
representations names of some kind would become a 
matter of necessity, and were probably invented at ran- 
dom. Familiar as the names given by Bede now are to 
us, there was a time when they had no more authority 
than Bithisarca, Melchior, and Gatliaspar (Moroni, Diz- 
ionar. s. v. Magi) ; Magalath, Pangalath, Saracen ; Ap- 
pellius, Ainerius, and Damascus, and a score of others 
(Spanheim, Dub. Evang. ii, 288). 

In the Eastern Church, where, it would seem, there 
was less desire to find symbolic meanings than to mag- 
nify the circumstances of the history, the traditions as- 
sume a different character. The magi arrive at Jeru- 
salem with a retinue of 1000 men, having left behind 
them, on the further bank of the Euphrates, an army 
of 7000 (Jacob. Edess. and Bar-hebrneus, in Ilyde, /. c.). 
They have been led to undertake the journey, not by 
the star only, or by expectations which they shared 
with the Israelites, but by a prophecy of the founder of 
their own faith. Zoroaster had predicted that in the 
latter days there should be a mighty One and a Re- 
deemer, and that his descendants should see the star 
which should be the herald of his coming. According 
to another legend ( Opus hnperf in Matt, ii apud Chry - 
sost. t. vi, ed. Montfaueon) they came from the remotest 
East, near the borders of the ocean. They had been 
taught to expect the star by a writing that bore the 
name of Seth. That expectation was handed down 
from father to son. Twelve of the holiest of them were 
appointed to be ever on the watch. Their post of ob- 
servation was a rock known as the Mount of Victory. 
Night by night they washed in pure water, and prayed, 
and looked out on the heavens. At last the star ap- 
peared, and in it the form of a young child bearing a 
cross. A voice came from it and bade them proceed to 
Judaea. They started on their two years’ journey, and 
during all that time the meat and the drink with which 
they started never failed them. The gifts they bring 
are those which Abraham gave to their progenitors the 
sons of Keturah (this, of course, on the hypothesis that 
they were Arabians), which the queen of Sheba had in 
her turn presented to Solomon, and which had found 
their way back again to the children of the East 
(Epiphan. in Comp. Doetr. in Moroni, Dizion. 1. c.). They 
return from Bethlehem to their own country, and give 
themselves up to a life of contemplation and prayer. 
When the twelve apostles leave Jerusalem to carry on 
their work as preachers, St. Thomas finds them in l’ar- 
tliia. They offer themselves for baptism, and become 
evangelists of the new faith ( Opus imperf.in Matt, ii, 
1. c.). The pilgrim-feeling of the 4th century includes 
them also within its range. Among other relics supplied 
to meet the demands of the market which the devotion 
of Helena had created, the bodies of the magi arc discov- 
ered somewhere in the East, are brought to Constanti- 
nople, and placed in the great church which, as the 
Mosque of St. Sophia, still bears in its name the witness 
of its original dedication to the divine Wisdom. The 
favor with which the people of Milan had received the 
emperor’s prefect Eustorgius called for some special 
mark of favor, and on his consecration as bishop of that 
city he obtained for it the privilege of being the rest- 


MAGIC 


639 


MAGIC 


ing-place of the precious relics. There the fame of the 
three kings increased. The prominence given to all the 
feasts connected with the season of the Nativity — the 
transfer to that season of the mirth and joy of the old 
Saturnalia — the setting apart of a distinct day for the 
commemoration of the Epiphany in the 4th century — 
all this added to the veneration with which they were 
regarded. When Milan fell into the hands of Frederick 
Barbarossa (A.D. 1162), the influence of the archbishop 
of Cologne prevailed on the emperor to transfer them to 
that city. The Milanese, at a later period, consoled 
themselves by forming a special confraternity for per- 
petuating their veneration for the magi by the annual 
performance of a “ Mystery” (Moroni, l. c.) ; but the glo- 
ry of possessing the relics of the first Gentile worship- 
pers of Christ remained with Cologne. (For the later 
medieval developments of the traditions, comp. Joan, 
von Ilildesheim, in Quart. Rev. Ixxviii, 433.) In that 
proud cathedral which is the glory of Teutonic art the 
shrine of the Three Kings has for six centuries been 
shown as the greatest of its many treasures. The tab- 
ernacle in which the bones of some whose real name 
and history are lost forever lie enshrined in honor, bears 
witness, in its gold and gems, to the faith with which 
the story of the wanderings of the Three Kings has 
been received. The reverence has sometimes taken 
stranger and more grotesque forms. As the patron 
saints of travellers they have given a name to the inns 
of earlier or later date. The names of Melchior, Caspar, 
and Balthasar were used as a charm against attacks of 
epilepsy (Spanheim, Dub. Evany, xxi). 

Compare, in addition to authorities already cited, 
Trench, Star of the I Vise Men (Lond. 1850) ; Upham, 
Wise Men of the East (N.Y. 18G9) ; J. F. M tiller, in Her- 
zog’s Real-Encyklop. s. v. Magi ; Triebel and Miegius, 
in Crit. Sacri {Thes. Nov. ii, 111, 118); and Rhoden, in 
Crit. Sacri {Thes. Theol. Phil, ii, 69). For the Talmudic 
views of the magi, see Lakemeyer, Observ. ii. 132 sq. 

Other monographs on the general subject have been 
written by Nothnagel (Yiteb. 1G52), Muller (Tigur. 1GG0), 
Stolberg (Yiteb. 1GG3), Olcarius (Lips. 1671), and Moller 
(Altd. 1688). 

Magic (only occurs in the A. Y. at Wisd. xvii, 7, 
payuct) s. v. rtx v U > i£art magic;” but the term “magi- 
cian” [q. v.J is frequent), a word used to designate the 
power or art of working wonders beyond the range of 
science or natural skill. It is derived from the Greek, 
and refers ultimately to the mayi (q. v.), who were an- 
ciently regarded as its depositaries or experts. The 
magical arts spoken of in the Bible are those practiced 
by the Egyptians, the Canaanites, and their neighbors, 
the Hebrews, the Chaldaeans, and probably the Greeks. 
In our treatment of this subject we shall substantially 
adopt Mr. Poole's elaborate article in Smith’s Diet, of Bible. 

I. Position of May ic in relation to Reliyion and Phi- 
losophy in Ancient Times . — The degree of the civiliza- 
tion of a nation is not the measure of the importance of 
magic in its convictions. The natural features of a 
country are not the primary causes of what is termed 
superstition in its inhabitants. With nations as with 
men— and the analogy of Plato in the “ Republic” is not 
always false — the feelings on which magic fixes its hold 
are essential to the mental constitution. Contrary as 
are these assertions to the common opinions of our time, 
inductive reasoning forbids our doubting them. 

1. \\ ith the lowest race magic is the chief part of re- 
ligion. The Nigritians, or blacks of this race, show this 
in their extreme use of amulets and their worship of ob- 
jects which have no other value in their eyes but as 
having a supposed magical character through the in- 
fluence of supernatural agents. With the Turanians, 
or corresponding whites of the same great famil}' — we 
use the word white for a group of nations mainly yel- 
low, in contradistinction to black — incantations and 
witchcraft occupy the same place. Shamanism charac- 
terizing their tribes in both hemispheres. In the days 
of Herodotus the distinction in this matter between the 


Nigritians and the Caucasian population of North Africa 
was what it now is. In his remarkable account of the 
journey of the Nasamonian young men — the Nasamo- 
nes, be it remembered, were 4 * a Libyan race,” and dwell- 
ers on the northern coast, as the historian here says — 
we are told that the adventurers passed through the in- 
habited maritime region, and the tract occupied by wild 
beasts, and the desert, and at last came upon a plain 
with trees, where they were seized by men of small 
stature, who carried them across marshes to a town of 
such men black in complexion. A great river, running 
from west to cast, and containing crocodiles, flowed by 
that town, and all that nation were sorcerers {ig rovg 
ovtoi diriKoi’TO dvbpio7roug t yoijrag tivai irai/rag, ii, 
32, 33). It little matters whether the conjecture that 
the great river was the Niger be true, which the idea 
adopted by Herodotus that it was the upper Nile seems 
to favor: it is quite evident that the Nasamones came 
upon a nation of Nigritians beyond the Great Desert, 
and were struck with their fetishism. So, in our own 
days, the traveller is astonished at the height to which 
this superstition is carried among the Nigritians, who 
have no religious practices that are not of the nature of 
sorcery, nor any priests who are not magicians, and ma- 
gicians alone. The strength of this belief in magic in 
these two great divisions of the lowest race is shown in 
the case of each by its having maintained its hold in an 
instance in which its tenacity must have been severely 
tried. The ancient Egyptians show their partly-Nigri- 
tian origin not alone in their physical characteristics 
and language, but in their religion. They retained the 
strange, low nature-worship of the Nigritians, forcibly 
combining it witli more intellectual kinds of belief, as 
they represented their gods with the heads of animals 
and the bodies of men, and even connecting it with 
truths which point to a primeval revelation. The Rit- 
ual, which was the great treasury of Egyptian belief, 
and explained the means of gaining future happiness, is 
full of charms to be said, and contains directions for 
making and for using amulets. As the Nigritian goes 
on a journey hung about with amulets, so amulets were 
placed on the Egyptian’s embalmed body, and his soul 
went on its mysterious way fortified with incantations 
learned while on earth. In China, although Buddhism 
has established itself, and the system of Confucius has 
gained the power its positivism would insure it with a 
highly-educated people of low type, another belief still 
maintains itself which there is strong reason to hold to 
be older than the other two, although it is usually sup- 
posed to have been of the same age as Confucianism; 
in this religion magic is of the highest importance, the 
distinguishing characteristic by which it is knowm. 

2. With the Shemites magic takes a lower place. No- 
where is it even part of religion, yet it is looked upon 
as a powerful engine, and generally unlawful or lawful 
according to the aid invoked. Among many of the 
Shemitic peoples there linger the remnants of a primi- 
tive fetishism. Sacred trees and stones are reverenced 
from an old superstition, of which they do not always 
know the meaning, derived from the nations whose place 
they have taken. Thus fetishism remains, although in 
a kind of fossil state. The importance of astrology with 
the Shemites has tended to raise the character of their 
magic, which deals rather with the discovery of sup- 
posed existing influences than with the production of 
new influences. The only direct association of magic 
with religion is where the priests, as the educated class, 
have taken the functions of magicians; but this is far 
different from the case of the Nigritians, where the ma- 
gicians are the only priests. The Shemites, however, 
when depending on human reason alone, seem never to 
have doubted the efficacy of magical arts, yet recourse 
to their aid was not usually with them the first idea of 
a man in doubt. Though the case of Saul cannot be 
taken as applying to the whole race, yet, even with the 
heathen Shemites, prayers must have been held to be 
of more value than incantations. 


MAGIC 


640 


MAGIC 


Tlie Iranians assign to magic a still less important I 
position. It can scarcely be traced in the relics of old 
nature-worship, which they with greater skill than the 
Egyptians interwove with their more intellectual be- 
liefs, as the Greeks gave the objects of reverence in Ar- 
cadia and Crete a place in poetical myths, and the Scan- 
dinavians animated the hard remains of primitive su- 
perstition. The character of the ancient belief is utter- 
ly gone with the assigning of new reasons for the rev- 
erence of its sacred objects. Magic always maintained 
some hold on men’s minds, but the stronger intellects 
despised it, like the Homan commander who threw the 
sacred chickens overboard, and the Greek who defied 
an adverse omen at the beginning of a great battle. 
When any, oppressed by the sight of the calamities of 
mankind, sought to resolve the mysterious problem, 
they fixed, like /Eschylus. not upon the childish notion 
of a chance-government by many conflicting agencies, 
but upon the nobler idea of a dominating fate. Men of 
highly sensitive temperaments have always inclined to 
a belief in magic, and there has therefore been a section 
of Iranian philosophers in all ages who have paid atten- 
tion to its practice; but, expelled from religion, it has 
held but a low and precarious place in philosophy. 

The Hebrews had no magic of their own. It was so 
strictly forbidden by the law that it could never after- 
wards have any recognised existence save in times of 
general heresy or apostasy, and the same was doubtless 
the case in the patriarchal ages. The magical prac- 
tices which obtained among the Hebrews were there- 
fore borrowed from the nations around. The hold they 
gained was such as we should have expected with a 
►Shemitic race, making allowance for the discredit thrown 
upon them by the prohibitions of the law. From the 
first entrance into the Land of Promise until the destruc- 
tion of Jerusalem we have constant glimpses of magic 
practiced in secret, or resorted to, not alone by the com- 
mon, but also by the great. The Talmud abounds in 
notices of contemporary magic among the Jews, show- 
ing that it survived idolatry notwithstanding their orig- 
inal connection, and was supposed to produce real ef- 
fects. The Koran in like manner treats charms and in- 
cantations as capable of producing evil consequences' 
when used against a man. It is a distinctive charac- 
teristic of the Bible that from first to last it warrants no 
such trust or dread. In the Psalms, the most personal 
of all the books of Scripture, there is no prayer to he 
protected against magical influences. The believer 
prays to be delivered from every kind of evil that could 
hurt the body or the soul, but he says nothing of the 
machinations of sorcerers. Here and everywhere mag- 
ic is passed by, or, if mentioned, mentioned only to be 
condemned (comp. Psa. evi, 28). Let those who affirm 
that the}’ see in the Psalms merely human piety, and 
in Job and Ecclesiastes merely human philosophy, ex- 
plain the absence in them, and throughout the Scrip- 
tures, of the expression of superstitious feelings that are 
inherent in the Shemitic mind. Let them explain the 
luxuriant growth, in the after-literature of the Hebrews 
and Arabs, and notably m the Talmud and the Koran, 
of these feelings with no root, in those older writings 
from which that after-literature was derived. If the 
Bible, the Talmud, and the Koran he but several ex- 
pressions of the Shemitic mind, differing only through 
the effect of time, how can this contrast be accounted 
fur? — the very opposite of what obtains elsewhere; for 
superstitions are generally strongest in the earlier liter- 
ature of a race, and gradually fade, unless a condition 
of barbarism restore their vigor. Those who see in 
the Bible a divine work can understand how a God- 
taught preacher coidd throw aside the miserable fears 
of his race, and boldly tell man to trust iii his Maker 
alone. Here, as in all matters, the history of the Bible 
confirms its doctrine. In the doctrinal Scriptures mag- 
ic is passed by with contempt, in the historical Scrip- 
tures the reasonableness of this contempt is shown. 
Whenever the practisers of magic attempt to combat 


the servants of God, they conspicuously fail. Pharaoh’s 
magicians bow to the divine power shown in the won- 
ders wrought by Moses and Aaron. Balaam, the great 
enchanter, comes from afar to curse Israel, and is forced 
to bless them. 

II. Biblical Xotices . — In examining the references to 
magic in the Bible, we must keep in view the curious 
inquiry whether there be any reality in the art. We 
would at the outset protest against the idea, once very 
prevalent, that the conviction that the seen and unseen 
worlds were often more manifestly in contact in the 
Biblical ages than now necessitates a belief in the real- 
ity of the magic spoken of in the Scriptures. We do 
indeed see a connection of a supernatural .agency with 
magic in such a case as that of the damsel possessed 
with a spirit of divination mentioned in the Acts; yet 
there the agency appears to have been involuntary in 
the damsel, and shrewdly made profitable by her em- 
ployers. This does not establish the possibility of man 
being able at bis will to use supernatural powers to gain 
his own ends, which is what magic has always pretend- 
ed to accomplish. Thus much we premise, lest we 
should be thought to hold latitudinarian opinions be- 
cause we treat the reality of magic as an open question. 

Without losing sight of the distinctions we have 
drawn between the magic of different races, we shall 
consider the notices of the subject in the Bible in the 
order in which they occur. It is impossible in every 
case to assign the magical practice spoken of to a par- 
ticular nation, or, when this can be done, to determine 
whether it be native or borrowed, and the general ab- 
sence of details renders any other system of classifica- 
tion liable to error. 

I. The theft and carrying away of Laban’s teraphim 
(D^S^Fl) by Bacliel seems to indicate the practice of 
magic in Padan-aram at this early time. It appears 
that Laban attached great value to these objects from 
what be said as to the theft and his determined search 
for them (Gen. xxxi, 19, 30, 32-35). It may be sup- 
posed, from the manner in which they were hidden, that 
these teraphim were not very small. The most impor- 
tant point is that Laban calls them his “gods” (ver. 30, 
32), although he was not without belief in the true God 
(ver. 21, 49-53) ; for this makes it almost certain that 
we have here, not an indication of the worship of strange 
gods, but the first notice of a superstition that after- 
wards obtained among those Israelites who added cor- 
rupt practices to the true religion. The derivation of 
the name “ teraphim ” is extremely obscure. Gesenius 
takes it from an “ unused” root, which he supposes, 
from the Arabic, probably signified “to live pleasantly” 
( Thesaur . s. v.). It may, however, be reasonably con- 
I jeetured that such a root would have had, if not in He- 
| brew, in the language whence the Hebrews took it or 
its derivative, the proper meaning “to dance” corre- 
sponding to this, which would then be its tropical mean- 
ing. We should prefer, if no other derivation be found, 
to suppose that the name teraphim might mean “dan- 
cers” or “causers of dancing,” with reference either to 
primitive nature-worship or its magical rites of the 
character of Shamanism, rather than that it signifies, as 
Gesenius suggests, “givers of pleasant life.” There 
seems, however, to be a cognate word, unconnected with 
the “unused” root just mentioned, in ancient Egyptian, 
whence we may obtain a conjectural derivation. We 
do not, of course, trace the worship of tornphiin to the 
sojourn in Egypt. They were probably those objects 
of the pre-Abrahamite idolatry, put away by order of 
-Jacob (Gen. xxxv, 2-1), yet retained even in Joshua’s 
time (Josh, xxiv, 14); and, if so, notwithstanding his 
exhortation, abandoned only for a space (Judg. xvii, 
xviii) ; and they were also known to the Babylonians, 
being used bv them for divination (Ezek. xxi, 21). But 
there is great reason for supposing a close connection 
between the oldest language and religion of C’haldrea 
and tlie ancient Egyptian language and religion. The 


MAGIC 


641 


MAGIC 


Egyptian word tei' signifies “a shape, type, transforrna- 
tion,” and has for its determinative a mummy: it is 
used in the Ritual, where the various transformations 
of the deceased in Hades are described ( Todtenbuch , ed. 
Lepsius, cli. lxxvi sq.). The small mummy-shaped fig- 
ure, shebti, usually made of baked clay covered with a 
blue vitreous varnish, representing the Egyptian as de- 
ceased, is of a nature connecting it with magic, since it 
was made with the idea that it secured benefits in lfades ; 
and it is connected with the word ter , for it represents 
a mummy, the determinative of that word, and was 
considered to be of use in the state in which the de- 
ceased passed through transformations, terit. The dif- 
ficulty which forbids our doing more than conjecture a 
relation between ter and teraphim is the want in the 
former of the third radical of the latter; and in our 
present state of ignorance respecting the ancient Egyp- 
tian and the primitive language of Chaldiea in their 
verbal relations to the Shemitic family, it is impossible 
to say whether it is likely to be explained. The possi- 
ble connection with the Egyptian religious magic is, 
however, not to be slighted, especially as it is not im- 
probable that the household idolatry of the Hebrews 
was ancestral worship, and the shebti was the image of a 
deceased man or woman, as a mummy, and therefore as 
an Osiris, bearing the insignia of that divinity, and so 
in a manner as a deified dead person, although we do 
not know that it was used in the ancestral worship of 
the Egyptians. It is important to notice that no sin- 
gular is found of the word teraphim, and that the plural 
form is once used where only one statue seems to be 
meant (1 Sam. xix, 13, 1G) : in this case it may be a 
“plural of excellence.” If the latter inference be true, 
this word must have become thoroughly Sliemiticized. 
There is no description of these images; but, from the 
account of Michal’s stratagem to deceive Saul's messen- 
gers, it is evident, if only one image be there meant, as 
is very probable, that they were at least sometimes of 
the size of a man, and perhaps in the head and shoul- 
ders, if not lower, of human shape, or of a similar form 
(ver. 13-1 G). 

The worship or use of teraphim after the occupation 
of the Promised Land cannot be doubted as having been 
one of the corrupt practices of those Hebrews who leaned 
to idolatry, but did not abandon their belief in the God 
of Israel. Although the Scriptures draw no marked 
distinction between those who forsook their religion and 
those who added to it such corruptions, it is evident 
that the latter always professed to be orthodox. Tera- 
phim, therefore, cannot be regarded as among the He- 
brews necessarily connected with strange gods, what- 
ever may have been the case with other nations. The 
account of Micah’s images in the book of Judges, com- 
pared with a passage in Hosea, shows our conclusion to 
be correct. In the earliest days of the occupation of 
the Promised Land, in the time of anarchy that followed 
Joshua’s rule, Micah, “a man of Mount Ephraim,” made 
certain images and other objects of heretical worship, 
which were stolen from him by those Danites who took 
Laish and called it Dan, there setting up idolatry, where 
it continued the whole time that the ark was at Shiloh, 
the priests retaining their post “ until the day of the 
captivity of the land” (Judg. xvii, xviii, esp. 30, 31). 
Probably this worship was somewhat changed, although 
not in its essential character, when Jeroboam set up the 
golden calf at Dan. Micah’s idolatrous objects were a 
graven image, a molten image, an ephod, and teraphim 
(xvii, 3, 4, 5; xviii, 17, IS, 20). In Hosea there is a 
retrospect of this period where the prophet takes a har- 
lot, and commands her to be faithful to him “many 
days.” It is added : “ For the children of Israel shall 
abide many days without a king, and without a prince, 
and without a sacrifice, and without an image [or “pil- 
lar,” SinS:^], and without an ephod, and teraphim : af- 
terward shall the children of Israel return, and seek Je- 
hovah their God, and David their king; and shall fear 
Jehovah and his goodness in the latter days” (iii, esp. 


4, 5). The apostate people are long to be without their 
spurious king and false worship, and in the end are to 
return to their loyalty to the house of David and their 
faith in the true God. That Dan should be connected 
with Jeroboam “who made Israel to sin,” and with the 
kingdom which he founded, is most natural; and it is 
therefore worthy of note that the images, ephod, and 
teraphim made by Micah, and stolen and set up by the 
Danites at Dan, should so nearly correspond with the 
objects spoken of by the prophet. It has been imagined 
that the use of teraphim and the similar abominations 
of the heretical Israelites are not so strongly condemned 
in the Scriptures as the worship of strange gods. This 
mistake arises from the mention of pious kings who did 
not suppress the high places, which proves only their 
timidity, and not any lesser sinfulness in the spurious 
religion than in false systems borrowed from the peoples 
of Canaan and neighboring countries. The cruel rites 
of the heathen are indeed especially reprobated, but the 
heresy of the Israelites is too emphatically denounced, 
by Samuel in a passage soon to be examined, and in the 
repeated condemnation of Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, 
“ who made Israel to sin,” to render it possible that we 
should take a view of it consistent only with modern 
sophistry. 

We pass to the magical use of teraphim. By the 
Israelites they were consulted for oracular answers. This 
was apparently done by the Danites, who asked Micah’s 
Levite to inquire as to the success of their spying ex- 
pedition (Judg. xviii, 5, G). In later times this is dis- 
tinctly stated of the Israelites where Zechariah says, 
“For the teraphim have spoken vanity, and the diviners 
have seen a lie, and have told false dreams” (x, 2). It 
cannot be supposed that, as this first positive mention 
of the use of teraphim for divination by the Israelites is 
after the return from Babylon, and as that use obtained 
with the Babylonians in the time of Nebuchadnezzar, 
therefore the Israelites borrowed it from their conquer- 
ors; for these objects are mentioned in earlier places in 
such a manner that their connection with divination 
must be intended, if we bear in mind that this connec- 
tion is undoubted in a subsequent period. Samuel’s re- 
proof of Saul for his disobedience in the matter of Ama- 
lek associates “divination” with “vanit} r ,” or “idols” 
(yx), and “teraphim,” however we render the difficult 
passage where these words occur (I Sam. xv, 22, 23).- 
(The word rendered “vanity,” “jlN;, is especially used 
with reference to idols, and even in some places stands 
alone for an idol or idols.) When Saul, having put to- 
death the workers in black arts, finding himself rejected 
of God in his extremity, sought the witch of Endor, and 
asked to see Samuel, the prophet’s apparition denounced 
his doom as the pimishment of this very disobedience 
as to Amalek. The reproof would seem, therefore, to 
have been a prophecy that the self-confident king would 
at the last alienate himself from God, and take refuge 
in the very abominations he despised. This apparent 
reference tends to confirm the inference we have indi- 
cated. As to a later time, when Josiah’s reform is re- 
lated, he is said to have put away “ the wizards, and the 
teraphim, and the idols” (2 Kings xxiii,24); where the 
mention of the teraphim immediately after the wizards, 
and as distinct from the idols, seems to favor the infer- 
ence that they are spoken of as objects used hi divina- 
tion. 

The only account of the act of divining by teraphim 
is in a remarkable passage of Ezekiel relating to Nebu- 
chadnezzar’s advance against Jerusalem. “Also, thou 
son of man, appoint thee two ways, that the sword of the 
king of Babylon may come: both twain [two swords] 
shall come forth out of one land: and choose thou a 
place, choose [it] at the head of the w f av to the city. 
Appoint a way, that the sword may come to Kabbath 
of the Ammonites, and to Judah in Jerusalem the dc- 
fenced. For the king of Babylon stood at the parting 
of the way, at the head of the two ways, to use divina- 


MAGIC 


642 


MAGIC 


tion: he shuffled arrows, lie consulted with teraphim, 
he looked in the liver. At his right hand was the div- 
ination for Jerusalem” (xxi, 19-22). The mention to- 
gether of consulting teraphim and looking into the liv- 
er may not indicate that the victim was offered to ter- 
aphim and its liver then looked into, but may mean two 
separate acts of divining. The former explanation 
saems, however, to have been adopted by the Sept, in its 
rendering of the account of Michal's stratagem, as if 
Michal had been divining, and on the coming of the 
messengers seized the image and liver and hastily put 
them in the bed. The accounts which the Rabbins give 
of divining by teraphim are worthless. See Tekapjiui. 

2. Joseph, when his brethren left after their second 
visit to buy corn, ordered his steward to hide his silver 
cup in Benjamin’s sack, and afterwards sent him after 
them, ordering him to claim it, thus: “[Is] not this [it] 
in which my lord drinketh, and whereby indeed he di- 
vineth?” (Gen. xliv, 5). The meaning of the latter 
clause has been contested, Gesenius translating “he 
could surely foresee it” (ap. Barrett, Synopsis, ad loc.), 
but the other rendering seems far more probable, espe- 
cially as we read that Joseph afterwards said to his 
brethren, “ Wot ye not that such a man as I can cer- 
tainly divine?” (xliv, 15) — the same word being used. 
If so, the reference would probably be to the use of the 
cup in divining, and we should have to infer that here 
Joseph was acting on his own judgment [see Joseph], 
divination being not alone doubtless a forbidden act, but 
one of which he, when called before Pharaoh, had dis- 
tinctly disclaimed the practice. Two uses of cups or 
the like for magical purposes have obtained in the East 
from ancient times. In one use either the cup itself 
bears engraved inscriptions, supposed to have a magical 
influence (see DTIerbelot, Bibilotheqne Orientate , s. v. 
Giam), or it is plain, and such inscriptions are written 
on its inner surface in ink. In both cases water poured 
into the cup is drunk by those wishing to derive bene- 
fit, as, for instance, the cure of diseases, from the inscrip- 
tions, which, if written, are dissolved (Lane, Mod. Eg. 
eh. xi). This use, in both its forms, obtains among the 
Arabs in the present day, and cups bearing Chakhean 
inscriptions in ink have been discovered by Mr. Lay- 
ard, and probably show that this practice existed among 
the Jews in Babylonia in about the 7th century of the 
Christian a?ra {Xineveh and Babylon, p. 509, etc. There 
is an excellent paper on these bowls by Dr. Levy, of 
Breslau, in the Zeitschrift der Deutsclu Morgenland. Ge- 
sellschaft , ix, 465, etc.). In the other use the cup or 
bowl was of very secondary importance. It was mere- 
ly the receptacle for water, in which, after the perform- 
ance of magical rites, a boy looked to see what the ma- 
gician desired. This is precisely the same as the prac- 
tice of the modern Egyptian magicians, where the dif- 
ference that ink is employed and is poured into the palm 
of the boy’s hand is merely accidental. A Gnostic papy- 
rus in Greek, written in Egypt in the earlier centuries 
of the Christian sera, now preserved in the British Mu- 
seum, describes the practice of the boy with a bowl, and 
alleges results strikingly similar to the alleged results 
of the well-known modern Egyptian magician, whose 
divination would seem, therefore, to be a relic of the fa- 
mous magic of ancient Egypt. (See Lane, Mod. Egyp- 
tians. cli. xii, for an account of the performances of this 
magician, and Mr. Lane’s opinion as to the causes of 
their occasional apparent success.) As this latter use 
only is of the nature of divination, it is probable that to 
it Joseph referred. The practice may have been prev- 
alent in his time, and hieroglyphic inscriptions upon 
the bowl may have given color to the idea that it had 
magical properties, and perhaps even that it had thus 
led to the discovery of its place of concealment, a dis- 
covery which must have struck Joseph’s brethren with 
the utmost astonishment. Sec Cur. 

3. The magicians of Egypt arc spoken of as a class in 
the histories of Joseph and Moses. When Pharaoh’s 
officers were troubled by their dreams, being in prison 


they were at a loss for an interpreter. Before Joseph 
explained the dreams he disclaimed the power of inter- 
preting save by the divine aid, saying, “ [Do] not inter- 
pretations [belong] to God? tell me [them], I pray you” 
(Gen. xl, 8). In like manner, when Pharaoh had his 
two dreams, we find that he had recourse to those who 
professed to interpret dreams. We read : “ He sent and 
called for all the scribes of Egypt, and all the wise men 
thereof : and Pharaoh told them his dream ; but [there 
was] none that could interpret them unto Pharaoh” (xli, 
8 ; comp. ver. 24). Joseph, being sent for on the report 
of the ehief of the cup-bearers, was told by Pharaoh that 
he had heard that he could interpret a dream. Joseph 
said, “ [It is] not in me : God shall give Pharaoh an an- 
swer of peace” (ver. 16). Thus, from the expectations 
of the Egyptians and Joseph’s disavowals, we see that 
the interpretation of dreams was a branch of the knowl- 
edge to whieh the ancient Egyptian magicians pretend- 
ed. The failure of the Egyptians in the case of Phara- 
oh’s dreams must probably be regarded as the result of 
their inability to give a satisfactory explanation, for it 
is unlikely that they refused to attempt to interpret. 
The two words used to designate the interpreters sent 
for by Pharaoh are “scribes” (?) and E“'/2^n j 

“wise men.” 

We again hear of the magicians of Egypt in the nar- 
rative of the events before the exodus. They were 
summoned by Pharaoh to oppose Moses. The account 
of what they effected requires to be carefully examined, 
from its bearing on the question whether magic be an 
imposture. We read : “And the Lord spake unto Moses 
and unto Aaron, saying, When Pharaoh shall speak unto 
you, saying, Show a miracle for you : then thou shalt 
say unto Aaron, Take thy rod, and cast [it] before Pha- 
raoh, [and] it shall become a serpent.” It is then re- 
lated that Aaron did thus, and afterwards: “Then Pha- 
raoh also called the wise men and the enchanters: now 
they, the scribes of Egypt, did so by their secret arts: 
for they cast down every man his rod, and they became 
serpents, but Aaron’s rod swallowed up their rods” (Exod. 
vii, 8-12). The rods were probably long staves like 
those represented on the Egyptian monuments, not 
much less than the height of a man. If the word used 
mean here a serpent, the Egyptian magicians may have 
feigned a change: if it signify a crocodile, they could 
scarcely have done so. The names by whieh the magi- 
cians are designated are to be noted. That which we 
render “scribes” seems here to have a general significa- 
tion, including wise men and enchanters. The last term 
is more definite in its meaning, denoting users of incan- 
tations. On the occasion of the first plague, the turn- 
ing of the rivers and waters of Egypt into blood, the 
opposition of the magicians again occurs. “And the 
scribes of Egypt did so by their secret arts” (vii, 22). 
When the second plague, that of frogs, was sent, the 
magicians again made the same opposition (viii, 7). 
Once more they appear in the history. The plague of 
lice came, and we read that when Aaron had worked 
the wonder the magicians opposed him: “And the 
scribes did so by their secret arts to bring forth the lice, 
but they could not: so there were lice upon man and 
upon beast. And the scribes said unto Pharaoh, This 
[is] the finger of God : but Pharaoh’s heart was hard- 
ened, and he hearkened not unto them, as the Lord had 
said” (viii, 18, 19 [Heb. 14, 15]). After this we hear no 
more of the magicians. All we can gather from the 
narrative is that the appearances produced by them 
were sufficient to deceive Pharaoh on three occasions. 
It is nowhere declared that they actually produced won- 
ders, since the expression “the scribes did so by their 
secret arts” is used on the occasion of their complete 
failure. Nor rs their statement that in the wonders 
wrought by Aaron they saw the finger of God any proof 
that they recognised a power superior to the native ob- 
jects of worship the}’ invoked, for we find that the 
Egyptians frequently spoke of a supreme being as God. 
It seems rather as if they had said, “ Our juggles are of 


MAGIC 


643 


MAGIC 


no avail against the work of a divinity.” There is one 
later mention of these transactions, which adds to our 
information, but does not decide the main question. St. 
Paul mentions Jannes and Jambres as having “with- 
stood Moses,” and says that their folly in doing so be- 
came manifest (2 Tim. iii, 8, 9). The Egyptian charac- 
ter of these names, the lirst of which is, in our opinion, 
found in hieroglyphics, is not inconsistent with the opin- 
ion that the apostle cited a prevalent tradition of the 
Jews. See Jannes and Jambres. 

We turn to the Egyptian illustrations of this part of 
the subject. Magic, as we have before remarked, was 
inherent in the ancient Egyptian religion. ' The Ritual 
is a system of incantations and directions for making 
amulets, with the objeet of securing the future happi- 
ness of the disembodied soul. However obscure the be- 
lief of the Egyptians as to the actual charaeter of the 
state of the soul after death may be to us, it cannot be 
doubted that the knowledge and use of the magical am- 
ulets and incantations treated of in the Ritual was held 
to be necessary for future happiness, although it was 
not believed that they alone could insure it, since to 
have done good works, or, more strictly, not to have 
committed certain sins, was an essential condition of the 
acquittal of the soul in the great trial in Hades. The 
thoroughly magical character of the Ritual is most 
strikingly evident in the minute directions given for 
making amulets ( Todtenbueli , ch. c, cxxix, exxxiv),and 
the seereev enjoined in one case on those thus occupied 
(ch. exxxiii). The later chapters of the Ritual (clxiii- 
clxv), held to have been added after the compilation or 
composition of the rest, which theory, as M. Chabas has 
well remarked, does not prove their much more modern 
date (Le Papyrus Magique Harris , p. 162), contain mys- 
tical names not bearing an Egyptian etymology. These 
names have been thought to be Ethiopian; they either 
have no signification, and are mere magical gibberish, 
or else they are, mainly at least, of foreign origin. Be- 
sides the Ritual the ancient Egyptians had books of a 
purely magical character, such as that which M. Chabas 
has edited in his work referred to above. The main 
source of their belief in the efficacy of magic appears to 
have been the idea that the souls of the (lead, whether 
justified or condemned, had the power of revisiting the 
earth ami taking various forms. This belief is abun- 
dantly used in the moral tale of “ The Two Brothers,” 
of which the text has recently been published by the 
trustees of the British Museum (Select Papyri , part ii), 
and we learn from this ancient papyrus the age and 
source of much of the machinery of mediaeval fictions, 
both Eastern and Western. A likeness that strikes us 
at once in the ease of a fiction is not less true of the 
Ritual ; and the perils encountered by the soul in Ilades 
are the first rude indications of the adventures of the 
heroes of Arab and German romance. The regions of 
terror traversed, the mystie portals that open alone to 
magical words, and the monsters whom magic alone 
can deprive of their power to injure, are here already in 
the book that in part was found in the reign of king 
Meneheres, four thousand years ago. Bearing in mind 
the Nigritian nature of Egyptian magic, we may look 
for the souree of these ideas in primitive Africa. There 
wc find the realities of which the ideal form is not great- 
ly distorted, though greatly intensified. The forests that 
clothe the southern slopes of snowy Atlas, full of fierce 
beasts ; the vast desert, un tenanted save by harmful rep- 
tiles, swept by sand-storms, and ever burning under an 
unchanging sun; the marshes of the south, teeming 
with brutes of vast size and strength, are the several 
zones of the Egyptian Hades. The creatures of the 
desert and the plains and slopes, the erocodile, the pach- 
ydermatn, the lion, perchance the gorilla, are the genii 
that Hold this land of fear. In what dread must the 
first scanty population have held dangers and enemies 
still feared by their swarming posterity. No wonder, 
then, that the imaginative Nigritians were struck with 
a superstitious fear which certain conditions of external j 


nature always produce with raees of a low type, where 
a higher feeling would only be touched by the analogies 
of life and death, of time and eternity. No wonder that, 
so struck, the primitive race imagined the evils of the 
unseen world to be the recurrence of those against which 
they struggled while on earth. That there is some 
ground for our theory, besides the generalization which 
led us to it, is shown by a usual Egyptian name of 
Hades, “ the West;” and that the wild regions west of 
Egypt might directly give birth to such fancies as form 
the common ground of the machinery, not the general 
belief, of the Ritual, as well as of the machinery of me- 
dieval fiction, is shown by the fables that the rude 
Arabs of our own day tell of the wonders they have seen. 

Like all nations who have practiced magic generally, 
the Egyptians separated it into a lawful kind and an 
unlawful. M. Chabas has proved this from a papyrus 
whieh he finds to contain an account of the prosecution, 
in the reign of Ramoses III (B.C. cir. 1220), of an official 
for unlawfully acquiring and using magical books, the 
king’s property. The culprit was convicted and pun- 
ished with death (p. 169 sq.). 

A belief in unlucky and lucky da} T s, in actions to be 
avoided or done on certain days, and in the fortune at- 
tending birth on certain days, was extremely strong, as 
we learn from a remarkable ancient calendar (Select 
Papyri , part i) and the evidence of writers of antiquity. 
A religious prejudice, or the occurrence of some great 
calamity, probably lay at the root of this observance of 
days. Of the former the birthday of Tvphon, the fifth 
of the Epagomena?, is an instance. Astrology was also 
licit! in high honor, as the calendars of certain of the 
tombs of the kings, stating the positions of the stars and 
their influence on different parts of the body, show us; 
but it seems doubtful whether this branch of magical 
arts is older than the xviiith dynasty, although eertain 
stars were held in reverence in the time of the ivth dy- 
nasty. The belief in omens probably did not hold an 
important place in Egyptian magic, if we may judge 
from the absence of direct mention of them. The su- 
perstition as to “ the evil eye” appears to have been 
known, but there is nothing else that we can class if ith 
phenomena of the nature of animal magnetism. r |’wo 
classes of learned men had the charge of the magical 
books: one of these, the name of which has not been 
read phonetically, would seem to. correspond to the 
“scribes,” as we render the word, spoken of in the his- 
tory of Joseph ; whereas the other has the general sense 
of “ wise men,” like the other class tl’ere mentioned. 

There are no representations on the monuments that 
ean be held to relate directly to the practice of this art, 
but the secret passages in the thickness of the wall, lately 
opened in the great temple of Denderah, seem to have 
been intended for some purpose of imposture. 

4. The Mosaic law contains very distinct prohibitions 
of all magical arts. Besides several passages condemn- 
ing them, in one place there is a specification which is 
so full that it seems evident that its objeet is to include 
every kind of magical art. The reference is to the prac- 
tices of Canaan, not to those of Egypt, which indeed do 
not seem to have been brought away b} r the Israelites, 
who, it may be remarked, apparently did not adopt 
Egyptian idolatry, but only that of foreigners settled in 
Egypt. See Bemphan. 

The Israelites are commanded in the place referred 
to not to learn the abominations of the peoples of the 
Promised Land. Then follows this prohibition : ‘-There 
shall not be found with thee one who offereth his son 
or his daughter by fire, a practicer of divinations ( -pp 
C’ptjp"), a worker of hidden arts an augurer 

(Tijip), an enchanter or a fabricator of 

charms (“pH ‘“pH), or an inquirer by a familiar spirit 
bxb), or a wizard or a consulter of the 

dead It is added that Uiese are 

abominations, and that on account of their practice the 


MAGIC 


G44 


MAGIC 


nations of Canaan were to be driven out (Dent, xviii, | i as t term, 12 'Vi, is very explicit, meaning 


If 14, esp. 10, 11). Jt is remarkable that the offering of 
children should be mentioned in connection with magi- 
cal arts. The passage in Micali, which lias been sup- 
posed to preserve a question of Balak and an answer of 
Balaam, when the soothsayer was sent for to curse Is- 
rael, should be here noticed, for the questioner asks, 
after speaking of sacrifices of usual kinds, “ Shall I give 
my first-born [for] my transgression, the fruit of my 
body [for] the sin of my soul ?” (vi, 5-8). Perhaps, 
however, child- sacrifice is specified on account of its 
atrocity, which would connect it with secret arts, such as 
we know were frequently, in later times, the causes of 
cruelty. The terms which follow appear to refer prop- 
erly to eight different kinds of magic, but some of them 
are elsewhere used in a general sense. 1. ZZp 

is literally “a diviner of divinations.” The verb CCp 
is used of false prophets, but also in a general sense for 
divining, as in the narrative of Saul’s consultation of 
t lie witch of Endor, where the king says “divine unto 
me *4 aw-^pisp), I pray thee, by the familiar 

spirit” (l T Sam. xxviii, 8). 2. conveys the idea 

of “one who acts covertly,” and so “a worker of hidden 
arts.” The meaning of the root is covering, and 
the supposed connection with fascination by the eyes, 
like the notion of “ the evil eye,” as though the original 
root were “the eye” (*pP), seems untenable. The an- 
cient Egyptians seem to have held the superstition of 
the evil eye, for an eye is the determinative of a word 
which appears to signify some kind of magic (Chabas, 
Papyrus Magique Harris , p. 170 and note 4). 3. 
which we render “an augurer,” is from which is 
literally “he or it hissed or whimpered,” and in l’icl is 
applied to the practice of enchantments, but also to di- 
vining generally, as in the case of Joseph’s cup, and 
where, evidently referring to it, he tells his brethren 
that he could divine, although in both places it has 
been read more vaguely with the sense to foresee or 
make trial (Gen. xliv, 5, 15). We therefore render it 
by a term which seems appropriate, but not too definite. 
The supposed connection of ‘£Pt3 with Zina, “a ser- 
pent,” as though meaning serpent-divination, must be 
rejected, the latter word rather coming from the former, 
with the signification “a hisser.” The name Nahslion 
C|pJPi3), of a prince of Judah in the second year after 
the exodus (Numb.i,7; Exod. vi.23; Ruth iv, 20, etc.), 
means “enchanter:” it was probably used as a proper 
name in a vague sense. 4. pZiZZ signifies “an en- 
chanter the original meaning of the verb was probably 
“ he prayed,” and the strict sense of this word “one who 
uses incantations.” 5. '"CP "“pri seems to mean “a 


“ a consulter of the dead necromancer is an exact 
translation if the original signification of the latter is 
retained, instead of the more general one it now usually 
bears. In the law it was commanded that a man or 
woman who had a familiar spirit, or a wizard, should be 
stoned (Lev. xx, 27). Ail “ enchantress” (nSZ.'pp) was 
not to live (Exod. xxii, 18 [Heb. 17]). Using augury 
and hidden arts was also forbidden (Lev. xLx, 2G). See 
Divination. 

5. The history of Balaam shows the belief of some 
ancient nations in the powers of soothsayers. When 
the Israelites had begun to conquer the Land of Prom- 
ise, Balak, the king of Moab, and the elders of Midian, 
resorting to Pharaoh’s expedient, sent by messengers 
with “the rewards of divination (PD^ZCp) in their 
hands” (Numb, xxii, 7) for Balaam the diviner (Eplpln, 
Josh, xiii, 22), whose fame was known to them, though 
he dwelt in Aram. Balak’s message shows what he 
believed Balaam’s powers to be: “Behold, there is a 
people come out from Egypt: behold, they cover the 
face of the earth, and they abide over against me: come 
now therefore, I pray thee, curse me this people; for 
they [are] too mighty for me: peradventure I shall 
prevail, [that] we may smite them, and [that] I may 
drive them out of the land : for I wot that he whom 
thou blessest [is] blessed; and he whom thou cursest is 
cursed” (Numb, xxii, 5, G). We are told, however, that 
Balaam, warned of God, first said that he could -not 
speak of himself, and then by inspiration blessed those 
whom he had been sent for to curse. He appears to 
have received inspiration in a vision or a trance. In 
one place it is said, “And Balaam saw that it was good 
in the eyes of the Lord to bless Israel, and he went not, 
now as before, to the meeting of enchantments (C’ZinD), 
but he set his face to the wilderness” (xxiv, 1). From 
this it would seem that it was his wont to use enchant- 
ments, and that when on other occasions he went away 
after the sacrifices had been offered, he hoped that he 
could prevail to obtain the wish of those who had sent 
for him, but was constantly defeated. The building of 
new altars of the mystic number of seven, and the offer- 
ing of seven oxen and seven rams, seem to show that 
Balaam had some such idea; and the marked man- 
ner in which he declared “there is no enchantment 
('“H!) against Jacob, and no divination (ZCp) against 
Israel” (xxiii, 23), proves that he had come in the hope 
that they would have availed, the diviner here being 
made to declare his own powerlessness while be blessed 
those whom he was sent for to curse. The case is a very 
difficult one. since it shows a man who was used as an 
instrument for declaring God’s will trusting in practices 
that could only have incurred his displeasure. The 


fabricator of material charms or amulets,” if “Zn, when i simplest explanation seems to be that Balaam was never 


used of practicing sorcery, means to bind magical knots, 
and not to bind a person by spells. G. Z1X >Xz3 is “an 
inquirer by a familiar spirit.” The second term signi- 
fies a bottle, a familiar spirit consulted by a soothsayer, 
and a soothsayer having a familiar spirit. The Sept, 
usually render the plural riZX by iyyaarnipv^oi, which 
has been rashly translated ventriloquists, for it may not 
signify what we understand by the latter, but refer to 
the mode in which soothsayers of this kind gave out 


a true prophet but on this occasion, when the enemies 
of Israel were to be signally confounded. This history 
affords a notable instance of the failure of magicians in 
attempting to resist the divine will. See Balaam. 

G. The account of Saul’s consulting the witch of En- 
dor is the foremost place in Scripture of those which re- 
fer to magic. The supernatural terror of which it is 
full cannot, however, be proved to be due to this art, for 
it has always been held by sober critics that the appear- 


ing of Samuel was permitted for the purpose of declaring 
their responses: to this subject we shall recur later. t h c doom of Saul, and not that it was caused by the in- 
The consulting of familiar spirits may mean no more can tations of a sorceress. As, however, the narrative is 
than invoking them ; but in the Acts we read of a dam- a ]p m -ed to be very difficult, we may look for a moment 
sel possessed with a spirit of divination (xvi, 1G-18) in at t p c evidence of its authenticity. The details are 
very distinct terms. Ibis kind of sorcery — divination strictly in accordance with the age: there is a simplic- 
ity a familiar spirit — was practiced by t lie witch of En- j tv in the manuers described that is foreign to a later 
dor. 7. which we render “ a wizard,” is properly time. The circumstances are agreeable with the rest 

“a wise mail,” but is always applied to wizards and of the history, and especially with all we know of Saul’s 
false prophets. Gesenius (Thesaur. s. v.) supposes that character, i lerc, as ever, he is seen resolved to gain his 
in Lev. xx, 27 it is used of a familiar spirit, but surely etuis without caring what wrong he does: he wishes to 
the reading “a wizard” is there more probable. 8. The I consult a prophet, and asks a witch to call up his shade. 


MAGIC 


645 


MAGIC 


Most of all, the vigor of the narrative, showing us the 
scene in a lew words, proves its antiquity and genuine- 
ness. We can see no reason whatever for supposing 
that it is an interpolation. 

“Now Samuel was dead, and all Israel had lamented 
him, and buried him in Hamah, even in his own city. 
And Saul had put away those that had familiar spirits, 
and the wizards, out of the land. And the Philistines 
gathered themselves together, and came and pitched in 
Shunem ; and Saul gathered all Israel together, and they 
pitched in Gilboa.” That the Philistines should have 
advanced so far, spreading in the plain of Esdraelon, the 
garden of the Holy Land, shows the straits to which 
Saul had come. Here, in times of faith, Sisera was de- 
feated by Barak, and the Midianites were smitten by 
Gideon, some of the army of the former perishing at 
En-dor itself (Psa. Ixxxiii, 9, 10). “And when Saul saw 
the host of the Philistines, he was afraid, and his heart 
greatly trembled. And when Saul inquired of the Lord, 
the Lord answered him not, neither by dreams, nor by 
Urim, nor by prophets. Then said Saul unto his ser- 
vants, Seek me a woman that- hath a familiar spirit, that 
I may go to her, and inquire of her. And his servants 
said to him, Behold, [there is] a woman that hath a fa- 
miliar spirit at En-dor. And Saul disguised himself, and 
put on other raiment, and he went, and two men with 
him, and they came to the woman by night.” En-dor 
lay in the territory of Issachar, about seven or eight 
miles to the northward of Mount Gilboa. Its name, the 
“fountain of Dor,” may connect it with the Phoenician 
city Dor, which was on the coast to the westward. If 
so, it may have retained its stranger-population, and 
been therefore chosen by the witch as a place where 
she might with less danger than elsewhere practice her 
arts. It has been noticed that the mountain on whose 
slope the modern village stands is hollowed into rock- 
hewn caverns, in one of which the witch may probably 
have dwelt. See Ex-dok. Saul’s disguise, and his 
journeying by night, seem to have been taken that he 
might not alarm the woman, rather than because he 
may have passed through a part of the Philistine force. 
The Philistines held the plain, having their camp at 
Shunem, whither they had pushed on from Aphek : the 
Israelites were at lirst, encamped by a fountain at Jez- 
reel, but when their enemies had advanced to Jezreel 
they appear to have retired to the slopes of Gilboa, 
whence there was a way of retreat either into the moun- 
tains to the south, or across Jordan. The latter seems 
to have been the line of flight, as, though Saul was slain 
on Mount Gilboa, his body was fastened to the wall of 
Betlishan. Thus Saul could scarcely have reached En- 
dor without passing at least very near the army of the 
Philistines. “And he said, divine unto me, I pray thee, 
by the familiar spirit, and bring me [him] up whom I 
shall name unto thee.” It is noticeable that here witch- 
craft, the inquiring by a familiar spirit, and neeromanev, 
are all connected as though but a single art, which fa- 
vors the idea that the prohibition in Deuteronomy spe- 
cifies every name by which magical arts were known, 
rather than so many different kinds of arts, in order that 
no one should attempt to evade the condemnation of 
such practices by any subterfuge. It is evident that 
Saul thought he might be able to call up Samuel by the 
aid of the witch, but this does not prove what was his 
own general conviction, or the prevalent conviction of 
the Israelites on the subject. He was in a great ex- 
tremity; his kingdom in danger; himself forsaken of 
God: he was weary with a night-joumev, perhaps of 
risk, perhaps of great length to avoid the enemy, and 
faint with a day’s fasting : he was conscious of wrong 
as, probably for the first time, he commanded unholy 
rites and heard in the gloom unholy incantations. In 
such a strait no man’s judgment is steady, and Saul may 
have asked to see Samuel in a moment of sudden des- 
peration, when he had only meant to demand an oracu- 
lar answer. It may even be thought that, yearning for 
the counsel of Samuel, and longing to learn if the net 


that he felt closing about him were one from which he 
should never escape, Saul had that keener sense that 
some say comes in the last hours of life, and so, con- 
scious that the prophet’s shade was near, or was about 
to come, at once sought to see and speak with it, though 
this had not before been purposed. Strange things we 
know occur at the moment when man feels he is about 
to die, and if there be any time when the unseen world 
is felt while yet unentered, it is when the soul first comes 
within the chill of its long -projected shadow. “And 
the woman said unto him, Behold, thou knowest what 
Saul hath done, how he hath cut off those that have fa- 
miliar spirits, and the wizards, out of the land : where- 
fore, then, layest thou a snare for my life, to cause me to 
die ? And Saul sware to her by the Lord, saying, [As] 
the Lord liveth, there shall no punishment happen to 
thee for this thing.” Nothing shows Saul’s desperate 
resolution more than his thus swearing when engaged 
in a most unholy act, a terrible profanity that makes 
the horror of the scene complete. Everything being 
prepared, the final act takes place. “Then said the 
woman, Whom shall 1 bring up unto thee? And he 
said, Bring me up Samuel. And when the woman saw 
Samuel, she cried with a loud voice: and the woman 
spake to Saul, saying, Why hast thou deceived me? for 
thou [art] Saul. And the king said unto her, Be not. 
afraid: for what sawest thou? And the woman said 
unto Saul, I saw gods ascending out of the earth. And 
he said unto her, What [is] his form ? And she said, 
An old man cometh up; and he [is] covered with a 
mantle. And Saul perceived that it [ was] Samuel, and 
he stooped with his face to the ground, and bowed him- 
self. And Samuel said to Saul, Why hast thou disqui- 
eted [or “disturbed”] me, to bring me up? And Saul 
answered, I am sore distressed ; for the Philistines make 
war against me, and God is departed from me, and an- 
swereth me no more, neither by prophets, nor by dreams ; 
therefore I have called thee, that thou mayest make 
known unto me what I shall do. Then said Samuel, 
Wherefore, then, dost thou ask of me, seeing the Lord 
is departed from thee, and is become thine enemy? 
And the Lord hath done to him as he spake by me ; for 
the Lord hath rent the kingdom out of thine hand, and 
given it to thy neighbor, [even] to David : because thou 
obeyedst not the voice of the Lord, nor executedst his 
fierce wrath upon Amalek, therefore hath the Lord done 
this thing unto thee this day. Moreover, the Lord will 
also deliver Israel with thee into the hand of the Phil- 
istines; and to-morrow [shalt] thou and thy sons [be] 
with me: the Lord also shall deliver the host of Israel 
into the hand of the Philistines. Then Saul fell straight- 
way all along on the earth, and was sore afraid, because 
of the words of Samuel : and there was no strength in 
him ; for he had eaten no bread all the day, nor all the 
night” (1 Sam. xxviii, 3-20). The woman clearly was 
terrified by an unexpected apparition when she saw 
Samuel. She must, therefore, either have been a mere 
juggler, or one who had no power of working magical 
wonders at will. The sight of Samuel at once showed 
her who had come to consult her. The prophet’s shade 
seems to have been preceded by some majestic shapes 
which the witch called gods. Saul, as it seems inter- 
rupting her, asked his form, and she described the 
prophet as he was in his last days on earth, an old man, 
covered either with a mantle, such as the prophets used 
to wear, or wrapped in his winding-sheet. Then Saul 
knew it was Samuel, and bowed to the ground from re- 
spect or fear. It seems that the woman saw the ap- 
pearances, and that Saul only knew of them through 
her, perhaps not daring to look, else why should he have 
asked what form Samuel had? The prophet’s com- 
plaint we cannot understand, in our ignorance as to the 
separate state : thus much we know, that state is always 
i described as one of perfect rest or sleep. That the wom- 
| an should have been able to call him up cannot be hence 
inferred ; her astonishment shows the contrary ; and it 
| would be explanation enough to suppose that he was 


MAGIC 


G4G 


MAGIC 


sent to give Saul the last warning, or that the earnest- 
ness of the king’s wish had been permitted to disquiet 
him in his resting-place. Although the word “disqui- 
eted''' need not be pushed to an extreme sense, and seems 
to mean the interruption of a state of rest, our transla- 
tors wisely, we think, preferring this rendering to “dis- 
turbed,” it cannot be denied that, if we hold that Sam- 
uel appeared, this is a great difficulty. If, however, we 
suppose that the prophet’s coming was ordered, it is not 
unsurmountable. The declaration of Saul’s doom agrees 
with what Samuel had said before, and was fulfilled the 
next day, when the king and his sons fell on Mount Oil- 
boa. It may, however, be asked, Was the apparition 
Samuel himself, or a supernatural messenger in his 
stead? Some may even object to our holding it to 
have been aught but a phantom of a sick brain ; but, if 
so, what can we make of the woman’s conviction that 
it was Samuel, and the king’s horror at the words he 
heard, or, as these would sa\ T , that he thought he heard? 
It was not only the hearing his doom, but the hearing 
it in a voice from the other world that stretched the 
faithless strong man on the ground. lie must have felt 
the presence of the dead, and heard the sound of a se- 
pulchral voice. Ilow else could the doom have come 
true, and not the king alone, but his sons, have gone to 
the place of disembodied souls on the morrow? for to 
be with the dead concerned the soul, not the body: it is 
no difficulty that the king’s corpse was unburied till the 
generous men of Jabesh-gilead, mindful of his old kind- 
ness, rescued it from the wall of Bethshan. If, then, 
the apparition was real, should we suppose it Samuel’s? 
A reasonable criticism would say it seems to have been ! 
so; for the supposition that a messenger came in his 
stead must be rejected, as it would make the speech a 
mixture of truth and untruth ; and if asked what suffi- 
cient cause there was for such a sending forth of the 
prophet from his rest, we may reply that we know not 
the reason for such warnings as abound in the Bible, 
and that, perhaps, even at the eleventh hour, the door 
of repentance was not closed against the king, and his 
impiety might have been pardoned had he repented. 
Instead, he went forth in despair, and. when his sons 
hail fallen and his army was put to the rout, sore wound- 
ed, he fell on his own sword. 

From the beginning to the end of this strange history 
we have no warrant for attributing supernatural power 
to magicians. Viewed reasonably, it refers to the ques- 
tion of apparitions of the dead as to which other places 
in the Bible leave no doubt. The connection with mag- 
ic seems purely accidental. The witch is no more than 
a bv-stander after the first : she sees Samuel, and that j 
is all. The apparition may have been a terrible fulfil- 
ment of Saul’s desire, but this does not prove that the 
measures he used were of any power. We have exam- 
ined the narrative very carefully, from its detail and its 
remarkable character: the result leaves the main ques- 
tion unanswered. See Incantation. 

7. in the later days of the two kingdoms magical 
practices of many kinds prevailed among the Hebrews, 
as we especially learn from the condemnation of them 
by t lie prophets. Every form of idolatry which the 
people had adopted in succession doubtless brought with 
it its magic, which seems always to have remained with 
a strange tenacity that probably made it outlive the 
false worship with which it was connected. Thus the j 
use of teraphim, dating from the patriarchal age, was 
not abandoned when t lie worship of the Canaanitish. 
Phienician, and Syrian idols had been successively 
adopted. In the historical hooks of Scripture there is j 
little notice of magic, except that wherever the false I 
prophets are mentioned we have, no doubt, an indication 
of the prevalence of magical practices. We are espc- ' 
cially told of Josiah that he put away the workers with 
familiar spirits, the wizards, and the teraphim, as well 
as the idols and the other abominations of Judah and 
Jerusalem, in performance of the commands of the book 
of the law which had been found (2 Kings xxiii, 24). 


But in the prophets we find several notices of the magic 
of the Hebrews in their times, and some of the magic 
of foreign nations. Isaiah says that the people had be- 
come workers of hidden arts (C n 33S*) like the Philis- 
tines, and apparently alludes in the same place to the 
practice of magic by the Bene-Kedem (ii, 6). The na- 
tion had not only abandoned true religion, but had be- 
come generally addicted to magic in the manner of the 
Philistines, whose Egyptian origin [see Cafiitop.] is 
consistent with such a condition. The origin of the 
Bene-Kedem is doubtful, but it seems certain that as 
late as the time of the Egyptian wars in Syria, under 
the xixtli dynasty, B.C. cir. 1300, a race, partly at least 
Mongolian, inhabited the valley of the Orontes, among 
whom, therefore, we should again expect a national prac- 
tice of magic, and its prevalence with their neighbors. 
Balaam, too, dwelt with the Bene-Kedem, though he 
may not have been of their race. In another place the 
prophet reproves the people for seeking “unto them 
that have familiar spirits, and unto the wizards that 
chirp, and that mutter” (viii, 19). The practices of one 
class of magicians are still more distinctly described 
where it thus said of Jerusalem: “And I will camp 
against thee round about, and will lay siege against 
thee with a mount, and I will raise forts against thee. 
And thou shall be brought down, [and] shalt speak out 
of the ground, and thy speech shall be low out of the 
clust, and thy voice shall be, as of one that hath a fa- 
miliar spirit, out of the ground, and thy speech shall 
whisper out of the dust” (xxix, 3, 4). Isaiah alludes to 
the magic of the Egyptians when he says that in their 
calamity “ they shall seek to the idols, and to the charm- 
ers [E^X ?], and to them that have familiar spirits, 
and to the wizards” (xix, 3). And in the same manner 
he thus taunts Babylon : “ Stand now with thy charms, 
and with the multitude of thine enchantments, wherein 
thou hast labored from thy youth ; if so be thou shalt 
be able to profit, if so be thou mayest prevail. Thou 
art wearied in the multitude of thy counsels. Let now 
the viewers of the heavens [or astrologers], the star- 
gazers, the monthly prognosticators, stand up and save 
thee from [these things] that shall come upon thee” 
(xlvii, 12, 13). The magic of Babylon is here charac- 
terized by the prominence given to astrology, no magi- 
cians being mentioned excepting practieers of this art; 
unlike the case of the Egyptians, with whom astrology 
seems always to have held a lower place than with the 
Chaldiean nation. In both instances the folly of those 
who seek the aid of magic is shown. 

Micah, declaring the judgments coming for the crimes 
of his time, speaks of the prevalence of divination among 
prophets who most probably were such pretended proph- 
ets as the opponents of Jeremiah, not avowed prophets 
of idols, as Ahab’s seem to have been. Concerning these 
prophets it is said, “Night [shall be] unto you, that ye 
shall not have a vision ; and it shall be dark unto you, 
that ye shall not divine; and the sun shall go down 
over the prophets, and the day shall be dark over them. 
Then shall the seers be ashamed, and the diviners con- 
founded; yea, they shall all cover their lip; for [there 
is] no answer of (Sod” (iii, 6, 7). Later it is said as to 
Jerusalem, “ The heads thereof judge for reward, and the 
priests thereof teach for hire, and the prophets thereof 
divine for money; yet will they lean upon the Lord, 
and say. [Is] not the Lord among us? none evil can 
come upon us” (ver. 1 1). These prophets seem to have 
practiced unlawful arts, and yet to have expected reve- 
lations. 

Jeremiah was constantly opposed by false prophets, 
who pretended to speak in the name of the Lord, saying 
that they had dreamed, when they told false visions, 
and who practiced various magical arts (xiv, 14; xxiii, 
25. ad fin.; xxvii, 9, 10 — where the several designations 
applied to those who counselled the people not to serve 
the king of Babylon may be used in contempt of the 
false prophets — xxix, 8, 9). 


MAGIC 


647 


MAGIC 


Ezekiel, as we should have expected, affords some 
remarkable details of the magic of his time, in the clear 
and forcible descriptions of his visions. From him we 
learn that fetishism was among the idolatries which the 
Hebrews, in the latest days of the kingdom of Judah, 
had adopted from their neighbors, like the Romans in 
the age of general corruption that caused the decline 
of their empire. In a vision, in which the prophet saw 
the abominations of Jerusalem, he entered the chambers 
of imagery in the Temple itself : “ I went in and saw ; 
and behold, every form of creeping things, and abomi- 
nable beasts, and all the idols of the house of Israel, 
portrayed upon the wall round about.” Here seventy 
elders were offering incense in the dark (viii, 7-12). 
This idolatry was probably borrowed from Egypt, for 
the description perfectly answers to that of the dark 
sanctuaries of Egyptian temples, with the sacred ani- 
mals portrayed upon their walls, and does not accord 
with the character of the Assyrian sculptures, where 
creeping things are not represented as objects of wor- 
ship. With this low form of idolatry an equally low 
kind of magic obtained, practiced by prophetesses who 
for small rewards made amulets by which the people 
were deceived (xiii, 17, ad fin.). The passage must be 
allowed to be very difficult, but it can scarcely be doubt- 
ed that amulets are referred to which were made and 
sold by these women, and perhaps also worn by them. 
We may probably read: “Woe to the [women] that 
sew pillows upon all joints of the hands [elbows or arm- 
holes?], and make kerchiefs upon the head of every 
stature to hunt souls!” (xiii, 18). If so, we have a prac- 
tice analogous to that of the modern Egyptians, who 
hang amulets of the kind called hegab upon the right 
side, and of the Nubians, who hang them on the upper 
part of the arm. AVc cannot, in any case, see how the 
passage can be explained as simply referring to the lux- 
urious dress of the women of that time, since the prophet 
distinctly alludes to pretended visions and to divinations 
(ver. 23), using almost the same expressions that he ap- 
plies in another place to the practices of the false proph- 
ets (xxii, 28). The notice of Nebuchadnezzar’s divina- 
tion by arrows, where it is said “he shuffled arrows” 
(xxi, 21), must refer to a practice the same or similar to 
the kind of divination by arrows called El-Meysar, in 
use among the pagan Arabs, aud forbidden in the Koran. 
See Amulet. 

8. The references to magic in the book of Daniel re- 
late wholly to that of Babylon, and not so much to the 
art as to those who used it. Daniel, when taken cap- 
tive, was instructed in the learning of the Chaldamns, 
and placed among the wise men of Babylon (ii, 18), by 
whom we are to understand the magi (^03 * 1 £* , !Ill), for 
the term is used as including magicians (C‘ , !S12*in), 
sorcerers (D^S^'X), enchanters (D^S'i'I'p), astrologers 
(VP?*0» an( ^ Chaldreans, the last being apparently the 
most important class (ii, 2, 4, 5, 10, 12, 14, 18, 24, 27 ; 
comp, i, 20). As in other cases, the true prophet was 
put to the test with the magicians, and he succeeded 
where they utterly failed. The case resembled Pha- 
raoh’s, excepting that Nebuchadnezzar asked a harder 
thing of the wise men. Having forgotten his dream, 
he not only required of them an interpretation, but that 
they should make known the dream itself. They were 
perfectly ready to tell the interpretation if only they 
heard the dream. The king at once saw that they were 
impostors, and that if they truly had supernatural pow- 
ers they could as well tell him his dream as its meaning. 
Therefore he decreed the death of all the wise men of 
Babylon ; but Daniel, praying that he and his fellows 
might escape this destruction, had a vision in which the 
matter was revealed to him. He was accordingly 
brought before the king. Like Joseph, he disavowed 
any knowledge of his own. “The secret which the 
king hath demanded, the wise men, the sorcerers, the 
magicians, the astrologers, cannot show unto the king; 
but there is a God in heaven that revealeth secrets” 


(ver. 27, 28). “ But as for me, this secret is not reveal- 

ed to me for [any] wisdom that I have more than any 
living” (ver. 30). He then related the dream and its 
interpretation, and wa's set over the province as well as 
over all the wise men of Babylon. Again the king 
dreamed ; and, though he told them the dream, the wise 
men could not interpret it, and Daniel again showed the 
meaning (iv, 4 sq.). In the relation of this event we 
read that the king called him “chief of the scribes,” the 
second part of the title being the same as that applied 
to the Egyptian magicians (iv, 9 [Cliald. 6]). A third 
time, when Belshazzar saw the writing on the wall, the 
wise men were sent for, and, on their failing, Daniel was 
brought before the king and the interpretation given 
(chap. v). These events are perfectly consistent with 
what always occurred in all other cases recorded in 
Scripture when the practicers of magic were placed in 
opposition to true prophets. It may be asked by some 
how Daniel could take the post of chief of the wise men 
when he had himself proved their imposture. If, how- 
ever, as we cannot doubt, the class were one of the 
learned generally, among whom some practiced magical 
arts, the case is very different from what it would have 
been had these wise men been magicians only. Besides, 
it seems almost certain that Daniel was providentially 
thus placed that, like another Joseph, he might further 
the welfare and ultimate return of his people. See Magi. 

9. After the Captivity, it is probable that the Jews 
gradually abandoned the practice of magic. Zecliariah 
speaks indeed of the deceit ofteraphim and diviners (x, 
2), and foretells a time when the very names of idols 
should be forgotten, and false prophets have virtually 
ceased (xiii, 1^4), yet in neither case does it seem cer- 
tain that he is alluding to the usages of his own day. 

10. In the Apocrypha we find indications that in the 
later centuries preceding the Christian sera magic was 
no longer practiced by the educated Jews. In the Wis- 
dom of Solomon, the writer, speaking of the Egyptian 
magicians, treats their art as an imposture (xvii, 7). 
The book of Tobit is an exceptional case. If we hold 
that it was written in Persia or a neighboring country, 
and, with Ewald, date its composition not long after the 
fall of the Persian empire, it is obvious that it relates to 
a different state of society from that of the Jews of Egypt 
and Palestine. If, however, it was written in Palestine 
about the time of the Maccabees, as others suppose, we 
must still recollect that it refers rather to the supersti- 
tions of the common people than to those of the learned. 
In either case its pretensions make it unsafe to follow as 
indicating the opinions of the time at which it was writ- 
ten. It professes to relate to a period of which its writer 
could have known little, and borrows its idea of super- 
natural agency from Scripture, adding as much as was 
judged safe of current superstition. 

11. In the N. Test, we read very little of magic. The 
coming of magi to worship Christ is indeed related 
(Matt, ii, 1-12), but we have no warrant for supposing 
that they were magicians from their name, which the 
A. V. not unreasonably renders “ wise men.” See Magi. 
Our Lord is not said to have been opposed bv magicians, 
and the apostles and other early teachers of the Gospel 
seem to have rarely encountered them. Philip the dea- 
con, when he preached at Samaria, found there Simon, 
a famous magician, commonly known as Simon Magus, 
who had had great power over the people ; but he is not 
said to have been able to work wonders, nor, had it 
been so, is it likely that he would have soon been ad- 
mitted into the Church (Acts viii, 9-24). When Bar- 
nabas and Paul were at Paphos, as they preached to the 
proconsul Sergius Paulus, Elymas, a Jewish sorcerer and 
false prophet (nun avepet fiayov •^atvCoTTpo(pi]Ti]v') 
withstood them, and was struck blind for a time at the 
word of Paul (xiii, G-12). At Ephesus, certain Jewish 
exorcists signally failing, both Jews and Greeks were 
afraid, and abandoned their practice of magical arts. 
“And many that believed came, and confessed, and 
showed their deeds. Many of them also which used 


MAGIC 


648 


MAGIE 


curious arts brought their books together, and burned 
them before all: and they counted the price of them, 
and found [it] fifty thousand [pieces] of silver” (xix, 
18, 19). Here botli Jews and Greeks seem to have 
been greatly addicted to magic, even after they had 
nominally joined the Church. See Ephesus. In all 
these eases it appears that though the practicers were 
generally or always Jews, the field of their success was 
with Gentiles, showing that among the Jews in general, 
or the educated class, the art had fallen into disrepute. 
Here, as before, there is no evidence of any real effect 
produced by the magicians. We have already noticed 
the remarkable case of the “damsel having a spirit of 
divination” (i'xovaav Trvtvya TrvSnova) “which brought 
her masters much gain by foretelling” (pavTtvofiivij), 
from whom Paul cast out the spirit of divination (xvi, 
16-18). This is a matter belonging to another subject 
than that of magic. See Prophecy. 

Our examination of the various notices of magic in 
the Bible gives us this general result : They do not, as 
far as wc can understand, once state positively that any 
but illusive results were produced by magical rites. 
They therefore afford no evidence that man can gain 
supernatural powers to use at his will. This conse- 
quence goes some way towards showing that we may 
conclude that there is no such thing as real magic; for, 
although it is dangerous to reason on negative evidence, 
yet in a case of this kind it is especially strong. Had 
any but illusions been worked by magicians, surely the 
Scriptures would not have passed over a fact of so much 
importance, and one which would have rendered the 
prohibition of these arts far more necessary. The gen- 
eral belief of mankind in magic, or things akin to it, is 
of no worth, since the holding of such current supersti- 
tion in some of its branches, if we push it to its legiti- 
mate consequences, would lead to the rejection of faith 
in God’s government of the world, and the adoption of 
a creed far below that of Plato. 

From the conclusion at which we have arrived, that 
there is no evidence in the P»ible of real results having 
been worked by supernatural agency used by magicians, 
we may draw this important inference that the absence 
of any proof of the same in profane literature, ancient 
or modern, in no way militates against the credibility 
of the miracles recorded in Scripture. 

III. During the Middle Ages, and down almost to the 
18th century, magic was greatly studied in Europe, and 
could boast of distinguished names, who attempted to 
treat it as a grand and mysterious science, by means of 
which the secrets of nature could be discovered, and a 
certain godlike power acquired over the “spirits” (or, 
as we should now say, the “forces”) of the elements. 
The principal students and professors of magic during 
the period referred to were pope Sylvester II, Albert us 
Magnus, Poger Paeon, Raymond Lully, Pico della Mi- 
randola. Paracelsus, Cornelius Agrippa, Tritliemius, Van 
Ilelmont, and Jerome Cardan. See Ilorst’s low der A l- 
irn und Amen Magie, Ursprung, Idee, Cm fang uml Ge- 
schichte (Mentz, 1820), and Ennemoser’s Geschichte der 
Magic (2d edit. Leips. 1844; transl. into English by W. 
Ilowitt, 2 vols. Loud. 1854). For an interesting account 
of the discipline and ceremonies of the “art,” consult 
the JJogmc et, Ititvel de la Haute Magie (2 vols. Paris. 
1856), by Fliphas Levi, one of its latest adherents. For 
monographs on the general subject, see Volbeding, In- 
dex Progrummutum , p. 160. Many curious notices have 
been collected by Thomson in his Philosophy of Magic 
(translated from the French of Salverte, Loud. 1846, 2 
vols.). Sec also Maury, La Magie et VAstrologie (Par- 
is, I860). The Arabian Nights ’ Entertainments is well 
known as a classical text-book on Oriental views of 
magic. For other literature, compare Necromancer ; 
Sorcerer. For the legendary wonder-working, which 
seems to have been the ba.sls of the traditionary fame 
of free-masonry, see Solomon. Alchemy and astrology 
(q. v.) have likewise furnished their quota of interest to 
the subject. For the mediaeval thanmaturgie prac- 


tices, see Rosicrucians ; for the later superstitions, see 
Witchcraft; for the modem, see Spiritualism. 

Magician (Cliald. tbnn, chartom'; Heb. plural 
DT2i:-n, chart ummim\ thought by Gesenius, Thesaur. 

р. 520, to be of Ileb. origin, signifying “sacred scribe ”), 
a title “applied to the ‘wise men’ of Egypt (Gen. xli, 
8 , 22 ; Exod. vii, 1 1 ; viii, 7, 18, 19 ; ix, 11) and of Bab- 
ylon (Dan. i, 20 ; ii, 2). The word 1 magicians’ is not in 
either case properly applied, as the magi proper are 
usually assigned to Persia rather than to Babylon or 
Egypt, and should be altogether avoided in such appli- 
cation, seeing that it has acquired a sense different from 
that which it once bore. The term rather denotes 
‘ wise men,’ as they called themselves and were called 
by others ; but, as we should call them, ‘ men eminent 
in learning and science,’ their exclusive possession of 
which in their several countries enabled them occasion- 
ally to produce effects which were accounted supernat- 
ural by the people. Pythagoras, who was acquainted 
with Egypt and the East, and who was not unaware of 
the unfathomable depths of ignorance which lie under 
the highest attainable conditions of human knowledge, 
thought the modest title of philosopher ( <bi\uao<poc ), 
‘ lover of wisdom,’ more becoming, and accordingly he 
brought it into use; but that of ‘ wise men’ still retained 
its hold in the East. It is thought that the Egyptian 
chartummim were those of the Egyptian priests who 
had charge of the sacred records. There can be little 
doubt that they belonged to some branch of the priest- 
hood, seeing that the more recondite departments of 
learning and science were cultivated exclusively in that 
powerful caste” (Kit to). See Magi. See Jablonski, 
Proleg. in Panth. JEggpt. p. 91 sq. ; Crenzer, Mgthologie 
und SymboUk, i, 245 ; Wilkinson, Anc. Egyptians , ii, 816 
sq. ; Kenrick, Egypt under the Pharaohs , i, 882. See 
Magic. 

Magicians. The early Christians were derided 
by this name. Celsus and others pretended that our 
Saviour, because he wrought miracles, practiced magic, 
which he had learned in Egypt. Augustine speaks of 
a popular belief among the enemies of the Christian 
faith that our Saviour had written books on magic, 
which he delivered to Peter and Paul for the use of his 
disciples. One of the Roman historians calls the Chris- 
tians genus hominum superstitionis malrficce, which may 
be understood to mean “men of the magical supersti- 
tions.” In the martyrdom of Agnes, the people cried 
out, “Away with the sorceress! Away with the en- 
chantress !” 

Magid'do (Maytlcio, 1 Esdr. i, 29). See Me- 

с. iddo. 

Magie, David, D.D., a Presbyterian minister of 
note, was born in Elizabeth, N. J., March 13, 1795; be- 
came a subject of renewing grace at the age of eighteen; 
two years after united with the Presbyterian Church; 
soon after entered Princeton College, and, subsequent to 
his graduation from the theological seminary, was for 
two years tutor in the college. In 1821 he was installed 
pastor of the Second Presbyterian Church of Elizabeth, 
“ to which he was bound as by a golden chain, giving 
them the services of his life, till, with bleeding and 
grateful hearts, they yielded him, at the call of God, to 
enter his eternal joy,” May 10, 1865. Dr. Magie de- 
clined many calls to other stations of responsibility and 
eminence, believing the pastoral relation too sacred to 
he dissolved but at the unquestionable bidding of the 
great Master. “He was indeed ‘a model pastor.’ .... 
Combining temperance, charity, humility, prudence, 
sound judgment, simplicity, and earnestness, he was a 
faithful, persevering, successful laborer in the vineyard 
committed to his charge. lie preached and prayed 
with a power and unction which sank deep into the 
hearts of his hearers. None went from any sermon 
without having had the way of salvation by Christ af- 
fectionately and clearly presented to them.” lie was a 
trustee of the College of New Jersey; a pillar in the 


MAGILL 


649 


MAGISTRATE 


Theological Seminary ; a member of the American Board 
of Foreign Missions, also of the Publishing Committee 
of the American Tract Society, etc. Besides several 
able published discourses, Br. Magie was the author of 
The Spring-time of Life (an excellent volume of 350 
pages, published by the American Tract Society, N. York, 
185*2, 16mo; 1855, lGnao), “in which his own character, 
and especially his care and counsels for the young, are 
happily perpetuated.” See Wilson, Presb. IJist. Alma- 
nac, I860, p. 128. 

Magill, Charles Beatty, a Presbyterian minister, 
was born in Wellsville, Ohio, Oct. 3, 1840; graduated at 
Miami University, Oxford, Ohio, in 1858; studied divin- 
ity at the Western Theological Seminary, Allegheny City, 
Pa., and was licensed to preach in April, 18(51. The win- 
ter of 1862-03 he spent at Princeton, N. J. ; subsequently 
he preached in Virginia and Illinois; and was finally 
ordained and installed pastor of the Presbyterian Church 
of Birmingham, Iowa. IJe afterwards spent a short time 
in the service of the Christian Commission in Georgia, 
where he contracted the illness of which he died, Aug. 
28, 1804. Mr. Magill was thoroughly educated and de- 
voutly pious. See Wilson, Presb. Hist. Almanac, 1805, 
p. 98. (J. L. S.) 

Maginnis, John Sharp, D.D., a Baptist minister, 
was born in Butler Co., Pa., June 13, 1805; was licensed 
to preach May 25, 1827 ; studied afterwards at Water- 
ville College, Me., Brown University, and the theolog- 
ical seminary in Newton, Mass. ; was ordained pastor of 
the First Baptist Church of Portland, Me., in Oct. 1832, 
and there remained until ill health compelled him to 
remove. In the winter of 1837-38 he was pastor of the 
Pine Street Church of Providence, E. I. ; later he be- 
came professor of Biblical theology in the literary and 
theological institution at Hamilton, N. Y. (now Madison 
University) ; in 1850, professor of Biblical and pastoral 
theology in the new theological school connected with 
the Bocliester University, and also professor of intel- 
lectual and moral philosophy in the university. He 
was made M.A. by Waterville College while at Hamil- 
ton, and D.D. by Brown University in 1844. Failing 
health finally compelled him to resign his professorship 
in the University, but he continued his labors in the 
theological school until his death, Oct. 15, 1852. Dr. 
Maginnis published only a few detached articles, among 
them one on the philosophy of Cousin (published in the 
Christian Review), which attracted much attention. See 
Sprague, Annals, vi,7GG; Christian Iler. vol. xviii (Jan.). 

Magister Discipline© ( master of discipline') was 
the title of a certain ecclesiastical officer in the ancient 
Church. It was a custom in Spain, in the time of the 
Gothic kings, about the end of the 5th century, for par- ! 
ents to dedicate their young children to the service of 
the Church. They were taken for this purpose into a 
bishop’s family, and educated, under his supervision, by 
a discreet and grave person, who was generally a pres- 
byter, and was called magister discipline e. The second 
and fourth councils of Toledo prescribed the duties of 
this master, the chief of which were, that he should vig- 
ilantly watch over the moral character and behavior of 
the young, and instruct them in the rules and discipline 
of the Church. — Farrar, Eccles. Diet. s. v. 

Magister Sacri Palatii (master of the sacred 
palace). This office was created in 1218 by pope Hono- 
rius III, and was first held by St. Dominic. The latter, 
during his residence at Home, had noticed that the per- 
sons employed by the cardinals and authorities made a 
bad use of their unemployed time. He therefore had 
commenced, with the consent of the pope, to give them 
religious instruction during their leisure time, and was 
rewarded by Honorius with the above office. The task 
assigned was like that which Dominie had previously 
chosen for himself, but the pope increased it bv direct- 
ing that the employe's of the papal household should 
also attend these instructions. The office was made 
perpetual to the Dominicans. Many privileges were 


gradually attached to it. Thus a bull of pope Eugenius 

IV, of 1430, ordered that in the papal chapel the Magis- 
ter s. palatii should be placed next to the dean of the 
Auditore della Kota ; no one was to preach in the chapel 
without his permission ; and on his being temporarily 
absent from Home, he was to invest his substitute with 
the same privileges. These prerogatives were confirm- 
ed by Calixtus III in 1450, who gave also the right to 
the Magister s. palatii of reproving the preacher in the 
papal chapel, even in the presence of the pope. Leo X, in 
1515, decided that nothing should be printed in the dio- 
cese of Iiome without the consent of that official and of 
the cardinal-viear. In 1025 Urban VIII went further, 
and forbade the reprinting of works published in the 
States of the Church without this authorization, Pius 

V, in 1570, connected with the office a canonicatc of St. 
Peter, which was, however, taken from it in 1586 by 
Sixtus V. Finally, Alexander VII gave the Magister 
s.palatii the precedence before all the other clergy com- 
posing the Roman cabinet. These privileges, however, 
were gradually taken back, and the censorship of books 
now alone remains to the Magister s.palatii. See Mus- 
son, Pragm. Gcschichte d. MOnchsorden, viii, 33 ; Helvot, 
Gesch. d. geistl. Kloster - u. Ritterorden (Leipzig, 1754), iii, 
252; Sehrockh, K. G\xxxiii,95; Herzog, Real-Encgklop. 

viii, 085. 

Magistrate (the representative in the Auth.Vers. 
of several Heb. and Gr. words, as below), a public civil 
officer invested with authority. Among the Hebrews, 
Greeks, and Romans, the corresponding terms had a 
much wider signification than the term magistrate has 
with us. The Hebrew C* 1 13 5 II?, shophetim or judges, 
were a kind of magistrates (Dent, i, 10, 17 ; Ezra vii, 25). 
See Judge. The phrase in Judges xviii, 7, “And there 
was no magistrate in the land, that might put them to 
shame in any thing,” ought to be rendered, “And there 
were none to harm (C33) at all in the land; and they 
were possessed (EHT 1 , yoresIT) of wealth.” So, also, the 
terms ‘pit'll *pESU3, shaphetin' re-dayanin ', rendered 
“ magistrates and judges” (Ezra vii, 25), would be better 
rendered “judges and rulers.” The CCip, seganim ', 
rendered “ rulers,” properly nobles, were Babylonian mag- 
istrates, prefects of provinces (Jer. li, 23, 28, 57 ; Ezek. 
xxiii, G). The same name was borne by the Jewish 
magistrates in the time of Ezra and Neliemiah (Ezra 

ix, 2; Nell, ii, 10; iv, 14 ; xiii, 11). The word dpywr, 
archon , rendered magistrate (Luke xi, 58; Tit. iii, 1), 
properly signifies one first in power, authority ; hence “« 
prince" (Matt, xx, 25 ; 1 Cor. ii, G, 8) ; “a ruler" (Acts i v, 
20 ; Rom. xiii, 3). The term is also used of the Messiah 
as “ the prince of the kings of the earth” (Rev. i, 5) ; and 
of Moses as the judge and leader of the Hebrews (Arts 

vii, 27, 35). It is spoken of magistrates of any kind, e. g. 
the high-priest (Acts xxiii, 5) ; of civil judges (Luke xii, 
58 ; Acts xvi, 19) ; also of a ruler of the synagogue (Luke 

viii, 41 ; Matt, ix, 18, 23 ; Mark v, 22) ; and of persons of 
weight and influence among the Pharisees and other 
seets at Jerusalem, who also were members of the San- 
hedrim (Luke xiv, 1 ; xviii, 18; xxiii, 13, 35; xxiv, 20; 
John iii, 1 ? vii, 20, 48 ; xii, 42 ; Acts iii, 17 ; iv, 5, 8 ; xiii, 
27 ; xiv, 5). The term is also used of Satan, the prince 
or chief of the fallen angels (Matt, ix, 34 ; xii, 24 ; Mark 
iii, 22 ; Luke xi, 15 ; John xii, 31 ; xiv, 30 ; xvi, 1 1 ; Eph. 

ii, 2). So likewise the kindred dp\i] (Luke xii, 11 ; Tit. 

iii, 1). The word orpaTiiyog, rendered “magistrate,” 
properly signifies leader of an army , commander, general. 
So of the ten Athenian commanders, with whom the 
polemarch was joined. Afterwards only one or two were 
sent abroad with the army, as circumstances required, 
and the others had charge of military affairs at home, i. 
q. icar-minister. In other Greek cities the orpa-gyoQ 
was the chief magistrate, prefect. The term is also 
used of Roman officers, the consul and the preetor. In 
Roman colonies and municipal towns, the chief magis- 
trates were usually two in number, called duumviri; oc» 


MAGISTRATE 


G50 


MAGISTRATE 


casionally four or six, quatuorviri , seviri, who also were | 
sometimes styled preetors, the same as the Greek crpcm}- 
yot. Hence, in the New Testament, this term is used | 
for the Roman duumviri, pnetors, magistrates of Philip- j 
pi, which was a Homan colony (Acts xvi, 20, 22,35,36, 1 
38). The word i^ovatat is also used collectively for 
those invested with power, as in English we might say 
“ the powers ” for rulers , magistrates (Luke xii, 11 ; Rom. 
xiii, 2,3; Tit, iii, 1). The ‘‘higher powers” (liom.xiii, 1) 
are “ the ruling authorities” — the magistrates in office — 
all invested with civil power, from the emperor or king, 
as supreme, to the lowest civil officer — all who are em- 
ployed in making and executing the. law?. The Roman 
emperor and some of the subordinate magistrates wore 
a small sword or dagger, the symbol of punishment, as a 
part of their official costume. See Governor. 

In the earliest periods of Jewish history the magis- 
trates were the hereditary chieftains, but afterwards the 
judicial office became elective. In the time of Moses, 
the larger collections of families were fifty-nine in num- 
ber, and the heads of these families, together with the 
twelve princes of the tribes, composed a coimcil of sev- 
enty-one members; but the subdivisions afterwards were 1 
more numerous, and the number of heads of families 
greater, for we find no loss than two hundred and fifty | 
chiefs of this rank included in the rebellion of Korah, 
Dathan, and Abirara. The shoterim', or gen- 

ealogists, are mentioned in connection with the elders — 
that is, the princes of tribes and heads of families. See , 
Officer. They kept the genealogical tables. Under | 
Joshua, they communicated the orders of the general to 
the soldiers; and in the time of the Kings, the chief 
shoter had a certain control over the army, although he 
was not a military commander. The shoterim , who 
were superintended by this chief, were distributed into 
every city, and performed the duties of their office for 
it and the surrounding district. As they kept the gen- 
ealogical tables, they had an accurate list of the people, 
and were acquainted with the age. ability, and domestic 
circumstances of each individual; but they are not to 
be confounded with another officer who kept the muster- 
rolls, and whose name had a similar etymology. Moses 
added a new class of magistrates for the administration 
of justice, which, he informs us, was not of divine ap- 
pointment. but was suggested by his father-in-law Je- 
thro. lie divided the people into tens, fifties, hundreds, 
and thousands, and placed wise and prudent judges over 
each of these divisions. They were selected, for the 
most part, from the heads of families, genealogists, or 
other people of rank (Kxod. xviii, 13, 26). Difficult 
questions were brought before Moses himself, and, after 
his death, before the chief magistrate of the nation. 
These judges Moses included among the rulers, and 
Joshua summoned them to the general assemblies ; and 
they are mentioned, in one instance, before the genealo- 
gists (Dent., xxxi, 28 ; Josh, viii, 33). When the magis- 
trates of all the cities belonging to any one tribe were 
collected, they formed the supreme court, or legislative 
assembly of the tribe ; and when the magistrates of all 
the tribes were convened together, they formed the gen- 
eral council of the nation, and could legislate conjointly 
for all the tribes they represented. After the settlement 
in Canaan, although the chief magistrate of the Jewish 
state was. in reality, Jehovah, the invisible King, a su- 
preme ruler for the whole community could be legally 
chosen when the necessities of the state required it, who 
was denominated a judge, or governor. Sec Judge. 
In the book of Deuteronomy (xvii, 14, 15) we find Je- 
hovah telling the Hebrews that if, when they arrived in 
the Promised Land, thov wished to have a king like the 
other nations round about them, they were to receive 
one whom he would appoint, and not a stranger. Jose- 
phus and others have correctly understood this passage 
not to mean that God commanded the Israelites to de- 
sire a king when they were settled in Canaan, hut that, 
if they would have a king, he was to be appointed by 
God, and that he. should invariably be a Hebrew, and 


not a Gentile. Sec King. Judges, genealogists, the 
heads of families or clans, and those who, from the rela- 
tion they sustained to the common class of people, may 
be called the princes of the tribes, retained their author- 
ity after as well as before the introduction of a monarch- 
ical form of government, and acted the part of a legis- 
lative assembly to the respective cities in or near which 
they resided (1 Kings xii, 1-24 ; 1 Chron. xxiii, 4 ; xxvi, 
29). The headship of the tribes and families was hered- 
itary, though probably subject to the royal approbation; 
but the judges and genealogists were appointed by the 
king. Resides these, we read of certain great officers, as 
‘•the royal counsellors” (l Kings xii, 6-12; 1 Cliron. 
xxvii, 32 ; Isa. iii, 3), among whom the prophets were 
included by pious kings (2 Sam. vii, 2; 1 Kings xxii, 7, 
8; 2 Kings xix, 2-20); while others of a different char- 
acter imitated the example of heathen princes, and 
called in to their aid soothsayers and false prophets (1 
Kings xviii, 22 ; xxii, 6 ; Dan. i, 20). The secretary or 
“scribe” (2 Sam. viii, 16; xx, 24; 1 Kings iv, 3) com- 
mitted to writing not only the edicts and sayings of the 
king, but everything of a public nature that related to 
the kingdom ; and it was likewise his business to present 
to the king in writing an account of the state of affairs. 
The liigli-pricst may be also reckoned among those who 
had access to the king in the character of counsellors (2 
Sam. viii, 17; 1 Chron. xviii, 16). See Counsellor. 
During the Captivity and after that period the Hebrews 
continued among them that class of officers denominated 
heads of families, and perhaps likewise the princes of 
the tribes, who, under the direction of the royal gov- 
ernors, ruled their respective tribes (Ezra i, 5; iv, 3, 
5; Neh. ii, 16; vi, 17, 18; Ezck. xiv, 1); but it is most 
probable that Jehoiacliin, and afterwards Shealtiel and 
Zerubbabcl, held the first rank among them, or, in other 
words, were their princes. After their return to their 
native country the Hebrews obeyed their T\T\Z,pachah', 
or president. Such were Zerubbabcl, Ezra, and Nclie- 
miah, who were invested with ample powers for the pur- 
poses of government (Ezra vii, 25). When, from any 
cause, there was no person authorized by the civil gov- 
1 eminent to act as president, the high-priest commonly 
undertook the government of the state. This state of 
things continued while the Jews were under the Per- 
sians and Greeks, until the time of Antioehus Epiphanes, 
in whose reign they appealed to arms, shook off the 
yoke of foreign subjugation, and, having obtained their 
freedom, made their high-priests princes, and at lengtli 
kings. The Jews, likewise, who were scattered abroad, 
and had taken up their residence in countries at a dis- 
tance from Palestine, had rulers of their own. The per- 
I son who sustained the highest office, among those who 
dwelt in Egypt was denominated alabarch (q. v.) ; the 
magistrate at the head of the Syrian Jews was denomi- 
nated archon. See Ruler. While the Jews were un- 
der the Roman government they enjoyed the privilege 
of referring litigated questions to referees, whose deci- 
sions in reference to them the Roman pra?tor was hound 
to see put in execution. 

After the subjugation of the Jews by the Romans, 
certain provinces of Jiukea were governed by that class 
of magistrates denominated tetrarchs, an office said to 
have originated among the Gauls; and this appellation, 
although originally applied to the chief magistrate of 
the fourth part of a tribe, subject to the authority of the 
king, was afterwards extended in its application, and ap- 
plied to any governors, subject to some king or emperor, 
without reference to the fact whether they ruled or not 
precisely the fourth part of a tribe of people. See 
I Tetrarcii. Herod Antipas. accordingly, and Philip, al- 
though they did not rule so much as a fourth part of 
Jinljva, were denominated tetrarchs (Matt. xiv. 1 : Luke 
ix. 7 ; Acts xiii, 1). Although this class of rulers were 
dependent upon Crcsar. that is, the Roman emperor, they 
nevertheless governed the people who were committed 
to their immediate jurisdiction as much according to 
their own choice and discretion as if they had not been 


MAGISTRATES 


051 


MAGNANIMITY 


thus dependent. They were inferior, however, in point 
of rank, to the etlmarchs, who, although they did not 
publicly assume the name of king, were addressed with 
that title by their subjects, as was the case with respect 
to Archelaus (Matt, ii, 22). A class of magistrates well 
known among the Homans, termed procurators , are de- 
nominated in the New Testament yyepovec, but it ap- 
pears that they are called by Josephus i7rirj007roL Ju- 
dina, after ‘the termination of the ethnarchate of Arche- 
laus, was governed by rulers of this description, and like- 
wise during the period which immediately succeeded the 
reign of Ilerod Agrippa. Augustus made a new parti- 
tion of the provinces of the Homan empire into provincial 
senatorial, which were left under the nominal care of the 
senate, and provincial imperatoria vel Casarum, which 
were under the direct control of the emperor. To their 
provinces the senate sent officers for one year, called 
proconsuls, with only a civil power, and neither military 
command nor authority over the taxes: those sent to 
command in the imperial provinces were called legati 
Caesar is pro consule, etc., and had much greater powers. 
In each of these provinces, of both kinds, there was, be- 
sides the president, an officer called jyj'ocui'ator Cccsciris, 
who had the charge of the revenue, and who sometimes 
discharged the office of a governor or president, especial- 
ly in a small province, or in a portion of a large one 
where the president could not reside ; as did Pilate, who 
was procurator of Judina, which was annexed to the 
provincici imperatoria of Syria; hence he had the pow- 
er of punishing capitally, which the procurators did not 
usually possess ; so also Felix, Festus, and the other pro- 
curators of Judaea. Some of the procurators were de- 
pendent on the nearest proconsul or president ; for in- 
stance, those of Judaea were dependent on the proconsul, 
governor, or president of Syria. They enjoyed, how- 
ever, great authority, and possessed the power of life and 
death. The only privilege, in respect to the officers of 
government, that w r as granted by the procurators of Ju- 
dina to the nation was the appointment from among 
them of persons to manage and collect the taxes. In 
all other things they administered the government them- 
selves, except that they frequently had recourse to the 
counsel of other persons (Acts xxiii, 24-35; xxv, 23). 
See Province. 

The military force that was granted to the procura- 
tors of Judaea consisted of six cohorts, of which five 
were stationed at Caesardh, where the procurator usually 
resided, and one at Jerusalem, in the tower of Antonia, 
which was so situated as to command the Temple (Acts 
x, 1 ; xxi, 32). It was the duty of the military cohorts 
to execute the procurator’s commands and to repress se- 
ditions (Matt, viii, 5; xxvii, 27 ; Mark xv, 16; John xix, 
23). On the return of the great festivals, when there 
were vast crowds of people at Jerusalem, the procura- 
tors themselves went from Ciesarea to that city in order 
to be at hand to suppress any commotions which might 
arise (Matt, xxvii, 2-65 ; John xviii, 29 ; xix, 38). See 
Government. 

Magistrates. In the early Church, magistrates, 
whatever the grade of their oflice, were under the spirit- 
ual jurisdiction of the clergy; and if they were impious 
or profane, they were subject to censure and excommu- 
nication. The Council of Arles, called by Constantine, 
ratified this ecclesiastical power. Synesius, bishop of 
Ptolemais, excommunicated Andronicus, the governor, 
lor his blasphemies and cruelties, and with him all his 
accomplices. Athanasius pronounced a similar sentence 
on the governor of Libya. Ambrose denied the com- 
munion to the emperor Theodosius. Hut such a spirit- 
ual sentence did not deprive the magistrate of his lawful 
civil authority. The Church rendered allegiance to the 
rightful governor, whether heathen or heretic; but she 
had a perfect right to exclude from her fellowship any 
magistrate of erroneous creed or depraved life. She did 
not attempt to interfere with a magistrate’s authority 
while she refused him ecclesiastical fellowship. The 
Homan Catholic Church has sought, in this practice of 


the early Church, an authority for her interference in 
temporal affairs. See Keys, Power of the; Tem- 
poral Power of the Pope. In Protestant Churches 
that are united with the state, these Homisli views are 
manifest, though in a somewhat different form. The 
state controlling the Church, the magistrate is clothed 
with authority even in matters really pertaining to 
the domain of the ecclesiastic. Thus in Scotland the 
Westminster Confession gives to the magistrate extraor- 
dinary power in or about sacred things. The earlier 
Scottish Heformers went still further, as in the first Con- 
fession. The Boohs of Discipline are no less explicit. 
The First Book says, “ We dare not prescribe unto you 
what penalties shall be required of such ; but this we 
feare not to affirme, that the one and the other deserve 
death ; for if he who doth falsifie the seale, subscription, 
or coine of a king, is judged worthy of death, what shall 
we think of him who plainly doth falsifie the scales of 
Christ Jesus, Prince of the kings of the earth ? If Darius 
pronounced that a balk should be taken from the house 
of that man, and he himselfe hanged upon it, that durst 
attempt to hinder the re-edifying of the materiall tem- 
ple, what shall we say of those that contemptuously 
blaspheme God, and manifestly hinder the temple of 
God, which is the soules and bodies of the elect, to be 
purged by the true preaching of Christ Jesus from the 
superstition and damnable idolatry in which they have 
bene long plunged and holden captive? If ye, as God 
forbid, declare your selves carelesse over the true relig- 
ion, God will not suffer your negligence unpunished; and 
therefore more earnestly we require that strait lawes 
may be made against the stubborne contemners of Christ 
Jesus, and against such as dare presume to minister his 
sacraments not orderly called to that office, least while 
that there be none found to gainstand impiety, the wrath 
of God be kindled against the whole.” Nay, blasphemy 
was to be tried by the civil judge, but false weights and 
measures by the kirk. The Scottish Parliament, in 1560, 
enacted not only that the power and jurisdiction of the 
pope should cease in Scotland, but that all who either 
assisted or were present at mass should be punished, for 
the first offence, by confiscation of goods ; for the second, 
by banishment ; for the third, by death. It was be- 
lieved that the magistrate had the same power in regard 
to the first table as to the second, a theory which, re- 
storing the Jewish theocracy, would justify persecution, 
and put an end to toleration. For example, the Scottish 
Parliament in 1579 passed an act ordaining every house- 
holder worth three hundred merks of yearly rent, and 
every burgess or yeoman worth £500 stock, to have a 
Bible and psalm-book in their houses, under a penalty 
of £10.— Eadic, Eccles. Diet. s. v. 

Magistris, Simone de, a noted Italian Orientalist, 
was born at Serra di Scopamene (Corse), Feb. 28, 1728; 
went to Home while yet a youth, entered the congrega- 
tion of the Oratory of St. Philippe of Neri, and soon made 
a name for himself by his unusual proficiency in the 
ancient languages. Popes Clement XIV and Pius AT 
employed him in the research of ecclesiastical antiqui- 
ties; lie was made bishop of Cyrene, in partibus, and 
secretary of the congregation for the correction of works 
by the Oriental Church. In this last position his vast 
erudition displayed itself to the advantage of the Church 
of Home, lie died Oct. 6, 1802. lie wrote Daniel se- 
cundum Septuaginta ex tetraplis Origenis , nunc primum 
editus (Greek and Latin, Home, 1772, fol.). This text 
of Daniel, after the Sept., had been given up for lost. 
Magistris, finding it in the library of the prince of Cliigi, 
added to it the Greek interpretation of Theodotius; also 
a part of the book of Esther in Chaldee, and five disser- 
tations: — Acta Marty rum ad Ostia Tiberina, ex codice 
regia » bibliotheca- Taurhunsis (Home, 1795, fob): — S. 
Dyonisii Alexandrini episcopi, cognomen to Magni. Opera 
qua super sunt (Home, 1776. fob): — 67/ Aid di cinque 
Martiri mile Corea . coll origine della jide in quel regno 
(Rome, 1801, 8vo). — 1 1 offer, Xouv. Biog. Gen . xxxii, 706. 

Magnanimity, greatness of soul, a disposition of 


MAGNENTIUS 


G52 


MAGNUS 


mind exerted in contemning dangers and difficulties, in 
scorning temptations, and despising earthly pomp and 
splendor. — Cicero, De Offic. lect. i, ch. xx ; Grove, Moral 
Philosophy , ii, '268; Steele, Christian Hero; Watts, Self- 
murder; Buck, Theological Dictionary , s. v. See Couu- 
age; Fortitude. 

Magnentius, Flavius Magnus, a Iiom an general, 
for a short period emperor of the West, was born in Gaul 
about A.D. 300. Partly by courage and partly by flat- 
tery, he gained the confidence of the emperor Constans, 
and was intrusted with the command of t he imperial 
guards, the famous Jovian and Herculean battalions, 
fie afterwards, together with Marcellinus, chancellor of 
the imperial exchequer, conspired against Constans and 
caused himself to be elected emperor by the soldiers in 
350. Ifc was recognised as such by Italy, Spain, Britta- 
ny, and Africa, but the Illyrian legions elected Yetranio, 
who was soon joined bv Constantins, brother of the late 
emperor. The war between Magnentius and Constan- 
tins ended in the defeat of the former at Mursa, Sept. 
28, 352. As Magnentius saw that his soldiers would de- 
liver him up to his enemies, he committed suicide at 
Lyons about the middle of August, 353. Zosimus, ii, 
54, represents him as overbearing in his prosperity, and 
weak and irresolute in adversity. He is shown to have 
been a Christian by the cross being stamped on his 
coins. The only part he took in ecclesiastical affairs 
was to prevent, fur two years, Constantins from favoring 
Arianism. As for himself, he looked upon religion from 
a political stand-point; in order to conciliate the West, 
he gave mere freedom to the heathen worship. He 
had relied on Athanasius to win over Egypt to his side, 
but in this he was mistaken, as Athanasius upheld the 
rights of the legitimate successor of Constans. — Herzog, 
Real-Encykl. viii, 68G ; Smith, Diet, of Greek and Roman 
Biog. and Mythol. ii, 900. 

Magni, John, a Swedish prelate, was born at Wex- 
ioe in 1583; travelled extensively on the Continent, es- 
pecially in Germany, and on his return home became 
professor of history at his alma mater, the University 
of Upsala. Queen Christina, who succeeded her noble 
husband, Gustavus Adolphus, the great defender of the 
Protestant faith, in the government of Sweden (1632), 
frequently availed herself of the counsels of John Magni, 
and created him bishop of Skara. lie died in 1651, 
three years previous to Christina’s abdication of the 
throne. See Sweden. Magni took a great interest in 
the educational affairs of Sweden, and did much to af- 
ford his countrymen far superior advantages than they 
had enjoyed previous to his day. His writings are of a 
secular nature. See Iloefcr, X our. Biog. Generale, xxxii, 
718; Biographic Vniverselle. s. v. 

Magni, Valerian, a celebrated Italian ecclesiastic, 
was born in Milan, Italy, in 1586; was appointed by 
pope Urban VIII apostolical missionary to the Northern 
kingdoms; influenced the pope to imprison the Jesuit- 
esses in 1631; was himself imprisoned in Vienna some 
time afterwards, through the influence of the Jesuits, 
for having said that the pope’s primacy and infallibility 
were founded on tradition and not on Scripture, but re- 
gained Ins liberty through the favor of the emperor 
Ferdinand 111, after having written warmly against the 
Jesuits. lie died at Saltzburg in 1661. Magni was 
celebrated as a controversial writer against the Protes- 
tants; also for his philosophical works in favor of lies 
Cartes and against Aristotle. One of his apologetical 
letters may be found in the collection called Tuba Mag- 
na , vol. ii. — Hook, Eccles. Biog. vii, 209. 

Magnificat, a song in praise of the Virgin used in 
the evening service of the Koman Catholic, the Luther- 
an, and Anglican churches. Its name Magnificat it ob- 
tained from its first words iirthe Vulgate,,** My soul doth 
magnify the Lord,’" etc. It was introduced into the public 
worship of the Church about the year 506. In the 6th 
century it was chanted in the French churches. In the 
English Church it is to be said or sung after the firsr, 


lesson, at every prayer, unless the 9Sth Psalm, called 
“ Cantaie Domino is sung. — Farrar, Ecclts. Diet. s. v. ; 
Eadie, Eccles. Cyclop, s. v. 

Magnus. The Boman Catholic Church commem- 
orates several saints of this name. 

1. St. Magnus, Magnoald , Maginald , Mangold, of 
whom we possess two biographical notices, one by Perth, 
ii, according to which he was an Allcman by .birth, and 
became the pupil, companion, and successor of St. Gall in 
the convent of that name. The other, to be found in 
the Bollandists, Sept, iii, 700 sq., states that he was a 
native of Ireland, built the convent ofFiissen after the 
destruction of St. Gall, converted the inhabitants of 
Augsburg and surrounding parts, and finally died about 
655. He is commemorated Sept. 6. See Ivoch-Stcm- 
feldjDe?* h. Mangold in Obersclucaben (Passau, 1825) ; F. 
B. Tafrathshofer, Der h. Magnus (Ivempten, 1842) ; F. \V. 
llcttberg, Kirchengcsch. Deutschlands , ii, 148 sq.; Fried- 
rich, Kirchengesch. Deutschlands (Bamb. 1868), ii (see 
Index) ; J. H. Kurtz, Ilandbuch d. ally. K. Gesch. ii, 1, p. 
115 sq. 

2. St. Magnus, the apostle of the Orkneys. The in- 
habitants of these islands possessed a large goblet which 
he is said to have drained: it was offered at once to 
every new bishop as he arrived, and it was considered a 
happy omen if he emptied it. 

3. St. Magnus, of Altinum, in Venicia, became bish- 
op of Odessa about 638; transmitted his episcopal charge 
to Ileraclca, and died about 660. He is commemorated 
Oct. 6. 

4. St. Magnus flourished in the early half of the 6tli 

century, as bishop of Milan (522-529). He is commem- 
orated Nov. 5. — Herzog, Real-Eneyklop. viii, 687 ; Pierer, 
Unir. Lex. x, 718, (J. N. P.) 

Magnus, John or Jonas, a noted Swedish prel- 
ate, was born at Linkoping March 19, 1488, of noble 
parentage. When only eighteen years old he obtained 
a canonicate at his native place ; later he continued his 
theological studies at Louvain, afterwards in several uni- 
versities of Germany and Italy, and resided several 
years at Borne, where he gained the favor of the papal 
court. In 1520 Ferusa honored him with the doctorate 
of theology. A short time after, probably in 1523 (the 
year of Vasa’s ascension to the throne), he was dis- 
patched to his native country by pope Adrian VI to 
stem the inroads of the reformed doctrines in that north- 
ern country. Gustavus Vasa received Magnus kindly, 
and elevated him to the archbishopric of Upsal; but 
later, when Gustavus Vasa himself inclined towards 
Protestantism, Magnus made himself unpopular, and 
was finally obliged to quit the country, after Lutheran- 
ism and religious liberty had been established in Sweden 
(1527). Several later attempts to stem the progress of 
the reformed doctrines proved unsuccessful, and he re- 
turned disheartened to Borne in 1541. He died at Borne 
March 22, 1544. Oue of his works deserves our notice, 
I/istoria Mctropolitana seu episcoponnn et amhiepiseopo- 
rum Upsaliensium (Borne. 1557, 1560, fol.). See Niceron, 
Me mo ires, xxxv, s. v. ; Chauffcpie, Diction. Hist. s. v. ; 
Iloefer, Xouv. Biog. Generale, xxxii, 732. 

Magnus, Olaus, a Swedish prelate, brother of the 
preceding, was born at Linkoping, near the close of the 
15th century ; was provost of the (ffiurch at Strcgncs 
when Gustavus I sent him to Borne to secure the papal 
confirmation to the appointment of his brother John to 
the archicpiscopal see of Upsal. It is not exactly known 
when Olaus returned to Sweden, but it is certain that 
after 1527 he was constantly with his brother as his sec- 
retary. After John’s decease Olaus was appointed by 
the pope to succeed to the archbishopric of Upsal, but 
the BcformatioH had in the meanwhile changed the ec- 
clesiastical relations in Sweden, and he never tilled the 
archicpiscopal chair. He attended the Council of Trent 
by order of pope Paul III. Hence the mistake on the 
part of some writers of making John Magnus a member 
of the Tridentine gathering, which took place two years 


MAGOG 


C53 


MAHA-BHARATA 


after his decease (1544). Olaus returned to Rome from 
Trent, and died there in 15(58. llis works, which are of 
minor interest, are given in Hoefer, Xouv. Biog. Gene- 
rate , xxxii, 734. 

Ma'gOg (Heb.J lagog', region of Gog [see be- 

low]; Sept. Maywy, Vulg. Magog), the second son of 
Japhet (Gen. x, 2 ; 1 Chron. i, 5). B.C. post 2514. “Va- 
rious etymologies of the name have been suggested. 
Knobel \V0lkert. p. 63) proposes the Sanscrit mah or 
maha, ‘great,’ and a Persian word signifying £ mountain,’ 
in which case the reference would be to the Caucasian 
range. The terms ghogh and moghef are still applied to 
some of the heights of that range. This etymology is 
supported by Von Bohlen ( Introd . to Gen . ii, 211). On 
the other hand,Hitzig (Comm, in Ez .) connects the first 
syllable with the Coptic ma, 1 place,’ or the Sanscrit maha , 

‘ land,’ and the second with a Persian root, koka, ‘ the 
moon,’ as though the term had reference to moon-wor- 
shippers” (Smith). In Ezekiel (xxxviii, 2 ; xxxix, 6) it 
occurs as the name of a nation, and, from the associated 
names in all the passages where it occurs, it is supposed 
to represent certain Scythian or Tartar tribes descended 
from the son of Japhet. See Ethnology. Thus, in 
Genesis, it is coupled with Gomer (the Cimmerians) and 
Madai (the Medes), among the Japhetites, while Ezekiel 
joins it with Mcshech and Jubal (5TSO “chief 

prince,” should be prince of Posh), as the name of a 
great and powerful people, dwelling in the extreme re- 
cesses of the north, who arc to invade the Holy Land at 
a future time. Their king is there called Gog. The 
people of Magog further appear as having a force of cav- 
alry (xxxviii, 15), and as armed with the bow (xxxix, 
3). The oldest versions give the word unchanged ; but 
Josephus (.1 nt. i, 6,3) interprets it by Scythians (Efcuaat), 
and so Jerome; but Suidas renders it Persians. “Mi- 
chaelis (Suppl. ad Lex. Ileh. 1471), Rosenmuller (Scho- 
lia in Gen. x, 2), and Gescnius ( Thesaurus , s. v.) adopt the 
view that the Scythians generally are intended. Bochart 
(Phaleg, iii, 19) suggests that the name Gog appears in 
Vioyapijinj, the name of a district near to that through 
which the Araxes flows (Strabo, p. 528); and this falls 
in with the supposition that the Magogites were Scyth- 
ians, for the traditions of the latter represent their na- 
tion as coming originally from the vicinity of the Arax- 
es (Diod. Sic. ii, 43). Since Bochart’s time the general 
consent of scholars has been in favor of regarding the 
eastern Scythians as the Magog of Genesis; but Kiepert 
‘associates the name with J laeija, or Muka. and applies 
it to Scythian nomad tribes which forced themselves in 
between the Arian or Arianized Medes, Kurds, and Ar- 
menians’ (Keil and Delitzsch, Bihl. Comment, on the 0. T. 
[Clark], i, 163); while Bunsen places Magog in Arme- 
nia; though in the map accompanying his Bihclicerk it 
is placed to the north of the Euxine. Knobel also 
places Magog there, and connects the Scythian tribes 
thus named with those which spread into Europe, and 
were allied to the Sarmatians, who gave their name ul- 
timately to the whole north-east of Europe, and are the 
ancestors of the Slavic nations now existing” (Kitto). 
It is certain that the term Scythian was a collective title 
of the remote savage tribes of the north in a similar 
manner to the use of Magog (Cellarii Xotit. ii. 753 sq.). 
See Scythian. There appears to have been from the 
earliest times a legend that the enemies of religion and 
civilization lived in that quarter (Ilaxthanseiis Tribes 
of the Caucasus , p. 55). From the accounts found among 
the Arabians, Persians, and Syrians, some of which are 
embellished with various fables, we learn that they com- 
prehended under the designation Yajuj and Majuj all 
the less known barbarous people of the north-east and 
north-west of Asia. (See the Koran, xviii, 94-99 ; xxi, 
96; Assemani, Bill. Orient. HI. ii. 16, 17. 20; I ly lander, 
Spec. op. cosmog. pt. 20-22 [Lond. 1803] ; Klaproth, A siat. 
Magaz. i, 138 sq, ; Herbelot, Billiot h. Orient, ii, 281 sq. ; 
Flilgel, in the Halle Encycl. II, xiv, 78 sq.) Yet, though 
the Gog and Magog of the Hebrews may have had an 


equally vague acceptation, it nevertheless seems to have 
pointed more precisely to the northern tribes of the Cau- 
casus , between the Euxine and the Caspian Seas. The 
people of that region, it seems, were a terror to middle 
Asia; and they have often been named the Scythians 
of the East. Jerome says of Magog that it means 
“ Scythian nations, fierce and innumerable, who live be- 
yond the Caucasus and the lake Mieotis, and near the 
Caspian Sea, and spread out even onward to India.” The 
people dwelling among the Caucasian Mountains have 
preserved their original character down to the present 
hour, as is evident from their recent long-continued con- 
tests with the Russians. The famous Caucasian wall, 
probably erected by some of the successors of Alexander 
the Great, as a defence against the incursions of the 
northern barbarians, and which extended from Derbend, 
on the western shore of the Caspian, to near the Euxine 
or Black Sea, is still called “Me wall of Gog and Magog." 
(See Reinegg, Beschr. d. Caucasus , ii, 79.) The traveller 
Gmelin visited this wall in 1770, in the course of the 
scientific mission upon which he was sent by the Rus- 
sian government. From Derbend, on the Caspian Sea, 
the head-quarters of the Russian military guard in that 
country, Gmelin directed his course westward, towards 
the Euxine, and he soon met with some ruins of the 
ancient wall, which he describes as in some places thirty 
feet high, and for large distances nearly entire, and in 
other places partially or wholly fallen down. There are 
watch-towers along the wall at signal distances ; two of 
these he ascended, and from their tops he coidd descry 
the snowy ridges of Caucasus. This wall seems to have 
been built in almost a straight line from the Caspian to 
the Euxine, and the watch-towers and fortresses were 
probably erected as a means of keeping up communica- 
tion between Derbend, the garrison at the eastern ex- 
tremity, and the fastnesses in the mountains. (Sec Bayer, 
De Mu ro Caucasio, in Acta Acad. Scientiar. Petropol. i, 
425 ; Ker Porter, Travels , ii, 520; Ritter, Erdk. ii, 834 sq.) 
In Rev. xx, 7, 9, the terms Gog and Magog are evidently 
used tropically, as names of the enemies of Christianity, 
who will endeavor to extirpate it from the earth, but 
will thereby bring upon themselves signal destruction. 
But that Ezekiel, in his prophecy, meant to be under- 
stood as predicting the invasion of Palestine by Gog and 
Magog in the literal sense, is hardly credible. He uses 
these names to designate distant and savage nations; 
and in the same way John employs them. Just in the 
same manner we now employ the word barbarians. That 
both writers should employ these two names in a trop- 
ical way is no more strange than that we should employ 
| the -words Scythian, Tartar, Indian, etc., in the same 
! manner. Nothing could be more natural than for Eze- 
kiel, who lived in Mesopotamia, to speak of Gog and 
Magog, since they w-ere the formidable enemies of all 
that region ; and that John, writing on the same subject, 
should retain the same names, w-as equally natural. (See 
Stuart’s Comment, on theApoc. ad loc.) See Gog. 

Ma'gor-mis'sabib (Hebrew', Magor' mis-sabib', 
2^3*2 ^"11, terror from roundabout ; Sept. MsroiKog 
kvk\o$sv, Vulg. Paver undique), an epithet applied at 
the divine instance by Jeremiah to the persecuting 
Pashur (q. v.), emblematical of his signal fate, as ex- 
plained in the context (Jer. xx, 3). “It is remarkable 
that the same phrase occurs in several other passages of 
Jeremiah (vi,25; xx, 10; xlvi,5; xlix, 29; Lam. ii, 22), 
and is only found besides in Fsa. xxxi, 13” (Smith). 

Mag'piash (Heb. Mugpiash', perhaps for 

irriSS*?, moth-killer ; Sept. M aya<bi)Q v. r. Meyafijg, 
Vulg. Megphlas), one of the chief Israelites -who joined 
in the sacred covenant instituted on the return from 
Babylon (Neh. x, 20). B.C. cir. 410. Some suppose the 
name, lunvever, to be the same as M aguish (q. v.) of 
Ezra ii, 30. 

Magyars. See Hungary. 

Maha-bharata (from the Sans, mahat — changed 


MAHA-DEVA 


G54 


MAHALATH 


to tnahd — great, and Bharat a, a famous Hindu prince) 
is the name of a great epic poem of ancient India. As 
its main story relates to t lie contest between two rival 
families, both descendants of a king, Bharata, the title 
probably implies “ the great history of the descendants 
of liharata.” In its present shape the poem consists of 
upwards of 100,000 verses, each containing 32 syllables, 
and is divided into 18 parvans or books. That this huge 
composition was not the work of one single individual, 
but a production of successive ages, elearly appears from 
the multifariousness of its contents, from the difference 
of style which characterizes its various parts, and even 
from the contradictions whieh disturb its harmony. 
Hindu tradition ascribes it to Vydsa; but as Yyasa 
means “ the distributer or arranger,” and as the same 
individual is also the reputed compiler of the Yedas, 
Furanas, and several other works, it is obvious that no 
historical value can be assigned to this generic name. 

The contents of the poem may be distinguished into 
the leading story and the episodical matter connected 
with it. The former is probably founded on real events 
in the oldest history of India, though in the epic narra- 
tive it will be difficult to disentangle the reality from 
the fiction. The story (which covers about one fourth 
of the whole poem) comprises the contest of the cele- 
brated families called the Kauravas and Pandavas, end- 
ing in the victory of the latter, and in the establishment 
of their rule over the northern part of India. Of course 
no unimportant part is assigned in the contest to the 
deities, and, consequently. Hindu mythology is pretty 
extensively interwoven with these events of semi-his- 
torical Hindu antiquity. This episodical matter, as it 
were, incidentally linked with the main story, may be 
distributed under three principal heads. One category ! 
of such episodes comprises narratives relating to the an- 
cient or mythical history of India, as, for instance, the 
episodes of Nala and Sakuntala ; a second is more strict- 
ly mythological, comprising cosmogony and theogony ; 
a third is didactic or dogmatic— it refers to law, religion, 
morals, and philosophy, as in the case of the celebrated 
Lhagavadgita. and the principal portions of the J 2th 
and loth books. By means of this episodieal matter, 
which at various periods, and often without regard to 
consistency, was superadded to the original structure of 
the work, the Mahabharata gradually became a collec- 
tion of all that was needed to be known by an educated 
Hindu; in fact, it became the encyclopaedia of India, 
notwithstanding that the Brahmanie authors themselves 
intended it mainly for the Kshattriya, or military caste, 
whose history, interests, religion, and deities it specially 
dwells upon. The text of the Mahabharata has been 
published at Calcutta (5 vols.4to, 1834-1830. Yol. v is a 
table of contents). Two other editions are in course 
of publication at Bombay. The best researches on it 
are those by Lassen, in his Zcitschriftfiir die Kunde dcs 
Moryenlandes (1837 sq.), and in his Indische A Iterthums- 
knmk. A sort of analysis of the leading story of the j 
Mahabharata (not of the episodes) has lately been given I 
by F. G. Eichhoff (Poesie Ilero'ique des Indiens , Parish 
I860), and by Professor Monier Williams ( Indian Epic 
Poetry , London, 1863). See also Sehack, Stimmen vom 
Ganyes (Berl. 1856) ; Chambers, Cyclop . s. v. 

Maha-deva (/. e. “the great god”) is one of the 
names by which the Hindu god Siva is called. In 
Buddhistic history, Mahadeva. who lived 200 years after i 
the death of the Buddha Sakvamiini, or 343, is a re- 
nowned teacher who caused a schism in the Buddhistic 
Church. Ilis adversaries accuse him of every possible 
crime; but, as he is ranked amongst the Arhats, his em- 
inence eannot be matter of doubt. The school founded 
by him is called PiiiTas, aila. .See W. Wassiljew, Ucr 
Buddhwmts , etc. (St. Petersburg, 1860). — (Chambers, Cy- 
clop. s. v. 

Mahadi or Melldi (Arab, director , sovereign, or 
pontiff) is the surname, bv way of excellence, of the 
twelfth and last imam (q. v.) of the race of Ali. This 


Mahadi, who bore the same name with the false prophet, 
being called Abuleassem Mohammed, was bom in the 
year of the Hegira 255, and, according to Persian tradi- 
tion, when nine years old, was shut up in a cave or cis- 
tern by his mother, and is there kept till he shall appear 
at the end of the world, and Jesus Christ shall destroy 
Antichrist, and make of the two laws, the Mussulman 
and Christian, but one. Some among them believe that 
this imam was twiee hidden; the first time from his 
birth to the age of 74 years, during which interval he 
secretly conversed with his disciples without being seen 
by others, because most of the imams who preceded him 
had been poisoned by the caliphs, who knew their pre- 
tensions, and feared a revolt in their favor. The second 
retreat of this imam is from the time his death was 
made known to the time which Providence has appoint- 
ed for his manifestation. The disciples of this Mahadi 
give him the title of J lotebatthen, the secret or concealed. 
There is in Chakkea, in a little province called by the 
Arabians A hvaz , a castle named Jlesn Mahadi , where all 
the waters of that country join and form a marsh, whieh 
runs into the sea. It is here, according to the Shiites, 
that Mahadi will make his appearance. .See D’Herbelot, 
Bill. Orient, s. v. ; Broughton, Bill. Hist. Sac. vol. ii, s. v. ; 
Malcolm, llist. of Persia, ii, 345, note. 

Maha-Kala is another name of the Hindu divinity 
Siva (q. v.). 

Maha-Kali. See Kali. 

Maha-kasyapa is the name of one of the most 
renowned disciples of the Buddha Sdbjamuni (q. v.). 
lie arranged metaphysically the portion of the sacred 
writings of the Buddhists called Abhidharma; and tra- 
dition ascribes to him also the origin of the Sthavira 
division of the Vaibhdshika school of Buddhistic philos- 
ophy. Many legends are connected with his life. See 
E. Buruouf, Introduction a VIHstoire du Buddhisme In - 
dien (Paris, 1844), and his posthumous work, Le Lotus de 
la Bonne Loi (Paris, 1852). — Chambers, Cyclop, s. v. 

Ma'halah (1 Chron. vii, 18 ). See Maiilaii. 

Mahal'aleel (Heb .Malmlalel', .praise of 

God ; Sept, and N. T. M«XA*qX),the name of two men. 

1. The son of the antediluvian patriarch Cainan, of 

the line of Seth, born when his father was seventy years 
old ; he became the father of Jared at seventy-five years 
of age, and lived to the age of eight hundred and nine- 
ty-five years (Gen. v, 12-17 ; 1 Chron. i, 2; Luke iii, 37, 
in which last passage the name is Anglicized “Male- 
leer). B.C. 3777-2822. “ Ewald recognises in Mahal- 

aleel the sun-god, or Apollo of the antediluvian mythol- 
ogy, and in his son Jared the god of water, the Indian 
Yanina ( Gesch . i, 357), but his assertions are perfectly 
arbitrary” (Smith). 

2. A Judaite of the family of Fhazez, father of She- 
phatiah, and ancestor of one Athaiah, who resided at 
Jerusalem after the exile (Neh. xi, 4). B.C. much ante 
536. 

Ma'halatll (Heb. J fachaloth', rblYS, a lute, oth- 
erwise the title of a song), the name of two women. See 
below. 

1. (Sept. MtrAfS', Yulg. Maheleth.') The daughter of 
Ishmael, and third wife of Esau (Gen. xxviii, 0) ; else- 
where ealled Basiiematii (Gen. xxxvi,3) ; but the Sa- 
mar. Pent, has Mahalath in both passages. See Esau. 

2. (Septuag. MoXoS’ v. r. MooX.«3, Yulg. Mahalath.) 
The daughter of Jerimoth, granddaughter of David. and 
wife of Kehoboam (2 Chron. xi, 18). B.C. 073. “She 
was thus her husband’s cousin, being the daughter of 
king 1 )avid\s son, who was probably the child of a con- 
cubine, and not one of his regular family. Josephus, 
without naming Mahalath, speaks of her as ‘a kinswom- 
an’ (pvyytvti nva , .1 nt. viii, 10, 1). No children are at- 
tributed to the marriage, nor is she again named. The 
ancient Hebrew text (AT thib) in this passage has ‘son’ 
instead of * daughter.’ The latter, however, is the cor- 
rection of the Keri. and is adopted by the Sept., Yulg., 
and Targum, as well as by the A. Y.” (Smith). 


MAHALATH MASCHIL 


655 


MAH A- YA1STS A 


Ma'halath Mas'chil occurs in the title orf Psa. 
liii, ami MA'HALATH LEAN'NOTII MAS'CHIL in 
the title of Psa. lxxxviii. For these latter names, see 
each in its alphabetical order. The term Maiialatii 
(Ileb. MachalcUh ', ri]btT3, Sept. MflfXw, Yulg. Maeletk, 
Maheleth ) is thought by Gesenius ( Thesanr . Ileb. p. 47G) 
to be for nblTO, from nbn, to be siveet, spoken of mu- 
sical sounds; hence signifying a stringed instrument, e. 
g. a lute or yuitar , accompanied by the voice. Fiirst, 
however, denies {Ileb. Lex. s. v.) that it denotes an in- 
strument at all, and maintains that it was the title of an 
old air to which the psalms in question were to be sung. 
Ludolph (p.272) compares the equivalent iEthiopie, sig- 
nifying a song or hymn. The use of Leann’oth in the 
same connection would perhaps favor the reference to 
some kind of instrument ; but the versions render no as- 
sistance as to the meaning of either word, and most in- 
terpreters resort either to vague conjecture or mystical 
allusions. The use of the particle bv, “upon,” before 
“ Mahalath,” in each ease, seems to indicate some kind 
of instrument. See Psalms. 

Ma'hali (Exod. vi, 19). See Maiilt. 

Maha-maya is the name of the mother of Buddha. 
See Gautama. 

Mahana'im (Hebrew Machana'yim, D?31T2, two 
camps, as often, and explained in Gen.xxxii,2 as mean- 
ing the heavenly army of God; where the Sept, has 
n«pfju/3o\at,Vulg. Mahanaim, ul est Castra ; elsewhere 
’Maavdifi or Manrafy, once M avaep, sometimes 7rn- 
pepj3o\at ; Yulg. Manaim, but usually castra ), a place 
beyond the Jordan, north of the river Jabbok, which de- 
rived its name from Jacob’s having been there met by 
the angels (Josephus, Qtov arparenTidov, Ant. i, 20, 1) 
on his return from Padan-aram (Gen. xxxii, 2). See 
Jacob. The name was eventually extended to the town 
which then existed, or which afterwards arose in the 
neighborhood. This town was on the confines of the 
tribes of Gad and Manasseh, as well as on the southern 
boundary of Bashan (Josh. xiii,2G,30), and was a city 
of the Levites (Josh. xxi,38; 1 Chron. vi, 80). It was 
in this city that Ishbosheth, the son of Saul, reigned (2 
Sam. ii, 8, 12) during David’s reign at Hebron, and here 
he was assassinated (ch. iv). The choice of this place 
was probably because he found the influence of David’s 
name less strong on the east than on the west of the 
Jordau; at least, it seems to show that Mahanaim was 
then an important and strong place (comp. 2 Sam. ii, 29 ; 
xix, 32). lienee, many years after, David himself re- 
paired to Mahanaim, where he was entertained by Bar- 
zillai, the aged sheik of that district, when he sought 
refuge beyond the Jordan from his son Absalom (2 Sam. 
xvii, 24, 27 ; 1 Kings ii, 8). In this vicinity also appears 
to have been fought the decisive battle in the wood of 
Ephraim, between the royal troops and the rebels (2 
Sam. xviii). See David. We only read of Mahanaim 
again as the station of one of the twelve officers who 
had charge, in monthly rotation, of raising the provis- 
ions for the royal establishment under Solomon (1 Kings 
iv, 14). Some find an allusion to the place in Cant, 
vi, 13 (“ companies of two armies,” lit. dance of Ma- 
hanaim), but this is doubtful. “ On the monument of 
Sheshonk (Shishak) at Karnak, in the 22d cartoueh — 
one of those which are believed to contain the names of 
Israelitish cities conquered by that king — a name ap- 
pears which is read as M a -ha-n~in a , that is, Mahanaim. 
The adjoining cartouches contain names which are read 
as Beth she an, Shunem, Megiddo, Beth-horon, Gibeon, 
and other Israelitish names (Brugsch, Geoyr. der nach- 
bar lander xEyyptens, p. 61). If this interpretation may 
be relied on, it shows that the invasion of Shishak was 
more extensive than we should gather from the records 
of the Bible (2 Chron. xii), which are occupied mainly 
with occurrences at the metropolis. Possibly the army 
entered by the plains of Philistia and Sharon, ravaged 
Esdraelon and some towns like Mahanaim just beyond 


Jordan, and then returned, either by the same route ot 
by the Jordan valley, to Jerusalem, attacking it last. 
This would account for Behoboam’s non-resistance, and 
also for the fact, of which special mention is made, that 
many of the chief men of the country had taken refuge 
in the city. It should, however, be remarked that the 
names occur in most promiscuous order, and that none 
has been found resembling Jerusalem” (Smith). In Dr. 
Eli Smith’s Arabic list of names of places in Jebel Ajlun 
(Robinson’s Bib. Researches, iii, Append, p. 1G6), we find 
a ruined site under the name of Mahneh, which is prob- 
ably that of Mahanaim (comp. Schwarz, Palest . p. 231 ; 
Keil’s Comment, on Josh, xiii, 2G). The same identifi- 
cation was pointed out by the Jewish traveller Hap- 
Parchi, according to whom it lies about half a day’s 
journey due east of Betlishan (Zunz, in Asher’s edit, of 
Benj. of Tudela , p. 40), the same direction as in Kie- 
pert’s Map, but only half as far. Its distance from the 
Jabbok is a considerable but not fatal objection. Tris- 
tram visited the place which he defends at length as the 
site of Mahanaim, and describes it as well situated for a 
large town, with considerable remains and a fine pond 
{Land of Israel, p. 483). 

Ma'haneh-dan (Heb. Machaneh'-Dan, •j’J-nsnTa, 
camp of Ban; Septuag. Tlapep(3oXi) Aav, Yulg. Castra 
Ban), a name given to a spot west of Kirjath-jearim, in 
consequence of its having been the encampment of the 
party of Danites on their way to capture Laish (Judg. 
xviii, 12). Mr. Williams suggests a site called Beit Ma- 
hanem, on the north side of wady Ismail, and N.N.E. of 
Deir el I Iowa {Holy City , i, 12, note); but the name ap- 
pears on no map, and occurs in no other traveller. 

Maha-Pralya (i. e. the “great end” or “great de- 
struction”), a term applied by the Hindus to the final 
consummation of all things, which they suppose will 
take place after a hundred years of Brahma have elapsed 
(each Brahmanie day, with its night, is reckoned as 8640 
millions of our years). At the time referred to, all the 
gods, including Brahma, as well as all creatures, will be 
annihilated; Brahm,the eternal, self-existent Spirit, will 
alone remain. See Moor, Hindoo Pantheon; Thomas, 
Diet, of Bioy. and Mythol. s. v. 

Ma'harai (Hebrew Malta ray', ■'‘lira, hasty; Sept. 
Maynpou and Moopm v. r. M«p«i and M£?/pn), a Ne- 
tophathite, and one of David’s chief warriors (2 Sam. 
xxiii, 28; 1 Chron. xi, 30); being a descendant of Ze- 
rah, and the tenth captain of a contingent of 24,000 
men (1 Chron. xxvii, 13). B.C. 1014. 

Maha-Rudra is another name of Siva (q. v.). See 
Rudka. 

Maha-sanghika is the name of one of the two 
great divisions of the Buddhistic Church which arose 
about two hundred years after the death of the Buddha 
Sakyamnni, or about 343. See Sthavira. Out of 
this school arose, in the course of the next centuries, 
numerous sects. For the tenets common to all, and for 
those peculiar to each of these sects, the special student 
of the Buddhist religion will at present most advan- 
tageously consult the work of Prof. W. Wassiljew, Der 
Buddhismus, seine Boymen, Geschichte und Literatur (St. 
Petersburg, I860). — Chambers, Cyclop, s. v. 

Ma'hath (Heb. Ma'chatk, rn^, prob. for fifing 
yraspiny ; Sept, IM«d3), the name of two Levites. 

1. A Ivohathite, son of Amasai and father of Elkanali 
(1 Chron. vi, 35); apparently the same elsewhere (1 
Chron. vi, 25) called Ahimotii (q. v.). B.C. cir. 1375. 
See Samuel. 

2. Another Ivohathite, one of those who cleansed the 
Temple in the reformation instituted by Hezekiah (2 
Chron. xxix, 12), and was appointed by that king one 
of the subordinate overseers of the sacred revenues (2 
xxxi, 13). B.C. 726. 

Maha-vansa is the title of two celebrated works 
written in Pali, and relating to the early history of 
Ceylon (q. v.). The older work was probably composed 


MAHA-VIRA 


656 


MAIILOIST 


bv tlie monks of the convent Uttaravihara at Anura- 
dhapura, the capital of Ceylon. Its date is uncertain, 
but it apparently preceded the reign of Dhatusena (459- 
477), as that monarch ordered it to he read in pub- 
lic, a circumstance which seems to prove the celebrity 
it already enjoyed in his time. The later work of the 
same name is an improved edition and continuation of 
the former. Its author, Malidndma , was the son of an 
aunt of the king Dhatusena, and he brings down the 
history of Ceylon, like his predecessor, to the death of 
Mahnsena. A first volume of the text of the latter 
work, ‘*in Homan characters, with a translation sub- 
joined, and an introductory essay on Tali Buddhistic 
literature,” was published by the Hon. George Tumour 
(Ceylon, 1837). See also Lassen, Indische Altertliums- 
knnde , ii, 15 sq. (Bonn, 1852). — Chambers, Cyclop, s. v. 

Maha-vira (literally “ the great hero”), also called 
Yira and Yardhamdna , is the twenty-fourth or last 
Jina, or deified saint, of the Jainas (q. v.), described as 
of a golden complexion, and having a lion for his sym- 
bol. llis legendary history is given in the Kalpa-Su- 
tra (q. v.) and the Mahavira-Charitra. According to 
these, Mahavira’s birth occurred at a period infinitely 
remote ; it was as Nayasarci , the head man of a village, 
that he first appeared in the country of Yijaya, subject 
to Satrumardana. lie was next born as Marichi, the 
grandson of the first Jaina saint lfishabha; he then 
came to the world of Brahma, was reborn as a worldly- 
minded Brahmana, and after several other births — eaeh 
being separated from the other by an interval passed in 
one of the Jaina heavens, and each period of life ex- 
tending to many hundreds of thousands of years— he 
quitted the state of a deity to obtain immortality as a 
saint, and was incarnate towards the close of the fourth 
age (now past), when seventy-five years and eight and 
a half months of it remained. After he was thirty years 
of age he renounced worldly pursuits, and departed, 
amid the applause of gods and men, to practice auster- 
ities. Finally, he became an Arhat or Jina ; and at the 
age of seventy-two years, the period of his liberation 
having arrived, “ he resigned his breath,” and his body 
was burned by Indra and other deities, who erected a 
splendid monument on the spot, and then returned to 
their respective heavens. At what period these events 
occurred is not stated, but, judging from some of the 
circumstances narrated, the last Jina expired about five 
hundred years before the Christian rera. Other author- 
ities make the date of this event about a century and a 
half earlier. 

The works above referred ro state, with considerable 
detail, the conversions worked by Mahavira. Among 
the pupils were Indrabhuti (also called Gautama, and 
for this reason, but erroneously, considered as the same 
with the founder of the Buddhist religion), Agnibhuti, 
Vayubhuti — all three sons of Vasubliuti, a Brahmana 
of the Gotama tribe, and others. These converts to 
Jaina principles are mostly made in the same manner: 
each eomes to the saint prepared to overwhelm him with 
shame, when he salutes them mildly, and, as the Jainas 
hold, solves their metaphysical or religions doubts. 
Thus Indrabhuti doubts whether there be a living prin- 
ciple or not; Yavubhfiti doubts if life be not body; 
Mandita has not made up his mind on the subjects of 
bondage and liberation; Aehalabhratri is sceptical as to 
tke distinction between vice and virtue, and so on. Ma- 
li fivlra removes all their difficulties, and, by teaching 
them the Jaina truth, converts them to the doctrine of 
his sect. For a summary account of the life of this 
saint, see II. T. Colebrooke’s Miscellaneous Kssays, ii, 
213 sq.; 11. II. Wilson’s ) Vo?'ks, i, 291 sq. — Chambers, 
Cyclop, s. v. 

Ma'havite (Hebrew only in the plur. Machuvim', 
reviving; Sept. I\1 atotip v. r. jM«o><,Yulg. Ma- 
humites, Auth. Yers. “Mahavitc ;” probably by erroneous 
transcription for the sing. *Yn*C), apparently a patrial 
attribute of Eliel, one of David’s body-guard (1 Chron. 


xi, 46) ; but no place or person Mahavah or Mcihavai 
is anywhere else alluded to from which the title could 
have been derived. There is doubtless some corruption 
in the text. “The Targum has KVUT2 ‘from 

Macliavua.’ Kennieott ( Dissert . p. 231) conjectures that 
originally the Hebrew may have stood CHriiTQ, ‘from 
the llivites.’ Others have proposed to insert an N and 
read ‘the Mahanaimite’ (Flirst, I/andwb. p. 721 a ; Ber- 
tlieau, Clironik. p. 136)” (Smith). 

Maha'zioth (I leb. JMachazioth ', rriaOTITS, visions ; 
Sept. v. r. Mra^wo”), the last named of the 

fourteen sons of Heman the Levite (1 Chron. xxv, 4), 
and leader under him of the twenty-third division of 
the Temple musicians as arranged bv David (1 Chron. 

xxv, 30). B.C.1014. 

Ma'her-sha'lal-hash-baz (Ileb. Maher'-Sha - 
lal'-Chash-Baz , tS UTH bVd “nw, speeding for booty he 
hastes to the spoil ; Sept, o&wq 7rpoPop7)p 7roiij(mi encu- 
Xior and gkvXhh top, o^Iojq Trpopoptvaov, Yulg. 

Yelociter spolia detrahe, cito preedare and A ccelera spo- 
lia detrahere, festina pr&dari ; for the grammatical con- 
struction, see Gesenius, Comment, ad loe.), words which 
the prophet Isaiah was first commanded to write in large 
characters upon a tablet, and afterwards to give as a 
symbolical name to a son that was to be born to him 
(Isa. viii, 1, 3), as prognostic of the sudden attack of 
Damascus and Syria by the Assyrian army (see Hen- 
derson’s Comment, ad loe.). The child in question was 
evidently the prophet’s son by “the prophetess” whom 
he espoused in pursuance of the divine mandate, and 
appears to have been the same with the one whose birth 
under the more Messianic title of Immanuel was at 
once a token to Aliaz of the coming defeat of his ene- 
mies (Isa. vii, 14-16), and an illustrious type of Gospel 
deliverance. B.C. 739. 

Mahes(h)a and Meheswara are names by which 
Siva is sometimes called. See Siva. 

Mah'lali (Heb. Machlah ', another form for 

nbm, disease , as in Exod. xv, 26, etc.), the name of 
two persons. 

1. (Sept. MooXd v. r. MaeXa, Yulg. Mohola, Auth. 
Yers. “ Mahal ah.”) Apparently a son (but. perhaps a 
daughter) of Ilamoleketli, a female descendant of Ma- 
nasseh ; the father’s name is not given, but two brothers 
are mentioned (1 Chron. vii, 18). B.C. prob. cir. 1658. 

2 . (Sept. MnaXd,Yulg. Melcha.) The first named 
of the five daughters and heiresses of Zelophehad, of the 
tribe of Manasseli west, who married among their kin- 
dred (Numb, xxvi, 33; xxvii, 1 ; xxxvi, 1 1 ; Josh, xvii, 
13). B.C. 1618. 

Mah'li (lleb. Machli', “ifra, sick; Sept. MooXi, 
Yulg. Moholi ; but in Exod. vi, 19, MooXfi, Auth. Yers. 
“Mahali ;” see also Maiilite), the name of two Levites. 

1. A son of Mcrari, and grandson of Levi (Exod. vi, 
19; Numb, iii, 20; 1 Chron. vi, 19; xxiii, 21 ; xxiv, 26, 
28; Ezra viii, 18). He had a son named Libni (1 Chron. 
vi, 29). II is descendants were named after him (Numb, 
iii, 33; xxvi, 58). B.C. post 1856. 

2 . A son of Muslii, and .nephew of the preceding (1 
Chron. xxiii, 23 ; xxiv, 30). He had a son named Sha- 
mer (1 Chron. vi, 47). B.C. ante 1658. 

Mah'lite (Heb. only in the singular collectively, 
Machli ', patronymic of the same form from 

Maiili; Sept. MooX«,Yulg. Moholitce ; but in Numb. 

xxvi, 58, Sept, omits, Yulg. Moholi; A. Yers. constantly 
“ Mahlites”), the descendants of Mahli, the son of Merari 
(Numb, iii, 33; xxvi, 58). 

Mah'lon (Hebrew Machlon', “pPlTC, sickly ; Sept. 
MnaXwj', Yulg. J/ahalon), the elder of the two sons of 
Elimelech the Bethlehemite by Naomi ; they removed 
with him to Moab, where this one married Huth, and 
died childless (Ruth i, 2, 5; iv, 9, 10). B.C. cir. 13G0. 
See ltuTii. “ It is uncertain which was the elder of the 
two. In the narrative (i, 2, 5) Mahlon is mentioned 


MAHMUD 


657 


MAHRATTAS 


first, but in his formal address to the elders in the gate 
(iv, 9), Boaz says ‘Chilion and Mahlon.’ Like his 
brother, Mahlon died in the land of Moab without off- 
spring, which in the Targum on Until (i, 5) is explained 
to have been a judgment for their transgression of the 
law in marrying a Moabitess. In the Targum on 1 
Citron, iv, 22, Mahlon is identified with Joash, possibly 
on account of the double meaning of the Hebrew word 
which follows, and which signifies both ‘had dominion’ 
and ‘ married”’ (Smith). 

Mahmud, Abul-Kastm Yemin ed-Dowlati, one 
of the most celebrated of the Mohammedan sovereigns, 
the founder of the Gaznevide dynasty, and the first 
who established a permanent Moslem empire in India, 
was born at Gazna (or Ghizni) in A.D. 967. His fa- 
ther was originally a Turkish slave, but having become 
governor, under the sovereign of Persia, of the prov- 
ince of Kandahar, he finally secured for his own posses- 
sion the whole of the Punjab (q. v.), besides the Aff- 
ghan dominions. Mahmud came to the throne A.D. 
997. Already, during the reign of his father, Mahmud 
had distinguished himself by superior warlike qual- 
ities. Ill treated by Mansur, the Samanide sovereign 
of Persia, he made war against him, resulting in the 
overthrow of the Samanide dynasty, and the establish- 
ment of Mahmud himself as the most powerful mon- 
arch in Asia. A devout Mussulman, he aspired to the 
character of an apostle of his religion. “ His chief am- 
bition was to extend his religion throughout the rich 
provinces of India, a task to which he was stimulated 
by a belief, cherished from his early boyhood, that he was 
intrusted with a divine mission to extirpate idolatry 
from the laud of the Hindus.” In twelve successive 
expeditious into India, during a reign of thirty-five 
years, he carried fire and sword among the idolaters, de- 
throned and slew several princes, plundered and burned 
their cities, stormed the forts, massacred the garrisons, 
ravaged the fields, and carried away so many natives 
into captivity, that the price of a slave was reduced at 
Gazna to a couple of rupees; and all this notwithstand- 
ing that all India regarded the contest with Mahmud 
in the light of a holy war, and that no sacrifice of mon- 
ey or men was spared to defend the religion of their 
forefathers (compare Moore’s poem Paradise and the 
Peri). Mahmud extended his conquests not only over 
the whole of the Punjab, but penetrated as far as Bun- 
delcund on the east, and Guzerat on the south. It has 
frequently been charged that these incursions to India 
were made by Mahmud rather for the sake of spoil 
than to extend the Mussulman faith (comp. Trevor, In- 
dia, p. 72), but there is every evidence, both in the fact 
that his arms were constantly directed against the re- 
ligion rather than the people, and in his lavish expen- 
diture at Gazna of the treasures brought from India, 
and in the encouragement he gave to learning, that 
Mahmud believed in his divine mission. He founded 
a university in Gazna, with a vast collection of curi- 
ous books, in various languages, and a museum of nat- 
ural curiosities. He appropriated a large sum for the 
maintenance of this establishment. He also set aside 
£10,000 a year for pensions to learned men. He died 
in 1030. The great Mussulman poet Firdnsi flourish- 
ed at this time. See Ferishta, History of the Rise of the 
Mohammedan Power in India (translated by general 
Briggs); Wilken, Jlistoria Ghasnevidarum; History of 
British India , vol. i (Harper’s Family Library) ; Yon 
Hammer, Gemiihhlesaal grosser Moslemischer Heri'scher ; 
Trevor, India , p. 69 sq. ; India, Pictorial , Descript, and 
Hist. (London, Bohn, 1854, 12mo), p. 54 sq. ; D’llerbelot, 
Biblioth. Grunt ale, p. 544 sq. ; and the excellent article 
in Thomas, Diet, of Biog. and Mythol. s. v. (J. 11. W.) 

Mahnenschmidt, Jonx Peter, a pioneer of the 
German Be formed Church in Ohio, was born probably 
in Somerset or in Westmoreland Co., Pa., in 1783; first 
taught school for a number of years, and was finally, in 
1812, licensed to preach, and soon after removed to Ohio, 
where he performed missionarv labors in the counties of 
Y. — T t 


Columbiana and Trumbull, lie laid the foundations of 
numerous congregations, which he lived to see grow 
and prosper. He died in Canfield, Mahoning Co., Ohio, 
July 11,1 857. Mahnenschmidt was a modest, childlike, 
and earnest man. See Harbaugh, Fathers of the Ger- 
man Ref. Ch. (Lancaster, Pa., 1872, 12mo), iii, 207 sq. 

Ma'hol (Ileb. MuchoV , bilTD, a sacred dance , as in 
Psa. xx, 12, ete. ; Sept. Mcr^wA ; Josephus’Hjuawr, Ant. 
viii, 2, 5), a person apparently named as the father of 
the famous wise men Ethan, Heman, Chaleol, and Dar- 
da (or at least of the last two), prior to the time of Sol- 
omon (1 Kings iv, 31); but if these be the same with 
those enumerated as sons of Zerah (1 Chron. ii, C), the 
word must be taken as elsewhere to denote simply their 
pursuit, as musical composers (see Keil’s Comment, ad 
loe. Kings), an art with which dancing has ever been 
intimately connected. See Ethan. 

Mahomet. See Mohammed. 

Mahrattas, a people of Central India, south of the 
Biver Ganges, inhabiting the mountains from Gwalior 
to Goa, and by many supposed to be the descendants of 
a Persian or North Indian people who had been driven 
southwards by the Mongols. They are a vigorous and 
active race, and though, like many Eastern nations, di- 
minutive and ill formed, are distinguished for their 
courage. Most of the Mahrattas are Hindus in relig- 
ious belief, but, unlike the devout followers of Brahma, 
they do not adhere to the distinction of caste very close- 
ly. Mohammedanism and Parseeism also have many 
followers among this people, and Judaism counts a few 
adherents, though so distorted by heathen practices that 
some ethnologists have identified the Beni Israel of the 
Mahratta land with the Rattans (q.v.). 

History . — The Mahrattas are first mentioned in his- 
tory about the middle of the 17th century. They then 
inhabited a narrow strip of territory on the west side 
of the peninsula, extending from 15° to 21° N. lat., and 
are spoken of as for three centuries the subjects of Mo- 
hammedanism. The founder of the Mahratta power 
was Sevaji (died in 1680), a freebooter or adventurer, 
whose father was an officer in the service of the last king 
of Bejapur. By policy or by force, he eventually suc- 
ceeded in compelling the several independent chiefs to 
acknowledge him as their leader, and, with a large 
army at his command, overran and subdued a vast 
portion of the emperor of Delhi’s territory. He was 
crowned as king in 1674. His son and successor, Sam- 
baji, after vigorously following out his father’s policy, 
was taken prisoner by Aurungzebe in 1689, and put to 
death. The incapacity of the subsequent rulers who 
reigned under the title of Ramrajah (“great king”), 
tempted the two chief officers of state, the Peishira, or 
prime minister, and the paymaster-general, to divide, 
about 1749, the empire between them, the former fixing 
his residence at Puna, and retaining a nominal suprem- 
acy over the whole nation, while the latter made Nag- 
pur his capital, and founded the empire of the Bcrar 
Mahrattas. Later, however, the Mahratta kingdom was 
divided into a great number of states, more or less pow- 
erful and independent, chief among which were, be- 
sides the two above mentioned, Gwalior, ruled by the 
Bao Scindiah ; Indore, by the Bao Ilolkar ; and Baroda, 
by the Guieowar. Intestine wars followed this subdi- 
vision, and ultimately the East India Company was 
compelled to interfere. After many long and bloody 
contests with the British and their allies, the Mahrattas 
were reduced to a state of dependence. The only ex- 
ception was Scindiah, a powerful chief, who had raised 
a powerful army, officered by Frenchmen, and disciplined 
after the European method. lie continued the contest 
until 1843. The dignity of peishwa was abolished in 
1818, and his territories were occupied by the British. 
Nagpur and Sattara subsequently also came to the Brit- 
ish, but the other chiefs still possess extensive domin- 
ions under British protection. 

Missions. — The earliest missions of the Christian 


MAI 


658 


MAI 


Cliureh in India date with the settlement of the Portu- 
guese in Goa, where the Roman Catholics established 
the tirst bishopric in 1534. The second important hold 
the Romish Church secured at the two Salsettes, the pen- 
insula and island near Bombay. From these the work 
was gradually pressed through the Mahr&tta-land. At 
Goa there are claimed to be 312,000, and at Bombay 
20,300 Roman Catholics. See India. The first Prot- 
testant mission was commenced in the Maliratta-land by 
the American Board in 1811. For about twenty years 
it was confined to the territory this side of the Ghauts. 
Mahim, Tannah, and Chownl (Choule) were occupied 
for a time, but abandoned in 1826. In 1836, however, 
the work began to show signs of vigor and promise. At 
this time a mission was established on the high lands 
of Ahmednuggur, a city of 30,000 inhabitants, and by 
1842 it became an independent mission centre. For the 
success of this work and its present status, see the arti- 
cle India, vol. iv, p. 555, col. 2. The Anglican Church 
first began missionary labors in Bombay in 1820, and 
gradually gained a hold at Tannah, Bandora, and Bas- 
sein. In 1832, Nasik, the most celebrated centre of Brah- 
minisrn in all Deccan, was secured; in 1846 the work 
was extended to the station Junir, and in 1848 to Mal- 
ligaum. The attempt made a few years ago, at Yeolat, 
to Christianize exclusively by the aid of native helpers 
failed completely. Neither did the effort among the 
I llangs, in the neighborhood of Aurangabad (stations 
Buldana, etc.), prove successful. In Bombay and vi- 
cinity the Church Missionary Society sustains many 
schools, and Christian influences are moulding the char- 
acter of the rising generation. A special missionary for 
the Mohammedans is sustained here. See Bombay. The 
Scotch Mission commenced at Konkan in 1823; the first 
stations were Bankot and Suvarndrug, but these were 
abandoned when the laborers were needed at Bombay. 
Here both the “ Established Church” and the “ Free 
Church” sustain schools. The Scotch Mission at Poonah, 
which originated in 1830, belongs to the Free Church. 
Of late years the Free Church has established missions 
among the Waralies (aborigines) near Daman. The So- 
ciety for the Propagation of the Gospel has labored in this 
field since 1840, but confined mainly to Bombay. Very 
lately the Medical Missionary Society has established 
an institute which will prove of valuable service to the 
mission work. See Sprengel, Geschichte tier Mahratten 
(Halle, 1786) ; Duth, History of the Mahrattas (London, 
1826, 3 vols. 8vo); Grumlemann, Missionsatlas, No. 12; 
Chambers, Cyclopedia, s. v. 

Mai, Angelo, a noted Roman Catholic prelate, and 
one of the most distinguished scholars of the 19th cen- 
tury, was born at Schilpario (province of Bergamo), It- 
aly, March 7, 1782. As a youth he arrested the atten- 
tion of his instructor, the ex-Jesuit father Lewis Mozzi 
de’ Caspitani, by the unusual taste and capacity which 
he displayed for classical learning. The father, deter- 
mined to lead Angelo’s inclination towards the service 
of the Church, finally induced him to enter, in 1799, the 
novitiate of the Society of Jesus, which, although else- 
where suppressed, the Duke of Parma, with the sanction 
of Pius VI, was just re-establishing at Colorno, a small 
city of his duchy. In this community Mai resided till 
the provisional restoration of the society in Naples 
(1801), whither he Avas sent as Professor of Greek and 
Latin literature. About the cud of 1805 he Avas trans- 
ferred to Rome for the completion of his theological 
studies, and soon aftenvards to Orvieto, and Avas there 
admitted to priest’s orders. It Avas at this place that he 
acquired great familiarity Avitli the Hebrew language, his 
accurate knoAvledge of paleography, and his skill in de- 
ciphering ancient manuscripts. He returned to Rome 
in 1808, just about the time Avhen the contest of Pius 
VII with Napoleon avas reaching the crisis; an order 
issued by the A'iccrov, commanding all subjects of the 
kingdom of Italy to return to their respective provinces, 
had compelled him to change his residence once again. 
Happily for the interests of literature, he settled at Mi- 


lan. The Ambrosian Library of that city had long 
been known as rich in manuscripts of the highest inter- 
est — the remnant of the treasures of the old monastic 
libraries, especially 7 those of Bobbio and Lucca, and of 
some of the suppressed Benedictine convents of the Prot- 
estant cantons of SAvitzerland. Many of its best treas- 
ures had been made public by Muratori, Mabillon, and 
the Benedictine editors; but there yet remained a de- 
partment entirely unexplored, Avhich Mai soon appropri- 
ated to himself, and Avhich has since come to be regarded 
as exclush'ely his oavu — that of palimpsest or rc-Avrit- 
ten manuscripts, in Avhich the original Avriting has been 
effaced in order to make room for a later work written 
over it. Mai was admitted an associate, and eventually 
a doctor of this celebrated library, and labored in this 
novel editorial career Avitli a zeal and success not un- 
worthy of the traditional glories of his country. From 
the Society of Jesus, to which he had not yet avowed 
himself, he uoav AvithdrcAA', Avitli the consent and ap- 
proA T al of the authorities at Rome. His first essay as an 
author Avas a Latin translation (Avith a commentary) of 
Isocrates, De Permit t a done (1813), the original of Avhich 
had been published by a Greek named Andrew Mustox- 
idi in the previous year; but this Avas only the prelude 
of his far more remarkable successes in the decipher- 
ment and publication of palimpsest manuscripts. Up to 
this period, Avith the exception of Klister and AVct stein’s 
readings of the Old and New Testament from the Codex 
Ephremi , Knittel’s portions of the Gothic Bible of Ul- 
pliilas, Peter Bruns’s fragment of the ninety-first book 
of Li aw, and Barrett’s palimpsest of the Gospels, palimp- 
sest literature Avas entirely untried. Within a fcAv years 
Mai deciphered and published from palimpsest sources 
writings of several classical authors, besides tAvo Avorks 
then supposed to be by Philo Judams, but aftenvards 
recognised as the productions of Georgius Gemistus. In 

1819 Mai Avas called to Rome as chief keeper of the 
Vatican Library, canon of the Church of St. Peter’s, and 
domestic prelate of the pope, Pius VII. Here he con- 
tinued the publication of palimpsest manuscripts, and in 

1820 brought out the Avork by which he is best known 
out of Italy — a large and interesting portion of the long- 
lost De Republica of Cicero, the fragments of which he 
arranged Avith consummate skill in their respective or- 
der, and interwove Avith all the known extracts of the 
Avork Avhich had been preserved in the collections of an- 
cient authors. The Avholc text he illustrated by a crit- 
ical commentary' of exceeding interest, which at once 
established his reputation as one of the first scholars of 
the age. 

From these comparatiA'ely desultory' labors he turned 
to a project not umvorthy of the palmiest days of Ital- 
ian editorship. Selecting from the A'ast and till then 
imperfectly explored manuscript treasures of the Vati- 
can, he prepared his Scriptorum reterum A ’ova Collcetio 
e Vaticanis Codicibus edit a (Rome, 1825, and later, 10 
vols. 4to), on the plan of the various Anecdoia , published 
under different titles by' Mabillon, Fez, Mont fau^on, Mu- 
ratori, and others. It is a work of immense labor and 
research, and of a most miscellaneous character — Greek 
and Latin, sacred and profane, theological, historical, pa- 
tristieal, and philosophical. Next, he published Clus- 
sici iScnptores ex Codicibus Vaticanis ediii (completed in 
1838, in 10 vols. 8vo), Avhich included some of the edi- 
tor's earlier publications (especially' the De Republican); 
although, Avith the exception of about two volumes, its 
contents Averc entirely' neAV Scarcely' Avas this collection 
finished when he entered upon the preparation of the 
Sjncileyium Romanian (1839-44, 10 A’ols. 8vo), equally' in- 
teresting and various in its contents, and a fourth col- 
lection entitled Nora Patrum Bibliotheca. (1815-53, 6 
A’ols. 4to), thus completing a series unparalleled since 
the day's of Muratori, and, indeed, far more extraordinary' 
than the older collections, from the circumstance that 
it Avas compiled from the mere gleanings which had es- 
caped the research of the earlier generations of editors 
and collectors. In addition to all these labors, and Avhile 


31 AI AXE AS 


659 


MAIL 


they were still on his hands, he commenced an edition 
of the well-known Codex Vaticanus of the Old and New 
Testament, with various readings and prolegomena, 
which, however, he never entirely completed ; or if he 
did, as some suppose, he destroyed a greater part of his 
manuscript on the Old Testament, lest it should ever see 
the light of day in an incomplete and imperfect state. 
The text of the New Testament was published in 185S, 
and in a thoroughly revised form in 1859, under the ti- 
tle Nov. Test, ex uetusiissimo codice Vat., secundis curis 
editam studio Angeli Mini; but even in a revised form 
the work does not deserve the name of Mai on its title- 
page. Comp. Kitto, Journ. Sac. Lit. 1859 (Oct.), p. 106 sq. 

While engaged in these vast literary enterprises Mai 
held the laborious and responsible post of secretary of 
the Propaganda, to which he had been appointed in 
1833; and it was observed with wonder that his other 
engagements were never suffered to interfere with the 
duties of the secretaryship. In 1838 he w'as rewarded for 
his great services to the Church with the cardinal’s hat, 
at the same time with his friend and successor in the 
Vatican Library, Mezzofanti ; and soon afterw ards was 
appointed to several important and confidential offices 
in the Roman court, chiefly of a literary character. He 
was named successively prefect of the Congregation for 
the Supervision of the Oriental Press; prefect of the 
Congregation of the Index; and prefect of the Congre- 
gation of the Council of Trent. In 1853 he was appoint- 
ed to the still more congenial post of librarian of the 
Roman Church. He died September 9, 1854. 

“Cardinal Mai’s abilities as an editor,” says his biog- 
rapher in the English Cyclopedia, “were of the very 
highest order. While his collections comprise an infi- 
nite variety of authors of every age, of every country, of 
every variety of style, and in every department of liter- 
ature, he appears in all equally the master. Whether 
the subject be theology, or history, or law', or languages, 
or general literature, his learning is never at fault, and 
his critical sagacity never fails. In the many delicate 
and difficult questions which so often arise — in assign- 
ing an anonymous manuscript to its true author, in col- 
lecting fragments of the same work and dovetailing them 
together into intelligible order, in selecting from a heap 
of unknown materials all that is unpublished, and de- 
ciding upon the question of its genuineness or its intrin- 
sic value — in a word, in all the thousand investigations | 
which fall to the lot of a critical editor treading upon 
untried ground, he possessed a skill and acuteness which 
can hardly be described as other than instinctive, and 
which, taking into account the vast variety of subjects 
which engaged him, must be regarded as little short 
of marvellous. The private character of Cardinal Mai 
has been v'cll described as the very ideal of a Christian 
scholar. Earnestly devoted to the duties of his sacred 
calling, he yet loved literature for its own sake also, and 
he w'as ever foremost in every project for its advance- 
ment. He w'as a member of all the leading literary so- 
cieties of Italy, and not unfrequently read papers in those 
of Rome and Milan. His charities were at all times 
liberal, and, indeed, munificent; and at his death he be- , 
queathed the proceeds of the sale of his noble library to 
the poor of his native village of Schilpario. A monu- 
ment has been erected to his memory in the church of 
St. Anastasia, from which he derived his title as cardi- 
nal.” See Mutti, Elogio di Angelo Mai (1828) ; Rabbe, 
Biog. Univ. des Contemporuins ; Hoefer, Nonv. Biog. Gen- 
erate, xxxii, 857 sq. ; English Cyclop, s. v.; Wctzer und 
Welte, Kircken-Lexikon, vol. xii, s. v. 

Maia'neas (Mttmuuac,Yulg. omits), given (1 Esdr. 
ix, 48) in place of the Maasias (q. v.) of the Ileb. text 
(Neb. viii, 7). 

Maid or Maiden (prop. TraicioKri , a girl, as 

corresponding to *123, 7roic, a young man; also 
Kopcwiov, a virgin ; for which the usual term is Pi 'ibv ; 
but PT£X and PlPlS'J, like covXij, are a maid-servant). 
See Handmaid ; Virgin. 


Maignan, Emanuel, a Roman Catholic ecclesias- 
tic, noted as a philosopher, w r as born at Toulouse, in 
France, in 1601 ; w'as educated at the College of the 
Jesuits in that place, where he evinced extraordinary 
ability as a mathematician and philosopher. A strong 
inclination to a religious life led him to seek the monas- 
tery for his retreat. In 1G36, however, he w’as called to 
fill a professor’s chair of mathematics in Rome ; returned 
from Rome to Toulouse in 1650, and was created by his 
countrymen provincial in the same year. He died in 
167G. Maignan published Be Perspective Iloraria 
(Toulouse, 1G48), and a Cout'se of Philosophy (Toulouse, 
1652, 4 vols. 8vo ; 2d edit. 1673, folio), enlarged by tw r o 
Treatises on the same subject in 1673. lie opposed Des 
Cartes in his theory of the Creation, and to refute it 
the more completely, he invented a machine “ which 
showed by its movements that Des Cartes’s supposi- 
tion concerning the manner in w'hieh the universe w r as 
formed, or might have been formed, and concerning the 
centrifugal force, w'as entirely without foundation.” See 
Gen. Biog . Bid. ix, 1, s. v. ; Thomas, Bid. Biog. and My- 
ihol. s. v. 

Maigrot, Charles, a French Jesuit and mission- 
ary, w r as born at Paris in 1652; entered the order and 
prepared for missionary labors in foreign parts. In 
1681 he w r as sent to Siam, and in 1683 he w'as placed 
in charge of the missions of China. hi 1698 pope Inno- 
cent XII created him, for his zeal in propagating Chris- 
tianity among the inhabitants of the “ Middle King- 
dom,” bishop in partibns of Conon. In 1699 he w'as vis- 
ited with the displeasure of his order for his opposition 
to the peculiar manner in w’hich the Jesuits sought to 
advance the interests of Christianity among the Chi- 
nese. He w'as even at one time in danger of his life. 
Supported by the Dominicans, he appealed to pope Cle- 
ment XI, who, June 20, 1702, gave his approval to the 
attitude of the bishop of Conon ; and, to make know'n 
his will, dispatched cardinal De Toumon to the emperor 
of China, w’ho. as wc have seen in the article on China, 
was greatly displeased w'ith the conduct of the Chris- 
tian missionaries, and issued an edict ordering them all 
from his domains. Maigrot at first refused to obey the 
imperial command, and only quitted the country when 
his life was imperilled. He went to Lome by w'ay of 
Ireland, and died in the Eternal City Feb. 18, 1730. He 
only wrote one w r ork, and that is still in MS. form ; it is 
entitled Be Sinica Religione (4 vols. fol.). See Le Go- 
bien. Hist, de VEdit de Vempereur de Chine en fareur de 
la religion Chreiienne (Paris, 1698, 12mo); I5erault-Ber- 
castel, Hist.de VEglise (Paris, 1698, 12mo) ; Mailla, Hist . 
Generate de In Chine, vol. ix ; Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Gene- 
rate, xxxii, 867. 

Mail (r : w£ ; w kaske'seth, a “ scale,” as of fish, Lev. 
xi, 9, etc.), spoken of as a cuirass composed of plates of 



Ancient Egyptian Cuirass. 


MAILDUFF 


GGO 


MAIMBOURG 


metal attached to a bodice like scales, so as to be im- I 
pervious to the sword (1 Sam. xvii, 5). 'Another term, 
rendered “coat of mail,” is ‘jVYjjj shiryon', which sig- \ 
nifies the corselet or garment thus encased (1 Sam. xvii, 
3S). At other times metallic rings were employed in- 
stead of scales (see Kitto, Piet. Diet, note at t Sam. xvii). 
See Armor. 

Mailduff, an Irish monk, who flourished about the 
middle of the 7th century, established a monastery in 
Wiltshire, England, A.D. G50, long called Mailduffbnrgh, 
now known as Malmesbury. It was richly endowed by 
Athelstau and other kings of England, and became the 
alma mater of some of the first educated Saxons in 
England in either Church or State. Among them was 
Aldhelm, bishop of Sherborne, who acknowledged “that 
Mailduff had thoroughly instructed him in Latin and 
Greek,” Camden says that Aldhelm was the first Sax- 
on who wrote in Latin, or who made Latin verses; his 
style, however, was pedantic, and full of alliterations. 
William of Malmesbury, the first Saxon historian, re- 
ceived his education in this school, the first one among 
the twelve which Montalembert says the Irish monks 
established in England (Monies o f the 11 Vs/, 18G4). The 
period from the 7th to the 10th century was a very’ dark 
one in England. Alfred the Great, speaking of his own 
times (A.D. 870), said, “There were few churchmen on 
this side of the llumber who could understand their 
dayly prayer in English, or who could translate a let- 
ter in Latin” ( Turner's History of the A nylo-Saxons, 
book v). And William of Malmesbury said “that, a 
few years before the Norman invasion, a clergyman who 
understood grammar was considered a prodigy” (ibid.). 
During this dark period, a large number of Irish schol- 
ars, impelled by a devotion to literature, or, as some say, 
driven out by the Danes, went over to England and es- 
tablished a great many schools, and, among others, that 
also of Glastonbury. It was often called “ Glaston- 
bury of St. Patrick” merely because the disciples of that 
saint had founded it and for a long time sustained it. 
In this school were educated many of the most distin- ! 
guished English divines, scholars, and statesmen of that j 
period. The noted and eccentric Dunstan was educated 
in it. William of Malmesbury, who wrote his life, says. 
“Under the discipline of these Hibernians, he [Dun- 
stan] partook of the very marrow of scriptural learning, 
as well as the knowledge of arithmetic, geometry, astron- 
omy, and music.” Mailduff wrote, according to Bale, De 
Paschce Observationibus, Peyidu s A rtium Diversa rum, be- 
sides hymns, dialogues, and epistles. 1 le died A.D. 675. 
and was interred in his own monastery. See Illustri- 
ous Men of Ireland , i, 137 : Moore's History of Ireland; 
Piet. Hist, of Dryland, i, 277 sq. (D, D.) 


molested Maillard, though he continued in his former 
course unabated. If only a moderate part of the picture 
Maillard has drawn of liis contemporaries be true, the 
French of the 15th century have never had their equals 
in moral corruption, lie died near Toulouse, according 
to some. June 13, 1502; but his death must have occur- 
red much later, if it be true that he preached at Paris in 
1508, as is reported. His principal works are Sermones 
de Adrentu declumati Parish's in ccclesia S.Johamiis in 
Gratia anno 1493 (Paris, 1498, 4to; 1511, 8vo) : — Quad- 
rayeshmde Opus (Paris, 1498, 4to ; 1512, 8vo) : — Ser- 
mones dominieales et alii (1515, 8vo) : — Sermones de 
satictis (1513, 8 vo) : — La Peculation de la tres-jriense Pas- 
sion des Xotre-Seiyneur , representee par les Saints et sa - 
cres mysteres de la Messe (also under the title Le Mys- 
tere de la M esse, etc.) : — V Exemplaire de Confession avec 
la Confession ycnerale (Bonen and Cayen, 4to; Lyons, 
1524, 8vo) : — Traite envoye a plusieurs reliyievses pour 
les instrnirc et exhorter a se lien youverner (8vo) : — Con- 
te mplatio ad salutationem uvyelicam (1G07). See Niee- 
ron, Memoires, vol. xxiii, s. v. ; Le Bas, Diet.- Ency clop, 
de It France, s. v. ; Gerusey, Essai d'hist. litter .; Iloe- 
fer, Xouv. Bioy. Generale, xxxii, 871 sq. 

Maillat, Joseph Anne Marie he Moyrta he, a 
French Jesuit and missionary, was born in 1G79, at the 
ancestral castle near Nantua. He entered the order 
quite voting. In 1701 he was appointed to take a part 
in the mission to China, and embarked in 1703 for Ma- 
<yio, and thence for China. He quickly mastered the 
Chinese language, and as readily familiarized himself 
with the institutions of China, so that he became of 
great service to the Celestial empire. In 1708 a map of 
China and Tartary was prepared for the Chinese gov- 
ernment under his superintendence, and he secured not 
only approval for his services, but was actually invited 
to take olfice at court. He died June 28,1748, at Pe- 
kin, His studies were mainly in the history and arch- 
aeology of China, and his works are of the same depart- 
ment. See Hoefer, Xouv. Bioy. Generate, xxxii. 877. 

Maille de Breze, Simon de, a French prelate, was 
born in 1515; became a religions of the order of Ci- 
teaux, was made abbot of Loroux, then bishop of Yi- 
viers, and in 1554 archbishop of Tours. lie was a mem- 
ber of the Council of Trent, and took decided ground 
against the lieformers, who had given him no little 
trouble in his archie piscopal dominions. He was at one 
time obliged to quit his see, in all probability because 
the Calvinists had made a- strong case of immorality 
against him. He died Jan. 11, 1597. lie published a 
Latin translation of several homilies of St. Basil (Paris, 
1558, 4to), ami Discours an pcuple de Touraine (ibid. 
1574, IGmo). — Hoefer, Xour. Bioy. Generale, xxxii, 878. 


Maillard, Olivier, a celebrated French pulpit ora- 
tor, was born in Bretagne in the 15th century. Ilis 
early history is somewhat obscure, lie became a doc- 
tor of the Sorbonne, professor of theology in the order 
of the “Minor Brethren,” and court preacher to Louis 
XI and to the duke of Burgundy. In 1501 he was in- 
trusted by the papal legate with the reform of the Paris 
convents of the order of “ Gray Friars,” and he dis- 
charged this task so energetically and independently 
that he incurred the displeasure of the “Gray Friars.” 
His reputation, however, rests mainly on the wonderful 
power of oratory and independence of thought lie dis- 
played in his pulpit utterances. In many respects he 
may he likened to Bossuct. hut in one he even ex- 
celled him — in dealing out truth, in criticising the faults 
and failings of his hearers. It is related of him that 
his royal master, Louis XI, having one day been sub- 
jected by him to unusual severity, sent word that if 
Olivier Maillard would suffer himself to speak thus se- 
verely a second time, he should do it at the loss of his 
life. But Olivier was ready to return ti prompt reply 
even to the royal messenger. “ Tell the king that I will 
thus only arrive sooner in Paradise, and make the way for 
the king so much the harder.” Louis XI never again , 


Maim. See Abel-maim ; Misrephoth-maim. 

Maimbourg, Louis, a celebrated French ecclesi- 
astic and defender of Galliean liberty, was born at Nancy 
in 1620; entered the “Society of Jesus” in 1G3G; was by 
them sent to Borne to study theology; was, on his return 
to France, for six years professor of rhetoric in the Col- 
lege of Bouen ; then began preaching, and soon attained 
great eminence. Having, however, in his Traite Ilisto- 
rique de V Eylise de Pome (Paris, 1G85; new ed., Nevers, 
1831) come out boldly in favor of the liberty of the Gal- 
liean Church, he was expelled from the Order of the Jes- 
uits. The king took sides with Maimbourg and indem- 
nified him by a pension. He retired to the Abbey of St. 
Victor, in Paris, where he wrote the history of schism of 
England, and died Aug. 13, 1686. He had entirely discon- 
nected himself from the Jesuits, and did not spare them 
much in his writings; yet in his Ilistoire du Calrinisme 
(Paris, 1G82, 4to), dedicated to the king, one can readily 
distinguish the influence of his former associations when 
he called Calvinism “the most rabid and dangerous of 
all the enemies France ever had to contend against.” 
BossueCs interpretation of the doctrines of the Boraan 
Catholic Church [see Bossuet] Maimbourg pronounced 
against. (Compare Sclirockh, Kirchenyesch. s. d. Pef 


MAIMBOURG 


661 


3IAIMONIDES 


vii, 280 sq. ; Smith’s ITagenbach, Ilist. of Doctrines , ii, 
200 [15].) As a historian Maimbourg is inaccurate anti 
untrustworthy, receiving all the calumnies of the Jesuits 
against Protestantism as facts, and giving them as such. 
The ephemeral success of his works is to be attributed 
only to a pleasing and ornate style and to their romantic 
garb, llis tirst collection of sermons is uninteresting 
and insipid, and his controversial works have long been 
forgotten. Ilis historical works, consisting of Histoire 
de VA riunisme (1G82, 2 vols. 4to) ; Des Iconoclastes (1074- 
1079, 4to) ; Dn Schisms, des Grecs (1077, 4 to) ; Des Croi - 
Slides (1075,2 vols. 4to); De la Decadence de 1' Empire, 
depuis Charlemagne (1079, 4to); Du Grand Schisme de 
V Occident (1077, 4to); Du Luther anisine (1080, 4to, and 2 
vols. 8vo) ; Du Calc inis me (1082, 4to); De la Ligne (1083. 
4to; 1084, 2 vols. 12mo); Du Pontijicat de St. Gregoire 
le Grand (1086, 4to); Du Pontijicat de St. Leon (1087, 
4to) — the two latter of which are considered the best — 
have been collected and published in 14 vols. 4to (Paris, 
1080). See Herzog, Real-Encykl. s. v.; Dupin, Biblioth. 
Eccles . s. v. ; Iloefer, Xou.v. Biog. Generate, xxxii, 89 1 sq. ; 
Wctzer und Welte, Kirchen-Lexikon , vi, 758 sq.; Bayle, 
Hist. Diet. s. v. 

Maimbourg, Theodore, a relative of the dis- 
tinguished Louis Maimbourg (q. v.), flourished about 
the middle of the 17th century. He embraced the Re- 
formed doctrine, and in 1059 published a letter addressed 
to Louis justifying his course. In 1601 he returned to 
the Romish Church, and subsequently left it again, lie 
then retired to England, and died at London in 1093. — 
Herzog, Real-Encykl. viii, 390. 

Maimon, Solomon, a Jewish rabbi and philosopher, 
one of the ablest expounders of the Kantian school, was 
born in Lithuania in 1753. He was of very humble par- 
entage, and in his youth was confined in his educational 
advantages to the study of Hebrew. Yet his talent for 
speculation manifested itself at a very early age, when 
still confined to the expounding ofTalmudic lore. In his 
very youth, Mosc3 Maimonides’s Moreh Nebuchim fell 
into his hands; but while to Moses Mendelssohn it be- 
came the guide to truth, it became to Maimon a guide 
to a labyrinth of speculation from which no open-sesame 
gave him an outlet until, in advanced life, he fell in with 
the writings of Kant, to become one of his most ardent 
students and ablest expounders. In the despair which 
the Moreh Nebuchim prepared for him, he turned to the 
Cabala for relief, determined to become a Jewish Faust. 
Plagued by the disadvantages of Russo-Jewish society, 
he finally quitted his native land and went to Germany 
to study medicine and thus gain a livelihood. He was 
25 years old when he arrived at Konigsberg, in West 
Prussia. II is condition in this, the old capital of Prus- 
sia, the seat of a university at that time in the very ze- 
nith of her glory, was much like that of a man who, after 
having suffered starvation for days, is suddenly placed 
at a table filled with the daintiest food. Partaking too 
greedily of the food set before him, he became a great 
sufferer mentally — i. c. he was lost in wild speculation. 
In 1779 he went to Berlin, and became an intimate asso- 
ciate of the German Jewish savant, Moses Mendelssohn. 
It was not,, however, until years had been passed in a 
roving life that he finally, in 1788, on his return to Ber- 
lin, gave himself to the study of Kantian philosophy, was 
recommended to Kant, and soon made a great name for 
himself. Both Schiller and Goethe, it is said, sought his 
society ; the latter, wc are told, desired Maimon to take 
up his residence near his side (Maimoniana, p. 197; 
Varnhagcn’s Xuchluss, Brief toechsel zudschen Rahel it. 
David Veit, i, 243 sq., 247 et al.; ii, 23). In his last years 
count Kalkreuth gave Maimon a home on one of his es- 
tates in Silesia. He died in 1800. From an admirer 
ot Kant, Maimon finally changed to a decided opponent, 
and, to make good his claims, presented the world with 
a new system of philosophy, which was written in the j 
interests of scepticism. According to Maimon, there is 
no knowledge strictly objective except pure mathemat- 1 


ics, and all empirical knowledge is only an illusion. He 
traces all the forms of thought, categories, and judg- 
ments to a general and unique principle, that of deter- 
minability, of reality, of substance ; but he contends 
that we have no right to suppose that our thought has 
for its object a tiling without ourselves, existing inde- 
pendently of the thought, which determines it. “ He 
admits, with Kant,” says Wilson (Hist, of German Phi- 
losophy, ii, 180), “that there are conceptions and princi- 
ples a priori, a pure knowledge which applies itself to 
an object of thought in general, and to objects of knowl- 
edge a priori; but he denies that this very pure knowl- 
edge absolutely applies itself to experience. The phi- 
losophy of the Kritik admits this application as a fact 
of conscience. This fact, according to Maimon, is sim- 
ply an illusion, and he declares that the categories arc 
destined only to apply to objects of pure mathemat- 
ics. Maimon’s objections were not without influence 
on the ulterior development of general philosophy, and 
Fichte paid much regard to them ; but the great ob- 
jection, the one which bears upon the application of 
category to reality, Fichte destroyed in one word when 
he said that the right of this application cannot be de- 
ducted until it is absolute” (compare Uebcrweg, His- 
tory of Philosogihy, vol. ii). Among his best works are, 
besides his numerous essays and treatises on various 
philosophical themes in the “ Berliner Monatsschrift” 
and the “Magazin” from 1789 to 1800, in themselves a 
small library, and besides ten books on all departments 
of philosophy, published between 1790 and 1797, the 
Gilbath ha- Moreh, a Hebrew commentary and a remark- 
able introduction to the three volumes of Maimonides’s 
Moreh Nebuchim (Berlin, 1791), in which lie proved him- 
self master of the philosophical field; also Versuch iiber 
die Transcendent alphilosophie (Berlin, 1790, 8vo) ; Ver- 
such einer neuen Logik, odcr Theorie des Denkens, etc. 
(Berlin, 1794, 8vo); and Kritische Untersuchungen iiber 
den menschlichen Geist (1797), and a memoir of his own 
life entitled “ Lebensgeschiclite” (2 vols. 1792-93). See 
Wolf, “ Rhapsodien zur Characteristik S . Maimons ” 
(1813) ; Griitz, Gesch. d. Juden, xi, 142 sq. (Leipzig, 1870, 
8vo); Tennemann, Manualoj' Philosophy, \>A\ 1 sq.; Iloe- 
fer, Nouv. Biog. Generate, vol. xxxii, s. v. ; Dr. Wise in 
the Israelite (Cincinnati, Ohio), Jan. 1871. (J. II. W.) 

Maimonides (i. e. son of Maimon ), Moses, also 
called by the Jews Rambam, from the initial letters 
ns"’3"l = , p^">Ta -p FHBE \ R. Moses b.-Maimun, and 
by the Arabians Abu Amram Musa b.-Maimun Obeid 
Allah, one of the greatest of the Jews since the exile 
— the great luminary, the glory of Israel, the second Mo- 
ses, the reformer of Judaism, as he is called, was born 
at Cordova, March 80, 1135. As a youth, he received 
his instruction in the Heb. Scriptures, the Talmud, and 
Jewish literature from his father, R. Maimon, who held 
the dignity of judge of the Jews, as also his forefathers 
had held it for some centuries previous, and was himself 
renowned as a scholar and author of a commentary on 
Esther, a work on the laws of the Jewish prayers and fes- 
tivals, a commentary on the Talmud, etc., etc. But for 
instruction in the Arabic, then the predominant lan- 
guage of Spain, as the country was in the hands of the 
Mohammedans, and mathematics, and astronomy, Moses 
was handed over to the care of the renowned Arabian 
philosophers Averroes and Ibn-Thofeil (compare Jost, 
Gesch. d. Israeliten, vi, 108). Spain, in which the Jews 
had found an early home (some say as early as the days 
of Solomon; compare Rule, Karaites, p. 140 sq.; Lindo, 
Hist, of the Jews of Spain and Portugal, p. 1 sq. ; I >a Cos- 
ta, Israel and the Gentiles, p. 211), is by Milman (History 
of the Jews, iii, 155) spoken of as the country in which 
“the golden age of the Jews shone with the brightest 
and most enduring splendor.” In the early days of 
Christian it} r we find the Jew alluded to by Church coun- 
| oils [see Elvira], and legislation enacted in bis behalf; 

, but, to the shame of Christianity be it said, the Jew en- 
| joyed his greatest privileges in the Iberian peninsula 


MAIMONIDES 


662 


MAIMONIDES 


under Mussulman rule, and “from the conquest by the 
Moors till towards the end of the 10th century, when, 
while Christian Europe lay in darkness, Mohammedan 
Cordova might be considered the centre of civilization, 
of arts, and of letters, .... the Jews, under the enjoy- 
ments of equal rights and privileges, rivalled their mas- 
ters, or, rather, their compatriots, in their advancement 
to wealth, splendor, and cultivation” (Milman). In Spain 
alone, and only under Mussulman reign, the Jews in the 
Middle Ages enjoyed religious liberty and the privi- 
lege of their own jurisdiction, and it was in Spain alone 
that the Jews, since their Babylonian exile, developed a 
nobility which to this day is considered the aristocracy 
of the dispersed people of Israel (compare Da Costa, Is- 
rael and the Gentiles , p. 204). Need we wonder that un- 
der such very favorable conditions, which became en- 
dangered only now and then, the Spanish Jews developed 
a very active spiritual life, and a desire for culture and 
science which produced noteworthy fruits ? “ The Jews 
in the Arabic provinces,” says Da Costa (p.223), in speak- 
ing of the Saracen rule in Spain, “were rarely bankers, 
but merchants, trading on a large scale to different parts 
of the East. They acted as treasurers to the califs, but 
more frequently as physicians, philosophers, poets, the- 
ologians — in a word, as sarans and men of letters.” Es- 
pecially worthy to be called the golden age of Spanish 
Judaism was the age that gave birth to Moses Maimon- 
ides. While the Jews, who at that time lived under 
less favorable circumstances in France and Germany, 
were disinclined to all scientific endeavors, and all their 
spiritual activity became absorbed in the study of the 
Talmud, the Spanish Jews vied in all sciences — in phi- 
losophy, mathematics, astronomy, medicine, and in po- 
etry, with the flower of the Arabian genius. Formerly 
the Jews of the Iberian peninsula had derived their 
learning of the Biblical writings and their commentators 
from the famous schools of Babylon and Persia, whither 
the young were sent for theological instruction; but 
when, by sheer accident, a noted Eastern rabbi of the 
10th century found a home in these Western coasts (see 
Kabbi Moses, “clad in sackcloth compare Milman, iii, 
156, and other histories of the Jews), and “the light of 
learning, which, by the rapid progress of the iron age of 
Judaism in Babylonia, by the extinction of the author- 
ity of the prince of the captivity, the dispersion of the 
illustrious teachers, and the final closing of the great 
schools, seemed to have set forever, it suddenly rose again 
in the West in renewed and undismayed splendor.” From 
this time (A.D. 990) the schools of the Spanish Kab- 
banim (at Cordova, Toledo. Barcelona, and Granada) not 
only became the centre of Jewish civilization and learn- 
ing, but the auxiliaries of the Arabian philosophers in 
their endeavor to keep alive the flame of learning during 
the deep darkness of the Middle Ages, and the Jews be- 
came the communicators of Arabian philosophy to the 
Christian world, or, as Tennemann (Manual of Philoso- 
phy. transl.bv Morell, p. 231) has it, “the interpreters be- 
tween the Saracens and the Western nations.” It was at 
such a time — when the heaven of Spanish Judaism was 
resplendent with stars of its greatest magnitude — Solo- 
mon Ibn-Gcbirol (1021-1070), Jehudah Ilalevi (10*6- 
1 142), Aben - Ezra (1092-1107), David Kimchi (1160- 
1240), a galaxy of great and learned men of which any 
nation might well he proud— that Moses Maimonidcs 
lived, wrote, and flourished as the brightest ornament of 
them all. 

As we noticed above, Moses was born in 1135. The 
Almorarides — i. e. men devoted to the service of God — 
who were then the masters of Mohammedan Spain [see 
Mohammedans"), like the Omm iades, were tolerant and 
kind to the Jews. But just at this time the power of 
the Almorarides was fast declining, and by the middle 
of the 12th century the Almohades, a fanatical Moham- 
medan sect [see Ibn-Tcmakt], landing in Southern 
Spain, soon gained the upper hand, and superseded the 
Almoravides altogether. With the accession of these 
Almohades to power in Southern Spain begins a new 


chapter in the history of the Jews. On the Seine, on 
the Rhine, on the Danube, and in the steppes of Africa 
and Southern Spain, “as if by previous arrangement, a 
bloody chase was now inaugurated, in the name of re- 
ligion, against the Hebrew tribe both by Mohamme- 
dans and Christians, quite unmindful of the fact that 
whatever of the good and Godlike had found a place in 
their confession had been derived from the teachings of 
this very tribe. Hitherto persecutions of the Jew had 
been only occasional; with the year 1146 they begin to 
be more frequent, usual, consequent, and severe, as if to 
make the period in which the light of intelligence be- 
gan to dawn among men surpass in inhumanity the 
days of dark barbarism” (Griitz,vi, 175). In that part 
of Spain controlled by the Almohades no other religion 
than that of the Crescent was to be tolerated, and Jew 
and Christian alike were obliged either to abjure the 
faith of their fathers or to quit the country within a 
month. To remain and yet to adhere faithfully to the 
teachings of the Old or New Testament was to incur the 
penalty of death. Maimonides’s family, like many oth- 
ers to whom emigration was well-nigh impossible, em- 
braced the Mohammedan faith, or rather, for the time 
being, renounced the public profession of Judaism, all the 
while, however, remaining faithful to it in secret, and 
keeping up a close communication with their co-rclig- 
ionists abroad (compare Carmoly, Annalen, 1839, p. 395 
sq.; Munk, At'chives Israelites , 1851, p. 319 sq.). For 
more than sixteen years Maimonides thus lived, to- 
gether with his family, under the assumed character of 
Mohammedans; but when the death of the reigning 
sovereign brought no change in the system of religious 
intolerance, they, with the greater part of the Jewish 
community, resolved to emigrate and travel about, as he 
himself tells us, “ by land and by sea,” without finding a 
resting-place for the sole of his foot. Their first land- 
ing-place was Acco, in Palestine ; from thence they went 
via Jerusalem to Cairo; then to Hebron, and next into 
Egypt, stopping first a short time at Alexandria, but final- 
ly settling at Fostat (compare Israelite A nnalen, 1840, p. 
45 sq.). On their journey Maimonides had lost his fa- 
ther (at Cairo), and, to earn a livelihood for his father’s 
household, he engaged with his younger brother in the 
jewelry trade,* the care of the business mainly falling 
to David, while Moses devoted most of his time to lit- 
erary pursuits and to the study of medicine, which he 
afterwards practiced, and in which profession he attained 
to great eminence. 

Life and Labors . — During his boyhood, Moses Mai- 
monides is said to have manifested anything but a prom- 
ise of those great abilities which were unfolded in his 
manhood. He was indolent, and so disinclined to study 
that his father sent him, at a very early age, from his 
paternal roof. During his absence from home, however, 
an earnest desire for knowledge was manifested by him, 
and, by study and intercourse with learned co-religionists 
and Arabians, he acquired a great treasure of knowledge 
in the different provinces of science, which his clear, 
penetrating, and methodical mind mastered with a mar- 
vellous power. An elegant oration, delivered by him at 
fourteen, reconciled father and son. Acquainted with all 
the writings of ancient philosophers, he became the most 
eminent of his age. lie was an able mathematician 
and metaphysician. When only 23 years old (1 158), he 
proved the possession of extraordinary powers of compre- 
hension ami elucidation in a treatise on the Jewish calen- 
dar, based on astronomical principles (“VC2.TI ■pZTrft), 
which he composed for a friend. In the same year also, 
whilst wandering about from place to place, and deprived 
of the aid of a library, he yet began his stupendous Com- 
mentary on the Mishna (r.“ n S’i'’un ^“*3). At this 
time also (about 1160) lie composed the Letter on Ilt lirj- 
ious Persecution (T2wH r^X), or A Treatise on Glori- 
fying God (rm ETT'p “1 -X*2)— i.e. by suffering mar- 
tyrdom — a most ingenious plea for those who have not 


MAIMONIDES 


663 


MAIMONIDES 


the courage to lay down life for their religion, and who, 
having outwardly renounced their faith, continue secret- 
ly to practice it — which was provoked by the attack of 
a zealous co-religionist against Moses’s public profession 
of Mohammedanism and private devotion to Judaism. 
(It was published by Geiger, Moses ben-Maimon , part i 
[Bresl. 1850].) The sudden loss of his brother David 
and of their possessions threw upon Moses the responsi- 
bility of providing alone for his own, his father’s, and his 
brother’s family. Without means to continue in mer- 
cantile life, he now entered the medical profession; at 
the same time he also delivered lectures on philosophy. 
But his mind was mainly upon the work in which he 
had engaged years ago. Neither misfortune, nor bod- 
ily inlirmities, nor even misinterpretation, could turn 
Moses Maimonides from the goal he was striving to 
reach. He had assigned to himself the task of harmo- 
nizing religion with science, Judaism with philosophy; 
to exhibit Judaism in such a light that it might be- 
come not only endeared to its thinking adherents, but 
that it might claim the respect also of other religionists, 
and even of philosophers; and though the wants of so 
many dependent upon him obliged him to labor assidu- 
ously as a physician, he yet found time for the comple- 
tion of his commentary on the Mishna, and, in 1168, 
tinally brought it before the public under the title The 
Book of Light (Arabic -XTD, Hebrew ISO 

“*11 tt'En). This remarkable production, which he wrote 
in Arabic (for editions, see below), is designed to simplify 
the study of the exposition of the Law or Pentateuch, 
handed down by tradition, rendered exceedingly diffi- 
cult by the super-commentaries and discussions which 
had accumulated thereon since the close of the Mishna 
to the days of Maimonides. It is preceded by a general 
elaborate introduction, in which he discourses on the 
true nature of prophecy, shows its relationship to the 
law given on Sinai, treats of the figurative language oc- 
curring in the Pentateuch and the Prophets, etc. In 
the special introduction to the Tract Sanhedrim he, for 
the first time, defined and formally laid down the Jew- 
ish creed (see our article Judaism, in vol. iv, p. 1057). 
In consequence of this work — which has now for more 
than 500 years been deemed so essential a part of the 
Talmud itself that no edition of the latter is considered 
complete without it — Maimonides gradually became the 
great oracle in all matters of religion, lie was appealed 
to (in 1175) by the Jews from different parts of the world 
for his opinion on difficulties connected with the law, and 
in 1177 was called to the rabbiship of Raheia. 

Though constantly beset by crowds who came to con- 
sult him on all questions, philosophical, medical, and 
religious, yet, by intruding on the night for his pro- 
founder studies, he was able, after ten years’ further la- 
bor (1170-80), to complete (Nov. 7, 1180) another work, 
of even greater magnitude than the foregoing, which 
he called Deuteronomy , Second Law (min Pl3^*3), or 
Jad Ilachezaka — The Mighty Hand (npinn “P, in al- 
lusion to Deut. xxxiv, 12, and because the work con- 
sists of fourteen books, *P=14), which created a new 
epoch in Judaism. The fourteen books, subdivided into 
eightv-two Tractates (HI 3^11), of which the work con- 
sists, form a cyclopedia comprising every department 
of Biblical and Judaistic literature. When it is added 
that Maimonides has given in every article a lucid ab- 
stract of the ancient traditional expositions of those 
who were regarded as the oracles in their respective 
departments, the immense importance of this remark- 
able production to the Biblical student can hardly be 
overrated. It is written in very clear and easy He- 
brew, as Maimonides was anxious that it should be ac- 
cessible to the Jewish people generally. Within a few 
years after its appearance the work was copied and cir- 
culated most extensively in Arabia, Palestine, Africa, 
Southern France, and Italy, and throughout the world 
wherever Jews resided. It soon became tne text-book 


of the Jewish religion, and was regarded as a new Bible 
or Talmud. A detailed account of its contents is given 
by Wolf, Bibliotheca 11 eb. i, 840 sq. Most of the young 
Israelites of his days were spending their best time in 
acquiring a mediocre knowledge of the sixty books of 
the Talmud, to the neglect and exclusion of all secular 
science and philosophy. To obviate this, Maimonides 
wrote these systematical works, comprising the main 
contents of the whole Talmud. “If the Talmud,” says 
Griitz (vi, 339),“ may be likened to a Daedalic structure, 
in which one can scarcely find his way even with the aid 
of an Ariadne thread, Maimonides has transformed it 
into a well-regulated edifice, with side -wings, halls, 
apartments, chambers, and closets, in which the stranger, 
led by the fitting superscriptions and numbers, may make 
his way without a guide, and gain a view of all the con- 
tents of the Talmud. . . . One might almost say that 
Maimonides created a new Talmud. It is true these are 
the old elements; we know their origin, their rise, their 
original connection; but in his hands it looks like an- 
other work ; the mist is removed ; the disfiguring ad- 
denda done away with ; it appears remoulded, smoother, 
fresher, and newer. The Mishna, the foundation-struct- 
ure of the Talmud, opens by propounding the question 
on the law: ‘At what time of the night is the chapter 
Sliema to be read?’ and closes with the discussion, -when 
this or that thing becomes levitically unclean. Maimoni- 
des, on the other hand, thus opens his Talmudical codex : 
‘ The foundation of foundations, and the pillar of wisdom, 
is to know that there exists a first Being which called 
all other beings into existence, and that all things ex- 
isting in heaven or on earth, and whatever is between 
them, exist only through the medium of this first Being,’ 
and closes with the words, ‘ The earth will one day be 
covered with knowledge as the ocean’s ground is by -wa- 
ter.’ The whole work is permeated by a peetdiar savor; 
it breathes the spirit of complete wisdom, cool reflection, 
and deep morality. Maimonides, so to speak, has Tal- 
mudized philosophy and metaphysicized the T.Jmud. 
He has admitted philosophy within the precincts of the 
religious codex, and there conceded her a citizenship of 
equality beside the Ilalaeha. Though philosophy had, 
previous to his day, been cultivated by Jewish thinkers 
(here comp. Sachs, Religiose. Pocsie der Juden in Spanien , 
p. 185 sq.), and applied to Judaism from Philo down to 
Abraham Ibn- David [see Ciiayug], she had always 
been regarded as something outside of the Jewish camp 
— as a something which had nothing in common with 
practical J udaism as exercised daily and hourly. Mai- 
monides, however, introduced her into the very holiest of 
Judaism, and, so to speak, gave Aristotle a place by the 
side of the sages of the Talmud.” “The master-mind 
of Maimonides only,” says I)r. Wise ( Israelite , Dec. 1, 
1871), “could accomplish such a gigantic task, and 
codify that immense mass of laws and customs as sys- 
tematically and linguistically exact as he did. Nobody 
before or even after him has been able to do it so well 
and completely as he has done it. He alone lias brought 
the rabbinical law within a compass, to be mastered in a 
few years, and under a system to find particular laws or 
customs without roaming over a mass of rabbinical 
sources, thereby affording students an opportunity to 
master the rabbinical laws, and to save time for other 
studies.” Ilis fame now became world-wide. Not only, 
however, as a law -giver in Judah did he advance to the 
first place among the great and learned; as a physician 
also he excelled his colleagues, and for his attainments 
in this field of labor bis name was carried to many foreign 
lands. Richard Coeur de Lion, learning of his medical 
skill, anxiously sought to secure the services of this 
noted Jew as his court physician. Maimonides, how- 
ever. preferred to remain in the land of his adoption, and 
declined the proffered honor (compare Weil, Chalifen , 
iii, 423 sq.). It was about this time that the vizier of 
Saladin, the Kadhi al-Fadhel, who had taken Maimoni- 
des under his protection, appointed Moses chief (Reis, 
-PM) of all the congregations in Egypt (about 1187). 


MAIMONIDES 


664 


MAIMONIDES 


The numerous ami onerous duties now put upon him as 
the spiritual head of Judaism, and the constant demand 
for his great medical skill, were, however, alike unable 
to overcome the powers of his intellect, which he had 
consecrated to the elucidation of the Bible and the tra- 
ditional law, and to the harmonizing of revelation with 
philosophy, and in the midst of all his engagements 
Maimonides entered upon the preparation of a third re- 
ligio-philosophical work, which became, of all his pro- 
ductions, the most valued and important. Its object was 
to reclaim one of his disciples, Ibn-Aknin (q. v.), from the 
prevailing scepticism about a future world, the destiny 
of man, sin, retribution, revelation, etc. The design of 
the work is explained by Maimonides himself in the 
following terms: “I have composed this work, not for 
the common people, neither for beginners, nor for those 
who occupy themselves only with the law as it is hand- 
ed down without contemplating its principle. The de- 
sign of my work is rather to promote the true under- 
standing of the real spirit of the law, to guide those re- 
ligious persons who, adhering to the truth of the Torah, 
have studied philosophy, and are embarrassed by the 
contradictions between the teachings of philosophy and 
the liberal sense of the Torah.” The work, consisting of 
three parts in 204 sections, and entitled in Arabic rbxbn 
*,^^n bx, ill lleb. Z'Z'Zin mva, Moreh Ntbuchim 
( The Guide of the Perplexed), in allusion to Exod. 
xiv, 3, and, according to Griitz (vi, 363), “constituting 
the summit of the Maimonical mind and the justifica- 
tion of his inmost convictions,” created a new epoch in 
the philosophy of the Middle Ages. “Ce livre,” says 
Frank ( Etudes Orientates , p. 360), ** inspire egalement le 
respect par les puissantes faculte's de l’auteur, la prodig- 
ieuse souplesse de son esprit, la variete de ses connais- 
sances, l’elevation de son spiritualisme enfin par la lu- 
miere qu’il repancl sur quelques-uns des points les plus 
obscurs de l’liistoire de l’esprit humain.” Not only did 
Mohammedans write commentaries upon it, but the 
Christian schoolmen learned from it how to harmonize 
the conflicts between religion and philosophy (compare 
Joel. Ptnfuss d.Jiid. Philos, auf die ehristl. Scholastic in 
Frankel’s Monatsschrift [Bresl. I860, p. 210 sq.]; Munk, 
Melanges , p. 486). The contents of this great and noble 
work, which has become for Jewish thinkers, as it were, 
a “ touchstone of philosophy,” are, in the three parts into 
which it is divided, as follows: The first part is especial- 
ly devoted to the explanation of all sensual expressions 
which are made use of in the Bible in regard to God; 
this is really but a mere detailed explication of what 
Maimonides had already laid down in the first book of 
his aforementioned code, namely, that such expressions 
must be taken only in a spiritual and figurative sense; 
this part contains also the rational arguments by which 
philosophy proves the existence, the unity, and spirit- 
uality of God. The second part treats, first, of natural 
religion and its deficiencies; secondly, of the creation of 
the world and the different graduations of the world’s 
system ; and, thirdly, of revelation, prophecy, and of the 
excellence and perfectness of the divine law. The third 
part, after giving an explanation of the first vision of 
the prophet Ezekiel, treats of the opposition of good and ; 
evil in the. world, of God’s providence and omniscience, i 
and their relation to the free will of man ; a number of 
chapters of this last part are taken up in explaining the 
general design of the Mosaic law, and the reason for each 
separate law. 

But while, on the one hand, the 3 for eh A'e huchim con- 
tributed more than any other work to the progress of 
rational development in Judaism, it. on the other hand, 
also provoked a long and bitter strife between orthodoxy 
and science — carrying out, as it did, to its last conse- 
quences the broad principle that “the Bible, must be 
explained metaphorically by established fundamental 
truths in accordance with rational conclusions.” So 
bitter, indeed, was the contest which broke out between 
the subsequent spiritualistic Maimonidian and the “lit- 
eral Talmudistic” schools, that the fierce invectives were , 


speedily followed by anathemas and counter-anathemas 
issued by both camps; and, finally, about the middle of 
the 13th century, the decision was transferred into the 
hands of the- Christian authorities, who commenced by 
burning Maimonides’s books, continued by bringing to 
the stake all Hebrew books on which they could lav 
their hands, and followed this decision up bv a whole- 
sale slaughter of thousands upon thousands of Jews — 
men, women, and children — irrespective of their philo- 
sophical views. Under these circumstances, the antago- 
nistic parties, chiefly through the influence of David Kiln- 
chi and others, came to their senses, and gladly enough 
withdrew their mutual anathemas; they even went so 
far as to send a deputation (in 1232) to Maimonides’s 
grave at Saphet “to ask pardon of his ashes” (Undo, p. 
65) ; and, as time wore on, the name of Moses Maimon- 
ides became the pride and glory of the nation. Moses, 
himself, however, never witnessed the end of the con- 
flict into which he had the mortification to see his na- 
tion plunged, caused by his own labors, which had been 
intended solely for their good. In the midst of the con- 
flict (the opposition begun by Samuel ben-Ali, the gaon 
of Bagdad, was particularly strong in Southern France 
and Spain, see Griitz, Gesch . d. Jiiden, vol. vii, chap, ii), 
“ the Great Luminary” of the Jewish nation was extin- 
guished Dec. 13, 1204. Both Jews and Mohammedans 
of Eostat had public mourning for three days. At Je- 
rusalem the Jews proclaimed a day of extraordinary 
humiliation, reading publicly the threatenings of the 
law (Deut. xxviii) and the history of the capture of the 
ark by the Philistines (1 Sara, iv, etc.), for they regard- 
ed Maimonides as the ark containing the law. II is re- 
mains, in accordance with a personal request before his 
decease, were conveyed to Tiberias; and the reverence 
which the Jewish nation still cherish for his memory is 
expressed by the well-known saying, HCT3 

-2 Cp xb, “From Moses, the lawgiver, to Moses 
(Maimonides), no one hath arisen like Moses,” in allu- 
sion to Deut. xxxiv, 10. “No man since Ezra had ex- 
ercised so deep, universal, and lasting an influence on 
Jews ancl Judaism as Moses Maimonides. II is theo- 
logieo-philosophical works gained an authority among 
the progressive thinkers equal to his Mishna-Torah 
among rabbinical students. All Jewish thinkers up to 
date — Baruch Spinoza. Moses Mendelssohn, and the 
writers of the 19th century included — are more or less 
the disciples of Maimonides; so that no Jewish theo- 
logieo-philosophical book, from and after A.D. 1200, can 
be picked up in which the ideas of Maimonides form not 
a prominent part” (Dr. Wise). 

Maimonides as a Jewish Theologian and Philosopher. 
— Ilis importance for the religion and science of Juda- 
ism, and his influence upon their development, is so 
great that he truly deserves to be placed second only 
to Moses, the great lawgiver, himself. Maimonides 
first of all brought order into those almost boundless re- 
ceptacles of tradition, and the discussions and decisions 
to which they had given rise, which, without the remot- 
est attempt at system or method, lie scattered up and 
down the works of Ilaggada and Ilalacha — Midrash, 
Mishna, Talmnds. Imbued with the spirit of lucid 
Greek speculation, and the precision of logical thought 
of the Arabic Peripatetics, aided by an enormous knowl- 
edge, he became the founder of rational scriptural exe- 
gesis. The Bible, and all its written as well as implied 
precepts, he endeavored to explain by the light of rea- 
son, with which, as the highest divine gift in man, 
nothing really divine could, according to his theory, 
stand in real contradiction. The fundamental idea in 
his works is that the law was given to the Jews, not 
merely to train them to obedience, but also as a revela- 
tion of the highest truths, and that, therefore, fidelity 
to the law in action is by no means sufficient, but that 
the knowledge of the truth is also a religious duty. By 
this teaching he offered a powerful incitement to specu- 
lation in religious philosophy, yet he also contributed 
by his enunciation of definite articles of faith to a nap - 


MAIMONIDES 


6G5 


MAIMONIDES 


row determination of Jewish dogmas, although his own 
investigations bear throughout a rationalizing charac- 
ter. Maimonides is no friend to astrological mysticisms. 
We are only to believe that which is either attested by 
the senses, or strictly demonstrated by the understand- 
ing, or transmitted to us by prophets and godly men. 
In the province of Science he regards Aristotle as the 
most trustworthy leader, and only differs from him 
when the dogma requires it, as, especially, in the doc- 
trine of the creation and providential guidance of the 
world. Maimonides holds tirmly to the belief (without 
which, in his opinion, the doctrines of inspiration and 
of miracles, as suspensions of natural laws, could not be 
maintained) that God called into existence out of noth- 
ing not only the form but also the matter of the world, 
the philosophical proofs to the contrary not appearing 
to him conclusive. If these proofs possessed mathemat- 
ical certainty, it would be necessary to interpret those 
passages in the Bible which appear to oppose them alle- 
gorically, which is now not admissible. Accordingly 
Maimonides condemns the hypothesis of the eternity of 
the world in the Aristotelian sense, or the doctrine that 
matter is eternal ab initio , and has always been the sub- 
stratum of an order or form arising from the tendency 
of all things to become like the eternal and divine Spir- 
it; “the Bible,” lie says, “teaches the temporal origin 
of the world.” Less discordant with the teachings of 
the Bible, according to Maimonides, is the Platonic the- 
ory, which lie interprets with the exaetest strictness 
according to the literal sense of the dialogue Timatus. 
He understands the theory as assuming that matter is 
eternal, but that the divinely-caused order, by the addi- 
tion of which to matter the world was formed, had a 
beginning in time. Yet he does not himself accept this 
theory, but adheres to the belief that matter was created 
by God. In Ethics, Maimonides, holding reason in man 
— if properly developed and tutored by divine revela- 
tion — to be the great touchstone for the right or wrong ! 
of individual deeds, fully allows the freedom of will, 
and, while he urges the necessity, nay, the merit of lis- 
tening, to a certain degree, to the promptings of na- 
ture, rigorously condemns a life of idle asceticism, and 
dreamy, albeit pious contemplation. No less is it, ac- 
cording to him, right and praiseworthy to pay the ut- 
most attention to the healthy and vigorous development 
of the body, and the care of its preservation by the 
closest application to hygienic rules. Providence, he ar- 
gues, reigns in a certain— broad— manner over human- 
ity, and holds the sway over the destinies of nations; I 
but he utterly denies its working in the single event 
that may befall the individual, who, subject above all to 
the great physical laws, must learn to understand and 
obey them, and to shape his mode of life and action in 
accordance with existing conditions and circumstances 
— the study of natural science and medicine being there- 1 
fore a thing almost of necessity to everybody. The sonl, I 
and the soul only, is immortal, and the reward of virtue 
consists in its — strictly unbodilv — bliss in a world to 
come; while the punishment of vice is the “loss of the 
soul.” “Do not,” says Maimonides, “allow thyself to I 
be persuaded by fools that God predetermines who shall 
be righteous and who wicked. He who sins has only 
himself to blame for it, and he can do nothing better 
than speedily to change his course. God’s omnipotence I 
has bestowed freedom on man, and his omniscience fore- 
knows man’s choice without guiding it. We should j 
not choose the good, like children and ignorant people, j 
from motives of reward or punishment, but we should 
do good for its own sake, and from love to God; still 
retribution does await the immortal soul in the future 
world.” The resurrection of the body is treated by Mai- 
monides as being simply an article of faith, which is not 
to be opposed, but which cannot be explained. 

Exception continues to be taken to Maimonides’s the- 
ologieo-philosophieal views even in our dav, by manv j 
who recognise his ability and the importance of his la- ' 
bors. I he great Italian Jewish theologian, the late Da- J 


| vid Luzatto (q. v.), is quite decided in his opposition. 

I Maimonides, lie holds, brought trouble with all his philos- 
ophy. What the Talmud left indefinite, he fastened by 
1 irons. His creed is an invention, of which the ancients 
had no idea. With more of a Mohammedan than a 
Jewish and Talmudic despotism, he constructed a codex, 
j in order that all articles of faith and practices of the 
! least consequence should be regulated and decided upon 
bv its decisions (see hraelitische A nnalen, 1839, p. 0, 
405). No less decided is Isaac Ifeggio (q. v.), who ap- 
proves ofLuzatto's critique, and demands the removal 
of the yoke which Maimonides put upon the Israelites, 

; and which robs of all freedom in thinking (ibid, p. 22). 

| As unjust as these criticisms must appear to a careful 
and unprejudiced student of Maimonides, they are not 
the most weighty charges brought against him. There 
are some who even charge him with extreme national- 
ism. Says Da Costa (p. 273, 274), “ The system of Mai- 
monides, by its arbitrary explanations and inventions, 
attacked the authority, not of tradition only, but also 
of Holy Scripture. . . . Learned Jews have not hesi- 
tated to suspect Maimonides of a design to weaken the 
basis of the two fundamental doctrines of the Jewish re- 
ligion— the resurrection of the dead, and the expectation 
: of a Messiah.” Not only is this statement refuted by 
the fact that Maimonides inserted these dogmas in the 
thirteen articles of his Creed [see Judaism], but when, 
in his later productions, he has occasion to treat of them, 
he does so with great consideration of his relation to 
the synagogue, as we have seen above. 

Editions and Translations of the principal JPorfo of 
Maimonides. — (I) His -XT* was translated 

into Hebrew from the original Arabic by a number of 
contemporary literati, and is now printed with the text 
of the Mishna (ed. Naples, 1492; Venice, 1546; Sabio-. 
netta, 1559 ; Mantua, 1561-62, etc.), and the Talmud (ed. 
Soneino, 1484; Vienna, 1520-30, 1540-50; Basle, 1578-80; 
Cracow, 1603-1606 ; Lublin, 1617-28 ; Amsterdam, 1644 
-47, etc.). Milman incorrectly states that this “great 
work on the Mishna, the Porta Mosis, was translated by 
Poeoeke” (History of the Jetcs [3d edit. Lond. 1863], iii, 
150). This celebrated Orientalist only translated por- 
tions of it, chiefly consisting of the introductions to the 
different Tractates ( Theological IPorfo [ed. T wells, Lon- 
don, 1740], vol. i). The Arabic original of these por- 
tions is given for the first time with this translation. 
Surenhiisius has given an abridged version of the whole 
commentary in his edition of the Mishna (Amsterdam, 
1678). There are also extant Spanish versions of the 
whole, and German translations of various parts of this 
work. (2) The Sefer llammizicoth , or Book of the Pre- 
cepts, in Arabic (translated into Hebrew by Abr. Ibn- 
Chasdai, and, from the author’s second edition, by Moses 
Ibn-Tibbon), which contains an enumeration of the 613 
traditional laws of the Halaeha, together with fourteen 
canons on the principle of numbering them, chiefly di- 
rected against the authors of certain liturgical pieces 
called Askaroth (Warnings) ; besides thirteen articles of 
belief, and a psychological fragment. This book is to 
be considered chiefly as an introduction to the Mishna 
Torah. (3) The Mishna Torah or Jad Ilachazalca . — 
The first edition of the text appeared in Italy, in the 
printing-office of Solomon b.-Jehuda and Obadja b.-Mo- 
ses, about 1480, two vols. folio; then in Soneino, 1499; 
the text, with different commentaries, Constantinople, 
1509; Venice, 1521, 1550-51, 1574-75; with an alpha- 
betical index and many plates, 4 vols. folio, Amsterdam, 
1702. It is to this edition that the references in this 
Cyclopaedia are made. Translations of portions of this 
work in Latin have been published, and also two in 
English; one by II. IL Bernard, Main Principles of the 
Creed and Ethics of the Jews exhibited in Selections from 
the Yad-II achazaheth of Maimonides (Cambr. 1832, 8 vo). 
(4) The Moreh Xebuchim, or The Guide of the Perplexed , 
was, till lately, read. in the Hebrew translation of Ibn- 
Tibbon. tirst published about 1480; then in Venice, 1551; 
Sabionetta, 1553; Berlin, 1791-96; Sulzbach, 1828, etc. 


MAIN-SAIL 


666 


MAINE DE BIRAN 


It was translated into Latin by Justinian, bishop of Ne- 
bio, R. Mouse i Egypt ii Dux sire Director dubitantium 
(Paris, 1520); then again by Buxtorf jun., Doctor Per- 
pf exorum (Basle, 1020). The first part was translated 
into German by Fiirstenthal (Krotosehin, 1839); the 
second by M. E. Stein (Vienna, 1804) ; and the third by 
Soli ever (Frankfort-on-thc-Main, 1838). Part iii, 20-49, 
has been translated into English by Dr. Townley, The 
Reasons of the Laics of Moses (Loud. 1827). The orig- 
inal Arabic, with a French translation and elaborate 
notes, was published by Munk (Paris, 1 850-00, 3 vols. 
8vo). Commentaries on Moreh Nebuchim, or parts of it, 
have been written, in particular, by Ibn-Falaguera (1280; 
Pressburg, 1837) ; Ibn-Caspi (about 1300; Frankfort-on- 
thc-Main, 1848); Moses b.-Josua of Norbonne (1355-02; 
edited by Goldcntlial, Vienna, 1852); and Is. Abrabanel 
(I5th century; edited by Landau, Leips. 1803). Of his 
smaller works, we may enumerate, in conclusion, a trans- 
lation of Avicenna’s Canon ; an extract from Galen ; 
several medical, mathematical, logical, and other trea- 
tises, spoken of with the highest praise by Arabic writ- 
ers; legal decisions, theological disquisitions, etc,, for 
which see Fiirst, Diblioth. Judaica, s. v. 

Literature. — Besides the authorities already quoted, 
see O. Celsius, De Maimonide (1727) ; Revue Orientate 
(Brux. 1841); Beer, I when und Wirken des Maimonkles 
(Prag. 1844); Lebrecht, in Magazin f d. Liter, d. Aus- 
landes , 1844, No. 45, p. 02 sq. ; Scheycr, Psychol. Syst. des 
M aimonides (Frankfort, 1845) ; .Stein, M. Maimonides 
(1846); R. M. Maimonides, Life, etc,, of M. Maimonides 
(Lond. 1837) ; Edelinann, Chermla Gennsa; Joel, Relig- \ 
ions-philosopliie d. Maimonides. in the Programme of the 
Jewish theol. sem. at Breslau (1859) ; Jarac-Zewskv, in 
Zeitschr.f. Philos, it.philos, Kritik , new ser. xlvi (Ilalle, 
1805), p. 5 sq. ; Franck, Diet, des Sciences Ph ilosoph. i v, 3 1 
sq. ; Griitz, Gesch. d. Jad. vi, ch. x and xi ; vii, ch. i and ii ; 
Jost, Gesch. d.Judenth. u. s. Sekten, ii, 428 sq. ; ibid, in 
Herzog, Real-Encyklop. s. v. ; Uoherwcg, Hist. Philos. 
(translated by Prof. Morris), i, 97 ; Dr. Milziener, in the 
Jewish Times (N. Y. 1872), p. 7G5 sq. ; Kitto, Bibl. Cyclo- 
paedia, s. v. ; Chambers, Cyclopaedia , s. v. 

Main-sail is the rendering in the Auth. Version of 
the nautical term eiori/uou (from dpriu), to suspend or 
“ hoist”), which occurs only in this sense in Acts xxvii, 
40. It is explained by some critics, the largest sail of 
the poop, answering to our “ mizzen-sail,” and even yet 
called by the Venetians artimone. Some regard it as 
the “top-sail,” Lat. supparum. Others understand by 
it a small sail or “jib” near the prow, called by the Ro- 
mans the. dolon. The term may thus be understood to 
signify properly the fore-sail, which, in the opinion of 
those qualified to judge, would be most useful in bring- 
ing a ship to head to the wind under the circumstances 
narrated by Luke (sec Ilackett’s Comment, ad loc.). The 
vessels of that time had one, two, or three masts; the 
largest was in the stern (Smith’s Diet, of Ant. s. v. Ma- 
ins). Hence, if Paul’s ship had but one, the sail in ques- 
tion would have been that now called the jib, being fast- 
ened to a “ boom” or spar projecting from the bowsprit ; 
but if, as is more probable from its size, it had at least 
two masts, this sail would be the one attached to the 
front mast, that is, the “fore-sail.” “A sailor will at 
once see that the fore-sail was the best possible sail that 
could be set under the circumstances” (Smith, Shipwreck 
of St. Paul, 3d edit. p. 139, note). See Ship. 

Maine de Biran, Marie Francois Pierre Gou- 
TiiiKR, one of the most eminent French philosophers 
of our age, “ the modern Malebranche,” as he has been 
aptly termed, was born near Bergerac Nov. 29, 1700. 
Upon the completion of his collegiate studies he entered 
the army, and was engaged in the stormy ‘days of the 
first French Revolution. Later he devoted himself to 
politics, and in 1795 became a member of the department 
of Dordogne, from which, in 1797,he was deputed to the 
Council of the Five Hundred. From 1809 to 1814 he 
was a member of the legislative body; after the Itesto- | 


ration of 1810 he became a moderate royalist, and repre- 
sented the people as such. All this time he was deeply 
engaged also in philosophical studies. In 1800 the Na- 
tional Institute offered a prize for the best essav “On 
the Influence of Habit upon the Faculty of Thinking ;” 
he wrote for it, and secured the prize. In 1803 he bore 
off another prize for an essay “ On the Decomposition 
of the Faculty of Thinking;” and in 1807 he was award- 
ed a third prize, this time from the Berlin Academy of 
Science, for a memoir on the question “Whether there 
is in man an inordinate internal intuition, and in what 
it differs from the perception of the senses.” Further 
honors he gained shortly after from Copenhagen, for an 
exposition of“ The Mutual Relation of Man’s Moral and 
Physical Constitution.” In these different contributions 
to philosophical literature, Maine de Biran had gradu- 
ally brought a new philosophy to maturity. To give 
his system to the public in a more completed form, he 
published a short work entitled L'Exameu de la Philos - 
ophie de Laromiguiere ; and finally crowned his philo- 
sophical labors by his magnificent article on Leibnitz, in 
the Biographic Unirerselle; and died, “too soon for the 
interest of philosophy,” in 1824, leaving behind, howev- 
er, many traces of extraordinary philosophical genius, not 
only in France, but in various parts of Europe besides. 

His Philosophy. — The principal point in 31. Maine de 
Biran’s philosophy was the distinguishing of the will, as 
a faculty, from the emotions. He argues that “the soul is 
a cause, a force, an active principle,” and that “the phe- 
nomena of consciousness can never be explained until we 
clearly apprehend the voluntary nature of its thoughts 
and impulses.” “ In order,” says Morell, “ to unfold the 
fact and expound the nature of man’s natural activity 
(the hinge upon which the entire system turns), M, 
Maine de Biran analyzes the whole of what is contain- 
ed or implied in a given action; for example, a move- 
ment of the arm. When l move my arm there are 
three things to be observed : I. The consciousness of a 
voluntary effort ; 2. The consciousness of a movement 
produced ; and, 3. A fixed relation between the effort, on 
the one hand, and the movement, on the other. Now, 
the source or cause of the whole movement is the trill, 
and this term will we now use as virtually synonymous 
with self. Whether we say, I moved rm* arm, or my 
will moved it, the sentiment is exactly identical. Hence 
the notions of cause, of will, of self, we find to be funda- 
mentally the same ; and several truths are by this means 
brought to light of great importance in metaphysical 
science (Preface to the Nourelles Considerations [a post- 
humous work of Maine de Biran], p. 10). First, it be- 
comes evident that we possess a natural activity, the 
seat of which is in the will, so that whether we regard 
man as a thinking or an acting being, yet it is the will 
which alike presides over and regulates the flow, of our 
thoughts or the course of our actions. Secondly, we 
infer that the will is the foundation of personality ; that 
my will is virtually myself. And, thirdly, we infer that 
to will is to cause, and that from the inward conscious- 
ness of volition, viewed in connection with the effect 
produced, we gain our first notion of causality. These 
three points, as Cousin has shown ns, embrace in a small 
compass the whole philosophy of Maine de Biran. He 
first seizes, with admirable sagacity, the principle of all 
human activity as resident in the power of the will, ex- 
emplifying it even in the ease of those muscular move- 
ments which may appear to the unreflecting to be sim- 
ply the result of nervous excitement. Having estab- 
lished the principle of activity, as residing in the will, 
he proceeds to identify the will with our very personal- 
ity itself, showing that the soul is in its nature a force, 
the very essence of which is not to be acted upon, but 
to act. Finally, he proves that we gain our first notion 
of causality from the consciousness of our own personal 
effort, and that having once observed the conjunction 
of power exerted and effect produced in this particular 
case, we transfer the notion of cause thus originated into 
the objective world, and conclude by analog)' the ne- 


MAIN TENON 


667 


MAISTRE 


cessity of a sufficient power existing for every given ef- 
fect” {Hist, of Mod. Phil p. 639, G40; compare the me- 
moir De la Decomposition de la Pensee ; preferable even, 
Nouvelles Considerations, part i, sec. 1, and part ii, sec. 1 
and 3 ; also the Kxamen des Legons de Philosophic , see. 
8 and 9). “In the whole of the process by which our 
author had gradually advanced from the ideology of 
Cabanis to the absolute dynamical spiritualism of Leib- 
nitz, he had relied simply upon his own power of rellee- 
tion. Disciple of none, he had philosophized simply 
within the region of his own consciousness; so that 
whatever merit some may deny him, there are none, as- 
suredly, who can reject the claim to that of complete 
originality” (Morell, p. G38-9). “ Of all the masters of 

France,” says Cousin, “ Maine de Biran, if not the great- 
est, is unquestionably the most original. M. Laromi- 
guierc only continued the philosophy of Condillac, mod- 
ifying it in a few important points. M. Royer-Collard 
came from the Scottish philosophy, which, with the vig- 
or and natural power of his reason, he would have infal- 
libly surpassed, had he completely followed out the la- 
bors which form only the least solid part of his glory. 
As for myself I come at the same time from the Scottish 
and German school. M. Maine de Biran alone comes 
from himself, and from his own meditations” (Preface 
to the Frogmens Philosopliiqnes). See, besides the au- 
thorities already quoted, Ernest Naville, Maine de Bi- 
ran , sa vie et ses Pensees (1857) ; Damiron, Essai sur 
Vhistoire de la Philosophic en France an dix-neuvieme 
Siecle; Brit. Qu.Rev. 1866 (Oct.); Hoefer, None. Biog. 
Generate, vol. xxxii, s. v. ; The Academy (Loud.), Sept. 
15,1872. (J.H.W.) 

Maintenon, Madame de, a very noted charac- 
ter in the history of France, both in secular and ecclesi- 
astic affairs, was born of a noble Protestant family in 
the prison at Niort, France, Nov. 27, 1G35; came with 
her parents to this country, but returned to France in 
1646 ; married the poet Scarron in 1651, and after his 
death (1GG0) was about to remove to Portugal, when 
she was secured by Madame Montespan, the favorite of 
Louis XIV, as governess of the duke of Maine, the ille- 
gitimate son of the king. The large estate of Main- 
tenon was presented to her, until now Fran guise D'Au- 
higne, and hereafter she assumed the name of the es- 
tate. Later she became a formidable rival of Madame 
Montespan. It was by the influence of Madame de 
Maintenon that Louis XIV revoked the Edict of Nantes, 
and that he established the educational institution in 
the abbey of St. Cvr. In the last-named place she. 
spent her days after the death of the king. She died 
April 15, 1719. It is difficult to describe Madame de 
Maintenon’s relation to Louis XIV. She was married 
to him some eighteen months after the death of the 
queen. She is never believed to have been the king’s 
mistress , in the ordinary sense of the term, but her asso- 
ciation with him was surely of a very intimate charac- 
ter long before they were joined in wedlock. She cer- 
tainly exercised an uncommon influence over him. She 
had a passion to be regarded as “ a mother of the 
Church but while she confessed the strength of her 
desire to Romanize the Huguenots, she earnestly denied 
that she approved of the detestable dragonnudes. Her 
pretended Memoirs are spurious, but her Letters (Amst. 
1759, 9 vols. ; best edit, by Lavallec, Paris, 1865 sq.) are 
genuine. See Noailles, Ilistoire de Mad.de Maintenon 
(1858-59, 4 vols. 8vo) ; Saintc-Beuve, Causeries du Lun- 
di, iv ; Blackwood's Magazine, 1850 (Feb.) ; Fraser's 
Magazine, 1849 (March). See Louis XIV. 

Mail', 1 Iugii, D.D., a Presbyterian minister, was born 
at New Stylus, Ayrshire, Scotland, July 16, 1797 ; grad- 
uated at the college in Glasgow in 1817 ; studied theol- 
ogy in Edinburgh; was licensed in 1822; was employed 
for some time as a missionary in the Orkneys, and oth- 
er parts ot Scotland ; came to America in 1828, and was 
ordained and installed pastor of the churches at Fort 
Miller and Northumberland, N. Y.; in 1830 became pas- 


tor of the Church at Johnstown; resigned in 1843, and 
went to Brockport, where he officiated, as a stated sup- 
ply, for several months ; subsequently supplied at War- 
saw for a year, and in 1847 went to Upper Canada, and 
became pastor at Fergus, in connection with the Church 
of Scotland, and there continued till the close of life, 
Nov. 1, 1854. Mair published Four Miscellaneous Ser- 
mons. A Memoir, with a selection from his MS. ser- 
mons, was published in 1856 by A. Dingwall Fordyee. — 
Sprague, Annals, iv, 744. 

Mail s, George, an Irish minister, was bom atDrum- 
beg, Monaghan County, Ireland, in 17G1 ; received his 
classical education at the University of Glasgow; next 
studied theology; was licensed to preach by an associ- 
ate presbytery in Ireland, and, after laboring as a proba- 
tioner for eighteen months, was ordained and installed 
pastor of the congregation of Cootehill, Cavan Co. In- 
terested in the work of evangelizing in America, he left 
Ireland in May, 1793, and arrived in New York in Au- 
gust of the same year. Soon after his arrival he was 
installed pastor of the churches in the towns of Hebron 
and Argyle ; six years after he confined his labors to 
the Church in Argyle alone, and held this position until 
old age interrupted his active labors. He died in 1841. 
— Sprague, A finals of the A merican Pulpit, vol. ix. 

Maistre de Sacy. See Sacy. 

Maistre, Joseph {count) de, an eminent French 
Roman Catholic writer, the greatest advocate of Ultra- 
montanism in the 19th century, was born at Chambery 
April 1, 1753. His father was president of the senate 
of Savoy, and lie became himself a member of that body 
in 1787. When the French armies invaded Savoy in 
1792 he retired to Piedmont, where he wrote his Consid- 
erations sur la France (1796, 8vo ; three editions in one 
year). Charles Emanuel IV ealled De Maistre to Tu- 
rin, where he remained until the downfall of that prince, 
Nov. 19, 1798; he then retired to Venice, and lived there 
one year in great poverty. In 1799 he was created grand 
chancellor of Sardinia, and in September, 1802, was sent 
by that country as ambassador to Russia. While there 
he published (in 1810) his Essai sur le principe regener- 
ateur des constitutions politiqnes, a full exposition of his 
political views, advocating the principle of divine right, 
and declaring the rights of the people derived from the 
sovereign — withal a sort of theocratic form of govern- 
ment more adapted to the Middle Ages than to the 19th 
century. “M. de Maistre,” in this work, “represents 
men as connected with God by a chain which binds 
them to his throne, and holds them without enslaving 
them. To the full extent of this chain we are at liberty 
to move; we are slaves indeed, but we are freely slaves 
{ librement esclares) ; we must necessarily work out the 
purposes of the Supreme Being, and yet the actions 
by which we work out these purposes are always free. 
So far so good; but here come the peculiarities of our 
author’s system. He does not consider men as individ- 
ually responsible before God; he takes them as nations, 
and the nation, for 51. de Maistre, is made np of the 
king and the aristocracy. Even considering each order 
separately, he asserts that all the members of the same 
order are indissolubly bound together, each bearing a 
share of the mutual and joint responsibility which 
weighs on the whole order. Now let us suppose the 
case of a revolution. In those terrible events which 
follow the disregard of all the laws of right and wrong, 
although the persons who fall victims to the fury of the 
multitude may sometimes be those whose very crimes 
have called down the divine vengeance, yet very often, 
nay, in most cases, the individually innocent suffer most. 
But, then, although individually innocent, they must 
come in for the share of the solidarity which belongs to 
the whole order. This results from the fact that the 
doctrine of atonement is the principle on which rests 
the constitution of society; the sins of the guilty are 
visited on the innocent, and the blood of the innocent, 
in its turn, atones for the guilty. Here is to be found 


MAISTRE 


6G8 


MAISTRE 


the kev-stone of count De Maistre’s theory ; the Savoy- 
ard publicist develops it with all the resources of logic 
and erudition.” It lias been well remarked that a sys- 
tem such as this is fatalism of t lie very worst descrip- 
tion. Not only does it take away the free agency of 
men considered as individuals, but it effectually pro- 
claims the validity of the maxim that might is right. 
“ Wishing to transform all earthly governments into one 
homogeneous theocracy , he proposed, as a control over 
absolutism, an absolutism of a much more dangerous 
character. M. de Maistre’s leading idea is a good one: 
he wishes to appeal from the passions and depraved will 
of man to the Deity itself as to the eternal source of 
right and good ; but not being, of course, able to receive 
immediately from God the counsel and the laws he 
wishes to reduce into practice for the good of society, 
he traces them to the pope, as the vicegerent of Heav- 
en! — an error common to all reactionary movements — 
from the fear of allowing anything like vagueness to 
exist in the minds of men respecting their connection 
with the Almighty. lie is not satisfied with anything 
short of what is really tangible, visible, perceptible to 
the senses, thus forgetting the character of the true Me- 
diator. Failing to understand that both divinity and 
humanity have met together only in the man Christ 
.Jesus, he would fain make ns believe that the pope is 
‘God made manifest in the flesh.’ ” With such views, 
he could not but condemn severely the charter of 1814, 
which introduced new institutions into France, and he 
turned his face towards Russia with a view of making 
it his home. By a ukase of December, 1815, Kussia 
expelled the Jesuits. To them De Maistre and his fam- 
ily were much attached, and being on this account him- 
self suspected of proselytism, he quitted the country and 
returned to Savoy in 1817, and became minister of state. 
He died Feb. 26, 1821. 

Among the principal works of De Maistre, our special 
consideration is claimed also hv his Du Pape (Lyons, 
1819, 2 vols, 8vo; second and improved edition, 1821, 2 
vols. 8vo), m which he treats of the papacy, 1, in its 
relation to the Komish Church ; 2, to the temporal 
powers; 3, to civilization; and, 4, to the dissenting 
churches. It is a daring apology of the spiritual and 
temporal power of the pope. lie starts from the prin- 
ciple that modern nations need a guarantee against the 
abuses of sovereign power. Such guarantee, he claims, 
is not to be found either in written charters, which are 
always useless, nor in assemblies, which are powerless 
when they are not anarchic. He can find it only in a 
sovereignty superior to all others, at once independent 
and disinterested, and interfering to promote the cause 
of justice, which has been intrusted to it by God him- 
self. The Savoyard publicist’s Lean ideal of government 
is the constitution of the Middle Ages. lie describes 
it in exulting language, and crowds his margins with 
quotations from Bellarmine, Baronins, and the Triden- 
tine fathers, never suspecting that, after all, he has only 
been painting a tableau de f antaisie, a piece of historical 
inaccuracy which will match the dreamy theories of 
Boulainvilliers and Dubos. We are invited, seriously, 
to return to those happy times when royalty; while it 
retained its full volition, and was endowed with an in- 
dependent patrimony, was restrained in the exercise of 
legislative power by the clergy, the nobility, and the 
commons, each resting on its own foundation, and acting 
within its allotted sphere, while above was the papacy, 
which, by its sublime umpirage, maintained, in cases of 
collision, the harmonious co-operation of the members 
of all the body politic. We arc told to admire the no- 
ble, temperate monarchy which had grown up under 
the shelter of the Christian Church, and which, though 
never brought to perfection (this is, at least,. a candid 
acknowledgment), had yet secured to the mediaeval na- 
tions so long a career of happiness and freedom, pros- 
perity and glory. It would be a task both useless and 
unprofitable to point out all the misstatements which 
occur in the description just given. The futility of his 


scheme was demonstrated by the conduct of De Maistre 
himself. In 1804 pope Pius VII crowned Napoleon 
emperor. This, according to the theory of the work 
Du Pape , was one of those judgments by which the pa- 
pal infallibility settled political difficulties. Yet De 
Maistre speaks of this decision in the following disre- 
spectful terms ; “ The pope’s journey and the coronation 
are for the present the great subject of conversation. . . . 
All in the French Revolution is wonderfully bad, but 
this is the ne plus ultra . The crimes of an Alexander 
VI are less frightful than this hideous apostasy of his 
weak-minded successor. ... 1 wish with all my heart 
that the unfortunate pontiff would go to St. Domingo to 
crown Dessalines. When once a man of his rank and 
character so far forgets both, all that is to be hoped for 
is that he may completely degrade himself until he be- 
comes but an insignificant puppet” ( Corresp . diplom . p. 
138, 139). It was thus the great ultramontane writer 
respected papal infallibility when not in accordance with 
his own views or his passions. De VEglise Gallicane 
dans ses rapports avec le souverahi pontife (Paris, 1821, 
8vo ; Lyons, 1822) is a sort of continuation of the preced- 
ing work. It attacks the privileges of semi-indepen- 
dence claimed by the Church of France. This book, in 
which Bossuct and Flcury are somewhat roughly han- 
dled, was not well received at first by the French cleVgv. 
Abbe Baston published an answer to it under the title 
Reclamations pour VEglise de France , et pour la rerite, 
contre M. de Maistre (1821, 1824, 2 vols. 8vo); still, in 
the course of time, it was greatly instrumental in caus- 
ing the triumph of the ultramontane doctrine. Les soi- 
rees de Si.Petei’sbourg, ou Entretiens , etc. (Paris, 1821, 2 
vols. 8vo), “the best known and certainly the most 
readable work of the author,” treats of retribution, both 
here and hereafter. We cannot give here the details 
of De Maistre’s theory, but its most important features 
may be summed up thus: the thorough badness of hu- 
man nature, the necessity of atonement, the reversion 
of the merits of the innocent paying for the guilty, and 
salvation through blood. These views, in which excel- 
lent Christians have found a daring perversion of the 
most holy Christian principles, led De Maistre to justify 
the Inquisition. His apology, entitled Lettres a un gen - 
tilhomme Rnsse sur V Inquisition Espagnole (Paris, 1822, 
8vo), is, however, but a very lame defence of that atro- 
cious institution. 1 1 is violent attack against Bacon, 
Examen de la Philosophic de Bacon (Paris, 1836, 2 vols. 
8vo) is not much better. 1 1 is works are very original, 
but more in the form than in the ideas. Carrying often 
a true principle to its fullest extent, he arrives at a par- 
adox which he then proclaims as evident. “As a pam- 
phlet writer,” says Dr. M‘Clintock (in the Meth. Quart. 
Rev. 1856. p. 218), “De Maistre may be compared, in some 
respects, to Paul Louis Courier; he had the same point, 
the same Jinesse, the same elegance of style, and an ap- 
parent simplicity, which only set off with greater effect 
the home-truths he addressed to his readers; but fin- 
ished as these minor works decidedly were, true both as 
to sentiment and language, they were merely suggested 
by the events of the times, and, as such, were likely to 
lose most of their point as the course of things moved 
in a new direction. The Considerations, on the contra- 
ry, will ever retain their interest, for they discuss prin- 
ciples ; they belong to the philosophy of history. What- 
ever view we may take of the conclusions adopted by 
De Maistre, we cannot but admire both the extent of 
his learning and the depth of his thoughts; the work 
fully deserves to be placed by the student on the same 
shelf as Bossuet’s Discourse on Universal 1 Fistory .” 

Here we would notice also one or two peculiarities in 
the method of count De Maistre, which mark out his 
originality amid all the writers of his age. The first is 
that continual reference to God and to the providential 
superintendence of man’s life here below, of which we 
have before spoken. From this point of view he is ad- 
mirably placed to discuss the most serious questions, 

| and he does so with a power and an eloquence to which 


MAITLAND 


669 


MAJOR 


everything must yield (compare Ffoulkes, Christen- 
dom's Divisions , i, 200). Another remarkable point is 
the soundness of his judgment and the sagacity with 
which lie assigns, both to events and to men, their 
proper influence over the whole course of contemporary 
history. Many views, many principles now generally 
admitted, may be traced back to the Considerations , 
and have been borrowed from that extraordinary book, 
often without any acknowledgment. Sec Raymond, 
Eloge du comte Jos. de Maistre (Charabery, 1827, 8vo); 
Rodolphe de Maistre, Notice biog. sur le comte Joseph 
de Maistre (in the preface to J. de M.’s Correspondance 
et Opuscules (Par. 1851, 2 vols. 8vo ; 1853, 2 vols. 12mo) ; 
Sainte-Beuve, C ait semes du. Litndi, vol. iv, and his Por- 
traits Contemporains, vol. ii ; Yilleneuve-Arifat, Elorje du 
comte Jos. de Maistre (1853) ; Dam iron, Essai sur VII is- 
toire de la Philosophic en France ait 19 € si'ecle; Taine, 
Les Philosophes Fran gals du xix e si'ecle ; Edinburgh Re- 
view, Oct. 1852; Albert Blanc, Introduction a la Corre- 
spondance diplomatique de Joseph de Maistre ; Migne, 
Nouv. Encyclopedic Theologique , ii, 132G ; Edinb. Review , 
April, 1849; Land. Quart. Rev. 1857, art. vii; and espe- 
cially the article by Dr. M‘Clintnck in the Mcth. Quart. 
Rev. April, 185G, art. iii. (J. II. W.) 

Maitland, Samuel Roffey, D.D.,an English di- 
vine of some note, was born in London in 1792; was ed- 
ucated at Trinity College, Cambridge ; entered the law 
profession in 1816, but shortly after turned towards the 
ministry; was ordained deacon and priest in 1821 ; per- 
petual curate of Christ Church, Gloucester, in 1823-29; 
keeper of the Lambeth MSS., and librarian to the arch- 
bishop of Canterbury, in 1837. He died at Lambeth 
Palace, London, Jan. 19, 18GG. His principal theological 
publications are as follows : A n Inquiry into the Grounds 
on which the Prophetic Period of Daniel and St.John has 
been supposed to consist of 12G0 Years (Lond. 1826, 8vo) : 
— .4 Second Inquiry , etc. (1829, 8 vo) : — An Attempt to 
elucidate the Prophecies concerning A utichrist (1830, 8vo) : 
— Tracts and Documents illustrative of the History, Doc- 
trine , and Rites of the Ancient Albigenses and Waldens es 
(1832, 8 vo ): — The Dark Ages; a series of Essays in- 
tended to illustrate the state of Religion and Literature in 
the Ninth, Tenth, Eleventh , and Twelfth Centuries (re- 
printed from the British Magazine, with corrections and 
some, additions, 1844, 8vo; 2d edit. 1845, 8vo ): — Essays 
on the Subjects connected with the Reformation in England 
(reprinted, with additions, from the British Magazine , 
1849, 8vo; see London Athenamm, 1849, p. 834,835) : — 
Illustrations and Inquiries relating to Mesmerism, parts 
i-vi (1849, 8vo) : — Erurin, or Miscellaneous Essays on 
Subjects connected with the Nature, History , and Destiny 
of Man (2d edit. 1850, sm. 8vo) : — A n Essay on the Mys- 
tical Interpretation of Scripture : — Strictures on Mil- 
ner's Church History (London, 1831, Svo) : — Review of 
Fox's History of the Waldenses. — Allibone, Diet, of Brit, 
and Amer, Authors, s. v. ; Thomas, Diet, of Biography 
and Mythology, s. v. ; English Cyclopcedia, s. v. 

Maitland, William, a noted Scotch politician of 
the Reformation period, better known as ‘‘Secretary Leth- 
ington,” was born about 1525, and was educated both 
at St. Andrews and on the Continent, lie had great 
influence as a political leader, and though he became a 
convert to the Reformed doctrines about 1555, he was in 
1558 appointed secretary of state by Mary of Guise. In 
the following, year, however, he openly joined the lords 
of the Congregation, and was one of the Scotch commis- 
sioners who met the duke of Norfolk at Berwick, to ar- 
range the conditions on which queen Elizabeth would 
give them assistance. In 15G I , after the arrival of 
queen Mary from France, he was made an extraordinary 
lord of Session, lie strongly objected to the ratification 
of Knox’s Book of Discipline, and in 1563 conducted the 
prosecution raised against Knox for treason. From this 
time he appears to have lost his influence with the re- 
formers. In 1564 he held a long debate with Knox on 
the claims of the Reformed Church to be independent 


of the state. In 1566 he took part in the conspiracy 
against Rizzio, after whose assassination he was pro- 
scribed, and obliged to seek shelter for some months in 
obscurity. After queen Mary’s imprisonment (1567) in 
England he played a most unenviable part, pretending 
to Elizabeth to be one of her admirers, but really seek- 
ing all the while to protect the cause of Mary, and it is 
evident that he really never deserted her, although he 
was present at the coronation of king James AH, and al- 
though he fought on the side of her opponents on the 
field of Langside. He took part in 1568 in the confer- 
ence held at York, and there displayed such unmistaka- 
ble sympathy for Mary that the Scottish lords marked 
him as a dangerous enemy to the commonwealth, and 
in 1569 he was arrested at Stirling, but was liberated 
shortly after by an artifice of Kirkaldv of Grange. In 
1570 he openly declared for Mary, and became the soul 
of the queen’s party, in consequence of which he was 
declared a rebel, deprived of his offices and lands by the 
regent Morton, and besieged, along with Kirkaldv, in 
Edinburgh Castle. After a long resistance, the castle 
surrendered, and he was imprisoned in Leith, where he 
died (in 1573), “some,” says Melville, “supposing he 
took a drink and died, as the auld Romans were wont to 
do.” Buchanan has drawn his character with a severe 
pen in his Scottish tract entitled The Chameleon . Froude 
(x, 474) believes that Maitland died a natural death. 
Burton (Hist, of Maitland, iv, 55-57) says of Maitland 
that “his name was a byword for subtlety and state- 
craft. Yet ... if we look at his life and doings, we do 
not find he was one of those who have left the mark of 
their influence upon their age. . . . lie had great abili- 
ties, but they were rather those of the wit and rhetori- 
cian than of the practical man.” In the estimation of 
Knox, Maitland had greatly lowered himself by his un- 
kindness and vacillation, and the great reformer, in his 
dying hours even, was called upon to pronounce against 
the wary Scotch politician: “I have na warrant that 
ever he shall be well,” alluding to Maitland’s state in 
the hereafter. See Froude, Hist, of England, vol. x, ch. 
xix and xxiii ; Robertson, Hist, of Scotland (see Index). 

Maitreya, a Buddhistic divinity, according to the 
Buddhists was a disciple of the Buddha Sakyamuni, and 
a Bodhisattwa, or a man of pre-eminent virtue and sanc- 
tity. lie is classed among the gods called Tushitas, or 
“the happy,” and has generally the epithet Ajita, or 
unconquered. The Buddhists believe that he will be- 
come incarnate, and succeed Gotama (q. v.) as their fu- 
ture Buddha. In Tibetan he is called Jatnpa. A faith- 
ful representation of this Buddha, surrounded by the 
(Tibetan) goddesses Dolma, the Mantas or Buddhas of 
medicine, two ancient priests, and various saints, will be 
found in the atlas of Emil Schlagintweit’s Buddhism in 
Tibet (London and Leipzig, 1863), where an interesting 
sketch is given (p. 207 sq.) of the characteristic types 
of Buddha images, and of the measurements of Buddha 
statues made by his brothers in India and Tibet. Sec 
also Hardy, Manual of Buddhism (Index, s. v. Maitri). 

Majolists. See Sowaskei:. 

Majolus. See Clugny. 

Major, Georg, a German theologian, was born at 
Nuremberg, April 25, 1502. He studied theology under 
Luther and Melancthon, and was successively rector at 
Magdeburg (1529), superintendent at Eisleben (1536), 
and professor of theology and court-preacher at Witten- 
berg (1539). In 1544 he was made doctor of divinity, 
and two years later he was one of the representatives 
(with Bucer and Brenz) of the Protestants at the collo- 
quy at Regensburg. On the breaking out of the Smal- 
cald war, Major left Wittenberg, and received (1547) 
the appointment of superintendent and court-preacher 
at Merseburg; hut on the close of the war, next year, he 
returned to Wittenberg. After rejecting the offer of 
prominent positions, made by the king of Denmark and 
the duke of Holstein, he became, in 1552, superintend- 
ent of the Mansfeld churches. In the mean time he 


MAJOR 


670 


MAKARIJ 


had been active in supporting the Leipzic Interim, which 
asserted that good works are necessary to salvation, and 
had thus excited the suspicion of the strict Lutherans, 
who denied that proposition. Towards the close of 
1551 Amsdorf assailed Major on these grounds, and the 
clergy of the district soon joined him in opposing the 
new superintendent, as having corrupted the doctrine 
of justification by faith. Major replied to the charge 
of Amsdorf in 1552, denying its truth, and asserting his 
acceptance of the doctrine of the Church ; but, as he still 
insisted on the necessity of good works, the controversy 
continued to rage, and, as the count of Mansfeld held 
with the orthodox party, Major finally removed to 
Wittenberg. He then sought to give an unobjectiona- 
ble form to his views by teaching that while faith alone 
is essential to salvation, good works are necessary as a 
consequent on saving faith. But, despite every effort 
at reconciliation, his opponents persisted, and even went 
to the length of asserting that good works are detrimen- 
tal to salvation. The doctrines advocated by Major 
were finally branded as heretical in the Corpus doctriim 
Prutenicum , and were rejected by the compilers of the 
Formula Concordice. Towards the close of his life he 
became involved in the Crypto-calvinistic controversy 
(q. v.), and, together with the Wittenberg and Leipzic 
theologians, was compelled to subscribe to the Torgau 
articles (q. v.). He died at Wittenberg, Nov. 28, 1574, 
before the Majoristic controversy was concluded. A 
portion of his works, comprising homilies and commen- 
taries on the Gospels and on the Pauline epistles was 
published at Wittenberg in 1569, in three folio volumes. 
See Schrockh, Kirchenyeschichte seit der Reformation, iv, 
547 sq. ; Planck, Gesch. des Prot. Lehrbegrijfs , iv, 468 
sq. ; Aschbach, Kirchen-Lexikon, vol. iv, s. v.; Wetzer 
u. Welte, Kirchen-Lexikon, vol. vi, s. v. ; Krauth, Conser- 
ratire Ref. p. 147 et passim-, Kurtz, Manual Ch. Hist. 
ii, 135; Smith’s Gieseler, Fccles. History , vol. iv, § 37 ; 
Thomasius, Confess, der Evang. Luth . Kirche (Nuremb. 
1848), p. 100 sq. (G. M.) 

Major, Johann, a humanistic poet at Wittenberg 
during the latter half of the 16th century, deserves a 
place here as the greatest satirist among the Philippists , 
as the followers of Melancthon were called. He was 
born in 1533 at Joachimsthal, where Johann Mathesius 
(q. v.) became his tutor and friend. At the age of six- 
teen he went to Wittenberg, and formed a most inti- 
mate connection with Melancthon. To the influence 
of this association may doubtless be attributed his fu- 
ture course. After attaining to the degree of M.A. he 
removed to Wurzburg, with a view to succor the uni- 
versity at that place. Towards the close of 1557 the 
degree of D.D. was conferred on him, and in the follow- 
ing year he was honored with the title of crown poet. 
Beturning to Wittenberg, he was, in 1560, admitted to 
the philosophical faculty of that university, and, besides 
lecturing on poetry and the interpretation of Latin po- 
ets, he wrote occasional poems. In 1574 the Philippist 
party v r as overthrown in Electoral Saxony, and its heads 
imprisoned. It is certain that Major suffered in this 
reverse, and lie is said to have been three times impris- 
oned — atone time (from 1579 to 1581) was under sentence 
of death, although his opponents charge this, not to his 
connection with the Philippists, but to his conviction for 
criminal offences. 

The prominence with which Andreii at this time ad- 
vocated the Formula Concordia ? opened a new and wide 
lield to the vexation and sarcastic power of Major. He : 
had not subscribed to the Formula, and made it and its ' 
originators the subject of his spleen. When he ven- 
tured to do this in an official address, he was, at the be- 
ginning of 1587, expelled from the university ; but 
when the elector Christian I ascended the 'throne, the 
Philippist party was restored to favor, and Major was 
soon recalled. He did not refrain from venting his sa- 
tirical humor on his opponents, but when, in 1591. the 
elector died., and a new policy was initiated, our poet, 
with many others, was again imprisoned. So bitter was 


the feeling against him that a Wittenberg mob pelted 
him vdth stones and dirt, and even children railed at 
him as a “ Calvinistic rogue.” He was released in 1593, 
and spent the remainder of his life in a private station, 
writing only an occasional poem. He died in the Cal- 
vinistic faith at Zerbst, March 16, 1600. Major’s con- 
temporaries were united in their estimate of his poetic 
talent and of the worth of his writings. His ideal as a 
poet was Virgil. He introduced Christian thought, un- 
der Virgilian forms, into his non-controversial poems, 
while his satire, after the manner of the Prceceptor Ger- 
maniie , often degenerated into ridicule of the anti-Phi- 
lippists that was even cruel. See Frank, Johann Major , 
der Wittenberger Poet (Halle, 1863); and the same in 
Herzog, Real-Ejicyklopadie, xx, 75 sq. (G. M.) 

Major, John, a Scottish historian and theologian, 
was born at Gleghorn, East Lothian, Scotland, in 1469; 
was educated at Oxford, Cambridge, and Paris. After 
teaching a number of years in Paris, as professor of 
scholastic philosophy, he became professor of divinity, 
and subsequently provost at St. Andrew's, in Scotland. 
He died in 1547. He published Commentaries on the 
Scriptures , besides works of a secular character. — Alli- 
bone, Diet, of Brit . and A mer. A uthors , s. v. ; Thomas, 
Diet, of Biog. and Mythol. s. v. 

Majores, a name given to Jewish ministers in the 
Theodosian Code, and also by Augustine and others to 
a party called Coelicolce. made up of Jewish apostates. 
The laws were specially severe against them, three stat- 
utes of Ilonorius being aimed at them. 

Majorinus. See Donatists. 

Majoristic Controversy, named after Georg 
Major — his followers holding that good works are es- 
sential to salvation ; his opponent, Amsdorf, reprobating 
them as prejudicial to it. See Major, Georg. 

Majorists. See Major, Georg. 

Majontas ( Precedence ) is the form in ecclesiastical 
law to denote the preference of the clergy over the 
laity, as well as the rank of the Church officers. In the 
Roman Catholic Church the distinction between the 
clergy and the laity is greater than in the Protestant 
churches. In the former there is also greater distinc- 
tion in the ranks of the clergy itself. Thus an older 
ordination has precedence over a more recent ordination, 
and a higher over a lower order (c. i, 15, X, De maj. et 
obed. i, 33), excepting only an ordination conferred by 
the pope himself, as his act takes precedence in any case 
(c. vii, X, cod). In ordinations equal in rank the secu- 
lar clergy precede the regulars; and again, among the 
secular clergy, the canons of the chapter-house those of 
the collegiate ; among the orders, the regidar canons the 
monks, ami all other orders the mendicants; and among 
the latter the Dominicans precede all others (compare 
Benedict XIV, De Syn. diotc. lib. iii, c. x). This term 
expresses also the official authority, the legal power of 
the Church office. Persons who are invested with such 
offices are denominated in the Protestant churches of- 
ficials (q. v.). In the Boman Catholic Church they 
are called Church superiors (superiores ecclesiastic*), and 
as a body they make up the hierarchical rank ( status 
hierarch icus). The Bomish Church authority requires 
obedience not only of its subjects, i. e. non-officials, but 
also of its officials, who, on entering upon their office, 
vow submission and obedience to their superiors by a 
formal oath. Hence arose the dispute whether the pope 
should be accepted as the highest authority, or whether 
even he was subject to a council. See Infallibility; 
Papacy. 

Makarij, a noted Russian prelate, was born in the 
Moscovite province near the end of the 15th century, 
lie early entered the monastic state ; became archiman- 
drite (abbot) of the Lns-hezkian monastery at Mos-ha- 
isk; in 1526, archbishop of Novgorod Velikiz ; and in 
1542, finally, metropolitan of all Russia. He died at 
Moscow Dec. 31, 1564. By reason of his talents, schol- 
arship, ecclesiastic authorship, eloquence, zeal for Chris- 


MAIvAZ 


671 


MALABAR 


tian missions among the heathen, extensive activity 
and influence, and patriotism, and by reason of the sin- 
cerity of his character, Makarij figures prominently in 
Russian history. When yet archbishop, he converted 
the Ishudian tribes in the north of the empire, and is 
justly styled the “apostle of the Ishuds.” When a met- 
ropolitan, he gathered around himself numerous schol- 
ars from Russia as well as from abroad, with whose aid 
he compiled many books. His celebrated “ Book of Le- 
gends” went through more than a dozen editions, and 
was translated into German. — Wagner, Staats and Ge- 
sellsch. Lex. voL xii, s. v. 

Ma'kaz (Heb. Ma'kats , boundary ; Septuag. 

Mode v. r. Maxf-ide), a place first named among those 
designating the district of Ben-Dekar, one of Solomon’s 
purveyors (1 Kings iv,9). The associated names, Shaal- 
bim, Betli-shemesh, and Elon-beth-hanan, would seem 
to indicate a locality in the tribe of Dan, perhaps in the 
plain east of Ekron. 

Ma'ked (Ma/ceJ v. r. Mnfce/3 ; Syr. Mokor ; Vulg. 
Mageth ), one of the “strong and great cities” of Gilead 
— Josephus says Galilee, but this must be ail error — into 
which the Jews were driven by the Ammonites under 
Timotheus, and from which they were delivered by Ju- 
das Maccabreus (1 Macc. v, 26, 36 ; in the latter passage 
the name is given in the A. Y. as Maged). By Jose- 
phus (A nt. xii, 8, 3) it is not mentioned. Some of the 
other cities named in this narrative have been identi- 
fied, but no name corresponding to Maked has yet been 
discovered, and the conjecture of Schwarz (p. 230), that 
it is a corruption of Minxitu (rs*2 for PS’S), though 
ingenious, can hardly be accepted without further proof. 
— Smith. 

Makemie, Francis, a distinguished Presbyterian 
minister, was born near Rathmclton, Donegal Co., Ire- 
land, about the middle of the 17th century. After com- 
pleting his academical and theological course, he was 
licensed by the presbytery of Laggan in 1681. He un- 
dertook a mission to Barbadoes soon after, and was or- 
dained sine titulo , with a view to coming to America. 
From Barbadoes he went to Somerset Co., Ind., where 
he is supposed to have founded the Church in Snow 
llill, and from thence he removed to Virginia. In 1699 
he obtained a formal license to preach agreeably to the 
requisitions of the Toleration Act, and was very success- 
ful in his labors. He went to London in 1704, to make 
arrangements for the supply of his Church, and return- 
ed with two ministers from Ireland. In 1705 he ob- 
tained with difficulty the certificates required for the 
exercise of his ministry, and aided, in 1706, in the for- 
mation of the Philadelphia presbytery, of which he was 
moderator. He died in 1708. Makemie published A 
Catechism (1691): — An Answer to Georye Keith , etc. 
(1692) : — Truths in a New Liyht , etc. (1699) : — A plain 
and loving Persuasive to the Inhabitants of Indiana and 
] iryinia , etc. (1704): — A Letter to Lord Cornbury (Bos- 
ton, 170* ) : — An Account of his Imprisonment and Trial 
(N. Y. 1755, and since). See Sprague, A nnals , iii, 1. 

Makhe'loth (Ileb. Makheloth', P-Pp*2, assem- 
blies, as in Psa. lxviii, 27 ; Sept. M ctkt/Xw^), the twenty- 
sixth station of the Israelites in the desert, between 
Haradah and Taliath (Numb, xxxiii, 25, 26); probably 
situated on the summit north-west of Jebel el-Mukrah. 
See Exode. 

Mak'kedah (Heb. Makkedah', PlT]?*2, herdsman’s 
place ; Sept. Josephus MmcrytJd, Ant. v, 1, 17), 

a royal city of the ancient Canaanites (Josh, xii, 16), 
in the neighborhood of which was the cave where the 
five kings who confederated against Israel took refuge 
after their defeat (Josh, x, 10-29). It afterwards be- 
longed to Judah (Josh, xv, 41). Makkedah is placed 
by Eusebius and Jerome eight Roman miles to the east 
of .Eleutheropolis ( Onomast . s. v. Maceda), which would 
bring it among the mountains, as Keil observes, who 
therefore locates it to the west ( Comment , on Josh, x, 10), 


since it was situated in the plain of Judah (Josh, xv, 
41), north of Libnah (Josh, x, 29, 31) and west of Aze- 
kah (Josh, x, 10). De Saulev (Narrat. i, 438) is dis- 
posed to fix its site at a place which he names el-Mer - 
ked, on the way from Hebron to the Dead Sea, a little 
east of Jenbeh; but this is at least twenty-five miles 
from Eleutheropolis, and the spot itself was not heard 
of by Dr. Robinson, who passed along the same route. 
Porter suggests a ruin bearing the slightly similar name 
el-Klediah, on the northern slope of wady cl-Surnib, 
about eight miles north'- east of Eleutheropolis, with 
large caves adjacent ( Handbook , p. 224, 251) ; but Van 
de Velde’s selection (. Memoir , p.332) of Sumeil , a village 
on a hillock in the plain, about two and a half hours 
north-west of Beit-Jibrin (Robinson, Researches, ii, 368), 
seems more probable, as it has ancient remains, espe- 
cially a cavern (Van de Velde, Narrat.ii, 173), although 
somewhat remote from Beth-horon, where Joshua’s bat- 
tle was fought. See Joshua. The suggestion of cap- 
tain Warren ( Quarterly Statement of the “ Palestine Ex- 
ploration Fund,” April, 1871, p. 91), that Makkedah is 
the present “ village of El-Mughar (the cave)” (mean- 
ing, doubtless, the Mogharah of Van de Velde’s Map, 
though Robinson writes it Mughar, in Researches, iii, 
22, note), is quite too far north for the narrative in 
Joshua, as well as for the associated names, his proposed 
identification of which would place some, at least, of 
them (e. g. Beth-dagon, at Beit-Dejan) clearly within 
the tribe of Dan. 

Makkoth. See Talmud. 

Makowski. See Maccovius. 

Makrina. The Roman Catholic Church recognises 
two saints by this name. 

1. A Cappadocian lady, grandmother of Gregory of 
Nyssa, who suffered persecution under the reign of Max- 
imian, and wandered for a long time through the woods, 
together with her husband. She is commemorated on 
the 14th of January. 

2. The sister of St. Basil and of St. Gregory of Nyssa ; 
after the death of her father she withdrew into solitude, 
and afterwards induced her mother to establish a con- 
vent in Pontus, into which she retired. She died in 
379, after performing a great number of miracles, etc. 
Her life was written by her brother, St. Gregory. She 
is commemorated on the 19th of July. — Herzog, Real- 
Encyklop. viii, 746; Pierer, Universal- Lexikon , x, 764; 
Migne, Nouv. Encyclopedic Theologique, ii, 1298. 

Mak'tesh (Heb. Maktesh EfiDE [but with the 
art.], a mortar, as in Prov. xxvii, 12, or the sockets of a 
tooth, as in Judg. xv, 19; Sept, renders KaraK^Kopphnj, 
Vulg. Pila'), a place in or near Jerusalem, mentioned as 
inhabited,* apparently by silver-merchants (Zeph. i, 11). 
Gesenius regards it as the name of a valley, so called 
from its mortar-like shape ( Thesaurus , p. 725). The 
rabbins understand the Kedron and other less likely 
places to be meant. Ewald conjectures ( Propheten , p. 
364) that it was the “ Phoenician quarter” of the city, 
in which the traders of that nation — the Canaanites (A. 
Vers. “ merchants”), who in this passage are associated 
with Maktesh — resided, after the custom in Oriental 
towns. Dr. Barclay {City of the Great King, p. 100, 157, 
173) ingeniously suggests that it may have been a quar- 
ter devoted to minting operations, and therefore situated 
near the goldsmith’s bazaar, which was doubtless loca- 
ted somewhere in Acra or the lower city, but whether 
in the Tyropceon adjoining the Temple, where he places 
it, is uncertain. 

Malabar, a tract of country extending along the 
western coast of India, from Cape Comorin to the River 
Chandragri, in N. lat. 12° 30'. Frequently the name 
Malabar, however, is erroneously applied to the whole 
country from Bombay to the southern extremity. Brit- 
ish Malabar is situated between the 10th and 13th de- 
grees of N. lat., belongs to the presidency of Madras, and 
has a population of 1,514,909. By far the most exten- 
sive portion of Malabar lies in the vicinity of the Ghaut 


MALABAR 


672 


MALACCA 


Mountains, and consists of low hills, separated by narrow 
but fertile valleys. The upland is barren, and the cul- 
tivation much neglected; and it is in the valleys, and 
extensive ravines, and upon the banks of the rivers that 
the inhabitants chiefly reside. Until a recent period 
slavery existed in Malabar, but in 1843 a legislative en- 
actment was passed by the British government, by the 
provisions of which slavery has been abolished through- 
out the whole extent of the British possessions in the 
East. The country is distinguished by the neatness of 
its villages, which are superior to any in India, being 
built of mud, neatly smoothed, and either whitewashed 
or painted ; their picturesque effect is heightened by the 
beauty and elegant dresses of the Brahmin girls. The 
villages, as well as the bazaars, arc the work of foreign- 
ers, the aboriginal natives of Malabar living in detached 
houses surrounded with gardens. The higher ranks use 
little clothing, but are remarkably clean in their per- 
sons, and all ranks are free from cutaneous distempers 
excepting the very lowest castes. 

History . — It is supposed that Malabar was, at a very 
early period, conquered by a king from above the Ghauts. 
The Nairs may have been established at the same time 
by the conqueror, or called in by the Brahmins, as a mil- 
itary body to support the government. In process of 
time they obtained settlements in the land, and the 
chiefs, taking every opportunity to aggrandize them- 
selves, became rajahs, and from a remote period contin- 
ued to govern Malabar like independent princes. In 
3700 the Mohammedans first effected an entry' here un- 
der Hvdcr Ali, who subdued the country in 1761, and 
expelled all the rajahs except such as conciliated him 
by immediate submission. Disturbances were occa- 
sioned by these proceedings, but he succeeded in estab- 
lishing his authority, and in 1782 appointed a deputy, 
who made still further progress in subduing and settling 
the country. In 1788 Tippoo Sahib, his son, attempt- 
ed forcibly to supersede Hinduism by his own faith. 
Mohammedanism. This produced a serious rebellion, 
which, however, was soon quelled by his vigorous ad- 
ministration, but in the mean time the country was laid 
waste by his tyrannical proceedings. On the break- 
ing out of the war between Tippoo and the British in 
1790, the refractory rajahs and Nairs joined the British, 
and Tippoo was driven from the country; Malabar be- 
came a portion of the British possessions of India, and, 
with slight disturbances, has since remained in the hands 
of the English. Under the management of the British 
the country' is said to be advancing in prosperity. 

Religion . — The original manners and peculiar customs 
of the Hindus have been preserved in Malabar in much 
greater purity than in other parts of India. Besides the 
Hindus, who form the greater proportion of the inhabi- 
tants, the population consists of Moplays or Mohamme- 
dans, Christians, and Jews. The Hindus arc divided 
into the following castes, namely, Namburies, or Brah- 
mins; the Nairs of various denominations; the Leers, 
or Liars, who arc cultivators of the land, and freemen ; 
and, lastly, the Patiars, who were slaves or bondmen. 
Of these castes the most remarkable arc the Nairs, the 
pure Sudras of Malabar, who all lay claim to be born 
soldiers, though they arc of various ranks and profes- 
sions. There are altogether eleven ranks of Nairs, who 
form the militia of Malabar, under the Brahmins and 
rajahs. They are proud and arrogant to their inferiors, 
and in former times a Nair was expected instantly to 
cut down a cultivator or fisherman who presumed to de- 
file him by touching his person, or a Patiar who did not 
turn out of his road as a Nair passed. It is a remarka- 
ble custom among this class that a Nair never cohabits 
with the person whom he calls his wife; he gives her 
all proper allowances of clothing and food, but she re- 
mains in her mother’s or brother’s house, and cohabits 
with any person or persons she chooses of equal rank ; 
so that no Nair knows his own father, and the children 
all belong to the mother, whose claim to them admits of 
no doubt. This state of manners also prevails in neigh- 


boring countries. The native Mussulmans (Moplays} 
form about one fourth of the population ; thev are de- 
scended from Hindu mothers by Arab fathers, who set- 
tled in Malabar about the 7th or 8th century. 

Christianity appears at a very early period to have 
made considerable progress on the Malabar coast, and 
there is a greater proportion of persons professing that 
religion in this country than in any other part of India. 
The accommodation theory of the Jesuits was practiced 
here in the 37th century by Pater Nobili. See India, 
Three ecclesiastical chiefs— two appointed by the Portu- 
guese Church at Goa, and one by the see of Kome — ride 
over this establishment, besides the Babylonish bishops, 
who preside over the Nestorian community. The last- 
named Christians consider themselves descendants of 
converts made by the apostle Thomas in the 1st cen- 
tury. At the landing of Vasco de Gama, the native 
Christians are said to have numbered 200,000 souls. Dr. 
Buchanan, in his Journey from Madras, etc., however, 
computes them to number now only 40,000, with 44 
churches. The total number of Christians on the Mal- 
abar coast, including the Syrians, or Nestorians, is esti- 
mated at 200,000 ; 90,000 of them are settled at Travan- 
core. There are also some 30,000 Jews in Malabar. 
See Cyclop. Britannica, s. v. See Madras. 

Malacca, an extensive region, situate in Southern 
India, consisting of a large peninsula connected by the 
isthmus of Kraw, extends from the 1st to the 12th de- 
grees ofN. lat., and from the 98th to the 104th degrees 
of E. long., and is 775 miles in length by 125 in average 
breadth. The country is a long, narrow strip of land, 
traversed by a chain of lofty mountains, and covered 
with extensive forests and marshes, so that it is very 
difficult to penetrate into the interior. A range of ex- 
tremely bleak mountains, running through it from one 
extremity to the other, gives rise to innumerable streams, 
the courses of which, from the proximity of the moun- 
tains to the sea, are short, and are so obstructed at the 
mouths by bars and sand-banks that they can not be 
ascended by vessels of any size. At the southern ex- 
tremity of the continent are the islands of Bintang, 
Batang, and Singapore, with many others, so thickly 
clustered together that they are only separated from the 
continent by narrow straits, and seem to be a prolonga- 
tion of the land. On the west coast also there are nu- 
merous islands. 

History . — The political state of Malacca has been sub- 
ject to many revolutions, having been occasionally de- 
pendent on Siam when that monarchy was in the height 
of its power, and when its supremacy was owned by the 
whole peninsula. But, since the Siamese have yielded 
to the increasing power of the Burmans, all the southern 
portion of the peninsula has shaken off the yoke, and 
the northern states pay only a moderate tribute. The 
whole of the sea-coast from that latitude to Port Koma- 
nia is still possessed by the Malays, who are mixed in 
some places with the burgesses from Celebes, and who 
have a small settlement at Salcngore. The northern 
and inland parts of the peninsula are inhabited by the 
Patanv people, who appear to be a mixture of the Siam- 
ese and Malays, and who occupy independent villages. 
The negro race is found in the interior among the ab- 
original natives. The great majority of the inhabitants 
are, however, of the Malay race, who are well known 
and widely diffused among all the eastern islands. The 
origin of this remarkable race is not distinctly known ; 
they are understood, however, not to be natives of this 
country, but to have come originally from the district of 
Palembang, in the interior of Sumatra, situate on the 
banks of the River Malaya. Having crossed over about 
the end of the 12th century to the opposite continent, 
they, in 1252, founded the city of Malacca. Sultan 
Mohammed Shah, who ascended the throne in the 
13th century, was the first Mussulman prince who ex- 
tended his rule over Malacca. During part of the 15tli 
century' Malacca was under Siamese sovereigns. In 
1509 sultan Mahmud repelled the aggression of the 


MALACHI 


673 


MALACHI 


king of Siam, but in 1511 he was conquered by the Por- 
tuguese under Albuquerque. In 1642 it became the 
possession of the Dutch, and in 1824 it was finally trans- 
ferred to the British among the cessions made by the 
king of Netherlands in exchange for the British posses- 
sions oil the island of Sumatra, E. long. 100°, N. lat. 5° 
(comp. Cyclop. Brit. s. v.). 

Religion. — Until the inroads of the Mohammedans 
in the 13th century, the inhabitants of Malacca were 
pagans or followed some corrupt form of Hindu idol- 
atry. With the Mussulman reign the religion of the 
Crescent became the predominating belief. Christian- 
ity was introduced in the 16th century by the Portu- 
guese. One of the earliest laborers here was the re- 
nowned Spanish Jesuit, Francis Xavier (q. v.). Unfor- 
tunately, however, for the success of the Gospel truth, 
the conduct of the Romish priesthood and of the Portu- 
guese authorities was very unkind toward the natives. 
Not much better was the influence of the Dutch. Though 
Protestantism, with their entrance, superseded Roman- 
ism in a measure, the government hesitated to encourage 
the Christian missions, and gave great liberty to Moham- 
medans, lest the latter should be tempted to insurrection, 
and Holland be deprived of these valuable possessions. 
To this day the Mussulmen continue to make converts in 
Malacca. The Romanists maintain a suffragan bishop at 
the capital (of like name as the country). For further 
details on the success of Christianity in Malacca at pres- 
ent, see the articles India ; Malays. See also Grunde- 
mann, Missionsatlas, No. 7, 21, and 24 ; Cameron, Our 
Trap. Possess, in Malayan India (Lond. 1865). 

Llal'achi (Ileb. Malaki', messenger ; Sept, 

in the title M nXnymc, but in eh. i, 1 it renders ayyt- 
Xog avrov, Vulg. Malachias), the last of the minor 
prophets, and the latest writer in the canon of the O. T. 
(comp. ch. iv, 4, 5, 6). What is known of him is so in- 
timately connected with his prophecies that it will be 
most convenient to consider the whole subject together. 
In doing so we freely use the articles in Smith’s and 
Kitto’s Dictionaries. 

I. Personal A ccount. — The name Malaehi is rendered 
by some my angel , but it is usually regarded as contracted 
from Malachijah, “messenger of Jehovah,” like Abi (2 
Kings xviii, 2) from Abijah (2 Chron. xxix, 1). ^ The 
traditionists regard the name as having been given to 
the prophet on account of the beauty of his person and 
his unblemished life. The name means an angel , angels 
being, in fact, the messengers of God; and, as the 
prophets are often styled angels or messengers of Jeho- 
vah, it is supposed by some that “Malaehi” is merely a 
general title descriptive of this character, and not a 
proper name. So Hengstenberg, Christol. iii, 372 sq. 
Of his personal history nothing is known (see Dr. Da- 
vidson in Horne's Introd. new ed. ii, 894 sq.). A tradi- 
tion preserved in Pseudo-Epiphanius {I)e Vitis Proph.') 
relates that Malaehi was of the tribe of Zebulun, and 
born after the captivity at Sopha (2o0«, VSaphir) hi 
the territory of that tribe. According to the same 
apocryphal story he died young, and was buried with 
his fathers in his own country. Jerome, in the preface 
to his Commentary on Malaehi , mentions a belief which 
was current among the Jews, that Malaehi was identical 
with Ezra the priest, because the circumstances recorded 
in the narrative of the latter arc also mentioned by the 
prophet. The Targum of Jonathan ben-Uzziel, on the 
words “by the hand of Malaehi” (i, 1), gives the gloss 
“whose name is called Ezra the scribe.” With equal 
probability Malaehi has been identified with Mordecai, 
Nehemiah, and Zerubbabel. The Sept., as above noted, 
renders “by Malaehi” (Mai. i, 1), “by the hand of his 
angel;” and this translation appears to have given rise 
to the idea that Malaehi, as well as Haggai and John 
the Baptist, was an angel in human shape (coinp. Mai. 
iii, 1 ; 2 Esdr. i, 40 ; Jerome, Comm, in Hag. i, 13). Cyril 
alludes to this belief only to express his disapprobation, 
and characterizes those who hold it as romancers (ot 
Y.-U u 


partly tppaiptpdi'iicaoiv, ic. r. X.). The current opinion 
of the Jews is that of the Talmud, in which this ques- 
tion is mooted, and which decides, it seems to us right- 
ly, that this prophet is not the same with Mordecai, or 
Ezra, or Zerubbabel, or Nehemiah, whose claims had all 
been advocated by different parties, but a distinct person 
named Malaehi (Bab. Megillah , xv, 1). Another He- 
brew tradition associates Malaehi with Haggai and 
Zecliariah as the companions of Daniel when he saw the 
vision recorded in Dan. x, 7 (Smith’s Select Discourses , 
p. 214; A.D. 1660), and as among the first members of 
the Great Synagogue, which consisted of 120 elders (Is- 
idore, De Vita et Morte Sand. ch. li). For a notice of 
prophecy of the succession of the Roman pontiffs at- 
tributed to him, see the Studien u. Kritiken , 1857, p. 555 
sq.). See Malaciiy, St. 

Ii. Date of his Prophecies. — Although there has been 
a faint disposition to regard Zechariah as the last of the 
prophets (Laetant. De Vera Sapent, iv, 5), the received 
opinion decides for Malaehi. Accordingly Abcn-Ezra 
calls him “the end of the prophets;” Kimchi, “the last 
of them;” and not seldom he is distinguished by the 
rabbins as “ the seal of the prophets.” Cyril makes him 
contemporary with Haggai and Zechariah, or a little 
later. Syncellus (p. 240 B) places these three prophets 
under Joshua the son of Josedec. That Malaehi was 
contemporary with Nehemiah is rendered probable by a 
comparison of ii, 8 with Neh. xiii, 15; ii, 10-16 with 
Neh. xiii, 23, etc.; and iii, 7-12 with Neh. xiii, 10, etc. 
That he prophesied after the times of Haggai and Zech- 
ariah is inferred from his omitting to mention the res- 
toration of the Temple, and from no allusion being made 
to him by Ezra. The captivity was already a thing of 
the long past, and is not referred to. The existence of 
the Temple-service is presupposed in i, 10; iii, 1, 10. 
The Jewish nation had still a political chief (i, 8), dis- 
tinguished by the same title as that borne by Nehe- 
miah (Neh. xii, 26), to which Gesenins assigns a Per- 
sian origin. Hence Yitringa concludes that Malaehi 
delivered his prophecies after the second return of Ne- 
hemiah from Persia (Neh. xiii, 6), and subsequently to 
the thirty-second year of Artaxerxes Longimanus (B.C. 
cir. 420), which is the date adopted by lvennicott and 
Hales, and approved by Davidson ( Introd . p. 985). The 
date B.C. 410 cannot be far from correct. It may be 
mentioned that in the Seder Olam Rabba (p. 55, ed. 
Meyer) the date of Malachi’s prophecy is assigned, with 
that of Haggai and Zechariah, to the second year of 
Darius ; and his death in the Seder Olam Zuta (p. 105) 
is placed, with that of the same two prophets, in the 
fifty-second year of the Medes and Persians. The prin- 
cipal reasons adduced by Yitringa, and which appear 
conclusively to fix the time of Malachi’s prophecy as 
contemporary with Nehemiah, are the following : The 
offences denounced by Malaehi as prevailing among the 
people, and especially the corruption of the priests by 
marrying foreign wives, correspond with the actual 
abuses with which Nehemiah had to contend in his ef- 
forts to bring about a reformation (comp. Mai. ii, 8 with 
Neh. xiii, 29). The alliance of the high-priest’s family 
with Tobiah the Ammonite (Neh. xiii, 4, 28) and San- 
ballat the Horonite had introduced neglect of the cus- 
tomary Temple-service, and the offerings and tithes due 
to the Levites and priests, in consequence of which the 
Temple was forsaken (Neh. xiii, 4-13) and the Sabbath 
openly profaned (ver. 15-21). The short interval of 
Nehemiah’s absence from Jerusalem had been sufficient 
for the growth of these corruptions, and on his return 
he found it necessary to put them down with a strong 
hand, and to do over again the work that Ezra had done 
a few years before. From the striking parallelism be- 
tween the state of things indicated in Malachi’s proph- 
ecies and that actually existing on Nehemiah’s return 
from the court of Artaxerxes, it is on all accounts highly 
probable that the efforts of the secular governor were on 
this occasion seconded by the preaching of “Jehovah’s 
messenger,” and that Malaehi occupied the same posi- 


MALACHI 


674 


MALACHI 


tion with regard to the reformation under Nehemiah 
as Isaiali held in the time of Hezekiah, and Jeremiah 
in that of Josiah. The last chapter of canonical Jew- 
ish history is the key to the last chapter of its proph- 
ecy. See Noel Alexander, J)e Malachia Prophet a, in 
his Ilist. Ecctes. iii, 042 sq. ; Yitringa, idem, in his Oh- 
sercationes Socice, vol. ii ; llcbenstreit, Disp. in Mai. 
(Lips. 1731 sq.). 

III. Contents of the Booh . — The prophecies of Malaclii 
are comprised in four chapters in our version, as in the 
Sept., Vulgate, and Peshito-Svriac. In the Hebrew the 
3d and 4th form but one chapter. The whole prophecy 
naturally divides itself into three sections, in the first 
of which Jehovah is represented as the loving father 
and ruler of his people (i, 2— ii, 9) ; in the second, as the 
supreme God and father of all (ii, 10-16); and in the 
third, as their righteous and final judge (ii, 17-eml). 
These may be again subdivided into smaller sections, 
each of which follows a certain order : first, a short sen- 
tence; then the sceptical questions which might be 
raised by the people; and, finally, their full and trium- 
phant refutation. The formal and almost scholastic 
manner of the prophecy seemed to Ewald to indicate 
that it was rather delivered in writing than spoken pub- 
licly. But though this may be true of the prophecy in 
its present shape, which probably presents the substance 
of oral discourses, there is no reason for supposing that it 
was not also pronounced orally in public, like the warn- 
ings and denunciations of the older prophets, however it 
may differ from them in vigor of conception and high 
poetic diction. 

1. The first section of the prophet’s message consists 
of two parts; the first (i, 1-8) addressed to the people 
generally, in which Jehovah, by his messenger, asserts 
his love for them, and proves it, in answer to their re- 
ply, li Wherein hast thou loved us?” by referring to the 
punishment of Edom as an example. The second part 
(i, 6— ii, 9) is addressed especially to the priests, who had 
despised the name of Jehovah, and had been the chief 
movers of the defection from his worship and covenant. 
They are rebuked for the worthlessness of their sacri- 
fices and offerings, and their profanation of the Temple 
thereby (i, 7-14). The denunciation of their offence is 
followed by the threat of punishment for future neglect 
(ii, 1-3), and the character of the true priest is drawn as 
the companion picture to their own (ii, 5-9). 

2. In the second section (ii, 10-16) the prophet re- 
proves the people for their intermarriages with the idol- 
atrous heathen, and the divorces by which they sepa- 
rated themselves from their legitimate wives, who wept 
at the altar of Jehovah, in violation of the great law 
of marriage which God. the father of all, established at 
the beginning. 

3. The judgment, which the people lightly regard, is 
announced with all solemnity, ushered in by the advent 
of the Messiah. The Lord, preceded by his messenger, 
shall come to his Temple suddenly, to purify the land 
from its iniquity, and to execute swift judgment upon 
those, who violate their duty to God and their neighbor. 
The first part (ii. 17— iii, 5) of the section terminates with 
the threatened punishment ; in the second (iii, 6-12) the 
faithfulness of God to his promises is vindicated, and 
the people are exhorted to repentance, with its attendant 
blessings; in the third (iii. 13-4 v, 6) they are reproved 
for their want of confidence in God, and for confusing 
good and evil. The final severance between the right- 
eous and the wicked is then set forth, and the great day 
of judgment is depicted, to be announced by the coming 
of Elijah, or John the Baptist, the forerunner of Christ 
(Matt. xi. 11; xvii, 10-13). 

IV. Style . — The diction of Malaclii offers few, if any, 
distinguishing characteristics. 11 is language is suitable 
to the manner of his propliecv. Smooth and easy to a 
remarkable degree, it is the style of the reasoner rather 
than of the poet. The rhythm and imagery of his 
writings arc substantially those of the old prophets, but 
they possess no remarkable vigor or beauty. We miss 


the fiery prophetic eloquence of Isaiah, and have in its 
stead the calm and almost artificial discourse of the 
practiced orator, carefully modelled upon those of the 
ancient prophets. His phraseology is accounted for by 
his living during that decline of Hebrew poetry which 
we trace more or less in all the sacred writings posterior 
to the captivity. In general the language is concise, 
clear, and polished, and the manner of introducing a new 
line of argument or a new range of thought is most 
striking. Here the peculiarity is to be noticed, that 
there is no longer the ancient dramatic manner display- 
ed, but a kind of dialogue has taken its place, which is 
carried on between God and the people or the priests, 
whose half-mocking questions are enlarged upon and 
finally answered with scorn by the month of the mes- 
senger. He seems fully aware of being the last of the 
sacred bards (iii, 1 and 22), and the epoch of transition 
from the glowing energetic fulness of the inspired seer, 
who speaks to the people as the highest power sud- 
denly and forcibly moves him, to the carefully studied 
and methodically constructed written discourse, becomes 
strangely apparent in him. We find both the ancient 
prophetic improvised original exhortation, with its rep- 
etitions and apparent incongruities, and the artificially 
composed address, with its borrowed ideas well arranged 
and its euphonious words well selected. This circum- 
stance has probably also given rise to the notion that 
we have only in his book a summary of his orations: a 
work containing, as it were, the substance only of his 
addresses, written out by himself from his recollections 
— an opinion which we do not share. Of peculiarities 
of phraseology we may notice the occurrence of passages 
like tp a czr\i< xil’T (ii, 3), ‘nrmb-i? Din nos 
(ii, 16), etc. 

Y. Canonicity and Integrity . — The claim of the book 
of Malaclii to its place in the canon of the Old Testa- 
ment has never been disputed, and its authority is estab- 
lished by the references to it in the New Testament 
(Matt, xi, 10; xvii. 12; Mark i,2; ix, 11,12; Luke i, 
17 ; Bom. ix, 13). Thilo, Josephus. Melito, Jerome, and 
other ancient authorities, mention it, and quote from it 
as in accordance with our present copies. Nor is there 
anything, either in its language or the circumstances of 
its time, the manners and customs touched upon, or its 
topographical and geographical allusions, that could give 
rise to the slightest critical suspicion. 

Its text is one of the purest and best preserved, and 
no glosses to it are to be found in the Codd.,such as had 
to be added to correct the corruptions of other books. 
The differences in the various ancient versions arise 
only from the differences of the vowels assumed or found 
by the translators in their copies. The few variants 
which occur in the different texts are so unimportant 
that they do not call for any detailed remark. 

VI. Commentaries . — Special exegetical helps on the 
whole book are as follows, a few of the most important 
of which we designate by an asterisk prefixed: Ephra- 
cm Syrus, Explanation (in Syriac, in his Opp. v, 312); 
Kupertus Tniticnsis, In Mai. (in his Opp. i, 520); D. 
Kimchi and S. Jarchi’s commentaries, tr. into Latin by 
I)e Muis (Paris, 1018, 4to); Aben-Ezra’s and other Jew- 
ish commentaries, tr. into Latin by Hebenstreet (Lips. 
1740. 4to); I ). Kimchi’s and Aben-Ezra's commentaries, 
in Latin by Bohle (Lost. 1037, 4to) ; Kimchi’s alone, by 
C’arpzov (Lips. 1679, 8vo), by Munster (Basil. 1 530, 8vo) ; 
Aben-Ezra’s alone, by Minister (ib. 1530, 8vo), by Borg- 
wall (Fpsal. 1707, 8vo); Abrabanel’s, by Meyer (Gam- 
mon. 1085, 4to); Luther, Commentarius (in Ojp.. Wit- 
tenb. edit., iv, 520; in German, by Agricola, 1555) ; Me- 
lancthon, Explications (Yitemb. 1553: also in Opp. ii, 
541); 1 )raconis, Explanationes (Lips. 1504, folio) ; Chy- 
tranis, Explicatio (Lost. 1568, 8vo; also in Ojp. ii, 455) ; 
M oiler, Expos it io (Yitemb. 1569, 8vo); Brocardus, Inter- 
pret utio [including Cant., Hag., and Zeeh.] (L. B. 1580, 
8vo); Gryna*ns, Hypomnemata (Gen. 1582, 8vo ; Basil. 
1583, 1612, 4to); Polanns, Analysis (Basil. 1597, 1606, 


MALACHY 


675 


MALACHY 


8vo) ; Baldwin, Commentarius [includ. Hag. and Zech.] 
(Viterab. 1G10, 8vo) ; De Quires, Commentarii [includ. 
Nall.] (Hispal. 1622; Lugd. 1623, fol.V, Tarnow, Com- 
mentarius (Host. 1624,4to) ; Stock and TorsheUjCWurcew- 
tary (Lond. 1641, fol.); Acosta, Commentarius [including 
Rutli, etc.] (Lugd. 1641, fol.) ; Sclater, Commentary (Lon- 
don, 1650, 4to); Ursinus, Commentarius (Francof. 1G52, 
8vo); Martinas, Observationes (Groning. 1647, 4to; 1658, 
8vo) ; Varenius, Trifolium [including Hag. and Zech.] 
(Rost. 1662, 4to) ; Rococlc, Commentary (Oxf. 1677, fob; 
also in Hortta, i, 19); Van Til, Commentarius (L.Ib 1701, 
4to) ; Kbppen, Observationes (Grvph. 1708,4to) ; \Y esseh 
Enucleatio (Lub. 1729, 4to); * Ve i ic ma, Com m enta ri us 
(Leon. 1759, 4to); Fischer, Prolusio (Lips. 1759, etc.); 
Bahrat, Commentarius (Lips. 1768, 8vo) ; *Faber, Com- 
ment atio (Onold. 1779, 4to) ; Rosen m tiller, Scholia (Lips. 
1828, 8yo); *Reinke, Commentar (Giessen, 1856, 8vo) ; 
*Moore, Commentary [including Mag. and Zech.] (N. V. 
1856, 8vo) ; Kohler, Erklarung (Erlang. 18G5, 8vo). See 

V RO PH ETS, M I XOK. 

Mal'achy (Vulg. Malaehias ), a familiar form (2 
Esdr. i, 40) of the name of the prophet Malacui. 

Malachy, St., archbishop of Armagh, one of the 
most noted characters in Irish Church History, was born 
of a noble family at Armagh about 1 195. While yet a 
youth he retired from the world to subject himself to a 
most rigid asceticism under the abbot Imar of Armagh. 
II is humility and fervor soon gained him a great repu- 
tation for sanctity, and. quite contrary to the canonical 
rule, he was ordained priest when only twenty-five years 
old, by Celsus, then archbishop of Armagh, who took a 
special interest in Malachy, and favored him in many 
ways. Me also employed Malachy as assistant in the 
discharge of the arc hi episcopal office, Celsus intending 
thus gradually to introduce Malachy to the archiepisco- 
pal duties, with a view of securing him as successor. 
Of these opportimities Malachy availed himself for the 
furtherance of a plan he had long cherished, that of 
bringing the Irish Church, which since the conquest 
of the south-western provinces by the Normans had re- 
mained independent of Rome, into subjectivity to the 
papal chair. Malachj' gradually introduced the Roman 
method of reciting the hours, and also established the 
rites of confession, confirmation, ecclesiastical marriage, 
etc., in the several convents. Then, in order to become 
better acquainted with the details of the Roman Catho- 
lic ritual, he resided for some years with bishop Malehus 
of Lismore, also a native of Ireland, but who had been a 
monk of Winchester, England, and had there become 
thoroughly acquainted with the practices of Rome. 
L T pon his return to his native land, Malachy was en- 
gaged by his friends for the restoration of the Bangor 
monastery, which had remained in ruins since its de- 
struction by the Danes, and which was now the posses- 
sion of Malachy’s uncle. Assisted by ten monastic as- 
sociates, he erected an oratory and a small house for 
their accommodation, and, as their superior, remained 
there until about 1225, when he was called away to pre- 
side over the see of Connereth (Connor), where, by un- 
wearied exertions, he built up the cause of Christianity. 
About 1129 he was further promoted by a call to the 
archbishopric of Armagh, the place for which Celsus 
had long intended him. Malachy accepted the posi- 
tion, however, only upon condition that he should be 
permitted to resign it “as soon as it was rescued from 
its present unbecoming situation.” Hitherto, by cus- 
tom, the archiepiscopacv had been hereditary, and in 
consequence, though Celsus had himself nominated Mal- 
aehv, the latter had not undisputed possession of the 
primal ial see until about 1135, when he at once applied 
himself most earnestly and zealously to perfecting the 
reforms he had inaugurated while yet with Celsus. Pre- 
vious to Malachy’s accession to the arch-see there never 
had been a hierarchy or a legalized support for religion 
in the Irish Church. The ministry had been sustained 
by voluntary offerings, aud in some instances by the 


donation of Tremon, or free lands, the rents of which 
were to be appropriated annually to the bishop and the 
poor. These lands, however, were neither large nor nu- 
merous. During the commotions of the 10th and 1 1th 
centuries those which had been given to Armagh were 
again claimed by the lineal descendants of the original 
donors as their rightful inheritance. At this time they 
had been thus held for eight successive generations. 
Malachy’s great endeavor was to do away with this 
abuse. See Impkopkiatiox. But he failed to accom- 
plish this object, and in consequence resigned the pri- 
matial office and retired to the bishopric of Down, hith- 
erto a part of his former see of Connor. 

Malachy untiringly devoted himself to the one great 
object likely to be successfully accomplished — the Ro- 
manizing of the Irish Church. To accomplish this ob- 
ject — the greatest task which could have been under- 
taken by any person in his day, and which in conse- 
quence has made the name of Malachy one of the most 
prominent connected with the ecclesiastical annals of Ire- 
land — he first travelled extensively in his own country, 
and then all the way to the Imperial City, where he was 
affectionately received by the pope (Innocent II), bishops, 
and cardinals, all vying with each other in their atten- 
tions to him. The pallium, or pontifical investure, how- 
ever, for which he had come, the pope refused to grant 
until a request for union with Rome should come from 
one of the Irish synods. Malachy received, however, a 
sure proof of the pleasure of his holiness with the proposed 
scheme in his appointment to the legateship for all Ire- 
land, and returned to his native land expectant of the 
immediate realization of his life-long dream. On his 
way homeward he became intimately acquainted with 
Bernard of St. Clairvaux, whom he had already vis- 
ited on his way towards the Eternal City, and so 
charmed was he with the order and rule of the Cister- 
cian monastery that he determined to establish the or- 
der also in his country, and in 1J42 opened the first 
Cistercian monastery in Ireland. In the mean time, 
however, Malachy busily employed himself, his legative 
power also, in behalf of union, and in 1148 at last suc- 
ceeded in moving a synod to make the request which 
Rome demanded previous to the bestowal of the pallium 
on the Irish clergy. It is, however, not a little remark- 
able that the synod from which this very important re- 
quest emanated v r as not one convened in any province 
or principal city. It was held in Inis Padrig (Pat- 
rick’s Island), a small, inconsiderable island near the 
Sherries, in the northern channel of Ireland (Havertv’s 
History of Ireland [New York, 1866], p. 161). Could no 
more conspicuous place be found? From this and other 
internal evidences there is abundant reason to infer that 
the Irish clergy were not then in favor of union with 
Rome. The request, however, was issued, and St. Mal- 
achy set off immediately with it, expecting to meet the 
pope (now' Eugene III) at Clairvaux; but, having been 
long delayed in England by the jealousy of king Ste- 
phen, Malachy, to his sore disappointment, did not reach 
there till the pope had left. Shortly afterwards he was 
taken ill. and died (1148) in the arms of his friend and 
future biographer, St. Bernard. Although Malachy did 
not personally obtain the cherished wish of his heart, 
he yet inaugurated and put in train the measures which 
brought the pallium a few years later. 

St. Malachy was by far the most prominent and pow- 
erful native ecclesiastic of Ireland in her early days. 
■‘Ilis personal influence,” says Todd {Irish Ch. p. 116), 
“ was so great that he was able to direct the minds of 
his countrymen as he saw' fit;” and for this he w’as ad- 
mirably fitted by his descent, his learning, his eloquence, 
and his fascinating address. In A. I). 1152 St. Bernard 
v’rote his Life in elegant mediaeval Latin. Previous to 
an acquaintance with the Irish saint. Bernard had writ- 
ten many hard things against the Irish, calling them 
“a stiff-necked, intractable, and ungovernable race;” but, 
in reference to Malachy, he declared that he could not 
find w’ords to express his admiration of the saint. 


MALAGRIDA 


C76 


MALAX 


A curious Prophecy concerning the Future Roman Pon- 
tiffs is extant under the name of Malachy. It designates, 
by a few brief phrases, the leading characteristics of each 
successive reign, and in some instances these' descriptive 
characteristics have proved so curiously appropriate as 
to lead to some discussion. The characteristic of Pio 
Nono, Crux de Cruce (cross after cross), was the subject 
of much speculation. That the prophecy really dates 
from the time of St. Malachy no scholar now supposes ; 
it was unknown not only to his biographer, St. Bernard 
( Liber de vita S. Mai), but neither does any other au- 
thor allude to this work until the beginning of the 17th 
century. It may be a sufficient indication of its worth 
to state that neither Baronins nor any of his continu- 
ators deemed it deserving of attention. It is now sup- 
posed to have been prepared in the conclave of 1590 by 
the friends of cardinal Simoncelli, who is clearly de- 
scribed in the work (comp. Ddllinger, Fables respecting 
the Popes of the Middle Ages , edited by Prof. II. B. 
Smith [Dodd and Mead, N.Y., 1872, 12mo], p. 150 sq.). 
See Menestrier, Traite sur les propheties attributes a 
saint Malachie ; John Germano, Vita gesti e predizioni 
del padre san Malachia (Naples, 1670, 2 vols. 4to) ; Bre- 
nan, Eccles. Ilist. of Ireland, p. 267 sq. ; Todd, Hist. A nc. 
Ch. in Ireland , p. 106-117 ; Inett, Origines A nglicance (see 
Index); Jahrb. dcutsch. Theol. 1871, p.564. (J. II. W.) 

Malagrida, Gabriele, an Italian theologian and 
preacher, who flourished in Portugal in the first half of 
the 18th century, was born in the Milanese in 1689. He 
entered the Order of the Jesuits, removed to Portugal, 
and became popular as a pulpit orator and a theological 
writer. In 1758, when an attempt at assassination was 
made on Joseph I, the then reigning monarch of Portu- 
gal, the Jesuits were charged with the crime (they were 
shortly after expelled from the kingdom) ; Malagrida 
was suspected of complicity, and arrested forthwith. 
Freed from this charge, he was accused of spreading 
heretic doctrines, and suffered death at the stake in 
1761. A list of his writings is given in Iloefer, Four. 
Biog. Generate , vol. xxxii, s. v. See Platel. Relazione 
della Condemna ed Eseeuzione del Gesuita G. Malagrida 
(1761). 

Malakans, or Milk-eaters (Russian Molocani. i. 
e. those -who, contrary to the rule of the Eastern Church, 
take milk on fast-days), is the name of a religious sect 
in the Russo-Greek Church. The name Malakans is a 
term of contempt applied to these religionists, and orig- 
inated, as the word Shaker, Methodist, etc., among those 
who did not approve of the movement. They them- 
selves like to be called Gospel-Men. They were first 
brought into notice by the zeal of a Prussian prison- 
er of war, about the middle of last century. lie set- 
tled in a village of southern Russia, and spent his life in 
explaining the Scriptures to the villagers, and in visit- 
ing from house to house. After his death they ac- 
knowledged him as the founder of their new religious 
belief. The Malakans acknowledge the Bible as the 
Word of God, and the Trinity of the Godhead. They 
admit the fall of Adam, and the resurrection of Christ. 
They teach that Adam's soul only, and not his body, 
was made after God’s image. The Ten Commandments 
are received among them. Idolatry and the worship of 
images are forbidden. It is considered sinful to take an 
oath, and the observance of the Sabbath is strictly en- 
joined ; so much so that, like many of the Oriental sects, 
they devote Saturday evening to preparation for the 
Sabbath. They are firm believers in the Millennium, and 
are improperly described as followers of the fanatic Tc- 
renti Bcloreff, who was, in fact, a member of their body. 
He announced in 183,8 the coming of the Lord within 
two years and a half. Many Malakans, in consequence, 
abandoned their callings, and waited the event in pray- 
ir and fasting. Bcloreff iiersuaded himself that, like 
Elijah, he should ascend to heaven on a certain day in a 
chariot of fire. Thousands of the M ilk-eaters came from 
all parts of Russia to witness this miracle. Bcloreff ap- 
peared, majestically seated in a chariot, ordered the mul- 


titude to prostrate themselves, and then, opening his 
arms like an eagle spreading his wings, he leapt into 
the air, but, dropping down on the heads of the gaping 
multitude, was instantly seized and dragged off to pris- 
on as an imposter, lie died soon after, no doubt in a 
state of insanity, declaring himself to be the prophet of 
God. But many of the Malakans still believe in his di- 
vine mission. A considerable number of his followers 
afterwards emigrated to Georgia, ancl settled in sight of 
Mount Ararat, expecting the Millennium. They spend 
whole days and nights in prayer, and have all their 
goods in common. See Millenarians in Russia. 
These milk-people deny the sanctity and use of fasts, 
holding that men who have to work require good food, 
to be eaten in moderation all the year round — no day 
stinted, no day in excess. They prefer to live by the 
laws of nature, asking and giving a reason for every- 
thing they do. They set their faces against monks and 
popes. In Russia they suffered sore persecution under 
the late emperor Nicholas. Sixteen thousand men and 
women were seized by the police, arranged in gangs, 
and driven with rods and thongs across the dreary 
steppes and yet more dreary mountain crests into the 
Caucasus. In that fearful day a great many of the Milk- 
eaters fled across the Truth into Turkey, where the 
Sultan gave them a village called Tuleha lor their resi- 
dence. The Methodist mission at that place, under the 
leadership of Mr. Flocken. labored among them for some 
time ; at present, however (1872), the mission is discon- 
tinued. See Dixon, Free Russia, p. 138 sq. ; Marsden, 
History of Christian Clmrches and Beets, ii. 234; Le Ras- 
kol, Essai historique et critique sur les sectes religievscs 
de la Russe (Baris, 1854, 8vo). See Russia. (J. H. W.) 

Malan, Abraiiam IIexri C.esar, D.D., one of the 
most noted of Swiss Protestant divines of our day, was 
born at Geneva July 7, 1787. When but an infant of 
three years Malan exhibited great powers of intel- 
lectual superiority, and the hopes which he awakened 
while yet an inmate of the cradle by securing a prize 
for reading at the Geneva Academy were more than 
realized in his manhood and hoary age. The poverty 
of his parents induced him to turn aside from an intel- 
lectual career to which he so much inclined, and to en- 
ter the mercantile profession at eighteen, but he soon 
returned again to his former mode of life, and decided 
upon the ministry. In 1810 he was consecrated for this 
sacred work bv the Venerable Compagnie , or Presbytery 
of Geneva, and he at once made a name for himself as a 
pulpit orator of unusual eloquence. He was appointed 
preacher at the Geneva cathedral, and from the pulpit 
whence formerly the immortal Calvin had thundered 
forth the unalterable decrees of the Holy One, Malan 
now r taught the Word of God in a most brilliant oratory. 
Unfortunately, however, the spiritual life built up by 
Calvin and his successors in the hearts of their forefa- 
thers had been suffered to die out. and in the hearts of 
the hearers of Malan, as well as in the heart of the 
preacher himself, there was a lukewarmness, aye a cold- 
ness. to all religion — rationalism sat enthroned in the 
pulpit and the pev r of Geneva; the forms of the Church 
founded by Calvin remained, but the spiritual life had 
departed. The young preacher endeavored to infuse 
the vitality of his own fervid spirit into the lifeless 
forms and the latitudinarian creed of the “Venerable 
Compagnie,” but in vain ; both the preacher and the 
auditor lacked that most essential element of a Chris- 
tian life, the possession of the truly orthodox belief 
and trust in a divine Saviour. In the midst of his de- 
spair Malan was brought under the influence of those 
noble-hearted Scotchmen, the Haldane brothers, and by 
them and our late Dr. John M. Mason (q. v.), and Mat- 
thias Bruen, was led to see the error of a faith built on 
a human Saviour, and brought to acknowledge the di- 
vinity of Jesus the Christ. From this time forward 
Malan became a champion of the orthodox faith. The 
first opportunity to display his ability as a polemic he 
found against the Venerable Compagnie itself. This 


MALAN 


077 


MALAYS 


body had issued for circulation among the masses an edi- 
tion of the N. T. in which all passages bearing on the 
divinity of Christ were so altered as to favor the Socin- 
ian belief; this translation Malan denounced with the 
most vehement eloquence, and from his pulpit expounded 
these self-same passages in the spirit of their intended 
declaration to the multitudes who crowded around him. 
(For a review of the Church at Geneva, see llurst, Ra- 
tionalism, chap, xviii.) By 1818 the rupture between 
him and the Church authorities of Geneva had become 
so great that reconciliation was an impossibility, and 
Malan was consecjuently dismissed from the Established 
Church. Besides his relation to the cathedral, Malan 
had been regent of the academy; in this post also he 
was now superseded by a divine of Socinian tendency. 
Not in the least daunted, he now followed the example 
of the Ilaldane brothers, and preached the truth wher- 
ever an opportunity would offer to address the multi- 
tudes and press forward the interests of Christ his mas- 
ter. No church accessible to him, he preached in his 
own house, for preach he would. The most eminent of 
Geneva’s inhabitants gathered regularly, and by 1820 
he was enabled to rear a church upon his own ground, 
lie named it ‘‘The Testimonial Chapel” (“Let Chapelle 
du Temoignaye ”). But not only was his tongue active 
in building up Christ’s kingdom among men, to his 
pen also he gave no rest; now busy in the defence of 
Christ’s divinity or the sovereignty of divine grace, to- 
morrow exposing and attacking Romish error, and next 
rushing forth in print to reach the masses by religious 
tracts, clear, simple, and practical. With these mani- 
fold duties upon him, he was yet far from content. lie 
organized a school of theology, and himself became one 
of the instructors; founded a tract society, and a Mag- 
dalen asylum or penitentiary. He has also the honor 
to have been the first to introduce the Sabbath-school 
into Switzerland. Not even all this toil could prevent 
him in the least from fostering also a joy in the devel- 
opment of aisthetical talents which he possessed. As a 
sacred poet he will live as long as the language in which 
he wrote shall be known. He has been pronounced the 
French Dr. Watts. As a composer he likewise displayed 
unusual endowments, and as a painter and Sculptor mas- 
ters of art delighted to enjoy his friendship and counsel. 
Thorwaldsen was his intimate friend, and more than 
once intrusted him with the completion of his choicest 
groups. Surely a master mind was that of Malan’s. 
With untiring industry maintaining his position in the 
pulpit almost to the last, he died at his native place, 
May 8, 1834. No better comment on such a life can be 
given than that by E. de Pressense : “Cesar Malan a 
etc un homme d’indomptable conviction ; il a toujours 
suivi les impulsions de sa conscience sans hesitation” 
{Revue Chretienne , Aug. 5, 1830, p. 502). His appear- 
ance at the age of fifty is thus described by an Ameri- 
can divine who had the pleasure of being his guest: 
“ His personnel was noble and imposing; a little above 
the medium height, stout built, and, having something 
of a military bearing, he was still natural and easy in 
his manners. His broad shoulders supported a superb 
head ; his open and lofty brow gave one an idea of his 
mental power; his eyes were full of intellect and fire, 
and at the same time his loving look won your heart; 
his fine mouth indicated an iron will, combined with 
great tenderness ; a profusion of white hair fell upon his 
shoulders” ( The Observer [N. Y.], April 22, 1839). The 
degree of D.D, was conferred on Malan by the Univer- 
sity of Edinburgh. Of his works, many of which have 
appeared also in an English dress both in England and 
in the United States, the following deserve special men- 
tion, The Ch. of Rome (N. Y. 1844) : — L es Manners sont- 
ils invisibles ? (1828); his followers were called Momiers : 
— Les Chants de Sion (1823, 12mo,and often), a collection 
of his hymns : — Le T emoigna.ge de Uieu ( 1 833, 8vo) . See, 
besides the excellent article in the Xew Amer. Cyclop. 
1834, p. 495, and Host, Memoires du Reveil rel. des eglises 
protest, de la Suisse et de la France (see Index); the Life, 


Labors , and Writings of Ccesar Malan , by one of his sons 
(1839, post 8vo). (J. II. W.) 

Malay Archipelago, also called the Indian or 
Eastern Archipelago and Malaisia, by far the 
largest, if not the most important islaud group, or rath- 
er system of island groups in the world, of which the 
principal are the Sunda Islands (embracing Sumatra, 
Java, etc.), the Philippines, and the Moluccas, or Spice 
Islands. They are treated severally under the respec- 
tive names of the different islands. See Java ; Macas- 
sar; Malacca; Moluccas; Philippines; Sumatra, 
etc. “The whole of these islands together, comprising 
an area of 170,000 square miles, contain about 20,000,000 
of human beings of all grades of color and stature. The 
most ancient appear to be the Papoos, who are the only 
inhabitants of the Andaman Islands, but who are found 
farther eastward as a people driven into the forests, 
mountains, and defiles, and are not found again as a 
leading population till we reach New Guinea. They 
are among the most degenerate of the human race. 
They were supplanted more immediately by the Malays, 
who, having many centuries ago emigrated from India 
beyond the Ganges, have become a mysteriously hetero- 
geneous people by mixture with Papoos, Hindus, Arabs, 
Chinese, Siamese, and even with Europeans. The shores 
have of late years been more and more covered with 
Chinese emigrants, who threaten the same fate to the 
Malays which they have inflicted upon the Papoos. The 
religions are as various as the nations, and tribes, and 
languages. Here we may still meet with aboriginal 
sorcery, together with the divine worship paid to moun- 
tains, rocks, woods, storms, volcanoes ; then with Brah- 
minism and Buddhism, the Chinese worship of ancestors 
exalted into demigods, the Mohammedan delusions, and 
the saint worship of the Romish communion. The wor- 
ship of God in spirit and in truth has hitherto been to 
those wretched natives a thing unknown, and what has 
been attempted for these forty or fifty years past by 
about seventy or eighty missionaries is as yet blit little 
more than a beginning of what remains to be done.” 
See Newcomb, Cyclop, of Missions, p. 479 ; Gruudemann, 
Missionsatlas, No. 17. See Malays. 

Malays (properly Malay us, a Malay word, the der- 
ivation of which has not yet been satisfactorily ascer- 
tained) is the name given to a great branch of the hu- 
man family dwelling in the Malay peninsula, in the 
islands, large and small, of the Indian Archipelago, in 
Madagascar, and in the numerous islands of the Pacific. 
In the fivefold division of mankind laid down by Blu- 
menbaeh, the Malays are treated as a distinct race, 
while in the threefold division of Latham they are re- 
garded as a branch iff the Mongolkke. Prichard, how- 
ever, subdivides the various representatives of the Malay 
family into three branches, viz.: (I.) the Indo-Malayan, 
comprehending the Malays proper of Malacca, and the 
inhabitants of Sumatra, Java, Celebes, the Moluccas, and 
the Philippines, with whom, perhaps, may be associated 
the natives of the Caroline Islands and the Ladrones; 
(2.) the Polynesians; and (3.) the Madecasses, or people 
of Madagascar. Following Latham, we shall here con- 
fine ourselves to the Malays proper, the natives of Mad- 
agascar having been already noticed under that head- 
ing, and reserving the Polynesians generally and the 
Maori in particular for distinct articles. In physical 
appearance the Malays are a brown-complexion ed race, 
rather darker than the Chinese, but not so swarthy as 
the Hindus; they have long, black, shining, but coarse 
hair; little or no beard; a large mouth; eyes large and 
dark; nose generally short and flat; lips rather thicker 
than those of Europeans; and cheek-bones high, lu 
stature, the Imlo-Malays are for the most part below the 
middle height, while the Polynesians generally exceed 
it; the Indo-Malays have also slight, well-formed limbs, 
and are particularly small about the wrists and ankles. 
“The profile,” according to Dr. Pickering, “ is usually 
more vertical than in the white race, but this may be 
owing in part to the mode of carriage, for the skull does 


MALAYS 


G7S 


MALCHIAH 


not show a superior facial angle.” This people must, 
however, be classified, as there is a great distinction 
among them from a civilized stand-point. There is a 
class of Malays who have a written language (the spoken 
language is essentially the same with all the Malays), 
and who have made some progress in the arts of life ; then 
there are the sea-people, orang-laut, literally “men of 
the sea,” a kind of sea-gipsies or robbers; and there are 
also the orang banua or orang utan , “ wild men” or “ sav- 
ages,” dwelling in the woods or forests, and supposed to 
be the aborigines of the peninsula and islands. 

Origin and Language . — The name of Malaga seems to 
have been first used about the middle of the 12th centu- 
ry. The first settlement is by themselves stated to have 
been Menangkabo, in the island of Sumatra, rather than 
the peninsula itself. Even the Malays of Borneo claim 
to have come from Menangkabo. Palembang, howev- 
er, also in Sumatra, has been mentioned as the original 
seat of Malay civilization ; while others, again, point to 
Java as the source from which both Menangkabo and 
Palembang received their first settlers. “The Java- 
nese.” says Crawfurd,“ would seem to have been even 
the founders of Malacca. Monuments have been discov- 
ered which prove' - the presence of this people in the 
country of the Malays. Thus Sir Stamford Bathes, when 
he visited Menangkabo, found there inscriptions on stone 
in the ancient character of Java, such as are frequent 
in that island; and he was supported in his conclusion 
by the learned natives of Java who accompanied him in 
hisjotimey. The settlement of the Javanese in several 
parts of Sumatra is, indeed, sufficiently attested. In 
Palembang they have been immemorially the ruling 
people; and, although the Malay language is the pop- 
ular one, the Javanese, in its peculiar written character, 
is still that of the court.” According to Wallace the 
Malays are found in Malacca, Sumatra, Borneo, Tidore, 
Temata, Maeian, and Obi. The northern peninsula of 
Gilolo and the island Ceram are inhabited by Alfuri ; 
Timor and the neighboring isles as far to the west as 
Flores and Sandalwood, ami as far to the east as Timor- 
lant, are inhabited by a people more akin to the Papoos 
than to the Malays, the Timorese being strictly distin- 
guished from both ; tjie inhabitants of the island Burn 
are partly Malays, partly Alfuri ; while the Papoos in- 
habit New Guinea, the Kay and Aru isles. Meisol, Sal- 
wattv, and Weigim, and all the country eastward as far 
as the Fiji Isles. (Comp. F. Muller, Lingnistisehe Eth- 
nographic. in Behm, Geograph. Jahrhnch [Gotha], 18G8, 
vol. ii.) The Malay language is simple and easy in its 
construction, harmonious in its pronunciation, and easily 
acquired by Europeans. It is the lingua Franca of the 
Eastern Archipelago. Of its numerous dialects, the Ja- 
vanese is the most refined, a superiority which it owes 
to the influence upon it of Sanscrit literature. From 
the Arabians (who gave the Malays Mohammedanism) 
their characters are borrowed, and many Arabic words 
have also been incorporated with the Malay language, 
by means of which the Javanese are able to supply the 
deficiency of scientific terms in their ow n tongue. 

Religion . — The civilized Malays are generally Mo- 
hammedans in religious belief; they embraced the faith 
of the Crescent in the 13th or 1 1th century. The tribes 
in the interior and the ‘-men of the sea” have either 
no religion at all, or only the most debased superstition. 
In the years 1805-38 a sect of wild fanatics, the Padris- 
Priests, also called Orang- Patih, white men (after their 
dress'), sought to re-establish their superstitions creed 
by lire and sword. They did much mischief until the 
Ilollanders found that their own safety as rulers was 
threatened, and, after a short war, subdued the Padris 
and broke their power most substantially. _ The moral 
character of the Indo-Malays generally is not high ; they 
are passionate, treacherous, and revengeful. But it 
must be said that the cruelty and persecution which 
the Malays suffered at the hands of the Portuguese, who 
became their conquerors in the 16th century, and af- 
terwards under the sway of the Hollanders, greatly 


moulded the present character of this people. Little is 
done, even in our day, to ameliorate the forlorn condition 
of this unfortunate people. Polygamy is practiced only 
among the affluent and in the large towns. Marriage 
can be effected in three ways : either by purchase of the 
woman, who, upon the decease of her husband, becomes 
the property of his nearest blood-relation ; by entering 
upon a life of servitude with the proposed father-in-law, 
a custom reminding us of the patriarchal days of the 
Bible ; by an equal tax borne by both contracting par- 
ties. They practice the right of circumcision upon the 
male child between the ages of G and 10. The N. Testa- 
ment was translated into the Malay language as early as 
the middle of the 17th century (1GG8), by Brower; the 

O. T. only three fourths of a century later (1735) ; the 
whole Bible was published at Batavia in 1758 in 5 vols., 
and often since, e. g. by XVillmet (1824, 3 vols. 8vo). 
Comp. I Inlander, Memoir es, left res et rapports rclatifs du 
coin's de langues Mai aye et Javanaise (Par. 1843) ; Grey 
and Bleelc, Handbook of African, Australian, and Poly- 
nesian Theology (Cape City, 1858 sq., 3 vols. 8vo). See 
Waitz, Antliropologie der Naturvolker (Leipsie, 18G9, 5 
vols.); Wallace, Studies of Man and Nature (London, 
18G9, 2 vols. 8vo) ; Chambers, Cyclop, s. v. See Malay 
Archipelago. 

MaFcham (Heb. MalkanT, their king , as or- 

ten [and as it should be rendered in Zepli. i. 5, instead 
of the Au tli. Vers. “Malcham,” i. e. Moloch] ; Sept nag. 
Mf\yrt/{ v. r.MfAx«c,Vulg. Molchoni),t\\Q fourth-named 
of the seven sons of Shaharaim by his wife llodesh (I 
Chron. viii, 9). B.C. prob. 1G12. See Milcom. 

Malchi'ah (Ileb. Malkiyah', and [in Jer. 

xxxviii, G] Malkiya'hu, king of Jehovah ; Sept. 

MfXyirt or MtAyiaf, but in Neh. v. r. McXyttV/ or MtA- 
Xtiae;; Auth. Version “ Malchijah,” in 1 Chron. ix, 12; 
xxiv, 9; Neh. iii, 11 ; x, 3; xii, 42; Ezra x, 25, last 
occurrence; “ Melchiah” in Jer. xxi, 1), the name of 
at least ten persons near the time of the Babylonian 
exile. 

1. The son of Ethni, and father of Baaseiah. Levites 
of the family of Gershom (X Chron. vi, 40). B.C. much 
ante 1014. 

2 . The head of the fifth division of the sacerdotal or- 
der in the distribution appointed bv David (1 Chron. 
xxiv, 9). B.C. 1014. 

3. A priest, the father of Pasbur (1 Chron. ix, 12; 
Neh. xi,12),whieh latter was one of those who proposed 

1 to exeeute the prophet Jeremiah on a charge of treason 
(Jer. xxxviii, 1), although he had but unfavorably an- 
swered his inquiry respecting the fate of the city (Jer. 
xxi, 1). B.C. ante 589. He is very possibly the same 
with the son of Ilammelech (lit. the king's son), and own- 
er or constructor of the private dungeon into which Jer- 
emiah was cruelly thrown (Jer. xxxviii, G). See Jer- 
emiah. " The title hen-ham-Mehk is applied to Jerah- 
meel (Jer. xxxvi, 26), who was among those commis- 
sioned by the king to take prisoners Jeremiah and Ba- 
ruch ; to Joash, who appears to have held an office infe- 
rior to that of the governor of the city, and to whose 
custody Micainh was committed by Ahab (1 Kings xxii, 
20); and to Maaseiali, who was slain by Zicliri, the 
Ephraimite, in the invasion of Judah by Pekali, in the 
reign of Aliaz (2 Chron. xxviii. 7). It would seem from 
these passages that the title •kings son’ was official, 
like that of -king’s mother,’ and applied to one of the 
royal family, who exercised functions somewhat similar 
to those of Potiphar in the court of Pharaoh” (Smith). 

4 . One of the Israelites, former residents (or descend- 
ants) of Parosh, who divorced his Gentile wife after the 
exile (Ezra x, 25). B.C. 459. 

5 . AnotherTsrnelite of the same plaee (or parentage) 
who did likewise (Ezra x, 25). B.C. 459. In the Sept, 
(ad loo. and 1 Ksd. ix, 2G) his name appears as 'Aavfiiac. 

6. One of the former residents (or descendants) of 
Iiarini, who assisted in reconstructing the wall of Jeru- 
salem after the return from Babylon (Neh. iii, 11). B.C. 


MALCHIEL 


679 


MALDONATUS 


446. He was one of the Israelites who had previously 
divorced his Gentile wife (Ezra x, 31). B.C. 459. 

7. Son of Ilecliab, and ruler of part of Beth-haecerera, 
who repaired the dung-gate of Jerusalem after the cap- 
tivity (Neh. iii, 14). B.C. 446. 

8. The son of a “ goldsmith,” and the repairer of part 
of the wall of Jerusalem opposite Ophel (Neh. iii, 31). 
B.C. 446. 

9 . One of the priests appointed as musicians, appar- 
ently vocal, to celebrate the completion of the walls of 
Jerusalem after the exile (Neh. xii,42). B.C. 446. 

10. One of those who supported Ezra on the left 
hand while reading the law to the people assembled at 
Jerusalem (Neh.viii,4); probably the same with one of 
the priests who subscribed the sacred covenant entered 
into on the same occasion (Neh. x, 3). B.C. cir. 410. 

Mal'chiel (Ileb. MalkieV, bx^b^, king of God; 
Sept. M s\\u)\), the second of the two sons of Beriah, 
son of Asher (Gen. xlvi, 17); he became the “father” 
(? founder) of Birzavith (t Chron. vii, 31), and his de- 
scendants bore his name (Numb, xxvi, 45). B.C. 1856. 
‘•Josephus (.4wf. ii.7,4) reckons him with lleber among 
the six sons of Asher, thus making up t he number of 
Jacob’s children and grandchildren to seventy, without 
reckoning great-grandchildren” (Smith). 

Mal'chielite (Ileb. Malkieli ‘'bx^sb’E, patro- 
nymic from Malchiel, used collectively; Sept. MrrXyt- 
jj\i, Auth. Vers. “ Malehielites”), a descendant of Mal- 
ciiiel (Numb, xxvi, 45). 

Malchi'jah (in several passages, for different men). 
See Malcihaii. 

Mal'cliiram (Ileb. Malkiram ' , D^sb^p, king of 
height ; Sept. MsXytpd^u), the second son of king Jehoi- 
achin, born to him (according to Jewish tradition, by 
Susannah) during his captivity (l Chron. iii, 18), and 
apparently himself without issue (see Strong’s Harmony 
and Expos, of the Gosp . p. 17). B.C. post 598. 

Malchi-slnt'a (Ileb. Malki-Shu'a, ^•1u3""'3b*3, 
king of kelp, twice as one word, I Sam. xiv, 

49; xxxi, 2; where the Auth. Vers. Anglicizes “Mel- 
chi-shna;” Sept nag. and Vulg. everywhere MaAynrous, 
Melchisua), the, second or third named of the four sons of 
king Saul (l Chron. viii, 33; ix, 39), apparently by Ahi- 
noam (1 Sam. xiv, 49) ; he perished in the battle at Gil- 
boa with his father ( l Sam. xxxi, 2 ; 1 Chron. x, 2). B.C. 
1053. “ In the fact that the name of Saul’s eldest son 

was Jehovistic in form (. Tehovah hath given), whereas no 
such peculiarity is found in the names of the other sons, 
some writers (e. g.. Mr. F. Newman) have seen a trace of 
Saul’s gradual apostasy. Josephus only mentions Mal- 
chishuah once, after his brothers (MtAyurof, Ant. vi, 14, 
7)” (Kitto). 

Mal'chus (MftXyoc, frem the Heh. 7 jb* 2 , king, or 
“^*2, counsellor), a slave of the high-priest Caiaphas, 
and the individual among the party sent to arrest Jesus 
whose right ear was cut off by Peter in the garden of 
Gethsemane (John xviii, 10), but which was cured by a 
touch from Christ (Luke xxii, 51). lie had a kinsman, 
another slave of the same master (John xviii, 26). A.D. 
29. The name of Malchus was not unfrecpient among the 
Greeks (see Wetstein, ad loc. ; Geseuius, Monum. Phcen . 
p. 409), but it was usually applied to persons of Oriental 
countries, as to an Arab chieftain (Josephus, Ant. xiii, 5, 
1 ; xiv, 1 4, 1 ; xv, 6, 2). This Malchus was the personal 
servant (Jou\og) of the high-priest, and not one of the 
bailiffs or apparitors ( 07 rqpsrrjg) of the Sanhedrim. The 
high -priest intended is Caiaphas, no doubt (though Annas 
is called dpYtfpr/Vjin the same connection), for John, who 
was personally known to the former (John xviii, 15), is 
the only one of the evangelists who gives the name of 
Malchus. This servant was probably stepping forward 
at the moment, with others, to handcuff or pinion Jesus, 
when the zealous Peter struck at him with hi.s sword. 
The blow was undoubtedly meant to be more effective, 


but reached only the ear. It may be, as Stier remarks 
{Reden Jesu , vi, 268), that the man, seeing the danger, 
threw his head or body to the left, so as to expose the 
right ear more than the other. The allegation that the 
writers are inconsistent with each other, because Mat- 
thew, Mark, and John say either wriov or ibrdpiov (as 
if that meant the lappet or tip of the ear), while Luke 
says ovg, is groundless. The Greek of the New Testa- 
ment age, like the modern Romaic, often made no dis- 
tinction between the primitive and diminutive. In fact, 
Luke himself exchanges the one term for the other in 
this very narrative. The Saviour, as his pursuers were 
about to seize him, asked to be left free for a moment 
longer {tare tug tovtov), and that moment he used in 
restoring the wounded man to soundness. The enpafu- 
vog tov ibrtov may indicate (which is not forbidden by 
d<pti\tv, ci7rhco\ptv) that the ear still adhered slightly 
to its place. It is noticeable that Luke, the physician, 
is the only one of the writers who mentions the act of 
healing” (Smith), “Some think Peter’s name was omit- 
ted by the synoptists, lest the publication of it in his 
lifetime should expose him to the revenge of the unbe- 
lieving Jews, but, as the gospels were not published, this 
seems improbable” (Kitto). 

Maidive Islands, a chain of low coral islands in 
the Indian Ocean, about 400 miles west-south-west of 
Ceylon, some 500 miles in length by 45 in average 
breadth, consist of 17 groups or atolls, each atoll sur- 
rounded by a coral reef. The entire number, including 
the islets, is estimated at about 50,000. Mali, the largest 
of the chain, seven miles in circumference, with a popu- 
lation of 2000, is the residence of the native prince, 
“ the sultan of the Twelve Thousand Islands,” who is a 
tributary prince to the governor of Ceylon. The popu- 
lation of all the islands is estimated at 200,000. The 
larger and inhabited islands are clad with palm, fig, cit- 
ron, and bread-fruit trees. Grain is also abundantly pro- 
duced. Wild-fowl breed in prodigious numbers; tish, 
rice (imported from Hindustan), and cocoa-nuts, consti- 
tute the food of the inhabitants. These people are 
strict Mohammedans in their religion. 

Maldonatus, Joannes (1), a celebrated Spanish 
Jesuit, was born at Las Casas-de-la-Reina, in Estremadu- 
ra, in 1534; studied at the University of Salamanca, and 
afterwards taught Greek, philosophy, and theology with 
great success; the lecture-rooms of the college were of- 
ten too small to accommodate his numerous pupils. He 
subsequently removed to Poitiers, France, from whence 
the cardinal of Lorraine brought him to the University 
of Pont-n-Mousson. Later he came to Paris, and there 
created an unprecedented enthusiasm. His exegetical 
lectures were attended not only by Romanists, but even 
by Protestants, and the renown of his teaching reminds 
one of the history of Abelard. His brilliant course was 
checkered by accusations against him of having induced 
the president, Montbrun, to will away all his fortune to 
the Order of the Jesuits, and of teaching false doctrines 
touching the dogma of the Immaculate Conception. He 
was acquitted, however, on both charges, but left Paris, 
and retired to Bourges, where he devoted himself to ex- 
egetical studies, and prepared several of the works (see 
list below) which have made his name celebrated. He 
was called to Rome by pope Gregory XIII, to take a 
part in the publication of the Greek Septuagint. He 
died in that city in 1583. His principal works are Com - 
1 1 tent arii in prcecipuos Sacra} Script urce libros Veter is 
Testament i (Paris, 1643, fol.) : — Commentarii in quatuor 
Evangelistas, etc.(Lugd. 1615; Mayence, 1841-45, 5 vols. 
8vo). “ Though condemned by some, and procuring for 
its author the title of 1 virulentissimus et maledieentissi- 
mus,’ this work has received from Catholic and Protes- 
tant writers a just meed of praise (see Bayle, Richard 
Simon, Schlichtingius, M. Poole, and Jackson). In this 
work Maldonatus collates the opinions of the fathers 
with great ability, and does not hesitate to differ even 
from Augustine, when sound exegesis demands it. He 
shows acquaintance with the Vatican MS. of the N. T., 


MALDONATUS 


C80 


MALEBRANCHE 


and with tlie Sept. version of the O. T., and with the 
original Hebrew.” The critical Simon (/list, c rit.des 
princip. cmnmentateurs du X. T. p. 618 sq.) says he suc- 
ceeded better than any one else in explaining the literal 
sense of the sacred writers, lie also wrote Traite des 
Sacremtnts (Lyon. 1614, 4to) : — Traite de la grace, etc. 
(Paris, 1677, fob) : — Traite des anges et des demons (Paris, 
1617): — Tractatus de cceremoniis ( Bibliotheca ritualis , 
Home, 1781, 4to). Summulu casuwm conscientice has 
been, we believe, unjustly accredited to Maldonatus. It 
is a work of doubtful morality, and very unlike the 
productions of Maldonatus. See Herzog, Real- Ency- 
klop. viii, s. v. ; Wetzer u. Welte, Kirchen-Lex. vi, s. v. ; 
Kit to, Cyclop. Bill. Lit. s. v. ; Prat, Maldonat et VUni - 
versite de Paris (1857); Theol. Quarterly , 1860 (iv), p. 
682. 

Maldonatus, Joannes (2), a Spanish Jesuit, who, 
according to Aubertus Mineus, was a priest of Burgos, 
and is stated by Zeller to have ordered the lessons of 
the Roman Breviary, nourished about the middle of the 
1 6th century. In 1549 he published a treatise, De Se- 
nectute Christiana , and an elegant abridgment of the 
lives of the saints. — Kit to, Cyclop. Bibl. Lit. vol. iii, s. v. 

Male (lleb. zakar Gen. i, 27 ; vi, 19; xxxiv, 
25), applied to the male of either man or beasts. The 
superior estimation in which male children were held 
among the Hebrews is testified by numerous passages 
of Scripture, and we find the same feeling, expressed al- 
most in the same words, still existing in Eastern coun- 
tries (see Job iii, 3 ; and comp. Roberts, Ohserv. ad loc.). 
See Child. 

Malebranche, Nicholas, a French Jesuit, dis- 
tinguished for his peculiar philosophical views, and for 
the brilliancy and fascination of the style in which they 
were expounded. lie was one of the most illustrious 
of the Cartesians, aiming b} T his speculations to correct 
the dangerous tendencies of Des Cartes’s philosophy 
[see Spinoza], and occupies an eminent, though not a 
controlling, position in the history of the higher philos- 
ophy. Some knowledge of his system is required for 
the just estimation of the doctrines both of Locke and 
of Leibnitz, and for the illustration of the views of 
Berkeley. 

Life. — Malebranche was born of respectable parents 
in Paris, Aug. 6, 1638. Feeble and sickly from his birth, 
and deformed by a curvature of the spine, he was reared 
with the tenderest care, and was educated mainly at 
home. 1 1 is ill health and his deformity confirmed the 
natural shyness of his disposition. He avoided the com- 
panionship of robust, sanguine, and active playmates, 
and spent most of his time in solitary meditation. He 
found his world within himself. Eager for seclusion 
from the turmoil of life, he sought a refuge in the Soci- 
ety of Jesuits, and joined the Congregation of the Ora- 
tory in the twenty-second year of his age. Ilis studies 
were at first ecclesiastical history and antiquities, but 
these he soon abandoned in consequence of the weakness 
of his memory. He was next induced by the learned 
Richard Simon to prosecute sacred criticism and the 
Oriental languages. They had few attractions for him. 
In this wavering mood he picked up the then recently 
published treatise of Des Cartes On J fan. To this new- 
ly-acquired treasure he devoted himself assiduously, and 
sought the mastery of the Cartesian doctrines and of 
philosophical problems. Thus he busied himself for the 
next ten years of his life, and became one of the most 
earnest and eminent of the Cartesians. His perspicacity 
discerned the weak point of the Cartesian system; and 
he was too honest and too independent to be “addictus 
jurare in verba magistri.” lie meditated intently — 
closing the windows of his room that he. might not be 
distracted by the light and noise of the, outer world; 
and he revolved in silence and solitude the arduous 
questions which presented themselves for solution. He 
read little, thinking the knowledge of man, of mind, and 
of God the all-sufficient realm of speculation; and con- 


sidering that such knowledge was to be attained only 
by diligence, introspection, and abstract reasoning. For- 
tified and enriched by such silent and solitary labors, 
Malebranche proposed his modifications of Cartesianism 
in a work entitled Recherche de la Yerite, the first vol- 
ume of which appeared at Paris in 1673; the second 
and third were published in the course of the ensuing 
year. An improved and enlarged edition was brought 
out, towards the close of his life, in 1712. ’ This is his 
principal work; it is that which determines his position 
in the history of philosophic opinion. Besides other in- 
teresting topics discussed, it, in a manner less open to 
objection, propounded his celebrated doctrine of Seeing 
all things in God. The treatise itself was an examina- 
tion of the nature and characteristics of knowledge, of 
the origin of ideas, of the mode of avoiding error and 
arriving at truth, of the precautions required to guard 
against delusions of various kinds, and especially the 
fallacies which arise from the senses and from prejudice. 
Malebranche has been accused of unacknowledged obli- 
gations to Bacon. In this he only imitated the exam- 
ple of his illustrious master Des Cartes. Nor did he 
deviate from his exemplar in the attention bestowed 
upon the literary execution of the book. The style was 
so exquisite that it exercised an irresistible fascination 
over all its readers. Many who rejected his principles 
and deductions were charmed by their exposition; and 
many were beguiled into the acceptance of his reveries 
by the plausiblitv of their presentation, and by the 
beauty of their expression. His ornate style disguised 
his dogmas even to himself. Ilis language wanted phil- 
osophical precision, and offered many salient points for 
attack. His system was assailed bv Foucher, by An- 
toine Arnauld, and by Locke. The Jesuit Du Tertre, at 
the instigation of his order, reluctantly impugned it. 
Hardouin, in his Atheists Unmasked , accused it of athe- 
istic characteristics. Leibnitz, in defending it against 
such charges, admitted that the looseness of the bril- 
liant presentation rendered it liable to misapprehension 
and misrepresentation, but maintained that the real 
opinions of the author were very different from those 
attributed to him by his opponents ( Lettre a M.Remond , 
Nov. 4, 1715). The whole system of Malebranche, so 
far as it is a departure from Cartesianism. is centred in 
the doctrine of his “Vision in God,” and this doctrine 
led by a logical development to those views of free will 
and grace which resulted in the controversy with Ar- 
nauld (1680). His inquiries were, however, actuated 
throughout by an earnest religious desire for the puri- 
fication and elevation of his fellow-men, and were not 
confined to metaphysical speeidation, but were extended 
to practical topics. With this design he composed his 
Consolations Chretienncs (1676), and his Traite de la 
Morale (1684). The latter is one of the landmarks in 
ethical philosophy, and has merited the high commen- 
dation of Sir James Mackintosh. Besides these noted 
treatises, Malebranche was the author of several essays, 
on various scientific topics, published in the Journal of 
the Academy of Sciences. Whatever opposition was ex- 
cited by the peculiarity, or the extravagance, or the ap- 
parent peril of his metaphysical speculations, he was al- 
ways held in the highest esteem for his amiability, his in- 
telligence, his simple goodness, and his unaffected piety. 

The life of a valetudinarian so retired, and bound bv 
the restraints of a rigid religious order, offers few in- 
cidents for curious investigation. The calm and equa- 
ble tenor of Malebranche's frail existence was pro- 
longed till he had entered his seventy-eighth year, when, 
in another form of existence, he may be believed to 
have entered upon that “vision of all things in God” 
which, with pious enthusiasm, he had endeavored to an- 
ticipate on earth. . He died in Baris Oct. 13, 1715. a year 
and a month before his great contemporary Leibnitz. 

Philosophy. — The cardinal tenet of the philosophy of 
Malebranche, which contradistinguishes it from that of 
Des Cartes, of Spinoza, of Leibnitz, etc., of the reform- 
ing and of the acquiescing acolytes of the Cartesian 


MALEBRANCHE 


681 


MALEBRANCHE 


schoo\, is the doctrine of seeing all things in God, to which 
such frequent reference has already been made. The 
motive, the meaning, the genesis of this doctrine, and its 
relation to antecedent, contemporary, and subsequent 
speculation, are unintelligible, unless it is contemplated 
in connection with the dogmas of Des Cartes and their 
development. Des Cartes (q. v.) recognised only two 
essences in the universe, thought and extension, which 
with him were the equivalents of mind and matter. 

The mystery, the enigma, which presents itself in 
such endless forms, and which inevitably returns with 
all the Protean changes of metaphysical speculation— 
which cannot, be evaded in the study of that strange 
microcosm, Man , in which body and soul are so inti- 
mately, and, apparently, so everlastingly united — which 
cannot be overlooked in ascertaining the interaction of 
the mens sana or insum , and the corpus sanum or 'insci- 
niun, or in determining the grounds of moral obligation 
— the wondrous riddle is, how can mind act upon mat- 
ter, or matter act upon mind, and the one regulate or af- 
fect the other. The diversity of the unsatisfactory so- 
lutions will be seen by comparing the explanations pro- 
pounded by Des Cartes, Leibnitz, Spinoza, and Herbert 
Spencer. Des Cartes, recognising the impossibility of 
any solution in the relations of the transitory creation, 
as he had arbitrarily conceived it, and with the absolute 
divorce of the two existences postulated by him, intro- 
duced a Deus ex machinu , and imagined a divine inter- 
position to effect concurrent action on every occasion 
where the joint operation of intellectual and physical 
nature was manifested. To this hypothesis has been 
given the name of the doctrine of A ssistaneg. This 
scheme is assuredly obnoxious to the sharp censure of 
Aristotle on some of his precursors, and renders the ac- 
tive intelligence of the human race a mere collection of 
intrusive episodes, like a miserable tragedy ( Metaph . xi, 
x-xiii, iii). The explanation was soon discovered to be 
not merely a presumption, but utterly inefficacious, and 
of most pernicious tendency. Obviously, it made the 
creating and sustaining God the direct agent in man’s 
actions in all cases where inward contemplation pro- 
ceeded to outward act, and it made the universe a com- 
plicated piece of puppetry, whose motions were commu- 
nicated by a hidden personage constantly jerking at 
the strings. The logical inconsistency of maintaining 
an entire separation between the grand constituents of 
human nature, and of requiring divine intervention for 
all effective manifestation of human thought, offended 
the acute perspicacity of Spinoza. lie sought to re- 
store harmony and congruity to the philosophical in- 
terpretation of the intelligible world, by considering 
thought and action, mind and matter, as only effluences, 
phenomenal coruscations, from the one, sole, independ- 
ent, self-sustaining, eternal, all-embracing Existence, 
which did not so much support and regulate, as con- 
stitute and contain alike the whole creation and the 
Creator. This, of course, pushed Cartesianism to the 
absurdity of its logical extreme, but annihilated all 
moral responsibility, all distinctions of nature, annulled 
all individual existence, establishing, in short, a pure 
Pantheism. But Pantheism, whether Stoic, Platonic, 
Spinozistic, or Scliellingistic, is the negation of a per- 
sonal God, of all separable existence, and of all the du- 
ties, the hopes, and the fears that spring from human 
obligations to a heavenly Father, and to a divine Cre- 
ator and beneficent Governor of the universe. 

About the same time that Spinoza was secretly en- 
gaged in transmuting Cartesianism into Pantheism, and 
probably independently of any impulse from his inves- 
tigations, Malebranche endeavored to uphold and en- 
force the obligations which were nullified by the Spino- 
zistic system, to preserve all the dogmas of revealed re- 
ligion, to fortify the sense of religious duty, to escape 
the hazards and aberrations of the Cartesian theory, 
are yet to uphold the Cartesian doctrine in its essential 
characteristics, by correcting its excesses, and by indi- 
cating the means of conciliation between the two widely 


separated constituents of his creation. The Cartesian 
fantasy of assistanev he supplanted by his own cele- 
brated hypothesis of Occasional Causes. Instead of sup- 
posing all material motion, in accordance with the move- 
ments of the apparently moving mind, to be due to a 
mechanical impulse of the Divinity, disconnected from 
human intelligence, he imagined that all such phenom- 
ena were provoked by images of change reflected from 
the divine mind, and that human knowledge and action 
proceeded exclusively from seeing all things in God. 

A half-truth is the most dangerous, because it is the 
most seductive form of delusion. The moiety of truth 
which is present usually precludes the suspicion of de- 
ception. Such a half-truth was Male bran che’s devout 
imagination of the vision of the universe in the divine 
mind. It was, however unwittingly to himself, the Pan- 
theism of Spinoza, contemplated from a different point 
of view, and disguised by a brilliant but very translu- 
cent veil. It is an indubitable, because it is a revealed 
truth, that “in God Ave live, and move, and have our 
being;” that “there is a spirit in man, and the inspira- 
tion of the Almighty giveth them understanding;” that 
“the Lord giveth wisdom, out of his mouth cometh 
knowledge and understanding ;” but how this quicken- 
ing and illuminating power of the Almighty is so exer- 
cised as not to infringe upon the independent action of 
the human mind, and the free agency of the human 
will, is one of the most bewildering problems of tran- 
scendental speculation. Our finite capacities can attain 
a definite solution only by a violent severance of the 
Gordian knot, and mutilation of the truth. We may 
throw aside one half, and accept the other half as com- 
plete and exclusive, thus welcoming Fatalism on the one 
side, and Pantheism, in all the various shades of idealis- 
tic subtlety, on the other. That every moment of our 
continuous existence must be ascribed to the un inter- 
mittent support of the original creating power; that all 
our thoughts and actions, and our capacity for thought 
and action, require the same upholding agency; that 
this is the divine action of grace on our will and con- 
science ; the divine guidance and providence in shaping 
our ends and the issues of our conduct; the divine 
impulse and irradiation in our best decisions, and in our 
intuitive apprehensions of recondite truths — these are 
positions earnestly entertained and asserted by the clear- 
est and strongest thinkers, of all schools and vocations, 
in every age. A cloud of witnesses to these conclusions 
might be summoned, more numerous than those con- 
voked by Sir William Hamilton in support of the doc- 
trine of common-sense, and rendering much less ques- 
tionable testimony. “Omnis sapient ia a Domino Deo 
cst ;” “ a Deo projecta ct sapientia” (Ecclus. i, 1 ; xv, 10). 
“ Mihi autem Deus dedit dicere ex sententia, et prtesu- 
mere digna horum qure mihi dantur: quoniam ipse sa- 
pientine dux est ct sapientiam emendatur. In manu 
enira illius et nos et sermones nostri, et omnis sapientia, 
et operum scientia, et disciplina. Ipse enim dedit mihi 
horum qiue sunt scicntiam veram” (Wisd. vii, 15-17). 
“ Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, 
and cometh down from the Father of lights.” “ Nemo 
vir magnus sine aliquo affiatn divino umquam fuit” 
(Cicero, De Xat. Deor. ii.lxvi, § 167). This tenet may 
have been borrowed by Cicero from Plato, or even from 
Homer, but it has been recently approved by Whewoll, 
IJlackie, and Dallas. “Sacer intra nos spiritus sedet ; 
malorum bonorumque nostrorum observator et custos. 
Hie, pront a nobis tractatus est, ita nos ipse tractat. 
Bonus vero vir sine dco nemo cst; an potuit aliquis su- 
pra fortunam nisi ab illo adjust us exsurgerc? 111c dat 
consilia magnifica et erecta. In imoquoque virorum bo- 
norum, quis deus incertum cst, habitat deus” (Seneca, 
Epist. Mor, iv, xii [xlii], § 2). Similar declarations arc 
to be found in Thales, Democritus. Plato, Proelus, Plo- 
tinus, and a very remarkable one in Clemens Alexan- 
drinus ( Stromat . v, 1 !)• S. Augustin says, “ 1 niti um ergo 
ejus figmentum est Dei : non enim est ulla natura etiam 
in extremis iufimisque vestiolis,quam non ille constituit, 


MALEBRANCHE 


682 


MALEBRANCHE 


a quo est omnis modus, omnis species, omnis ordo; sine j 
quibus nihil rerum inveniri vel cogitari potest” (De Civ. 
])<i, xi, xv), The thesis has been amply commented 
upon, elucidated and expanded, by S. Thomas Aquinas, 1 
Henry of Ghent, lioger Bacon, Duns Scot us, and the bet- 
ter half of the schoolmen. It is continued by lord Ba- 
con, John Millin, bishop Berkeley, and many of the most 
distinguished modems, out of Germany as xvell as in 
that land of golden mists. “ In this, at once most com- 
prehensive and most appropriate acceptation of the word, 
reason is pre-eminently spiritual, and a spirit, even our 
spirit, through an effluence of the same grace by which | 
we are privileged to say, Our Father ” (Coleridge, A ids 
to Reflection) ; and the same author cites with approval 
a still stronger utterance to the like effect from that 
easily distinguishable personage, John Smith, 1GG0. 

Leibnitz might well say that Malebranche’s doctrine 
was no novelty. It was, indeed, both very old and very 
generally accredited, but in a form and with an applica- 
tion widely different from what was contemplated by 
him in its new presentation. The long citation of the 
evidences of its general acceptance — and not the tenth 
part accessible has been given — may be pardoned as be- 
ing necessary to exhibit its familiarity to the greatest 
intellects, and its inclusion of actual and important truth. 
The doctrine is true, but it is most perilous. It must be 
received with habitual caution, and with most circum- ! 
spect limitations. It runs along a sharp crest, with | 
precipices on either hand stretching sheer down into ! 
unfathomable abysses. On this narrow path, at this ' 
giddy elevation, Malebranche was unable to preserve 1 
his balance, however pure and lofty was his design. His 
speculation topples over into the yawning gulf of Pan- 
theism, and is distinguished from Spinozism rather by 
its motive and spirit than by its tendency or result. 
“The vision of all things in God” becomes a new be- ! 
cause a changed doctrine in the hands of the philosoph- 
ical Jesuit. He is carried away from all safe landmarks 
by his own noble but misguiding enthusiasm, and justi- 
fies the censure of Brucker, “non multum ah enthusias- 
mo, vel etiam a Quackerorum illumiuatione immediata 
abesse videtur.” 

In the theory of Malebranche, body and spirit, being 
totally disjoined from each other, and incapable of in- 
tercommunication, can be brought into harmonious — 
and, indeed, into possible — co-operation only by the in- 
tervention of a higher nature. As knowledge, accord- 
ing to the postulate of Des Cartes, is the substance and 
the evidence of intelligible existence, supreme knowl- 
edge or omniscience must be the attribute and exclusive 
property of the only Absolute Existence. All things, 
therefore, primarily exist in the Divine A1 ind. and in the 
Divine Contemplation; and their genuine, as well as 
their original, reality is as the archetypal idea of the 
Divine Intelligence. Temporal existences, with their 
alterations and combinations, proceed from the divine 
aspiration. All their forms, modes, habits, changes — 
separately, and in the intricate dance of spiritual and 
material mutations and complications — are presented 
and revealed to the gaze of other intelligences only in 
the mirror of God's mind. This is not very remote from 
the Pre-established Ilarmonv of Leibnitz, but it is much 
nearer to the infinite effluxes of the Godhead in Spinoza. 
It is only in their divine types that we. contemplate the 
marvels of sublunary change, receive impressions from 
without, and regulate our actions accordingly. Wa see 
all things in God — and all material motions concurrent 
with our will are produced, as on the Cartesian system, 
by divine intervention. All our perceptions and sensa- 
tions, apparently excited by extrinsic stimulations, are 
due to divine action. The extrinsic object is perceived, 
not in itself, nor even in its sensible image; but. the sen- 
sible image is only the reflection of the idea abiding in 
the mind of God. Thus man, and man’s sensibilities, 
are not the cause, the immediate cause at least, of his 
perceptions or of his actions; hut they are only the oc- 
casion of God’s revealing that perception through the 


idea subsisting in himself, or of his impelling to the ac- 
tion which may ensue frem the conception, but without 
actual dependence upon it. “ Non sentement les liommes 
ne sont point les veritables causes des mouvements qu’ils 
produisent dans leurs corps; il semble meme qu’il y ait 
contradiction qn’ils puissent I'etre. ... II n’y a que 
Dieu qui soit veritable cause, et qui est veritablement 
la puissance de mouvoir les corps” ( Traite de Morale , 
liv. vi, p t5e ii, ch. iii). 

The cardinal doctrine of Malebranche is all that pre- 
serves enduring interest, and that needs concern us here. 
It gained only a very limited and temporary acceptance. 
Its invalidity was almost immediately and intuitively 
recognised, and it was soon supplanted hv other schemes 
of like character and of like frailty, or was hustled out 
of consideration by wholly contradictory doctrines. It 
may again return unexpectedly in other forms, but in 
its own Cartesian garb it has passed away forever. Its 
applications and developments, ingenious as they arc, 
and animated as they are with a spirit of pure and deep 
devotion, have few special claims to attention. 31 any 
valuable counsels, many stimulating and comforting ex- 
hortations, many precious exhortations for the guidance 
of our investigations, onr feelings, and our conduct, are 
presented in the graceful and perspicuous expositions of 
the serene-tempered and heavenly-minded philosopher, 
whose heart saw all things in God, if his metaphysics 
failed to prove that vision of the divinity to be the sole 
possible mode of Unite thought and action, 1 1 is moral 
system was directly founded on his cardinal tenet, and 
fell with it. He referred all virtue to the recognition 
and love of the universal order as it exists eternally in 
the Divine Reason, where every created reason contem- 
plates it. There is some analogy between this view and 
the ennobling reflections of Donoso Cortes; but it is 
open to the objections made by Sir James Mackintosh, 
and to others which he has not made. Malebranche, 
however, merits the praise of the same just and discrim- 
inating critic, that “he is perhaps the first philosopher 
who has precisely laid down and rigidly adhered to the 
principle that virtue ‘consists in pure intentions and 
dispositions of mind, without which actions, however 
conformable to rules, are not truly moral'” — a thesis de- 
veloped, and perhaps degraded, by Palev. 

The further criticism of Malebranclie's writings is 
unnecessary, though they merited a formal refutation 
by Locke, a rectification and a partial acceptance by 
Leibnitz. “Quod ad controversiam attinet,utrum omnia 
videamus in Deo (quae utique vetus est sententia, ct, si 
sano sensu intclligatur, non nnmino spernenda). an vero 
proprias ideas liabeamus, sciendum est, et si omnia in 
Deo videamus, necesse tarn on est ut liabeamus et ideas 
proprias” .... (Meditatioms. IG84 ; Opera Ed. Dutcns. 
tom. ii, p s i, p. P2 ; comp. Lettre a J/. Mont mart, Nov. 4, 
1715; ibid. p. 217). 

Thus Malebranche is admitted into honorable and 
lasting conjunction with the illustrious names of Spino- 
za, Locke, and Leibnitz; and, sharing in the light in 
which they lived, he participated in moulding the in- 
fluences which formed the succeeding generation of hold 
and curious metaphysical inquirers, and left behind the 
memory and the example of an earnest, sincere, and ir- 
reproachable existence. The other productions of Mal- 
ehranche were partly controversial and partly religious. 
Of the latter we may mention the Ent returns (Tun l'ln- 
losophe Chretien et d'un Philosophe Chinois sur la Nature 
de Dieu (Paris, 1708) \—l)e la Nature et de la Grace 
(Amsterdam, 1G80): — Entrethns sur la Metapb/sigue et 
sur la Religion (lfotterd. 1688; of a mystical character, 
blending religion with metaphysics). A complete edi- 
tion of his works was published at Paris, 1712, in 11 
vols. 12mo; new edition bv Genoude and Lourdoueix, 
1837, 2 vols. 8vo. 

Literature. — The works of Malebranche are probably 
sufficient of themselves to supply all that is necessary 
to he known of the peculiarities of his system, and to be 
indicated in regard to its tendencies. Besides Brucker 


MALEC 


683 


MALLOWS 


and the other historians of philosophy, the following may 
be consulted with advantage : Arnauld, Des Iclees Vraies 
et Fausses ; Bayle, Diet . I Fist, et Critique ; Norris, Essay 
towards the Theory of the Ideal or Intellectual World 
(Lon d. 1 70 1 , 2 vols. 8 vo) ; Lei bnitz, Exnmen des Sentiments 
de Malebranche , in Iiaspc, (Euvres Philosophiques de M. 
Leibnitz (Amst. 17C5) ; Leibnitz, Theodicee and Epistola 
ad Ilemondum ; Locke, Examination of If. Mulebranche's 
Opinion; Fontenelle, Ilist. dn Renouvellement de V Acad- 
emic Royale des Sciences ; Dug. Stewart, Philosophy of 
the Human Mind, and Dissertation I, Supplement to the 
Encyclopaedia Britamnica ; Mackintosh, Dissertation, 
Supplem. Encycl. Brit arm. ; Sir William Hamilton, Lec- 
tures on Metaphysics (Boston, 1859) ; Blakey, History of 
the Philosophy of Mind (London, 1850), vol. ii; Saisset, 
Pantheisme, i, 66 sq.; and the same in Rerue des Deux 
Mo tides, April 1, 1862; Herzog, Real- Encyhiopddie, vol. 
xx, s. v. ; Erdmann, Malebranche-, Spinoza, die Slept iker 
und Mystiker des Siebzehnten Jahrhunderts (1836) ; Rel- 
stab, Dissertatio de Malebranchio Philosopho (1846); 
Dallam, fntrod. to the Lit. of Europe (Harpers’ edition), 
ii, 91 sq. ; Blampignon, Etude sur Malebranche (Paris, 
1862, 8vo). (G. F. H.) 

Malec (king). So the Mohammedans call the 
principal angel in care of hell. In the Koran it is said 
(speaking of the infidels), “And they shall call aloud, 
saving, O Malec, intercede for us, that the Lord would 
end us by annihilation. And he shall answer, Verily, 
ye shall remain here forever. We brought you the truth 
heretofore, and ye abhorred the truth.” borne of the 
Mohammedan doctors say this answer will be given a 
thousand years after the final dissolution of this world. 
— Broughton, Biblioth. Hist. Sac. vol. ii, s. v. ; Sale, Ko- 
ran, p. 401. 

Malekites, the second of the four orthodox Mo- 
hammedan sects. The founder of the Malekites was 
Malek Ibn- Ansa, born at Medina about the year of the 
Hegira 95. lie was remarkable for strenuously insist- 
ing on the literal acceptation of the prohibitory pre- 
cepts. Tradition will have it that when visited in 
his last illness by a friend, who found him in tears, 
and asked him the cause of his affliction, he replied, 
“Who has more reason to weep than I? Would God 
that for every question decided by me according to 
my own opinion I had received so many stripes, then 
would my account be easier. Would to God I had never 
given any decision of my own.” The Malekites are 
chiefly found in Barbary and other parts of Africa. — 
Sale’s Koran , Prel. Disc. § 8; Taylor, II 1st. of Moham- 
medanism, p. 288 ; Broughton, Biblioth. Hist. Sac. vol. ii. 
s. v. See Mohammedanism. 

Mal'eleel (Luke iii, 37). See Mahaleleel. 

Malevolence is that disposition of mind which 
inclines us to wish ill to any person. It discovers itself | 
in frowns and a lowering countenance, in uneharitablo- 
ness, in evil sentiments, hard speeches to or of its object, 
in cursing and reviling, and doing mischief either with 
open violence or secret spite, as far as there is power. — 
Buck, Theol. Diet. s. v. Sec auce. 

Maley, George W., an American Methodist minis- 
ter, was born in westem Pennsylvania in 1799; was ed- 
ucated at an academy in Butler, Pennsylvania; was 
converted in 1819; was licensed to preach and recom- 
mended to the Ohio Conference in 1821, and was ap- 
pointed to the Mad River Circuit ; in 1822, to London ; 
in 1823, to Piqua; in 1824, to White Oak; in 1825, to 
Piqua; in 1826-7, to Union ; in 1828-9, to Wilmington ; 
in 1830-1, to Hillsboro; in 1832-3, to White Oak; in 
1834, to Madison ; in 1835, to New Richmond; in 1836- 
7, to Milford ; in 1838, to Franklin; in 1839-40, to Ger- 
mantown; in 1841, agent for Springfield and German- 
town Academy; in 1842, to Franklin : in 1843, to Eaton ; 
in 1844-5, to Cincinnati City Mission. In 1846 lie join- 
ed the Kentucky Conference, 31. E. Church South; in 
1846-7, was presiding elder of Covington District ; in 
1848 was appointed to Soule Chapel, Cincinnati, Ohio; 


the next ten years was supernumerary, and the remain- 
der of his life superannuated. He died in Urbana, 
Champaign Co., Ohio, Dec. 14, I860. In his last illness, 
though suffering, he was uncomplaining and happy, and 
sent his love and greetings to his ministerial associates: 
“Tell my brethren of the Kentucky Conference that I 
die in the faith, and in full fellowship with the whole 
Church, East, West, North, and South.” — Minutes of 
Conferences , 1867. 

Malice is a settled or deliberate determination to 
revenge or do hurt to another. It more frequently de- 
notes the disposition of inferior minds to execute every 
purpose of mischief within the more limited circle of 
their abilities. It is a most hateful temper in the sight 
of God, strictly forbidden in his holy Word (Col. iii, 8- 
12), disgraceful to rational creatures, and every way in- 
imical to the spirit of Christianity (3Iatt. v, 44). — Buck, 
Theol. Diet. s. v. See 31alevolence. 

Malignity, a disposition obstinately bad or mali- 
cious. 3Ialignancy and malignity are words nearly sy- 
nonymous. In some connections, malignity seems rath- 
er more pertinently applied to a radical depravity of na- 
ture, and malignancy to indications of this depravity in 
temper and conduct in particular instances. — Buck, The- 
ological Diet. s. v. See 3Ialevolence. 

Mallary, Charles Daniel, D.D., an American Bap- 
tist minister, was bom at Poultney, Vermont, in Janu- 
ary, 1801 . He graduated at 3 lid die bury College in 1821, 
and in 1822 removed to Columbia, South Carolina ; was 
ordained, and preached six years. He afterwards re- 
sided in Georgia, and was a principal founder of 3Iereer 
University. In the division of the denomination in 
1835,on the missionary question, he advocated that sys- 
tem. He died in 1864. Dr. Mallary published a Life 
of Mercer, and Soul Prosperity. — Drake, Diet, of A me r. 
Biog. p. 593. 

Malleolus. See IIemmerlin. 

Mal'los, a town of Asia 3Iinor, whose inhabitants 
(3Ia\/\wrm,Vulg. Mallotce, A.V. “they of Mallog”), with 
the people of Tarsus, revolted from Antioehus Epiphanes 
because he had bestowed them on one of bis concubines 
(2 Macc.iv, 30). The absence of the king from Antioch 
to put down the insurrection gave the infamous 31ene- 
laus, the high-priest, an opportunity of purloining some 
of the sacred vessels from the Temple of Jerusalem (ver. 
32, 39), an act which finally led to the murder of the 
good Onias (ver. 34, 35). 3IalIos was an important city 
of Cilicia, lying at the mouth of the Pyramus (Seihun), 
on the shore of the Mediterranean, north-east of Cyprus, 
and about twenty miles from Tarsus (Tersus). (See 
Smith, Diet, of Class. Geography.') — Smith. 

Mal'lotlli (Hebrew Mallo'thi, h 'r.‘i5 , 5, perhaps for 
" , rN7‘2, my fulness ; Sept nag. 31 aXXiSi v. r. 31faAu>3’t, 
31 3l£/\/\w3i ; Vul g.Melhthi), one of the fourteen 

sons of lleman the Levitc (1 Chron. xxv, 4), and head 
of the nineteenth division of Temple musicians as ar- 
ranged by David (1 Chron. xxv, 26). B.C. 1014. 

Mallows (Jl ? l2'2, mallu'ach , salted ; Sept. aXiyov, 
Vulg. herba) occurs only in the passage where Job com- 
plains that lie is subjected to the contumely of the mean- 
est people, those “ who cut up mallows by the bushes 
for their meat” (Job xxx, 4). The proper meaning of 
the word malluach has been a subject of considerable 
discussion among authors, in consequence, apparently, 
of its resemblance to the Greek gaXdxh, signifying 
“mallow,” and also to maluch , which is said to be the 
Syriac name of a species of Oraehe, or A triplex. It is 
difficult, if not impossible, to say which is the more cor- 
rect interpretation, as both appear to have some founda- 
tion in truth, and seem equally adapted to the sense of 
the above -quoted passage. (See Gesenius, Thesaur. 
Ileb. p. 791). The malache of the Greeks is distinguish- 
ed by Dioscorides into two kinds, of which he states 
that the cultivated is more fit for food than the wild 
kind. Arabic authors apply the description of Dioscor- 


MALLOWS 


C84 


MALLOWS 


ides to khub-bazi, a name which in India is applied both 
to species of Malva rotumUfulia and of M. sylvestris, 
which extend from Europe to the north of India, and 
which are still used as food in the latter country, as they 
formerly were in Europe, and probably in Syria. That 
some kind of mallow has been so used in Syria we have 
evidence in the quotation made by Mr. Ilarmer from 
Biddulph, who says, “ We saw many poor people col- 
lecting mallows and tliree-leaved grass, and asked them 
what they did with it; and they answered, that it was 
all their food, and that they boiled it, and did cat it.” 
I)r. Shaw, in his Travels, on the contrary, observes that 
*• Mellou-keah, or mulookiah, IS-nA-, as in the Arabic, 
is the same with the melochia or corchorus, being a pod- 
ded species of mallows, whose pods are rough, of a glu- 
tinous substance, and used in most of their dishes. Mel- 
lou-keah appears to be little different in name from ft A 72 
(Job xxx, 4), which we render ‘ mallows,’ though some 
other plant, of a more saltish taste, and less nourishing 
quality, may be rather intended.” The plant alluded 
to is Corchorus olitorius, which has been adopted and 
figured in her Scripture Herbal (p. 255) by lady Caleott, 
who observes that this plant, called Jews’ Mallow, ap- 



Jews’ Mallow ( Corchorus Olitorius). 


pears to be certainly that mentioned by the patriarch. 
Avicenna calls it olus Judaicum; and lianwolf saw the 
Jews about Aleppo use the leaves as potherbs; “and 
this same mallow continues to be eaten in Egypt and 
Arabia, as well as Palestine.” lint there are so many 
plants of a mild mucilaginous nature which are used as 
articles of diet in the East, that it is hardly possible to 
select one in preference to another, unless we find a sim- 
ilarity in the name. Thus species of Amaranthus, of 
Chenopodium , of Portulacca, as well as the above Cor- 
chorus, and the mallow, are all used as food, and might 
be adduced as suitable to the above passages, since most 
of them arc found growing wild in many parts of the 
countries of the East. 

The learned Bochart, however, contends ( Hieroz . part 
i, t. iii, c. 10) that the word malluach denotes a saltish 
plant called dXipog by the Greeks, and which with good 
reason is supposed to be the A triplex halimus of bota- 
nists, or tall shrubby Orache. The Sept., indeed, first 
gave dXtpa as the interpretation of malluach. Celsius 
adopts it {I fie robot, ii, 90 sq.), and many others consider 
it as the most correct. A good abstract of 1 iochart's ar- 
guments is given by l)r. Harris. In the first place the 
most ancient Greek translator interprets malluach by 
halimos. That the Jews wererin the habit of eating a 
plant called by the former name is evident from the 
quotation given by 1 loch art from the Talmudical tract 
Kiddnsin (c. iii, 05). By Ibn-Buetar, malukh is given 
as the synonym of al-kutuf al-buhuri , i. e. the sea-side 


Kutuf or Orache, which is usually considered to be the 
A triplex murinum, now A. halimus. Bochart, indeed, 
remarks that Dioscorides describes the halimus as a 
shrub with branches, destitute of thorns, with a leaf like 
the olive, but broader, and growing on the sea-shore. 
This notice evidently refers to the dXipog (Dioscor. i, 
121), which, as above stated, is supposed to be the A tri- 
plex halimus of botanists, and the Kutuf buhuri of the 
Arabs, while the arpa^a^tg of the same author (ii, 145) 
is their kutuf and A triplex hoi'tensis, Linnaeus. Bochart 
quotes Galen as describing the tops of the former as be- 
ing used for food when young. Dioseoridcs also says 
that its leaves are employed for the same purpose. 
(Comp. Theophrast. Plant, iv, 17 ; Athen. Deipn . iv, 1G1 ; 
Horace, Ep. i, 12, 7; Pliny, xxi, 55; Tournefort, Trav. 
i, 41.) What the Arab writers state as to the tops of 
the plants being eaten corresponds to the description of 
Job, who states that those to whom he refers cropped 
upon the sh?'ub — which by some is supposed to indicate 
that the malluach grew near hedges. These, however, 
do not exist in the desert. There is no doubt that spe- 
cies of Orache were used as articles of diet in ancient 
times, and probably still are so in the countries where 
they are indigenous; but there are many other plants, 
similar in nature, that is, soft and succulent, and usually 
very saline, such as the Salsolas, Saliconnas, etc., which, 
like the species of A triplex, belong to the same natural 
family of Chenopodece, and which, from their saline na- 
ture, have received their respective names. Many of 
these arc well known for yielding soda by incineration. 
In conformity with this, Mr. Good thinks that “ the real 
plant is a species of Salsola, or ‘ salt-wort ;’ and that the 
term dXtpa, employed in the Greek versions, gives ad- 
ditional countenance to this conjecture.” Some of these 
are shrubby, but most of them are herbaceous, and ex- 
tremely common in all the dry, desert, and saline soils 
which extend from the south of Europe to the north of 
India. Most of them are saline and bitter, but some are 
milder in taste and mucilaginous, and are therefore em- 
ployed as articles of diet, as spinach is in Europe. Sal- 
sola Indica , for instance, whieh is common on the coasts 
of the Peninsida of India, Dr. Roxburgh states, saved 
the lives of many thousands of the poor natives of India 
during the famine of 1791-2-3; for, while the plant 
lasted, most of the poorer classes who lived near the sea 
had little else to cat; and, indeed, its green leaves ordi- 
narily form an essential article of the food of those na- 
tives who inhabit the maritime districts. For other 



MALLUACH 


MALVENDA 


685 


interpretations, see Rosenmuller (ad loc. Job.). — Kitto. 
j\Ir. Tristram (Nat. Hist, of the Bible , p. 466) decides in 
favor of the above species of sea-purslane (A triplex ha - 
limns), which he says “grows abundantly on the shores 
of the Mediterranean, in salt marshes, and also on the 
shores of the Dead Sea still more luxuriantly. We 
found thickets of it of considerable extent on the west 
side of the sea, and it exclusively supplied us with fuel 
for many days. It grows there to the height of ten 
feet— more than double its size on the Mediterranean. 
It forms a dense mass of thin twigs without thorns, has 
a very minute purple flower close to the stem, and small, 
thick, sour-tasting leaves, which could be eaten, as is the 
A triplex hortensis , or Garden Orache, but it would be 
very miserable food.” 

Malluach. See Mallows. 

Mal'luch (lleb. Malluh', reigned over, or 

from the Syr. a counsellor ), the name of several men. 

1. (Sept. Ma\wx, Vtilg. J/ct/ocii.) A Levite of the 
family of Merari, son of Hashabiah and father of Abdi 
(l Chiron, vi, 44). B.C. much ante 1014. 

2. (Sept. MaAoiry, Vulg. Melluch.) An Israelite of 
the descendants (or residents) of Bani who renounced 
his Gentile wife after the exile (Ezra x, 29). B.C. 459. 

3. (Sept. M a\ov\ v. r. BaXoox,\ r ulg. Mcdoch.') An- 
other Israelite of the descendants (or residents) of Ha- 
rim, who did the same (Ezra x, 32). B.C. 459. 

4 . (Sept. MflXouy, Vulg. Melluch.') One of the priests 
who returned from Babylon with Zerubbabel (Neh. xii, 
4). B.C. 53G. The associated names would appear to 
indicate that he was the same with one of those who 
signed the sacred covenant with Neliemiah (Neh. x,4); 
although that would imply a very advanced age. B.C. 
cir. 410. lie is probably the same with the son of .Jon- 
athan, elsewhere called Melicu (Neh. xii, 14, 

Sept. MaAoux, Vulg. Milicho). 

5. (Sept. MaXoi/y, Vulg. Melluch .) One of the chief 
Israelites who subscribed the same covenant (Neh. x, 
27). B.C. cir. 410. 

Malmesbury, William of, an English monastic 
and historian of the early period of his country’s histo- 
ry, was born near the close of the lltli century, probably 
in Somersetshire, was educated at Oxford, and afterwards 
entered the Benedictine monastery whence he derived 
his name, and of which he became librarian. He died 
some time after 1142, but the exact date is not known. 1 
He wrote (in Latin) De Gestis Begum , a history of the i 
kings of England from the Saxon invasion to the twcn- I 
ty-sixth year of Henry I (translated into English by 
the Rev. John Sharpe [Lond. 1815]; also in Bohn’s Li- 
brary, edited by Dr. Giles [1847]) : — Ilistoriie Novella’, 
extending from the twenty-sixth year of Henry I to the 
escape of the empress Maud from Oxford ; and De Gestis 
Pont if cum, containing an account of the bishops and 
principal monasteries of England from the conversion 
of Ethelbert of Kent by St. Augustine to 1123 Antiq- 
uities of Glastonbury, and Life of St. Wulstan (printed 
in Wharton's Anglia Sacra). Malmesbury gives proof 
in his writings of great diligence, good sense, modesty, 
and a genuine love of truth. His style is much above 
that of his contemporaries. See Allibone, Diet, of Bidt. 
and Amer. Auth. (s. v. AVilliam of Malmesbury) ; Lond. 
Quart. Rev. 185G (Jan.), p. 295 sq. ; Iloefer, Nouv. Biog. 
Generale , s. v. ; Chambers, Cyclopedia, s. v. 

Malou, Jean Baptiste, a Roman Catholic theolo- 
gian, was born at Ypern ; studied theology at the Uni- 
versity of Louvain, where in 1835 he became a profes- 
sor ; in 1848 was made bishop of Bruges, and died March 
23, 18G4. He wrote La lecture de la Stc. Bible en langue 
rulgaire (Louv. 184G, 2 vols. 8vo). His brother Jule is 
the author of Recherches sur le veritable auteur du Here 
de V Imitation de Jesus-Christ (Louv. 1848). 

Malta. See Mehta. 

Malta, Knights of. See Knighthood; Tem- 
plars. 


Maltbie, Ebenezer Davenport, a Presbyterian 
minister, was born in Stamford, Conn., Jan. 20, 1799; 
graduated at Hamilton College, New York, in 1824, and 
studied theology in the Theological Seminary at Ando- 
ver, Mass., which he left in 182G to become tutor in 
Hamilton College. He was licensed to preach in 1832, 
and ordained pastor of the Congregational Church in 
Hamilton, N.Y. In 1841 he took charge of the Hudson 
River Academy, and in 1843 became principal of a lit- 
erary institution in Lansingburg, N. Y., which position 
he resigned eight years after on account of failing health. 
He died at Syracuse, N. Y., in 1859. Mr. Maltbie was 
an excellent teacher, beloved and honored as a pastor, 
and energetic and unwearied in his labors of charity and 
piety. See Wilson, Presb. Hist . Almanac, 18G0, p. 74. 
(J. L. S.) 

Maltby, Edward, D.D., an English prelate, was 
born at Norwich, England, in 1770; was educated at 
Pembroke College, Oxford; in 1831 was made bishop of 
Chichester, and in 183G was transferred to Durham. lie 
died in 1859. Dr. Maltby published several volumes of 
Sermons (1819, 1822, 1831): — Occasional Sermons: — Il- 
lustration of the Truth of the Christian Religion (Lond. 
1802, 8 vo; ‘id ed. 1803, 8 vo) : — Psalms and Hymns (32mo). 
— /Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and Amer. Authors, vol. ii; 
Thomas, Dictionary of Biography, s. v. 

Maltby, Henry, a Presbyterian minister, was born 
in Paris, N. Y., October 5, 180G, and graduated at Ham- 
ilton College, N. Y., in 1836. For some years he devoted 
himself to teaching in his native state, and subsequently 
built up a flourishing school in Flemingsburg, Kv. He 
studied theology privately, was licensed in 1847, and 
ordained pastor *of the Third Presbyterian Church, Ox- 
ford, Ohio, in 1848. He was also a professor in Oxford 
Female College. He died May 22, 18G0. Mr. Maltby 
was very successful as a teacher, and greatly beloved as 
a pastor; his sermons were characterized by systematic 
arrangement and fidness of thought, and his intercourse 
with the people was courteous and refined. See A\ ilson, 
Presb. Ilist. Almanac , 18G1, p. 97. (J. L. S.) 

Malthus, Thomas Robert, an English clergyman, 
was born at Rookery, Surrey County, England, in 17G6; 
was educated at Jesus College, Cambridge, where he ob- 
tained a fellowship, graduating B.A. in 1788 and M.A. 
in 1791 ; soon after took holy orders, and obtained a cu- 
racy in Surrey, and identified himself with the “ High- 
Church” party. In 1805 he was appointed professor of 
modern history and political economy at the East India 
College at Hailey bury, in Hertfordshire, which position 
he held until his death, Dec. 29, 1834. Mr. Malthus 
devoted himself more particularly to the study of polit- 
ical economy and secular history, and received his pro- 
fessorship on this account. (For a resume of the “Mal- 
thusian theory,” concerning the relation of population 
to the means of sustenance, see Chambers, Cyclop, s. v.) 
He preached frequently, however, while in this position, 
and was an earnest laborer for the upbuilding ot Christ s 
kingdom among men. I lis works arc exclusively of a 
secular character ; a complete list of them may be found 
in Allibone, Diet, of Auth., and English Cyclopaedia, s. v. 

Malvenda, Tiiomas, a learned Spanish exegete, 
was born at Xativa in 1566, and entered the Dominican 
convent of Lombav in 1582. A good Latin, Greek, and 
Hebrew scholar, he now applied his philological talents 
to the study of the divers texts of the Bible, at the same 
time devoting much attention also to dogmatics and to 
ecclesiastical history. In 1585 he wrote a treatise to 
prove that St. Anna was only once married, and that St. 
Joseph always held fast to the rule of abstinence. From 
1585 to 1600 he taught first philosophy, and afterwards 
tlieologjL In 1600 he addressed to cardinal Baronins a 
memoir on some parts of the Annoles ecclesiastic! , and 
of the Martyrologium Romannm , which he deemed in- 
correct. Baronius, struck by the knowledge exhibited 
in this memoir, called Malvenda to Rome, where the 
general of his order intrusted him with the correcting 


MAMACHI 


686 


MAMMON 


of the breviarv, the missal, and the martyrology of the 
Dominicans. This work was completed in 1G03. The 
congregation of the Index then submitted to him for 
revision the Bibliotheca Pat rum of LaVigne (Par. 1575, 
1 589, 9 vols. fob). 11 is critical annotations on this work 
appeared at Home in 1G07, and were afterwards publish- 
ed together with the Biblioth. Patr. (Paris, 1609, 1G24). 
About the same time he commenced Annates ordinis 
f rat rum prwdicatorum, which he never completed; the 
existing fragment, extending over a period of thirty 
years, was subsequently published by Gravina (Naples, 
10*27, 2 vols. fob). In 1G10 Malvenda was recalled to 
Spain, where the grand inquisitor appointed him a mem- 
ber of the Spanish congregation of the Index lihrorum 
prohibit or um . lie died at Valencia in 1G28. His princi- 
pal work, to which the later years of his life were devo- 
ted, was a literal translation of the Bible, with commen- 
taries; he was unable to finish it, and left it at the lGth 
chapter of Ezekiel (published in this incomplete state by 
the general of the Dominicans, under title Comment ana 
in sacrani Scnpturam una cum nova de verbo ad verbnm 
ex Ilebrao translatione , var iisque lectionibus [Lyon, 1650, 
5 vols. fob]). The translation is so literal as to be very 
inelegant and sometimes unintelligible. The notes are 
mostly grammatical, and though perhaps valuable at 
the time, are now considered unimportant. Among his 
other works, which arc very numerous, we notice Libri 
novem de Antichristo (Rome, 1604, often reprinted): — 
Comment anus de Paradiso voluptatis (Rome, lG05,4to): 
— Vida de san Pedro Martir (Saragossa, 1613, 8vo). A 
complete list of his works is given in Quetif and Echard, 
Script ores ordinis preedicutornm , ii, 454 sq. See Anto- 
nio, Bibl. llispamt nova, vol. ii. — Herzog, Real- Encyklop. 
viii, 771 ; Hoefcr, Nouv. Biop. Generate , xxxiii, 12*2; 
Pierer, U nicer sal-Lexikon , x, 80G. (J. N. P.) 

Mamaclii, Thomas Mania, a distinguished Domin- 
ican, was bom on the island of Ohio Dec. 3, 1713; was 
brought to Italy when yet a youth, and joined the Do- 
minicans. lie became professor of theology at Florence, 
and in 1740 was called to Rome as a member of the college 
of the Propaganda. Benedict NIV made him a doctor 
of divinity, and appointed him member of the congrega- 
tion of the Index, of which he became secretary in 1779. 
Under Pius VI he was appointed Maejister pedatii. He 
died in 179*2. atCometo, near Montefiascone. 1 1 is prin- 
cipal works are Ad Joh. D. Mansium de rutione tempo- 
rum A thanasiorum deque aliquot Synodis ir swath cel- 
ebratis Epistolee iv (Flor. 17 IK), against Mansi, who, in 
his De epochis coneiliorum Sardicensis et Sirmiensinm , 
cieterumquc in causa Ariunorum , hoc oeeasione simul re- 
rum pofissimarum S. A thanasii Chronolopiam restituit 
(Lucre, 174G), asserted, contrary to general opinion, that 
the Council of Sardica was held in 344, and that the re- 
turn of Athanasius to Alexandria took place in 34G. His 
Oripinnm et antiquifafum Christ ianarum Libb. xx (Rom. 
1749-55), of which only five books, however, were com- 
pleted, is a very important work, holding the same po- 
sition among the Roman Catholics as Bingham’s Orip- 
ines ecclesiastics among the Protestants; it is written in 
view of the later work, which it often attempts to refute. 
J)e Costumi de primitiri Christ iani libri tres (Rome, 1753; 
Venice, 1757) is an interesting work on the early ages 
of Christianity, and contains some valuable and curi- 
ous information. Epistolarum ad Just hum Febroni- 
itm, de ratione re pends Christians reipublictf , deque le- 
f/itima Romani Pontijicis pot estate. Liber primus (Rom. 
1776), in answer to Justinus Febronius’s (.1. X. von Ilon- 
theiin, q. v.) l)e statu Eccbsis et lepitima potest ate Ro- 
mani Pontijicis liber sinpularis, etc. (Bullioni, 1763), is but 
a weak production compared to that which it. attacked. 
See Xeue theol. Bibliothek , lv, 39*2 sq. ; A eta historieo-ec- 
clesiastica nostri temporis , xxxix, 888; Goftinper pel. 
A nzeipen. 1757, p. 1189 sq. ; >759, p.595; Richard et <ii- 
raud, Biblioth. saeree. — Hoefer, Xonv. Biop. Generate. 
xxxiii. 1*23; \\cr/.oa;, Real- Encyklopadie,x\\\, 772 Pierer, 
Uitivcrsal-Lexikon , x, 806. 

Mamai'as (io/mta, Vulg, /S'amco), given (1 Esdr. 


viii, 14) in place of the Siiemaiaii (q. v.) of the Heb. 
text (Ezra viii, 16). 

Mamas, a saint of the Romish Church, a native of 
Paphlagonia, flourished in the 3d century. He was 
born in prison, liis mother, Russina, having been arrest- 
ed on account of her adherence to Christianity. He 
was brought up by a Christian widow named Ammia, 
and while a boy was already persecuted for his faith, but 
wonderfully escaped death. He subsequently preached 
the Gospel in Caesarea, and died a martyr in 274. lie 
is commemorated on the 17th of August. Mamas was 
highly honored in the ancient Church. Basil, Gregory 
of Nazianzen, and Walafrid Strabo make mention of 
him. See C. Baronii Martyrolopium Romanum (Mogun- 
tire, 1631), p. 507 ; Th. Ruinart, A eta primorum Marty- 
rum (Amst. 1713), p. 264 sq. — Herzog, Real-Encyklopd- 
die , viii, 774. (J. N. P.) 

Mamertus, St., archbishop of Vienna, was a brother 
of Claudiamis Ecdicius Mamertus [see Claudiaxus], 
author of the celebrated work Be statu animee. St. Ma- 
mertus is especially known for having, on the occasion 
of a great fire, and other accidents which befell the city 
of Vienna, instituted the Ropations, i. e. penitential 
| prayers for the three days preceding the ascension. 
Baronins, in his M artyrolopium Romanum (Moguntia?, 
1631), p. 255 sq. and 296, denies that Mamertus was 
the first to organize these rogations, claiming that they 
were an old institution which had fallen into disuse, 
and which he merely revived. Bingham in his Oripin . 
eccles. (iii, 80 sq. ; v, 29), subsequently took the same 
view. However, it is certain that the example of Ma- 
mertus induced the Council of Orleans, in 511, to intro- 
duce the rogations throughout France. They were sub- 
| sequcntly adopted by the whole Western Cliureh, by 
! order of Gregory the Great, in 591. Mamertus is gen- 
erally believed to have died in 475. He is commemo- 
rated on the 11th of May. — Herzog, Real- Encyklop. viii, 
74; Hoefer, Nouv. Biop. Gen. xxxiii, 129. 

Mamertus, Claudianus. See Claudianus. 

Mammsea, Julia. See Sevekus, Alexander. 

Mammillarians, the name of a branch of the An- 
abaptists which arose in Haarlem, Holland. Its origin 
I is as follows. A young man having taken undue liber- 
I ties with a young woman whom he intended to marry, 
1 was accused of it before the Church; the Church au- 
thorities, however, did not agree on the subject, some 
desiring to expel the offender from their society, and 
others opposing so severe a measure. This caused a 
separation, and those who were on the young man’s side 
were visited by their opponents with the reproachful 
name of Mammillarians (from the French word Mam- 
! melte, a woman’s breast). See Bayle, Piet. Jlistorique, 
s. v. ; Micrrelius, Spntup. I list . Eccl. (ed. 1679) p. 1012. — 
Herzog, Real-Encpklopadie, viii, 774. 

Mam'mon (^pappmvctQ or paptovag, from the 
Chald. “|" -"2 or SC*! that in which one trusts; see 
Buxtorf, Lex. Chald. col. 1217 sq.), a term pre-eminently, 
by a technical and invidious usage (see Suidas in his Lex. 
s. v.), ‘‘signifying nualth or riches, and bearing that 
sense in Luke xvi, 9, J 1 ; but also used by our Saviour 
(Matt, vi, *24; Luke xvi, 13) as a personification of the 
god of riches: ‘Ye cannot serve God and Mammon.’ 
Gill, on Matt, vi, 24, brings a very apt quotation from 
the Talmud Ilieros. ( Yonut , fol. 38), in confirmation of 
the character which Christ in these passages gives of 
the Jews in his day: ‘We know that they believed in 
the law. and took care of the commandments, and of the 
tithes, and that their whole conversation was good — 
only that they loved the Mammon, and hated one 
another without cause’” (Kitto). “The word often 
occurs in the Chaldee Targums of Onkelos, and later 
writers, and in the Syriac Version, in the sense of 
‘riches.’ This meaning of the word is given by Ter- 
tullian, A dv. Marc, iv, 33, and by Augustine and Jerome 
commenting-on Matthew. Augustine adds that it was 
in use as a Punic, and Jerome adds that it was a Syriac 


MAMNITANAIMUS 


6S7 


MAN 


word. There is no reason to suppose that any idol re- 
ceived divine honors in the East under this name. It 
is used in Matthew as a personification of riches. The 
derivation of the word is discussed by A. Pfeiffer, Opera , 
p. 474” (Smith). The phrase “mammon of unright- 
eousness” as used in Luke xvi, 0, probably refers to gain 
which is too often unjustly acquired (as by the publi- 
cans), but which may be sanctified by charity and piety 
so as to become a passport, in some sense, to final bless- 
edness. See Gri'menberg, De mammona iniquitatis (den. 
1700); Wakins, De pap. deaciag (Jen. 1701). In Ilab- 
binieal language the word is used to denote confidence. 

Mamnitauai'mus (Nappirdvaipoi; v. r. M apra- 
vdaipoQ,Xn\g. Mathaneus), given (1 Esdr. ix, 84) by 
corruption for the two names “Mattaniah, Mattenai,” 
of the Heb. list (Ezra x, 37). 

Mam(o)un, Al, Abbas -Abdallah, a celebrated 
Mussulman ruler, was born at Bagdad in A.D. 786 ; was 
the son of Haroun-al-Raschid ; and ascended the throne 
as the seventh Abasside caliph in 813. By his deter- 
mination to enforce the heretical doctrine that the Ko- 
ran was created and not eternal, he became very unpop- 
ular among the Moslem doctors and gave strength to 
the house of Ali. See Mohammedanism ; Mohamme- 
dan Sects. Mamoun was a patron of science and liter- 
ature, and is praised by Eastern writers for his talents 
and liberality. His capital, Bagdad, was in his day the 
great centre of the world oflearning and science. He 
died in 883. See Weil, Gesch . d. Chalifen , IT, chap, vii ; 
Hainmer-Purgstall, Literaturgesch . d. Araber. 

Mam're (Heb. Mamre', WyZ’ti,fat; Sept. M ap- 
fioq ; Josephus M apfippg, A nt. i, 10, 2 ; Vulg. J fambre), 
the name of an Amoritish chief who, with his brothers 
Aner and Escliol, was in alliance •with Abraham (Gen. 
xiv, 13,24). B.C. cir. 2080. In the Jewish traditions 
he appears as encouraging Abraham to undergo the pain 
of circumcision, from which his brothers would have 
dissuaded him, by a reference to the deliverance he had 
already experienced from far greater trials — the furnace 
of Nimrod and the sword of Cliedorlaomer (Beer, Leben 
Abrahams, p. 36). Hence (X’H^'S Sept, j) c'pfc 

j) Ma/u/3pi}), in the Auth.Vers., “the oaks of Mam re,” 
“plain of Mamre” (Gen. xiii, 18; xviii, 1), or simply 
“Mam re” (xxiii, 17, 19; xxxv,27),a grove in the neigh- 
borhood of Hebron. It was here that Abraham first dwelt 
after separating from Lot (Gen. xiii, 18); here the di- 
vine angel visited him with the warning of Sodom’s fate 
(Gen. xviii, 1) ; it was in the cave in the corner of the 
field opposite this place that he deposited the remains of 
Sarah (Gen. xxiii, 17, 19) ; where he was himself buried 
(Gen. xxv, 9), as was likewise Jacob (Gen. xlix, 30; 1, 
13). In later times the spot is said to have lain six 
stadia from Hebron, still marked by a reputedly sacred 
terebinth (Joseph. War, i v, 9, 7 ; Eusebius, Prcep. Prang. 
v, 9; Sozomen, Ilist. Ev. i, 18; Eusebius, Onomast. s. v. 
*Ao\m, Arboeli) ; and later travellers likewise (Sanutus, 
Secret. Jidel. iii, 14, 3, in the Gesta Dei per. Franc, ii, 
248 ; Troilo, Tear. p. 418) speak of a very venerable tree 
of this kind near the ruins of a church at Hebron (see 
Reland, Palcest. p. 712 sq.). Dr. Robinson found here, 
at a place called Ramet el-Khulil, one hour distant from 
Hebron, some ancient remains, which he regards (in ac- 
cordance with the local tradition) as probably marking 
the site of Abraham’s sepulchre ( Researches , i,318). He 
saw the venerable oak near Hebron which still passes 
with the Mohammedans for the tree under which Abra- 
ham pitched his tent ( Researches , ii, 429), but which he 
states is not a terebinth (ib. 443). See Oak. Accord- 
ing to Schwarz, “ North of Ilebron, and sideward from 
llalhul,is a plain about two and one half miles in length, 
which the Arabs call Plan, no doubt the ancient dwell- 
ing-plaec of Abraham” ( Palestine , p. 109). See IIe- 
buon. “Mamre is stated to have been at Ilebron. for 
we read that ‘ Jacob came unto Isaac his father, to Mam- 
re, to Kh'jath-Arbah , which is Ilebron, where Abraham 
and Isaac sojourned’ (xxxv, 27). The relative positions 


of Machpelah and Mamre are also described with great 
exactness. Five times Moses states that Machpelah lay 
1 before Mamre’ (*’33"^:?; Sept. dizivavTi ; Vulg. qua 
respiciebat ) ; which may mean cither that it was to the 
east of Mamre, or that it lay facing it. The latter seems 
to be the true meaning. Machpelah is situated on the 
shelving bank of a little valley, and probably the oak- 
grove of Mamre stood on the other side of the valley, 
facing the cave, while the town of Ilebron lay a little 
farther up to the north-west (comp, xxiii, 17, 19; xxv, 
9; xlix, 30; 1, 13). The identity of Machpelah with 
the modern Ilaram being established [see Maciipe- 
lah], there can be little difficulty in fixing the posi- 
tion of Mamre ; it must have been within sight of or 
‘facing’ Machpelah, and so near the town of Hebron 
that it could be described as at it. The Jerusalem ftin- 
erary places it two miles from Ilebron (p. 599), and Soz- 
omen (//. P. ii, 4) says it lay on the north towards Je- 
rusalem. It is evident that all these notices refer to 
the above ruin, Ramet el-Khulil. The Jews of Ilebron 
call it ‘ the house of Abraham,’ and regard it as the site 
of Mamre (Porter, Handbook, i, 72 ; Stanley, S. and P. p. 
141). The position, however, docs not accord with the 
notices in Genesis, and cannot, therefore, be the true site 
of Mamre. The sacred grove and the place of the pa- 
triarch’s tent were doubtless on the face of the hill facing 



the great Ilaram, which covers the cave of Machpelah 
(Stanley, Sermons in the East, p. 166 sq. ; Ritter, Pal. 
nnd Syr. iii, 222 sq.). The tradition which identified 
Mamre with Ramet el-Khulil may have originated in 
the existence of a grove of venerable oaks on that spot, 
just as now the great oak a mile or more west of the 
town is called ‘Abraham’s Oak’ (Porter, Handbk. i, 70)” 
(Kit to). See Abraham. 

Mamu'chus (Mapovxog, Vulg. Maluchus), given 
(I Esdr. ix, 20) by corruption for Malluch (q. v.) of 
the Heb. list (Ezra x, 29). 

Man is the rendering mostly of four Hebrew and 
two Greek words in the English Version. They are 
used with as much precision as the terms of like import 
in other languages. Nor is the subject merely critical; 
it will be found connected with accurate inteqwetation. 
In our treatment of the subject we partly adopt the 
statements given in Kitto’s and Smith’s Dictionaries. 

I. ClX, adam is used in several senses, (a.) It is 
the proper name of the first man, though Gesenius thinks 
that when so applied it has the force rather of an appel- 
lative, and that, accordingly, in a translation, it would 
be better to render it the man. It seems, however, to 
be used by Luke as a proper name in the genealogy (iii, 
38), by Paul (Rom. v, 14; 1 Tim. ii, 13, 14), and by Jude 
(ver. i4). Paul’s use of it in 1 Cor. xv, 45 is remarka- 


MAN 


688 


MAN 


bly clear : “the first man Adam.” It is so employed 1 
throughout the Apocrypha without exception (2 Esdr. ! 
iii, 5. 10, 21. 26 ; iv, 30: vi, 54; vii, 11, 46, 48; Tobit 1 
viii, 6; Ecelus. xxxiii, 10; xl, 1; xlix, 16), and by Jo- | 
sephus (ut infra). Gesenius argues that, as applied to 
the first man. it has the article almost without excep- 
tion. It is doubtless often thus used as an appellative, 
but the exceptions are decisive : Gen. iii, 17, “ to Adam 
he said/' and see Sept., Dent, xxxii, 8, “ the descendants 
of Adam;” “if 1 covered my transgressions as Adam” 
(Job xxxi. 33); “and unto Adam he said,” etc. (Job 
xxviii, 28"), which, when examined by the context, 
seems to refer to a primeval revelation not recorded in 
Genesis (see also Hos. vi, 7, Ileb. or margin). Gesenius 
further argues that the woman has an appropriate name, 
but that the man has none. But the name Eve was 
given to her by Adam, and, as it would seem, under a 
change of circumstances; and though the dir me origin 
of the word Adam, as a proper name of the first man, is 
not recorded in the history of the creation, as is that of 
the day. night, heaven, earth, seas, etc. (Gen. i, 5,8, 10), 
yet its divine origin as an appellative is recorded (comp. 
Ileb., Gen. i, 26 ; v, 1) ; from which state it soon became 
a proper name, Dr. Lee thinks from its frequent occur- 
rence, but we would suggest, from its peculiar appropri- 
ateness to “the man,” who is the more immediate image 
and glory of God (1 Cor. xi, 7). Other derivations of 
the word have been offered, as “ to be red” or “ red- 
haired and hence some of the rabbins have inferred ( 
that the first man was so. The derivation is as old as 
Josephus, who says that “ the first man was called Adam 
because he was formed from the red earth,” and adds, 
“for the true virgin earth is of this color” (J?tf. i, 1, 2). 
The following is a simple translation of the more de- 
tailed (Jeliovistic) account given by Moses (Gen. ii, 4- 
7, 18-25) of the creation of the first human pair, omit- 
ting the paragraph concerning the garden of Eden. See 
Cosmogony. 

This [is the] genealogy of the heavens and the earth, 
when they were created, in the day [that] Jehovah God 
made earth and heavens. Now no shrub of the field had yet 
been [grown] on the earth, and no plant of the field had yet 
sprung up — for Jehovah God had not [as yet] caused [it] 
to rain upon the earth, nor [was there any] man to till the 
ground; but mist ascended from the earth, and watered 
all the face of the ground. Then Jehovah God formed the 
man, dust from the ground, and blew into his nostrils the 
breath of life ; so the man became a living creature. 

But Jeliovah God said, “ [It is] not good [that] the man 
be alone: 1 will make for him a help as his counterpart.” 
Now Jehovah God had formed from the ground every liv- 
ing [thing] of the field, and every bird of the heavens; 
and he brought [each] towards the man to see what he 
would call if: so whatever the man called it [usl a liv- 
ing creature, that [was] its name; thus the man called 
names to every beast, and to the bird of the heavens, and 
to every living [thing] of the field: yet for inau [there] 
was not found a help as his counterpart. Then Jeliovah 
God caused a lethargy to fall upon the man, so he slept ; 
and he took one of his ribs, but closed flesh instead of it: 
and Jehovah God built the rib which he took from the 
man for a woman, and brought her towards the man. 
Thereupon the man said, “This now [is] bone from niv 
bones, and flesh from my flesh ; this [being] shall he called 
Womau [Is hah, vira], because from man [ish, vir] this 
[person] was taken : therefore will a man leave his father 
and his mother, and cling to his wife; and they shall be- 
come one flesh.” Now they were both of them naked, 
the man and his wife : yet they were not mutually 
ashamed [of their condition], 

(5.) it is the generic name of the human race as origin- 
ally created, and afterwards, like the English word man, 
person, whether man or woman, equivalent to the Latin 
homo and Greek ai&piorrog (Gen. i, 26, 27 ; v, 2; viii, 
21 ; Dent, viii, 3; Matt. v. 13. 16; 1 Cor. vii. 26), and 
even without regard to age (John xvi, 21). It is ap- 
plied to women only, “the human persons or women” 
(Numb, xxxi, 35), Sept, \pv\at dr3'pw7ron> curb nov 
yvvatKioi >. Thus »/ ih'cpioirog means a woman (Herod. 

i. GO), ami especially among the orators (comp. 1 Mace. 

ii, 28). (r.) It denotes man in opposition to woman 

(Gen. iii, 12; Matt, xix, 10), though more properly, the 
husband in opposition to the wife (compare 1 Cor. vii, 1). 


| (r/.) It is used, though very rarely, for those who main- 
tain the dignity of human nature, a man, as we say, 

[ meaning one that deserves the name, like the Latin vir 
| and Greek avi)p\ “ One man in a thousand have I found, 
but a woman,” etc. (Eccles. vii, 28). Perhaps the word 
here glances at the original uprightness of man. (e.) 
It is frequently used to denote the more degenerate and 
wicked portion of mankind: an instance of which oc- 
curs very early, “The sons (or worshippers) of God mar- 
ried the daughters of men (or the irreligious)” (Gen. vi, 
2). We request a careful examination of the following 
passages with their respective contexts : Psa. xi, 4 ; xii, 

1 , 2, 8 ; xi v, 2, etc. The latter passage is often adduced 
to prove the total depravity of the whole human race, 
whereas it applies only to the more abandoned Jews, or 
possibly to the more wicked Gentile adversaries of Is- 
rael. It is a description of “the fool,” or wicked man 
(ver. 1), and of persons of the same class (ver. 1,2), “the 
workers of iniquity, who eat up God’s people like bread, 
and called not upon the name of the Lord” (ver. 4). 
For the true view of Paul’s quotations from this psalm 
(Rom. iii, 10), see M ‘Knight, ad loc. ; and observe the 
use of the word “man” in Luke v, 20; Matt, x, 17. It 
is applied to the Gentiles (Matt, xxvii, 22; comp. Mark 
x, 33, and Mark ix, 31 ; Luke xviii, 32; see Mountenev, 
ad Ucmosth. Phil, i, 221). (f) The word is used to de- 
note other men, in opposition to those already named, 
as “both upon Israel and other men” (Jer. xxxii, 20), 

i. e. the Egyptians. “ Like other men” (Psa. lxxiii, 5), 
i. c. common men, in opposition to better men (Psa. 
lxxxii, 7); men of inferior rank, as opposed to 
men of higher rank (see Hebrew, Isa. ii, 9; v, 15 : Psa. 
xlix, 3; lxii, 10; Prov. viii, 4). The phrase “son of 
man,” in the Old Testament, denotes man as frail and 
unworthy (Numb, xxiii, 19 ; Job xxv, 6 ; Ezek. ii, 1, 3) ; 
as applied to the prophet, so often, it has the force of 
“ O mortal 1” 

2. ish, is a man in the distinguished sense, like 
the Latin vir and Greek avfjp. It is used in all the 

| several senses of the Latin vir, and denotes a man as 
distinguished from a woman (1 ►Sam. xvii. 33; Matt, 
xiv, 21); as a husband (Gen. iii, 16; IIos. ii, 16); and 
in reference to excellent mental qualities. A beautiful 
instance of the latter class occurs in Jer. v, 1 : “ Run ye 
to and fro through the streets of Jerusalem, and see now, 
and know, and seek in the broad places thereof, if ye 
can find a man, if there be any that exeeuteth judg- 
ment, that sceketh the truth; and I will pardon it.” 
This reminds the reader of the philosopher who went 
through the streets of Athens with a lighted lamp in 
his hand, and being asked what he sought, said, “I am 
seeking to find a man” (see Ilerodot. ii, 120; Homer,//, 
v, 529). It is also used to designate the superior classes 
(Prov. viii, 4 ; Psa. cxli, 4, etc.), a courtier (Jer. xxxviii, 
7), the male of animals (Gen. vii, 2). Sometimes it 
means men in general (Exod. xvi, 29; Mark vi,44). 

3. wirNt, etiosh', mortals, (3poroi, as transient, perish- 
able, liable to sickness, etc.: “Let not man [margin, 
‘mortal man’] prevail against thee” (2 Chron. xiv, 11). 
“Write with the pen of the common man” (Isa. viii, 1), 
i. e. in a common, legible character (Job xv 14; Psa. 
viii, 5 ; ix, 19, 20 ; Isa. Ii. 7 ; Psa. eiii, 15). It is applied 
to women (Josh, viii, 25). 

4. “iSa, ge'ber , vir, man, in regard to strength, etc. All 
etymologists concur in deriving the English word “man” 
from the superior powers and faculties with which man 
is endowed above all earthly creatures; so the Latin vir, 
from ris, t'ires ; and such is the idea conveyed by the 
present Hebrew word. It is applied to man as distin- 
guished from woman : “A man shall not put on a wom- 
an’s garment” (Dent, xxii, 5), like avSpuvroQ in Matt, 
viii, 9; John i,G; to men as distinguished from children 
(Exod. xii, 37); to a male child, in opposition to a fe- 
male (Job iii, 3; Sept, apaiv'). It is much used in po- 
etry: “Happy is the man” (Psa. xxxi v, 9; xl, 5; Iii, 9; 
xciv, 12). Sometimes it denotes the speeies at large 


MAN 


689 


MANASSEH 


(Job iv, 17; xiv, 10, 14). For a complete exemplifica- 
tion of these words, see the lexicons of Gesenius and 
Sehleusner, etc. 

5. methim ', “men,” always masculine. The 

singular is to be traced in the antediluvian proper names 
Methusael and Methuselah. Perhaps it may be derived 
from the root miitk, “ he died,” in which case its use 
would be very appropriate in Isa. xli, 14, “Fear not, thou 
worm Jacob, ye men of Israel.” If this conjecture be 
admitted, this word would correspond to fiporog, and 
might be rendered “mortal.” 

Other Ileb. words occasionally rendered man in the 
A.Y. are bdal, a master (husband), 11353, nephesh , 
an animate being, etc. The Greek words properly thus 
rendered are avSpwiTQg, homo , a human being, and dvt)p, 
vir, a man as distinguished from a woman. 

Some peculiar uses of the word in the New Testament 
remain to be noticed. “ The Son of Man,” applied to 
our Lord only by himself and St. Stephen (Acts vii,56), 
is the 3Iessiah in human form. Sehleusner thinks that 
the word in this expression always means woman, and 
denotes that he was the promised Messiah, born of a 
virgin, who had taken upon him our nature to fulfil the 
great decree of God, that mankind should be saved by 
one in their own form. 'O 7ra\ai6g, “ the old man,” and 
6 Kciivog, “the new man” — the former denoting unsanc- 
tified disposition of heart, the latter the new disposition 
created and cherished by the Gospel; 6 to oo di>5pw7rog, 
“the inner man;” d Kpu7rrbg r^g icapdiag dvSpioTrog, 
“the hidden man of the heart,” as opposed to the d 
dp$pco7rog, “ the external, visible man.” “A man of 
God,” first applied to Moses (Dent, xxxiii, l), and always 
afterwards to a person acting under a divine commis- 
sion (1 Kings xiii, 1 ; 1 Tim. vi, 11, etc.). Finally, an- 
gels are styled men (Acts i, 10). “To speak after 
the manner of men,” i. e. in accordance with human 
views, to illustrate by human examples or institutions, 
to use a popular mode of speaking (Rom. iii, 5; I Cor. 
ix, 8 ; Gal. iii, 15). “The number of a man,” i. e. an or- 
dinary number, such as is in general use among men 
(Rev. xiii, 18) ; so also “ the measure of a man,” an ordi- 
nary measure, in common use (Rev. xxi, 17). 

Man of Sin (d dv2rpw7rog rijg apaprlag), an imper- 
sonation of the sinfid principle spoken of by the apostle 
Paul in an emphatic manner (2 Thess. ii, 3). The con- 
text (ver. 3, 4) gives the following attributes or synon- 
ymous titles: (1.) apostasy (?) drrooTaoia , “a [rather 
the] falling away”), which precedes {Tipwrov) the ap- 
pearance (d;raK:a\u03£); (2.) son of perdition (d v'wg 
ri/g dmoXeiag , i. e. one sprung from the fall (compare 
“that wicked”), and doomed to its penalty (comp. ver. 
8); (3.) a persecutor (d in>TtKtiptvog ), especially of 
God’s cause and government ; (4.) a blasphemer (v-cp- 
aipopepog , etc.), i. e. one arrogating divine honors, and 
claiming to work miracles (verse 9, 10). This is evi- 
dently an assemblage of the most striking characteris- 
tics of former Antichrists in Scripture, especially the 
“little horn” of Daniel. As that prophecy referred par- 
ticularly to Antioclius Epiphanes, this passage must be 
understood as employing the conventional Scriptural 
language symbolically to indicate a then (and perhaps 
still) future effort on the part of some hostile power to 
overthrow Christianity, and induce its professors to re- 
nounce it. Such a peril is clearly intimated in several 
other passages of the N. T. (e. g. Mark xiii, 22; 2 Tim. 
iii, 1, 13; Rev. xx, 8). Rut we are not to confine the 
prophecy to any one type of Antichrist; “in whomso- 
ever these distinctive features are found — whoever wields 
temporal or spiritual power in any degree similar to that 
in which the Man of Sin is here described as wielding 
it — he, be he pope or potentate, is beyond all doubt a 
distinct type of Antichrist” (Ellicott, note, ad loc.). For 
a history of opinion on this passage, see Alford, Or. Test. 
iii, proleg. p. 55 sq. See Antichrist. 

MAN, Pre ad Amite. See Preadamites. 

Man. See Manna. 

V.— X x 


Man'aen (Mavai)v, prob. i. q. Menahem; comp. 
Mavdyjpog, Josephus, A nt. ix, 11, 1), a Christian teacher 
at Antioch, who had been educated with Herod Antipas 
(Acts xiii, 1; see Kuinbl,ad loc.). A.D. 44. He was 
evidently a Jew, but nothing else is known of him be- 
yond this passage, in which the epithet avvTpotyog may 
mean either playmate (Herod was brought up, however, 
at Rome, Josephus, Ant. xvii, 1, 3) or foster-brother , as 
having the same nurse (see Waleh, Dissert, ad Act. p. 
234). Some identify him with the person above named 
by Josephus, others with a Menahem mentioned in the 
Talmud (see Lightfoot, Harm. ofX. Test, ad loc.), but in 
either case on very slender grounds. 

Managers, a committee of members appointed an- 
nually in many Presbyterian churches, intrusted with 
all merely secular affairs as to property and finance. 

Man'ahatli (Heb. MamTchath , rn332, rest), the 
name of a man and of a place. 

1. (Sept. MauaxnS'.) The second named of the five 
sons of Shobal, the son of Seir the Horite (Gen. xxxvi, 
23; 1 Chron. i, 40). B.C. cir. 1927. 

2. (Sept. 31«vaya,$t v. r. Ma^aj/aSi.) A town or 
region to which certain descendants of Ehud, of the 
tribe of Benjamin, appear to have been exiled from 
Geba by an act of his father Bela (1 Chron. viii, 6). The 
context would seem to indicate some locality in the land 
of Moab. See Siiaiiaraim. Some refer it to the Me- 
nuciiaii of Judah (Judg. ix, 43, A. Vers, “with ease;” 
comp. 1 Chron. ii, 52, 54), but with little probability. 
See Menuciiite. 

Man'ahethite (I Chron. ii, 52). See Hatsi-iiam- 
Menuciiotii. 

Manasse'as (M avaoorjag v. r. 3Iai'acr<7i'ac,Yulg. 
Manasses ), given (1 Esdr. ix, 31) in place of the Ma- 
nasseii (q. v.), 4, of the Hebrew list (Ezra x, 30). 

Manas'seh (Heb. Menasseh', !Y£3^, who makes to 
forget ; see Gen. xli, 51 ; Sept., Josephus, and N. T. 31a- 
naooijg ; “Manasses” in Matt, i, 10; Rev. vii, 6), the 
name of four men and of a tribe descended from one of 
them; also of another man mentioned by Josephus. 

1. The elder of the two sons of Joseph, born in Egypt 
(Gen. xli, 51 ; xlvi, 20) of Asenath, the priest’s daugh- 
ter of Heliopolis. B.C. 1882. lie was afterwards, to- 
gether with his brother, adopted by Jacob as his own 
(xlviii, 1), by which act each became the head of a 
tribe in Israel. B.C. 1856. See Jacob. The act of 
adoption was, however, accompanied by a clear intima- 
tion from Jacob that the descendants of Manasseh, al- 
though the elder, would be far less numerous and pow- 
erful than those of the younger Ephraim. The result 
corresponded remarkably with this intimation. See 
Epiiraim. lie married a Syrian concubine, by whom 
he had several children (1 Chron. vii, 14). See Maciiir. 
The only thing subsequently recorded of him personally 
is that his grandchildren were “brought up on Joseph’s 
knees” (Gen. 1, 23). “The ancient Jewish traditions 
are, however, less reticent. According to them Manas- 
seh was the steward of Joseph’s house, and the inter- 
preter who intervened between Joseph and his brethren 
at their interview; and the extraordinary strength 
which he displayed in the struggle with and binding of 
Simeon first caused Judah to suspect that the apparent 
Egyptians were really his own flesh and blood (see Tar- 
gums Jerusalem and Pseiulojon. on Gen. xiii, 23; xliii, 
15; also the quotations in Weil's Bibl. Legends, p. 88, 
note)” (Smith). 

MANASSEH, Tribe of. — On the prophetic benedic- 
tion of Jacob, above referred to, although Manasseh, as 
the representative of his future lineage, had, like his 
grand-uncle Esau, lost his birthright in favor of his 
younger brother, lie received, as Esau had, a blessing 
only inferior to the birthright itself. Like his brother, 
he was to increase with the fertility of the fish which 
swarmed in the great Egyptian stream, to “become a 
people, and also to be great” — the “ thousands of Manas- 


MANASSEH 


690 


MANASSEH 


seh,” no less than those of Ephraim, indeed mor°, were 
to become a proverb in the nation ; his name, no less 
than that of Ephraim, was to be the s} r mbol and the ex- 
pression of the richest blessings for his kindred. 

The position of the tribe of Manassch during the 
march to Canaan was with Ephraim and Benjamin on 
the west side of the sacred tent. The standard of the 
three sons of Raehcl was the figure of a boy, with the 
inscription “ The cloud of Jehovah rested on them un- 
til they went forth out of the camp” (Targ. Pseudojon. 
on Numb, ii, 18). The chief of the tribe at the time of 
the census at Sinai was Gamaliel ben-Pcdahzur, and its 
numbers were then 32,200 (Numb, i, 10, 35; ii, 20, 21 ; 
vii, 51-59). The numbers of Ephraim were at the same 
date 40,500. Forty years later, on the banks of the Jor- 
dan, these proportions were reversed. Manasseh had 
then increased to 52,700, while Ephraim had diminished 
to 32,500 (Numb, xxvi, 34, 37). On this occasion it is 
remarkable that Manasseh resumes his position in the 
catalogue as the eldest son of Joseph. Possibly this is 
due to the prowess which the tribe had shown in the 
conquest of Gilead, for Manasseh was certainly at this 
time the most distinguished of all the tribes. Of the 
three who had elected to remain on that side of the Jor- 
dan, Reuben and Gad had chosen their lot because the 
country was suitable to their pastoral possessions and 
tendencies. But Machir, Jair, and Nobah, the sons of 
Manasseh, were no shepherds. They were pure war- 
riors, who had taken the most prominent part in the 
conquest of those provinces which up to that time had 
been conquered, and whose deeds arc constantly referred 
to (Numb, xxxii, 39; Deut. iii, 13, 14, 15) with credit 
and renown. “Jair, the son of Manasseh, took all the 
tract of Argob . . . sixty great cities” (Deut. iii, 14, 4). 
“Nobah took Kcnath and the daughter-towns thereof, 
and called it after his own name” (Numb, xxxii, 4*2). 
“ Because Machir was a man of war, therefore he had 
Gilead and Bashan” (Josh, xvii, 1). The district which 
these ancient warriors conquered was among the most 
difficult, if not the most difficult, in the whole country. 
It embraced the hills of Gilead, with their inaccessible 
heights and impassable ravines, and the almost impreg- 



nable tract of Argob, which derives its modem name of 
Lejah from the secure “asylum” it affords to those who 
take refuge within its natural fortifications. Had they 
not remained in these wild and inaccessible districts, but 
gone forward and taken their lot with the rest, who. 
shall say what changes might not have occurre-d in the 
history of the nation, through the presence of such en- 
ergetic and warlike spirits V The few personages of 
eminence ■whom we can with certainty identify as Ma- 
nassites, such as Gideon and Jcplithah — for Elijah and 
others may with equal probability have belonged to the 
neighboring tribe of Gad — were among the most re- 
markable characters that Israel produced. Gideon was, 
in fact, “the greatest of the judges, and his children all 
but established hereditary monarchy in their own line” 
(Stanley, S. and P. p. 230). But, with the one excep- 
tion of Gideon, the warlike tendencies of Manasseh seem 
to have been confined to the east of the Jordan. There 
they throve exceedingly, pushing their way northward 
over the rich plains of Jaulan and Jedur — the Gaula- 
nitis and Ituraea of the Roman period — to the foot of 
Mount Ilermon (1 Chron. v, 23). At the time of the 
coronation of David at Hebron, while the western Ma- 
nasseh sent 18,000, and Ephraim itself 20,800, the east- 
ern Manasseh, with Gad and Reuben, mustered to the 
number of 120,000, thoroughly armed — a remarkable 
demonstration of strength, still more remarkable when 
we remember the fact that Saul’s house, with the great 
Abner at its head, was then residing at Mahanaim, on 
the border of [Manasseh and Gad. But, though thus 
outwardly prosperous, a similar fate awaited them in 
the end to that which befcl Gad and Reuben; they 
gradually assimilated themselves to the old inhabitants 
of the country — they “transgressed against the God of 
their fathers, and went a-whoring after the gods of the 
people of the land whom God destroyed before them” 
(ver. 25). They relinquished, too, the settled mode of 
life and the definite limits which befitted the members 
of a federal nation, and gradually became Bedouins of 
the wilderness, spreading themselves over the vast des- 
erts which lay between the allotted possessions of their 
tribe and the Euphrates, and which had from time im- 
memorial been the hunting-grounds and pastures of the 
wild Hagarites, of Jctur, Nepliish, and Nodab (l Chron. 
v, 19, 22). On them first descended the punishment 
which was ordained to be the inevitable consequence of 
such misdoing. They, first of all Israel, were carried 
away by Pul and Tiglath-Pilcser, and settled in the As- 
syrian territories (ver. 26). The connection, however, 
between east and west had been kept up to a certain de- 
gree. In Bcthshcan, the most easterly city of the cis- 
Jordanic Manassch, the two portions all but joined. Da- 
vid had judges or officers there for all matters sacred 
and secular (1 Chron. xxvi, 32) ; and Solomon’s commis- 
sariat officer, Bcn-Geber, ruled over the towns of Jair 
and the whole district of Argob (1 Kings iv, 13), and 
transmitted their productions, doubtless not without 
their people, to the court of Jerusalem. 

The genealogies of the tribe are preserved in Numb, 
xxvi, 28-34; Josh, xvii, 1, etc.; and 1 Chron vii, 14-19. 
But it seems impossible to unravel these so as to ascer- 
tain, for instance, which of the families remained east of 
Jordan, and which advanced to the west. From the 
fact that Abi-ezer (the family of Gideon \ Ilcpher (pos- 
sibly Ophrah, the native place of the same hero), and 
Shcchem (the well-known city of the Bene-Joseph) all 
occur among the names of the sons of Gilead, the son 
of Machir, it seems probable that Gilead, whose name is 
so intimately connected with the eastern, was also the 
immediate progenitor of the western half of the tribe. 

Nor is it less difficult to fix the exact position of the 
territory allotted to the western half. In Josh, xvii, 
14-18, a passage usually regarded by critics as an ex- 
ceedingly ancient, document, we find the two tribes of 
Joseph complaining that only one portion had been al- 
lotted to them, viz. [Mount Ephraim (ver. 15), and that 
they could not extend into the plains of Jordan or Es- 


MANASSEH 


691 


MANASSEH 


draelon, because those districts were still in the posses- 
sion of the Canaauites, and scoured by their chariots. 
In reply Joshua advises them to go up into the forest 
(ver. 15, A. V. “wood”) — into the mountain which is a 
forest (ver. 18). This mountain clothed with forest can 
surely be nothing but the various spurs and offshoots of 
Carmel, the “mountain” closely adjoining the portion 
of Ephraim whose richness of wood was so proverbial. 
It is in accordance with this view that the majority of 
the towns of Manasseli — which, as the weaker portion 
of the tribe, would naturally be pushed to seek its for- 
tunes outside the limits originally bestowed — were actu- 
ally on the slopes either of Carmel itself or of the con- 
tiguous ranges. Thus Taanach and Megiddo were on 
the northern spurs of Carmel; Ibleam appears to have 
been on the eastern continuation of the range, some- 
where near the present Jenin. En-Dor was on the 
slopes of the so-called “Little Hermon.” The two re- 
maining towns mentioned as belonging to Manassch 
formed the extreme eastern and western limits of the 
tribe; the one, Bethshean (Josh, xvii, II), was in the 
hollow of the Ghor, or Jordan Valley; the other, Dor 
(ibid.), was on the coast of the Mediterranean, sheltered 
behind the range of Carmel, and immediately opposite 
the bluff or shoulder which forms its highest point. The 
whole of these cities are specially mentioned as stand- 
ing in the allotments of other tribes, though inhabited 
bv Manasseh ; and this, with the absence of any attempt 
to deHnc a limit to the possessions of the tribe on the 
north, looks as if no boundary-line had existed on that 
side, but as if the territory faded off gradually into those 
of the two contiguous tribes from whom it had borrowed 
its fairest cities. On the south side the boundary be- 
tween Manasseh and Ephraim is more definitely de- 
scribed, and may generally be traced with tolerable cer- 
tainty. Their joint possessions were bounded by the 
t( rritorv of Asher on the north and Issachar on the 
north-east (xvii, 10), but the division line between the 


two kindred tribes is defined by a place called Asher 
(ver. 7), now Yasir, twelve miles north-east of Nablus. 
Thence it ran to Michmcthah, described as facing Slie- 
chem (Nablus); then went to the right, i. e. southward, 
to the spring of Tappuah, and so doubtless to the Jor- 
dan. In the opposite direction it fell in with the water- 
courses of the torrent Kanah — probably the Nahr Falaik 
— along which it ran to the Mediterranean. See Tkibe. 

From the indications of the history, it would appear 
that Manasseh took very little part in public affairs. 
They either left all that to Ephraim, or were so far re- 
moved from the centre of the nation as to have little 
interest in what was taking place. That they attended 
David’s coronation at Hebron has already been men- 
tioned. When his rule was established over all Israel, 
each half had its distinct ruler — the western, Joel ben- 
Pedaiah; the eastern, Iddo ben-Zechariah (I Chron. 
xxvii, 20, 21). From this time the eastern Manasseh 
fades entirely from our view, and the western is hardly 
kept before us by an occasional mention. Such scat- 
tered notices as we do find have almost all reference to 
the part taken by members of the tribe in the reforms 
of the good kings of Judah — the Jehovah-revival under 
Asa (2 Chron. xv, 9) — the Passover of Hezekiah (xxx, 
1, 10, II, 18), and the subsequent enthusiasm against 
idolatry (xxxi, 1) — the ieonoclasm of Josiah (xxxiv, 6), 
and his restoration of the buildings of the Temple (ver. 
9). It is gratifying to reflect that these notices, faint 
and scattered as they are, are all colored with good, and 
exhibit none of the repulsive traits of that most repul- 
sive heathenism into which other tribes of Israel fell. 

A positive connection between Manasseli and Benja- 
min is implied in the genealogies of 1 Chron. vii, where 
Macliir is said to have married into the family of Hup*- 
pim and Shuppim, chief houses in the latter tribe (ver. 
15). No record of any such relation appears anywhere 
else. — Smith, s. v. 

The following are all the Biblical localities in both 



MANASSEH 


MANASSEII 602 


sections of the tribe, with their preserved modern rep- 
resentatives : 

Manasseu East. 


Aphek. 

Town. 

Fik. 

Ashtaroth. 

do. 

Tell Ashteraht 

Ashteroth -karnaim) 
or Beeshteroth. / 

do. 

Mezareib ? 

Beth saida. 

do. 

[El-Araj] ? 

Edrei. 

do. 

Dera ? 

Gadara [or Gergesa]. 

do. 

Uvi-Keis. 

Geshur. 

District. 

Jedur. 

Golan. 

City. 

I'Tell el-Feras] ? 

Ilavoth-Jair. 

District. 

N. part of Gilead? 

Judah-ou-Jordan. 

do. 

S. of Banias ? 

Karnaim. 

Town. 

See Asutaroth. 

Keuath or Nobah. 

do. 

Kuneivat ? 

Tob. 

do. 

Es-Sumrah ? 

Manasseh 

West. 

Abel-meholah. 

Town. 

[ Khnrbet-esh-Shuk ] ? 

Adam. 

do. 

[X. of Bethsheanl ? 

iEnoii. 

Springs. 

Bir of Sheik Salim? 

Aner. 

Town. 

See Taanacu. 

Armageddon. 

Valley. 

See Megiddo. 

Asher. 

Town. 

Yasir. 

Beth-barah. 

Ford. 

[Near Jisr-Damieh] ? 

Beth-sheau. 

Town. 

Beisan. 

Beth-shittah. 

do. 

Shuttah? 

Bezek. 

do. 

[ Khurbet-Maleh ] ? 

Bileam. 

do. 

See Ibleam. 

Otesarea. * 

do. 

Kaimriyeh . 

Bor. 

do. 

Taut ura. 

Dothan. 

do. 

Tell Dothan. 

Eudor. 

do. 

Endur. 

Eu-tappuah. 

do. 

See Tappuaii. 

Gilboa. 

Mount. 

Jebel Fukuct. 

Gilead. 

do. 

See Gilboa. 

Iladad-rimmou. 

Town. 

Rummaneh. 

I la rod. 

Fount. 

Ain-Jahtd. 

Hermon (Little). 

Mount. 

[ Jebel ed-Duhy ] ? 

Jehovah-shalom. 

Altar. 

See Opiirau. 

Megiddo. 

Town. 

El-Lejjun. 

Moreh. 

Hill. 

See Hermon. 

Ophrah. 

Towu. 

Erf ail 

Shamir. 

do. 

Sammlr t 

Taauach. 

do. 

Tanuk. 

Taanath-shiloh. 

do. 

Ain Tana? 

Tabbath. 

do. 

[ Tell-Ilamah ] ? 

Tabor. 

Mount. 

Jebel Tar. 

Tappnah. 

Zarethan or ZartaO 

District. 

Arouud Ala ft 

li ah ; also Zerecla I 
or Zeredatha, Ze- j 

• Town. 

LS. of wady Osheb] ? 


2 . According to the usual reading of the text in Judg. 
xviii, 30. Manasseh was the father of Gershom, who Is 
named as the father of Jonathan that acted as priest to 
the Danites at Laish; but besides that this would not 
make him a Levite, and, in addition to the fact that 
Gershom is a Levitical name, the reading is marked as 
suspicious (rr^S'D, Sept. AT « j^«crcr//), and should doubt- 
less be corrected to u Moses,” as in the Yulg. and many 
copies of the Se])t. See Jonathan. 

3 . The fourteenth separate king of Judah, son and 
successor of llezekiah, who began to reign at the early 
age of twelve years, and reigned lifty-five years. B.C. 
45U7-G 12. (In the following account we chiefly follow 
that in Smith’s Dictionary of the Bible, s. v.) The reign 
of this monarch is thus longer than that of any other 
of the house of David. There is none of which we know 
less. In part, it may be, this was the direct result of 
the character and policy of the man. In part, doubt- 
less, it is to be traced to the abhorrence with which the 
following generation looked back upon it as the period 
of lowest degradation to which their country had ever 
fallen. Chroniclers and prophets pass it over, gather- 
ing from its horrors and disasters the great, broad les- 
sons in which they saw the foot-prints of a righteous 
retribution, the tokens of a divine compassion, and then 
they avert their eyes and will see and say no more. 
This is in itself significant. It gives a meaning and a 
value to every fact which has escaped the sentence of 
oblivion. The very reticence of the historians of the 
O. T. shows how free they , \j:ere from the rhetorical ex- 
aggerations and inaccuracies of a later age. The strug- 
gle of opposing worships must have been as fierce under 
Manassch as it was under Antiochus, or Docius, or Dio- 
cletian, or Mary. Men must have suffered and died in 


that struggle of whom the world was not worthy, and 
yet no contrast can be greater than that between the 
short notices in Kings and Chronicles, and the rnartyr- 
ologies which belong to those other periods of persecu- 
tion. 

1. The birth of Manasseh is lixed (B.C. 709) twelve 
years before the death of llezekiah (2 Kings xxi, 1). 
We must, therefore, infer either that there had been no 
heir to the throne up to that comparatively late period 
in his reign, or that any that had been born had died, or 
that, as sometimes happened in the succession of Jewish 
and other Eastern kings, the elder son was passed over 
for the younger. There are reasons which make the 
former the more probable alternative. The exceeding 
bitterness of Ilezekiah’s sorrow at the threatened ap- 
proach of death (2 Kings xx, 2, 3; 2 Chron. xxxii, 24 ; 
Isa. xxxviii, 1-3), is more natural if we think of him as 
sinking under the thought that he was dying childless, 
leaving no heir to his work and to his kingdom. When, 
a little later, Isaiah warns him of the captivity and 
shame which will fall on his children, he speaks of those 
children as yet future (2 Kings xx, 18). This circum- 
stance will explain one or two facts in the contemporary 
history, llezekiah, it would seem, recovering from his 
sickness, anxious to avoid the danger that had threat- 
ened him, of leaving his kingdom without an heir, mar- 
ried, at or about this time, Ilephzibah (2 Kings xxi, 1), 
the daughter of one of the citizens or princes of Jerusa- 
lem (Joseph. Ah?, x, 3, 1). The prophets, we may well 
imagine, would welcome the prospect of a successor 
named by a king who had been so true and faithful. 
Isaiah (in a passage clearly belonging to a later date 
than the early portions of the book, and apparently sug- 
gested by some conspicuous marriage), with his charac- 
teristic fondness for tracing auguries in names, finds in 
that of the new queen a prophecy of the ultimate resto- 
ration of Israel and the glories of Jerusalem (Isa. Ixii, 4, 
5; compare Blunt, Scriptural Coincid. part iii, 5). The 
city, also, should be a Hephzibah, a delightsome one. 
As the bridegroom rejoiceth over the bride, so would 
Jehovah rejoice over his people. See II epiizihaii. The 
child that is born from this union is called Manasseh. 
This name, too, is strangely significant. It appears no- 
where else in the history of the kingdom of J tidah. The 
only associations connected with it were that it belonged 
to the tribe which was all but the most powerfid of the 
hostile kingdom of Israel, llow are we to account for 
so singular and unlikely a choice? The answer is, that 
the name embodied what had been for years the cher- 
ished object of Ilezekiah’s policy and hope. To take 
advantage of the overthrow of the rival kingdom by 
Shalmaneser, and the anarchy in which its provinces 
had been left, to gather round him the remnant of the 
population, to bring them back to the worship and faith 
of their fathers, this had been the second step in his 
great national reformation (2 Chron. xxx, 0). It was 
at least partially successful. “ Divers of Asher, J fanas- 
seh. and Zebnlun humbled themselves and came to Jeru- 
salem.” They were there at the great passover. The 
work of destroying idols went on in Ephraim and Ma- 
nasseh as well as in Judah (2 Chron. xxxi, l). What 
could be a more acceptable pledge of his desire to re- 
ceive the fugitives as on the same footing with his own 
subjects than that he should give to the heir to his 
throne the name in which one of their tribes exulted? 
What could hotter show the desire to let all past dis- 
cords and offences be forgotten than the name which 
was itself an amnesty? (Gesenius). 

The last twelve years of Ilezekiah’s reign were not, 
however, it will be remembered, those which were like- 
ly to inti uence for good the character of his successor. 

1 1 is policy had succeeded. lie had thrown off the yoke 
of the king of Assyria, which Ahaz had accepted, had 
defied his armies, had been delivered from extremest 
danger, and had made himself the head of an independ- 
ent kingdom, receiving tribute from neighboring princes 
instead of paying it to the great king, the king of As- 


MAKASSEH 


693 


MAKASSEH 


svria. But he goes a step further. Not eontent with 
independence, he enters on a policy of aggression. lie 
contracts an alliance with the rebellions viceroy of Bab- 
ylon against their common enemy (2 Kings xx, 12 ; Isa. 
xxxix). lie displays the treasures of his kingdom to 
the ambassadors, in the belief that this will show them 
how powerful an ally he can prove himself. Isaiah pro- 
tested against this step, but the ambition of being a 
great potentate continued, and it was to the results of 
this ambition that the boy Mauasseh succeeded at the 
age of twelve. 

2. The accession of the youthful king appears to have 
been the signal for an entire change, if not in the for- 
eign policy, at any rate in the religious administration 
of the kingdom. At so early an age he can scarcely 
have been the spontaneous author of so great an altera- 
tion, and we may infer accordingly that it was the work 
of the idolatrous, or Ahaz party, which had been re- 
pressed during the reign of Ilezckiah, but had all along, 
like the Romish clergy under Edward VI in England, 
looked on the reform with a sullen acquiescence, and 
thwarted it when they dared. The change which the 
king’s measures brought about was, after all, superficial. 
The idolatry which was publicly discountenanced was 
practiced privately (Isa. i, 29; ii, 20 ; lxv, 3). The 
priests and the prophets, in spite of their outward or- 
thodoxy, were too often little better than licentious 
drunkards (Isa. xxviii, 7). The nobles of Judah kept 
the new moons and sabbaths much in the same way as 
those of France kept their Lents when Louis NIV had 
made devotion a court ceremonial (Isa. i, 13, 14). There 
are signs that even among the king’s highest officers of 
state there was one, Shebna the scribe (Isa. xxxvii, 2), 
the treasurer (Isa. xxii, 15) “over the house,” whose 
policy was simply that of a selfish ambition, himself 
possibly a foreigner (comp. Blunt’s Sciijrt. Coinc. iii, 4), 
and whom Isaiah saw through and distrusted. It was, 
moreover, the traditional policy of “the princes of Ju- 
dah” (compare one remarkable instance in the reign of 
Joash, 2 Chron. xxiv, 17) to favor foreign alliances and 
the toleration of foreign worship, as it was that of the 
true priests and prophets to protest against it. It would 
seem, accordingly, as if they urged upon the young king 
that scheme of a close alliance with Babylon which Isa- 
iah had condemned, and, as the natural consequence of 
this, the adoption, as far as possible, of its worship, and 
that of other nations whom it was desirable to concili- 
ate. The morbid desire for widening the range of their 
knowledge and penetrating into the mysteries of other 
systems of belief may possibly have contributed now, 
as it had done in the days of Solomon, to increase the 
evil (Jer. ii, 10-25; Ewald, Gesch. Isr. iii, GGG). The 
result was a debasement which had not been equalled 
even in the reign of Ahaz, uniting in one eentre the 
abominations which elsewhere existed separately. Not 
eontent with sanctioning their presence in the Holy City, 
as Solomon and Ilehoboam had done, Manasseh defiled 
with it the sanctuary itself (2 Chron. xxxiii, 4). The 
worship thus introduced was. as has been said, predom- 
inantly Babylonian in its character. “ He observed 
times, and used enchantments, and used witchcraft, and 
dealt with a familiar spirit, and with wizards” (ver. G). 
The worship of “ the host of heaven,” which each man 
celebrated for himself on the roof of his own bouse, 
took the place of that of the Lord God of Sabaoth (2 
Kings xxiii, 12 ; Isa. lxv, 3, 11 ; Zoph. i, 5 ; Jer. viii, 2 ; 
xix, 13 ; xxii, 29). With this, however, there was as- 
sociated the old Moloch worship of the Ammonites. 
The tires were rekindled in the valley of Ben-Hinnom. 
Tophet was (for the first time, apparently) built into a 
stately fabric (2 Kings xvi, 3 : Isa. xxx,83, as compared 
with Jer. vii, 31 ; xix, 5; Ewald, Gesch. Isr. iii, GG7). 
Even the king’s sons, instead of being presented to Je- 
hovah, received a horrible fire-baptism dedicating them 
to Molceh (2 Chron. xxxiii, G), while others were actu- 
ally slaughtered (Ezek. xxiii, 37, 89). The Baal and 
Ashtaroth ritual, which had been imported under Solo- 


mon from the Phoenicians, was revived with fresh splen- 
dor, and, in the worship of the “queen of heaven,” fixed 
its roots deep into the habits of the people (Jer. vii, 18). 
Worse and more horrible than till, the Asherali, the im- 
age of Astarte, or the obscene symbol of a phallic wor- 
ship (comp. AsiiEit.ui, and, in addition to the authori- 
ties there cited, Mayer, De Reform. Josiec, etc., in the 
Thes. Theo. philol. Amstel. 1701) was seen in the house 
of which Jehovah had said that he would there put his 
name forever (2 Kings xxi, 7). All this was accom- 
panied by the extremest moral degradation. The wor- 
ship of those old Eastern religions has been well de- 
scribed as a kind of “ sensuous intoxication,” simply 
sensuous, and therefore associated inevitably with a 
fiendish eruelty, leading to the utter annihilation of the 
spiritual life of men (llegel, Philos, of History, i, 3). So 
it was in Jerusalem in the days of Manasseh. Bival 
priests (the Chemarim of Zepli. i, 4) were eonseerated 
for this hideous worship. Women dedicating them- 
selves to a cultus like that of the Babylonian Mvlitta 
wove hangings for the Asherah as they sat there (May- 
er, cap. ii, § 4). The Kadeshim, in closest neighborhood 
with them, gave themselves up to yet darker abomina- 
tions (2 Kings xxiii, 7). The awful words of Isaiah (i, 
10) had a terrible truth in them. Those to whom he 
spoke were literally “rulers of Sodom and princes of Go- 
morrah.” Every faith was tolerated but the old faith 
of Israel. This was abandoned and proscribed. The 
altar of Jehovah was displaced (2 Chron. xxxiii, 1G). 
The very ark of the covenant was removed from the 
sanctuary (2 Chron. xxxv, 3). The sacred.books of the 
people were so systematically destroyed that fifty years 
later men listened to the Book of the Law of Jehovah 
as a newly-discovered treasure (2 Kings xxii, 8). It 
may well be, according to a Jewish tradition, that this 
fanaticism of idolatry led Manasseh to order the name 
Jehovah to be erased from all documents and inscrip- 
tions (Patrick, ad loe.). All this involved also a system- 
atic violation of the weekly sabbatic rest and the con- 
sequent loss of one witness against a merely animal life 
(Isa. lvi, 2; 1 viii, 13). The tide of corruption carried 
away some even of those who, as priests and prophets, 
should have been steadfast in resisting it (Zeph. iii, 4 ; 
Jer. ii,2G; v, 13; vi, 13). 

It is easy to imagine the hitter grief and burning in- 
dignation of those who continued faithful. The fiercest 
zeal of Huguenots in France, of Covenanters in Scot- 
land, against the badges and symbols of the Latin 
Church, is perhaps but a faint shadow of that which 
grew to a white heat in the hearts of the worshippers 
of Jehovah. They spoke out in words of corresponding 
strength. Evil was coming on Jerusalem which should 
make the ears of men to tingle (2 Kings xxi, 12). The 
line of Samaria and the plummet of the house of Ahab 
should be the doom of the Holy City. Like a vessel 
that had once been full of precious ointment (comp, the 
Sept. a\a/3acFTpoi’). but had afterwards become foul, Je- 
rusalem should be emptied and wiped out, and exposed 
to the winds of Heaven till it was cleansed. Foremost, 
we may well believe, among those who thus bore their 
witness was the old prophet, now bent with the weight 
of fourscore years, who had in his earlier days protested 
with equal courage against the crimes of the king’s 
grand father. On him, too, according to the old Jewish 
tradition, came the first shock of the persecution. En- 
raged at the rebukes which the aged prophet doubtless 
administered, the king is said to have caused him to be 
sawn asunder with a wooden saw; this fate seems to be 
alluded to in Ileb. xi,37. See Isaiah. I Iabakkuk may 
have shared his martyrdom (Keil on 2 Kings xxi; but 
comp. Habakkuk). But the persecution did hot stop 
there. It attacked the whole order of the true proph- 
ets, and those who followed them. Every day witness- 
ed an execution (Josephus, A nt. x, 3, 1). The slaughter 
was like that under Alva or Charles IX (2 Kings xxi, 
1G). The martyrs who were faithful unto death had to 
endure not torture only, but the mocks and taunts of a 


MAXASSEII 


094 


MANASSEH 


godless generation (Tsa. lvii, 1-4). Long afterwards the 
remembrance of that reign of terror lingered in the 
minds of men as a guilt for which nothing could atone 
(2 Kings xxiv, 4). The persecution, like most other 
persecutions carried on with entire singleness of pur- 
pose, was for a time successful (Jer. ii, 30). The proph- 
ets appear no more in the long history of Manasseh’s 
reign. The heart and the intellect of the nation were 
crushed out, and there would seem to have' been no 
chroniclers left to record this portion of its history. 

3. Retribution came soon in the natural sequence of 
events. There are indications that the neighboring na- 
tions — Philistines, Moabites, Ammonites — who had been 
tributary under Hezekiah, revolted at some period in 
the reign of Manasseh, and asserted their independence 
(Zepk. ii, 4-19; Jer. xlvii, xlviii, xlix). The Babylo- 
nian alliance bore the fruits which had been predicted. 
Hezekiah had been too hasty in attaching himself to 
the cause of the rebel prince against Assyria. The re- 
bellion of Merodach-Baladan was crushed, and then the 
wrath of the Assyrian king fell on those who had sup- 
ported him. See Esar-iiaddox. According to others, 
during the constant war between Assyria and Egypt, 
Manasseh adhered to the policy of his father in making 
common cause with the latter power. One or the other 
of these causes, although not stated by the sacred his- 
torian, brought into Jiultea an Assyrian army, under the 
general of Esar-haddon, and this time the invasion was 
more successful than that of Sennacherib. The city 
apparently was taken. The miserable king attempted 
flight, but was discovered in a thorn-brake in which he 
had hidden himself, was laden with chains, and sent 
away as a captive to Babylon, which was then subject 
to the Assyrians, where he was cast into prison. Jlis 
name has been discovered on the Assyrian monuments 
(Journ. of Sac. Lit. April, 1859, p. 75). See Nineveh. 
Here, at last, Manasseh had ample opportunity and lei- 
sure for cool reflection ; and the hard lessons of adversity 
were not lost upon him. lie saw and deplored the evils 
of his reign — he became as a new man — he humbly be- 
sought pardon from God, and implored that he might 
be enabled to evince the sincerity of his contrition by 
being restored to a position for undoing all that it had 
been the business of his life to effect. Ilis prayer was 
heard. Ilis captivity is supposed to have lasted a year, 
and he was then restored to his kingdom under certain 
obligations of tribute and allegiance to the king of As- 
syria, which, although not expressed in the account of 
this transaction, are alluded to in the history of his suc- 
cessors (2 Chron. xxxiii, 1 1-13 ; comp. Maurice, Proph- 
ets and Kings , p. 362). See Man asses, Prayer of. 

Two questions meet us at this point, (a) Have we 
satisfactory grounds for believing that this statement is 
historically true? ( h ) If we accept it, to what period 
in the reign of Manasseh is it to be assigned? It has 
been urged in regard to ( a ) that the silence of the writer 
of the books of Kings is conclusive against the trust- 
worthiness of the narrative of 2 Chronicles. In the for- 
mer there is no mention made of captivity or repent- 
ance or return. The latter, it has been said, yields to 
the temptation of pointing a moral, of making history 
appear more in harmony with his own notions of the 
divine government than it actually is. Ilis anxiety to 
deal leniently with the successors of David leads him to 
invent at once a reformation and the captivity which is 
represented as its cause (Iloseumi'dler, Hibl. A It nth. i, 2, 
p. 131 ; llitzig, fiegr. d. Kritik , p. 130). It will be nec- 
essary in dealing with this objection to meet the scep- 
tical critic on his own ground. To say that his rea- 
soning contradicts our belief in the inspiration of the 
historical books of Scripture, and is destructive of all 
reverence for them, would involve a pet it io principii , 
and, however strongly it may influence, our feelings, we 
are bound to find another answer. It is believed that, 
the answer is not far to seek. (1) The silence of a 
writer who sums up the history of a reign of fifty-five 
years in nineteen verses as to one alleged event in it is 


surely a weak ground for refusing to accept that event 
on the authority of another historian. (2) The omis- 
sion is in part explained by the character of the narra- 
tive of 2 Kings xxi. The writer deliberately turns away 
from the history of the days of shame, and not less from 
the personal biography of the king. lie looks on the 
reign only as it contributed to the corruption and final 
overthrow of the kingdom, and no after repentance was 
able to undo the mischief that had been done at first. 
(3) Still keeping on the level of human probabilities, the 
character of the writer of 2 Chronicles, obviously a Le- 
vite, and looking at the facts of the history from the 
Levitical point of view, would lead him to attach greater 
importance to a partial reinstatement of the old ritual 
and to the cessation of persecution, and so to give them 
in proportion a greater prominence. (4) There is one 
peculiarity in the history which is, in some measure, of 
the nature of an undesigned coincidence, and so confirms 
it. The captains of the host of Assyria take Manasseh 
to Babylon. Would not a later writer, inventing the 
story, have made the Assyrian, and not the Babylonian, 
capital the scene of the captivity; or, if the latter were 
chosen for the sake of harmony with the prophecy of 
Isa. xxxix, have made the king of Babylon rather than 
of Assyria the captor? As it is, the narrative fits in, 
with the utmost accuracy, to the facts of Oriental histo- 
ry. The first attempt of Babylon to assert its indepen- 
dence of Nineveh failed. It was crushed by Esar-had- 
don (the first or second of that name; compare Esar- 
iiaddox, and Ewald, Gcsch. Isr. iii, 675), and for a time 
the Assyrian king held his court at Babylon, so as to 
effect more completely the reduction of the rebellious 
province. There is (5) the fact of agreement with the 
intervention of the Assyrian king in 2 Kings xvii, 24, 
just at the same time. The king is not named there, 
but Ezra iv, 2, 10, gives Asnapper, and this is probably 
only another form of Asardanapar, and this = Esar-had- 
don (compare Ewald, Gesch. iii, 676; Tob. i, 21 gives 
Sarchedonus). The importation of tribes from Eastern 
Asia thus becomes part of the same policy as the attack 
on Judah. On the whole, then, the objection may well 
be dismissed as frivolous and vexations. Like many 
other difficulties urged by the same school, it has in it 
something at once captious and puerile. Those who lay 
undue stress on them act in the spirit of a clever boy 
asking puzzling questions, or a sharp advocate getting up 
a case against the evidence on the other side, rather than 
in that of critics who have learned how to construct 
a history and to value its materials rightly (comp. Keil, 
Comment, on 2 Kings xxi). Ewald, a critic of a nobler 
stamp, whose fault is rather that of fantastic reconstruc- 
tion than needless scepticism {Gesch. Isr. iii. 678), ad- 
mits the groundwork of truth. Would the prophecy of 
Isaiah, it may be asked, have been recorded and pre- 
served if it had not been fulfilled? Might not Manas- 
seh’s release have been, as Ewald suggests, the direct 
consequence of the death of Esar-haddon? Indeed, all 
the soberer German critics accept it as truth, and place 
Manasseh’s captivity under Esar-haddon (Bert beau, ad 
loe.). Bcrtheau suggests that some support to the ac- 
count may perhaps be found in 2 Kings xx, 17 sq. For 
other discussions of the alleged improbabilities of the 
Biblical narrative, see Dahlers. De Jide Chrome, hist, p. 
139; Gramberg, Chron . p. 199, 210; Refigionsid. ii, 234; 
Rosenmuller, Alterth. I, ii, 131 ; Keil, Apolog. (hr Chro- 
nik. p. 425; llavernick, Einleit. II, i, 221 ; Stud, u Knt. 
1860. vol, iii. 

(5.) The circumstance just noticed enables us to return 
an approximate answer to the other question. The du- 
ration of Esar-li ad don’s Babylonian reign is calculated 
as being in B.C. 680-667 ; and Manasseh’s captivity 
must therefore have fallen within those limits. A Jew- 
ish tradition (Seder Ohtm Rabba , c. 24) fixes the twen- 
ty-second year of his reign as the exact date. 

•1. The period t hat followed is dwelt upon by the 
writer of 2 Chronicles as one of a great change for the 
better. The discipline of exile made the king feel that 


MANASSEH 


695 


MANASSEH 


the gods whom he had chosen were powerless to deliver, 
and he turned in his heart to Jehovah, the God of his 
fathers. The compassion or death of Esar-haddon led 
to his release, and lie returned after some uncertain in- 
terval of time to Jerusalem. It is not improbable that 
his absence from that city had given a breathing time 
to the oppressed adherents of the ancient creed, and 
possibly had brought into prominence, as the provisional 
ruler and defender of the city, one of the chief members 
of the party. If the prophecy of Isa. xxii, 15 received, 
as it probably did, its fulfilment in Shebna’s sharing the 
captivity of his master, there is nothing extravagant in 
the belief that we may refer to the same period the no- 
ble words which speak of Eliakim, the son of Ililkiah, 
as taking the place which Shebna should leave vacant, 
and rising up to be “a father unto the inhabitants of 
Jerusalem and to the house of Judah,” having “ the key 
of the house of David on his shoulder.” 

The return of Manasseh was at any rate followed by 
a new policy. The old faith of Israel w r as no longer 
persecuted. Foreign idolatries were no longer thrust, 
in all their foulness, into the sanctuary itself. The altar 
of the Lord was again restored, and peace-offerings and 
thank-offerings sacrificed to Jehovah (2 Chron. xxxiii, 
15, 16). But beyond this the reformation did not go. 
The ark was not restored to its place. The book of the 
law of Jehovah remained in its concealment. Satisfied 
with the feeling that they were no longer worshipping 
the gods of other nations by name, they went on with a 
mode of worship essentially idolatrous. “-The people 
did sacrifice still in the high places, but to Jehovah their 
God only” (ibid. ver. 17). 

5. The other facts known of Manasseh’s reign connect 
themselves with the state of the world round him. The 
Assyrian monarchy was tottering to its fall, and the 
king of Judah seems to have thought that it was still 
possible for him to rule as the head of a strong and in- 
dependent kingdom. If lie had to content himself with 
a smaller territory, he might vet guard its capital against 
attack by a new wall defending what had been before 
its weak side (comp. Zepli. i, 10), “to the entering in of 
the fish-gate,” and completing the tower of Opliel, which 
had been begun with a like purpose by Jotham (2 
Chron. xxvii, 3). Nor were the preparations for de- 
fence limited to Jerusalem. “ He put captains of war 
into all the fenced cities of Judah.” There was, it must 
be remembered, a special reason for this attitude, over 
and above that afforded by the condition of Assyria. 
Egypt had emerged from the chaos of the Dodecarchy 
and the Ethiopian intruders, and again become strong 
and aggressive under Psammiticlms. Pushing his arms 
northwards, he attacked the Philistines; and the twen- 
ty-nine years’ siege of Azotus must have fallen wholly 
or in part within the reign of Manasseh. So far his 
progress would not be unacceptable. It would be pleas- 
ant to see the old hereditary enemies of Israel, who had 
lately grown insolent and defiant, meet with their mas- 
ters. About this time, accordingly, we find the thought 
of an Egyptian alliance again beginning to gain favor. 
The prophets, and those who were guided by them, 
dreaded this more than anything, and entered their pro- 
test against it. Not the less, however, from this time 
forth, did it continue to be the favorite idea which took 
possession of the minds of the lay-party of the princes 
of Judah. The very name of Manasseh’s son, Amon, 
barely admitting a possible Hebrew explanation, but 
identical in form and sound with that of the great sun- 
god of Egypt (so Ewald, Gesch. iii, 665), is probably an 
indication of the gladness with which the alliance of 
Psammiticlms was welcomed. As one of its conse- 
quences, it probably involved the supply of troops from 
Judah to serve in the armies of the Egyptian king. 
Without adopting Ewald’s hypothesis that this is re- 
ferred to in Deut. xxviii, 68, it is yet likely enough in 
itself, and Jer. ii, 14-16 seems to allude to some such 
state of things. In return for this, Manasseh, we may 
believe, received the help of the chariots and horses for 


which Egypt was always famous (Isa. xxxi, 1). (Comp. 
Aristeas, Epist. ad Philocr. in Havercamp’s Josephus , ii, 
104). If this was the close of Manasseh’s reign, we can 
well understand how to the writer of the books of Kings 
it would seem hardly better than the beginning, leaving 
the root-evil uncured, preparing the way for worse evils 
than itself. We can understand how it was that on his 
death he was buried as Ahaz had been, not with the 
burial of a king, in the sepulchres of the house of David, 
but in the garden of Uzza (2 Kings xxi, 26), and that, 
long afterwards, in spite of his repentance, the Jews 
held his name in abhorrence, as one of the three kings 
(the other two are Jeroboam and Ahab) who had no 
part in eternal life ( Sanhedr . xi, 1, quoted by Patrick on 
2 Chron. xxxiii, 13). 

Indeed, the evil was irreparable. The habits of a 
sensuous and debased worship had eaten into the life of 
the people; and though they might be repressed for a 
time by force, as in the reformation of Josiah, they burst 
out again, when the pressure was removed, with fresh 
violence, and rendered even the zeal of the best of the 
Jewish kings fruitful chiefly in hypocrisy and unreality. 
The intellectual life of the people suffered in the same 
degree. The persecution cut off all who, trained in the 
schools of the prophets, were the thinkers and teachers 
of the people. The reign of Manasseh witnessed the 
close of the work of Isaiah and Habakkuk at its begin- 
ning, and the youth of Jeremiah and Zepbaniah at its 
conclusion, but no prophetic writings illumine that dreary 
half-century of debasement. The most fearful symptom 
of all, when a prophet’s voice was again heard during 
the minority of Josiah, was the atheism which, then as 
in other ages, followed on the confused adoption of a 
confluent polytheism (Zeph. i, 12). It is surely a strained, 
almost a fantastic hypothesis, to assign (as Ewald does) 
to such a period two such noble works as Deuteronomy 
and the book of Job. Nor was this dying out of a true 
faith the only evil. The systematic persecution of the 
worshippers of Jehovah accustomed the people to the 
horrors of a religious war; and when they in their turn 
gained the ascendancy, they used the opportunity with 
a fiercer sternness than had been known before. Je- 
hoshaphat and llezekiali in their reforms had been con- 
tent with restoring the true worship and destroying the 
instruments of the false. In that of Josiah, the destruc- 
tion extends to the priests of the high places, whom he 
sacrifices on their own altars (2 Kings xxiii, 20). 

6. But little is added by later tradition to the O.-T. 
narrative of Manasseh’s reign. The prayer that bears 
his name among the apocryphal books can hardly, in 
the absence of any Hebrew original, be considered as 
identical with that referred to in 2 Chron. xxxiii, and is 
probably rather the result of an attempt to work out the 
hint there supplied than the reproduction of an older 
document. There are reasons, however, for believing 
that there existed at some time or other a fuller history, 
more or less legendary, of Manasseh and his conversion, 
from which the prayer may possibly have been an ex - 
cerpt, preserved for devotional purposes (it appears for 
the first time in the Apostolical Constitutions) when the 
rest was rejected as wort bless. Scattered here and there, 
we find the disjecta membra of such a work. Among tine 
offences of Manasseh, the most prominent is that he 
places in the sanctuary an dyaXpa TtrpcnrpomoTTov of 
Zeus (Snidas, s. v. Morarro-/)^; Georg. Svncellus, Chro- 
nograph. i, 404). The charge on which he condemns 
Isaiah to death is that of blasphemy, the words “ I saw 
the Ixird” (Isa. vi, 1) being treated as a presumptuous 
boast at variance with Exod. xxxiii, 20 (Nic. de Lyra, 
from a Jew'ish treatise: Jebamoth, quoted by Amama, 
in Crit. Sacri on 2 Kings xxi). Isaiah is miraculously 
rescued. A cedar opens to receive him. Then conies 
the order that the cedar should be sawn through (ibid .) . 
That which made this sin the greater was that the 
king’s mother, Hephzibah, was the daughter of Isaiah. 
When Manasseh was taken captive by Merodach and 
taken to Babylon (Suidas), he was thrown into prison 


MANASSEII It. -JOS. B. -ISRAEL 090 


MAXASSES 


and fed daily with a scanty allowance of bran-bread and 
water mixed with vinegar. Then came his condemna- 
tion. I Le was encased in a brazen image (the descrip- 
tion suggests a punishment like that of the bull of Pe- 
rillus), but he repented and prayed, and the image clave 
asunder, and he escaped (Suidas and Georg. Syncellus). 
“And the Lord heard the voice of Manasses and pitied 
him,” the legend continues, ‘‘and there came around 
him a llame of fire, and all the irons about him (rd 7 Ttpi 
avrov (jidiipci) were melted, and the Lord delivered him 
out of his afiliction” (Const. A post, ii, 22; compare Jul. 
Afrie. ap. Konth, Rel. Sac. ii, 288). Then he returned 
to Jerusalem and lived righteously and justly. 

4 . An Israelite of the descendants (or residents) of 
Pahath-moab, who repudiated his foreign wife after the 
exile (Ezra x, 30). B.C. 459. 

5 . Another Israelite of Ilaslnm who did the same 

(Ezra x, 33). B.C.459. 

Manasseh ben-Josepii iiex- Israel, one of the 
most distinguished Jewish theologians of the 17th cen- 
tury, was born at Lisbon, Portugal, in 1004, at a time 
when the Iberian peninsula was a place of torture for 
all non-Roman-Catholie believers, but more particularly 
the Jews. Joseph, his father, a rich merchant, feared 
the power of the inquisitors, and, like many religiously 
persecuted, turned towards hospitable Holland for an 
asylum for himself and his family. The household 
found a safe home in Amsterdam, and when yet a youth 
ben-Joseph was placed under the instruction of the cel- 
ebrated Isaac Uzziel, then rabbi at the Dutch capital. 
So rapid was his progress and so unbounded the confi- 
dence of the Jews of Amsterdam in Manasseh ben-Is- 
rael, as he is commonly called, that on the death of Uz- 
ziel, when only eighteen years old (1022), he was deem- 
ed a worthy successor of the departed rabbi. In 1G2G, 
in need of means to meet the expenses of his father’s 
family, largely dependent upon him for support, he es- 
tablished the celebrated “Amsterdam Hebrew printing- 
office.” Two years later he printed his own maiden 
production, and in 1G32 finally came before the public 
with the first volume of his great and justly celebrated 
Conciliator, or Harmony of the Pentateuch (see below), 
in which upwards of two hundred and ten Hebrew works, 
and fifty-four Greek, Latin, Spanish, and Portuguese au- 
thors, both sacred and profane, are quoted. His fame 
was now established in all Europe, and his authority ac- 
cepted not only by the Jews, but even Christian scholars 
acknowledged his scholarship, and wrote to him from far 
and wide, requesting explanations of difficulties which 
they encountered in the Hebrew Scriptures and Jewish 
history. The celebrated Vossius, Dionysius, lingo Gro- 
tius, II net, Episeopus, Sobierre, Frankenberg, Thomas 
Fuller, Nathaniel Homesins, etc., were among his corre- 
spondents. lie solicited their influence in behalf of his 
suffering brethren, and was thereby enabled to petition 
the Long Parliament (1G50) to readmit the Jews into 
England, whence they had been expelled ever since 
1290. Shortly after, he dedicated The Hope of Israel to 
the English Parliament, which was gratefully acknowl- 
edged in a letter written by lord Middlesex, addressed 
To my clear brother M. B. /., the Hebrew philosopher. 
Encouraged thereby, Manasseh came over to England in 
1G55; presented “A Humble Address” in behalf of his 
coreligionists to Cromwell; published in London, 1G56, 
his Vindication of Jews, in answer to those Christians 


Kayseri ing’s biography. An encyclopaedical knowledge 
was displayed by Manasseh in his writings; this should 
certainly not stand against him. His most important 
works are (1.) “CS, in Hebrew, being an index to 
all the passages of the Hebrew Scriptures in the M id- 
rash Rubboth on the Pentateuch and the Five Megil- 
loth (Amsterdam, 1628); (2.) Conciliator , sire de con - 
renientia loconun S. Script urce, quee puynare inter se ri~ 
elentur , etc. (in Spanish, Amst. 1G32-1651, 4 vols. ; vol. i 
was translated into Latin by Vossius, Amst. 1633, and 
the whole into English by Lindo, London, 1842) ; (3.) 
l)e Creatione Proble?nata (in Spanish, Amsterd. 1635) ; 
(4.) De Resurrcctione Mortuorum, Libri tres (in Span- 
ish, Amsterd. 1636) ; (5.) De Termino 

i’itce (in Latin, Amsterd. 1639 ; translated into Eng- 
lish by Thomas Poeoeke, Lond. 1699) ; (6.) E^n rX'i'Dj 
four books on the immortality of the soul (written in 
Hebrew, Amst. 1651 ; new ed. Leips. 1862. These are 
valuable contributions to Biblical literature, inasmuch 
as Manasseh gives in them all the passages from the 
Hebrew Scriptures which, according to the explanations 
of the ancient rabbins, teach the immortality of the soul 
and the resurrection) ; (7.) Piedra Gloriosa 

o de la Estatua de Nebuchadnesar (Amst. 1655), an ex- 
position of Daniel’s dream, written in Spanish, which 
the immortal Rembrandt did not think it below his dig- 
nity to adorn with four engravings. He also carried 
through his own press several beautiful and correctly- 
printed editions of the Hebrew Scriptures; wrote a He- 
brew grammar, entitled rnV“0 n^T, Grammatica He - 
brea, diridida en quatnor libros , which has not as yet 
been published ; and left ns over four hundred well-writ- 
ten sermons in Portuguese. See Fiirst, Biblioth. Jud. ii, 
354-358 ; Steinsclineider, Cataloyus Libr. Hebr. in Bibli- 
otheca Bodleiana, eol. 1645-1652 ; and especially the val- 
uable biographies by Kayserling, Jahrbuch fur die Ge- 
schichte der Juden (Leipz. 1861), ii, 85 sq. ; and by Car- 
nioly, in the Revue Orientale (Bruxelles, 1842), p. 299- 
348; C. I). Ginsburg, in Kit to, iii, s. v. ; Hoefer, Xouv. 
Bioy. Generate , xxxiii, 145 sq. 

Manas'ses (Mavamri/c), the Greek form of the 
name Manasseh, and, as such, applied not only to those 
mentioned in the O. T., but to another in the Apocrypha. 

1. The son of Joseph by that name (Rev. vii, 6). 

2 . The king of Judah (Matt, i, 10; and so in “the 
Prayer” thus entitled). 

3 . One of the sons of llashum (1 Esdr. ix,33; comp, 
Ezra x, 33). 

4 . A wealthy inhabitant of Bethulia, and husband of 
Judith, according to the legend. He was smitten with 
a sunstroke while superintending the laborers in his 
fields, leaving Judith a widow with great possessions 
(Jud. viii, 2, 7 ; x,3; xvi, 22-24), and was buried between 
Dothan and Baai-hamon.— Smith. See Jtprrii. 

MANASSES, The PRAYER of, one of the shorter 
apocryphal pieces appended to the O. T. (In the fol- 
lowing account we mainly follow the articles on the 
subject in Kitto and Smith’s Dictionaries.) Though 
wanting in the early printed editions of the Sept., it 
must have been included in the ancient MSS. of the 
Sept., as is evident from the fact that there exists an 
Ante-IIieronymian Latin version of it. It is found in 
the Codex Alexandrinus, and the Greek text was first 


who opposed the readmission of Jews into that country; 
and though Cromwell, with all his power, could not car- 
ry through the measure permitting Jews to settle in 
England (see Jews), he granted to Manasseh ben-Js- 
rael a pension of £100 per annum, payable quarterly, and 
commencing Feb. 20, 1656 (comp. Carlyle, ii, 163). Ma- 
nasseh, however, did not long enjoy this generous gift, for 
he died in Middlebnrg in 1657, on his way back to Am- 
sterdam. Griitz (Gesch. d. Juden, x, 13, ’84-86) rather 
belittles Manasseh’s literary ability. lie regards him as : 
“a man of much information, but of little thought,” and 
yet his acquaintance with Manasseh is founded mainly on | 


published in Robert Stephens’ edition of the Biblia La- 
tina (Paris. 1540), and in the edition of the same printed 
in 1546. It was also printed in the Apostolical Consti- 
tutions in 1563; it was then published by Dauderstadt 
in 1628; inserted in the fourth volume of the London 
Polyglot, with the various readings of the Codex Alex- 
andrinus, in the Apostolical Fathers of Cotelerius in 
1072; in the Libri apoer. F. T. (Francof. ad M. 1694, 
Halle, 1749) ; in the editions of the Apocrypha by Rei- 
neccius (1730). Michaelis (1741); and after the text of 
the Cod. Alexandrinus in the editions of the Sept, by 
Grabe and Breitinger. 


MAX ASSES 


097 MAXDiEANS 


I. Title and Position . — This apoervpha] production is 

called the prayer of M (masses {irpo^tvx 1 ) Marotrcri)), 
or hymn of prayer (jz poo rye if eye), because it pur- 

ports to be the supplications which this monarch o Herod 
to Clod when captive in Babylon, mentioned in 2 Chron. 
xxxiii, 12, 13. Its position varies in the MSS., printed 
editions of the text, and in the versions. It is more 
generally appended to the Psalter with the collection of 
hymns and prayers, as in the Codex Alexandrinus, the 
Ziirieh MS. of the Psalms mentioned by Fritzsche, and 
in the Ethiopic Psalter, published by Ludolf (Frankfort- 
on-the-Main, 1701); in the three Latin MSS. used by 
Sabatier it is placed at the end of 2 Chron. (Sabat. Bill. 
Lot. iii, 1038) ; in the editions of the Vulgate formed 
after the Trident. Canon of the Bible it is usually put at 
the end of the N. T., .succeeded by the third and fourth 
books of Esdras. Luther placed it as the last of the 
Apocrypha, at the end of the O.T., while Matthew’s Bi- 
ble, which first inserted it among the Apocrypha, and 
which is followed by the Bishop’s Bible and the A. V., 
puts it before the Maccabees. 

II. Contents, Author, Bate, Original Language, etc. — It 
opens with an appeal to the God of the faithful patri- 
archs and their righteous seed, describes his greatness as 
Creator of all things, before whose power every one 
trembles, and whose wrath no sinner can endure, and 
speaks of his proffered pardon to the penitent (ver. 
1-8). Thereupon the repentant king confesses his sins, 
humbles himself on account of them, prays for pardon, 
and promises to lead a life of gratitude and praise (ver. 
9-15). 

Many writers have seen nothing in this prayer to 
militate against its being the penitential dirge of the 
penitent Manasseh; on the contrary, they think that 
the simplicity and appropriateness of its style, the ear- 
nest and touching manner in which it is expressed, go 
far to show that if it is not literally “ his prayer unto his 
God” rendered into Greek, that prayer formed the basis of 
the Greek. It is, indeed. certain that the prayer was still 
extant when the Chronicles were compiled, that the 
chronicler saw it “ in the book of the Kings of Israel” (2 
Chron. xxxiii, 18), and that later writers, as well as tra- 
dition, constantly refer to it (compare Sanhedrin, 101, b; 
103, a; Jerusalem Sanhedrin xvii ; Mid rash Rahboth on 
Lev., Barsha xxx. p. 150; on I)eut., Parsha ii, or ch. iv, 
25, p. 21G, cd.Sulzbaeh ; Chaldee Paraphrase of 2 Chron. 
xxxiii, 1 1, etc. ; Const. A post, ii, 22). We may more rea- 
sonably conclude, however, that it is hut the embodi- 
ment of these traditions. See Manasseh, 3. 

The Greek text is undoubtedly original, and not a 
mere translation from the Hebrew, for even within the 
small space of tifteen verses some peculiarities arc found 
{uo-eicrog. K\iveiv yuj'v teapetag, TrapopyiZeiv tov S v - 
par, TiSeaSat perdvoidv rtj'i ). The writer was' well 
acquainted with the Sept, (rd fcariorara rijg yijc, rb 
7r\i)$og rijg xpyoroTyTog oov, 7idoa // cvvapig tu>j> ov- 
paiubv), but beyond this there is nothing to determine 
the date at which he lived. The allusion to the patri- 
archs (ver. 8,ciicaioi ; ver. 1, 76 <77 -tpya avrdtv to Hra - 
lou) appears to lix the authorship on a Jew, but the 
clear teaching on repentance points to a time certainly 
not long before the Christian era. There is no indica- 
tion of the place at which the prayer was written. All 
that we know is that reference is made to it in a frag- 
ment of Julius Afrieanns (circa A.D. 221), that it is given 
at length in the Apostolical Constitutions (ii, 22), a work 
attributed to Clemens Bomanus, hut generally believed 
to be of the 3d or 4th century, and that the whole com- 
plexion of it shows it to be an ante-Christian produc- 
tion, compiled most probably in the first century B.C. 
The Latin translation which occurs in Vulgate MSS. is 
not by the hand of Jerome, and has some remarkable 
phrases ( insustentabi/is , import abi! is [ a wrrba-arog J , (mi- 
nis virtus caloruni), but there is no sufficient internal 
evidence to show whether it is later or earlier than his 
time. It does not, however, seem to have been used by 
any Latin writer of the first four centuries, and was not 


known to Victor Tunonensis in the sixth (Ambrosius, iv, 
989, ed. Migne). 

III. Canonieity . — This prayer was considered by many 
of the ancients as genuine, and used as such for ecclesias- 
tical purposes. It is quoted as such by the author of the 
Sermons on the Pharisee and Publican ; in the sixth vol- 
ume of Chrysostom’s works; by Anthony the monk (ii, 
94) ; Theodore Studita (Serm. Cutachet. 93) ; Theopha- 
nes Ceranueus (/ Tamil . ii and lvi) ; by Freculfus, George 
Sy ocellus, and George the sinner, in their Chronicles ; by 
Suidas {Lex. s. v. M«rtt<x<rije) ; and by Anastasius Sina- 
ita (in Psalm vi); and is still placed by the modern 
Greeks in their Psalter along with the other hymns 
(Leo Allatilis, Be lib. Ecclesiust. Grcccornm , p. G2). But 
the fact of its non-oeeurrence in the Ilcb. text, and its 
uniform rejection bv the Jewish Church, clearly stamp 
it as apocryphal. It was never recognised in the Ro- 
man Church as canonical, and has, therefore, been omit- 
ted in the ancient editions of the Sept. For this reason 
it is also omitted from the Ziirieh Version, and Cover- 
dale’s Bible, which follows it. as well as from the Geneva 
Version ; but is retained among the Apocrypha in Lu- 
ther's translation, Matthew’s Bible, and in the Bishop’s 
Bible, and thence passed over into the A.V. 

IV. Versions and Exegetical Helps. — Greek and Latin 
metrical versions of this prayer have been reprinted by 
Fabrieius, in his edition of the books of Sirach, Wisdom, 
Judith, and Tobit (Leipz. 1091), A Hebrew version of 
it is mentioned by Wolf \ Bibliotheca IJtbreea, i, 778; a 
very beautiful Hebrew version, with valuable notes, is 
printed in the Hebrew Annual, entitled Bikure lia-ltim 
(Vienna, 1824), v, 12 sq. ; important literary notices are 
given by Fabrieius, Codex Pseudepigraphus V. T. i, 1100 
sq. ; Bibliotheca Gmcca (ed. Ilarles), iii, 732 sq. ; Muller, 
Erklaruvg des Gebet Munasse (Salzwedel, 1733) ; and es- 
pecially Fritzsche, Kurz^efasstcs exegetisclies Iiandbuch 
z. d. Apokryphen d.A. T. i, 157 sq. (Leips. 1851), See 
Apocrypha. 

Manas'site Menassi patronymic from 

Manasseh, used collectively; Sept. Mopocrcri/, Anth. 
Vers. “Manassites,” “of Manasseh”), a descendant, of 
Manasseh, or a member of that tribe (Dent, iv, 43; 
xxix, 8; 2 Kings x, 33; 1 Chron. xxvi, 32). 

Manby, Peter, an Irish theologian, was educated 
at Trinity College, Dublin, became chaplain to Dr. Mi- 
chael Boyle, afterwards archbishop of Dublin, and at 
length dean of Berry. In the reign of James II he un- 
braced the popish religion, in vindication of which he 
wrote several books; then removed to France, thence, to 
England, and died at London in 1G97. Manby published 
several controversial tracts in favor of the Roman Cath- 
olic religion. — Ilook, Eccles. Biog. vii, 214, s. v. 

Manchet is a name given in the lGth century to 
the wafer used in the mass. — Walcott, Sac. A rcheeol. s. v. 

Manchuria. See Mantciiuria. 

Mancius, George Wiliielmus, one of the promi- 
nent ministers of the Reformed Church in America, and 
a sturdy opposer of the movements for securing its in- 
dependence of the Church in Holland. lie was settled 
in Bergen County, N. J., at Schraalenbergh and Rara- 
mus (1730-32), and at Kingston, X. Y. (1732-5G or ’59). 
He possessed much ability and learning, but it was al- 
leged that “consciences slumbered” under his orthodox 
preaching. His friends, however, claim that his manu- 
script sermons show him to have been “a faithful, 
learned, industrious, and zealous preacher of the Gospel, 
one' who did not fear to declare the whole counsel of 
God; and that it was, on the other hand, his opposition 
to an illiterate ministry and to heresy, his independence 
in reproving vice, and his general zeal and fidelity 
which induced certain of his enemies to misrepresent 
him.” lie left 420 members in full communion of his 
Church. lie died Sept. 6, 17G2. See Corwin’s Manual 
of the Reformed Church, p. 150. (W. J. R. T.) 

Mandseans. See Menieeans. 


31 AN DAT A DE PROVIDENDO 098 


MANDINGO 


Maxidata de Providendo. See Expectantia. 

Mandeville, Bernard de, a sceptical writer in 
tlie English tongue, was born of French extraction about 
1670 at Dort, Holland, and went to England near the 
opening of the 18th century. He practiced medicine 
in London, but does not appear to have had much suc- 
cess as a physician, and depended mainly on his literary 
activity for the means of support. He died in 1733. In 
the article Deism (q. v.) the name of Mandeville has 
not been inserted “because his speculations” (see works 
below), as Farrar says (Crit. Hist, of Free Thought , p. 
135, note 65), “ did not bear directly on religion.” Upon 
morality, however, Mandeville exerted so great an in- 
fluence that we cannot pass him unnoticed. His attacks 
on Christian morals already reveal him to have been a 
champion of Deism. The doctrines laid down in several 
of his works is nothing more nor less than a further elu- 
cidation of the assertion of Bavle (in Pensees diverses), 
that Atheism does not necessarily make man vicious, 
nor a state unhappy, -because dogmas have no iiilluence 
on the acts of men. Superficial observation of society 
led Mandeville to the belief that many institutions of 
public weal derive their strength and support from pre- 
vailing immorality. This view he developed in a poem 
entitled The Grumbling Hive , or Knaves turned Honest 
(1714), to which he afterwards added long explanatory 
notes, and then published the whole under the new title 
of The Fable of the Bees. However erroneous may be 
its views of morals and of society, it bears all the marks 
of an honest and sincere inquiry on an important sub- 
ject. It exposed Mandeville, however, to much oblo- 
quy, and, besides meeting with many answers and at- 
tacks, was denounced as injurious to morality. It would 
appear that some of the hostility against this work, and 
against Mandeville generally, is to be traced to another 
publication, recommending the public licensing of stews, 
the matter and manner of which are certainly excep- 
tionable, though it must at the same time be stated that 
Mandeville earnestly and with seeming sincerity recom- 
mends his plan as a means of diminishing immorality, 
and that he endeavored, so far as lay in his power, by 
affixing a high price and in other ways, to prevent the 
work from having a general circulation. Mandeville 
subsequently published a second part of The Fable of the 
Bees, and several other works, among which are two 
entitled Free Thoughts on Religion, the Church, and A Na- 
tional Happiness, and An Inquiry into the Origin of 
Honor and the Usefulness of Christianity in War. “ The 
Fable of the Bees, or Private Vices Public Benefts, may 
be viewed in two ways, as a satire on men and as a the- 
ory of society and national prosperity. So far as it is a 
satire, it is sufficiently just and pleasant; but viewed in 
its more ambitious character of a theory of society, it is 
altogether worthless. It is Mandevillc's object to show 
that national greatness depends on the prevalence of 
fraud and luxury; and for this purpose he supposes a 
‘ vast hive of bees,’ possessing in all respects institutions 
similar to those of men; he details the various frauds, 
similar to those among men, practiced by bees one upon 
another in various professions; he shows how the wealth 
accumulated by means of these frauds is turned, through 
luxurious habits, to the good of others, who again prac- 
tice their frauds upon the wealthy; and, having already 
assumed that wealth cannot be gotten without fraud 
and cannot exist without luxury, he assumes further 
that wealth is the only cause and criterion of national 
greatness. 1 Iis hive of bees having thus become wealthy 
and great, he afterwards supposes a mutual jealousy of 
frauds to arise, and fraud to be by common consent dis- 
missed; and he again assumes that wealth and luxury 
immediately disappear, and that the greatness of the 
society is gone. It, is needless to point out inconsisten- 
cies and errors, such, for instance, as the absence of all 
distinction between luxury and vice, when the whole 
theory rests upon obviously false assumptions; and the 
long dissertations appended to the fable, however amus- 
ing and full of valuable remarks, contain no attempts to 


establish by proof the fundamental points of the theory. 
In an ‘Inquiry into the Origin of Moral Distinctions,’ 
contained in The Fable of the Bees, Mandeville contends 
that virtue and vice, and the feelings of moral approba- 
tion and disapprobation, have been created in men by 
their several governments, for the purpose of maintain- 
ing society and preserving their own power. Incredi- 
ble as it seems that such a proposition as this should be 
seriously put forth, it is yet more so that it should come 
from one whose professed object was, however strange 
the way in which he set about it, to promote good mor- 
als; for there is nothing in Mandevillc’s writings to 
warrant the belief that he sought to encourage vice” 
(English Cyclop, s. v.). This book was translated into 
French, as well as the other wirings of Mandeville, and 
contributed in no small degree to the corruption of 
French society, and helped forward the sad days of the 
devolution. Schlosser (Hist, of the 18 th and 19 th Cent.) 
is quite severe on Mandeville. He says that “Mandeville 
was a man wholly destitute of morality, and without 
any insight into the nature of man or the connection 
between bodily and mental soundness and well-being.” 
See Life by Dr. Birch; Blackwood's Magazine, ii. ‘268, 
442 ; xxvii, 712 ; Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and A mer. A u- 
thors, s. v. ; Sehrockh, Kirchengeschichte s. d. lief vi, 204 
sq. ; Ilenke, Gesch. d. christl. Kirche, vi, 85 sq. ( J. 1 1 . \V.) 

Mandeville, Henry, D.D., a (Dutch) deformed 
minister, was born at Kinderhook, N. Y., March 6, 1804 ; 
graduated at Union College in 1826, and at New- Bruns- 
wick Theological Seminary in 1829, and was licensed by 
the Chassis of Albany in 1829. His ministry was ehietiy 
spent in the deformed Church in the State of New York, 
viz., at Sliawangunk, 1829-31; Geneva, 1831-34; Utica, 
1834-41. From 1841 to 1849 he was professor of moral 
philosophy and belles-lettres in Hamilton College, FT. Y. 
While in this position he published several valuable 
text-books on elocution and English literature, which 
evince his thorough scholarship and “aptness to teach.” 
From Hamilton College he was called to the Govern- 
ment Street Presbyterian Church, Mobile, Ala., where 
he died of yellow fever in 1858. Dr. Mandeville was a 
man of large frame, imposing presence, and cultivated 
manners. He was a brilliant pulpit orator, a powerful 
reasoner, a successful preacher and professor, and a 
faithful pastor. He gloried in the cross of Christ, and 
devoted all of his fine powers to his work. His pub- 
lished address on the Ref ex Influence of Foreign Mis- 
sions, which was delivered before the Society of Inquiry 
of the "rheological Seminary at New Brunswick, N. J., 
in 1847, is a masterpiece of reasoning and eloquence, 
and a worthy memorial of the author’s genius, piety, 
and zeal. — Personal Recollections ; Corwin’s Manual, s. 
v. (W.J. R.T.) 

Mandingo is the name of an African people, the 
nation of the Wangaraiva — according to Barth, com- 
prising some 6,000,000 or more. Strictly speaking, how- 
ever, Mandingoes should be termed only the inhab- 
itants of the most south-westerly territories belonging 
to the great West African race of the Wangarawa (sing. 
Wangara), and inhabiting a district extending in lat. 
from 8 to 12° N., and between the west coasts and the 
head waters of the Senegal and Niger. Their original 
seat is said to be Manding, a small mountain country 
on the eastern sources of the Senegal, whence, partly 
by conquest and partly by emigration, they have spread 
themselves over a most extensive tract of country, and 
now consist of a variety of tribes. They are black in 
color, tall and well shaped, with regular features, and 
are, generally speaking, a tine race, capable of a high 
degree of civilization and organization, great travellers, 
fond of trading, and remarkable for their industry and 
energy. The language of the Mandingo prevails from 
the Senegal coast up to Sago on the Niger. A gram- 
mar of the language was compiled by K. Maxwell Mae- 
brair (Loud. 1837). 

Religious Belief etc. — Of the neighboring nations, 
the Mandingoes were the first who embraced Islamism. 


MANDRA 


699 


MANDRAKE 


The greater portion of them are now Moslems, and are 
zealous propagators of their religion. Those of the 
Mandingoes adhering to their primitive religion have 
a very peculiar idea of marriage. With them it is 
merely a form of regulated slavery, and there is no 
marriage ceremony observed to evince union (Caille', 
Travels, i, 350). Most generally the female partner is 
carried from her home by force (Gray, Travels in W. 
Africa, p. 56). They have also, according to Park 
{Travels, i,267), a very peculiar idea of the Deity, whom 
they regard as “so remote, and of so exalted a nature, 
that it is idle to imagine the feeble supplications of 
wretched mortals can reverse the decrees and change 
the purposes of unerring wisdom.” Neither do they 
have any confidence in any belief in the hereafter, of 
which they assert that “no man knows anything about 
it.” 

Mandra ( sheepfold ), a name given to a monastery 
in the Greek Church. See Archimandrite. 

XvTandrake (only in the plur. dudaim', 

from T-“H, to be hot, from their amatory properties; 
whence the sing. h| T ! n, a pot or boiling vessel, hence a 
basket, Jer. xxiv, 1) occurs in (Jen. xxx, 14-16: “Reu- 
ben went out in the days of wheat harvest, and found 
mandrakes in the field, and brought them home to his 
mother Leah. Then Rachel said to Leah, Give me of 
thy son’s mandrakes “And Jacob came out of the field 
in the evening, and Leah went out to meet him, and 
said, Thou must come in unto me, for surely 1 have 
hired thee with my son’s mandrakes; and he lay with 
her that night.” The only other passage is Cant, vii, 
13: “The mandrakes give a smell, and at our gates are 
all manner of pleasant plants.” From the above pas- 
sages it is evident that the dudaim w'ere collected in the 
fields, that they were fit for gathering in the wheat har- 
vest in Mesopotamia, where the first occurrence took 
place; that they were found in Palestine; that they or 
the plants which yielded them diffused a peculiar and 
agreeable odor; and that they were supposed to be pos- 
sessed of aphrodisiac powers, or of assisting in producing 
conception. It is possible that there is a connection 
between this plant and the love-charms (C^TTH) which 
seem to have been worn by Oriental brides (Cant, i, 2, 
4; i v, 10; vii, 12; comp, i, 12), like smelling-bottles (Isa. 
iii, 20, “tablets”); perhaps these contained an odorifer- 
ous mandrake philter. From this it is manifest that 
there is little to guide us in determining what plant is 
alluded to at such early periods, especially as no similar 
name has been recognised in any of the cognate lan- 
guages. Hence interpreters have wasted much time 
and pains in endeavoring to ascertain what is intended 
by the Hebrew word dudaim. Some translate it by 
“violet,” others “lilies,” “jasmins,” *• truffles or mush- 
rooms ;” and some think that the word means “ flowers,” 
or “fine flowers.” Boehart, Calmet, and fsir Thomas 
Browne suppose the citron intended; Celsius ( Uierobot . 
i, 20; but see, on the contrary, Oedmann, p. 90) is per- 
suaded that it is the fruit of the lote-tree; Hiller that 
cherries are spoken of; and Lndolf {/list. TEth. i,9, etc.) 
maintains that it is the fruit which the Syrians call 
manz Chat is, the plantain), resembling in figure and 
taste the Indian fig; but the generality of interpreters 
and commentators understand mandrakes ( not the mel- 
on so called, “melo dudaim,” but the mandragora) by 
dudaim. The ground upon which the mandragora has 
been preferred is that the most ancient Greek trans- 
lator interprets the Hebrew name in (Jen. xxx, 14 by 
mandrake apples QnjXa pavopayopeov ) ; and in the 
Song of Solomon by mandrakes, oi yavcpayopai. Sa- 
adias, Onkelos, and the Syriac Version agree with the 
Greek translators. The first of these puts lafach ; the 
two latter yabruchin , which names denote the same 
plant (Rosen miiller, Bib. Bot. p. 130, and note; Castelli, 
Lexicon , p. 1591). The earliest notice of pavepayopaq is 
by Hippocrates, and the next by Theophrastus {/list. 
Plant, vi, 2). Both of these, C. Sprengel {/list. Pei. 


Herb, i, 38, 82) supposes, intend Atropa mandragora. 
Dioscorides (iv,76) notices three kinds: (1.) the female, 
which is supposed to be the Mandragora autunmedis of 
Berloton ; (2.) the male, Mandragora vernalis of the 
same botanist (these two are, however, usually account- 
ed varieties of A tropa mandragora ) ; (3.) a kind called 
morion. It has been inferred that this may be the same 
as the mandragora of Theophrastus, which, by some, 
authors, has been supposed to be Atropa belladonna. 
To all of these Dioscorides ascribes narcotic properties, 
and says of the first that it is also called Circcea, because 
it appears to be a root which promotes venery. Py- 
thagoras named the mandragora anthropomorphon, and 
Theophrastus, among other qualities, mentions its sopo- 
rific powers, and also its tendency to excite to love. Its 
fruit was called love-apple, and Venus herself Man- 
dragorites. But it is not easy to decide whether the 
above all refer to the same plant or plants. (See Lu- 
cian, Tim. p. 2; Pliny, xxv, 94; Apukei, A sin. x, 233, 
Bip. ; Seliol. at Plat. Rep. vi, 411, tom. v, Lips.; Philo, 
Opp. ii, 478.) Persian authors on materia medica give 
madragoras as a synonyme for yebnik, or yubruz, -which 
is said to be the root of a plant of which the fruit is 
called lufach. This, there is little doubt, must be the 
above Atropa mandragora, as the Arabs usually refer 
only to the plants of Dioscorides, and on this occasion 
they quote him as well as Galen, and ascribe narcotic 
properties to both tire root and the fruit. DTIerbelot 
{Bibl. Orient, i, 72) details some of the superstitious 
opinions respecting this plant, which originated in the 
East, but which continued for a long time to be retailed 
by authors in Europe. (See Schubert, iii, 116; Schulz. 
Leit.v, 197 ; Burekhardt, i, 441.) By the Arabs it is said 
to be called tufah al-sheitan, or devil’s apple, on account 
of its power to excite voluptuousness. If we look to the 
works of more modern authors, we find a continuance of 
the same statements. Thus Mariti, in his Travels (ii, 
195 k says that t lie Arabs called the mandrake plant ya- 
brochak, which is, no doubt, the same name as given 
above. “At the village of St. John, in the mountains, 
about six miles south-west from Jerusalem, this plant is 
found at present, as well as in Tuseany. It grows low, 
like lettuce, to which its leaves have a strong resem- 
blance, except that they have a dark-green color. The 
flowers are purple, and the root is for the most part 
forked. The fruit, when ripe, in the beginning of May, 
is of the size and color of a small apple, exceedingly 
ruddy, and of a most agreeable odor; our guide thought 
us fools for suspecting it to be unwholesome. He ate it 
freely himself, and it is generally valued by the inhab- 
itants as exhilarating to their spirits and a provocative 
to venery.” Maundrell {Trav. p. 83) was informed by 
the chief priest of the Samaritans that it was still noted 
for its genial virtues. Hasselquist also seems inclined to 
consider it the dudaim , for, when at Nazareth, he says 
{Trav. p.183), “What I found most remarkable in their 
villages was the great quantity of mandrakes that grew 
in a vale below it. The fruit was now (May 16) ripe. 
From the season in which this mandrake blossoms and 
ripens its fruit, one might form a conjecture that it is 
Rachel’s dudaim. These were brought her in the wheat 
harvest, which in Galilee is in the month of May, about 
this time, and the mandrake was now in fruit.” — Kitto. 
Dr. Thomson {Land and Book, ii, 380) found mandrakes 
ripe on the lower ranges of Lebanon and Ilermon to- 
wards the end of April. On the 15th of May, Schulz 
also found mandrakes on Mount Tabor, which, as he 
says, “have a delightful scent, and whose taste is equal- 
ly agreeable, although not to every body. They are 
almost globular, and yellow like oranges, and about two 
and a quarter inches in diameter. This fruit grows on 
a shrub resembling the mallow; and the fruit lies about 
the stem, as it were about the root, after such a manner 
that a single shrub may have six to ten fruits, of which 
the color is so beautiful that no orange equals its brill- 
iancy.” This fruit, which a recent traveller describes 
as of an “ insipid, siekish taste,” is by the Arabs of other 


MANDRAKE 


voo 


MANETHO 


regions alleged to possess strengthening virtues, when 
used in small quantities, but they call it tuffah el-mu ja- 
nim , or “ apples of the possessed,” owing to the tempo- 
rary insanity which an over-dose produces. “At first,” 
says a traveller, “1 felt inclined to doubt the assertion, 
but during my residence in the country I had the op- 
portunity of witnessing its effect on an English travel- 
ler. a 31 r. L., who had the temerity to test the property 
of the mandrake. A few hours after partaking of the 
root he began to show unequivocal symptoms of insan- 
ity; and such was its effect on the nervous system that 
he had to be relieved by cupping and other remedies 
before he could be restored to consciousness” (Dupuis, 
Holy Puices [185G], i, 272). The name “love-apple” — 
Gesenius’s translation of dutlaim — was formerly in this 
country given to a kindred plant, the tomato ( Lycoper - 
sicum esculentnni), a native of South America, but now 
largely cultivated everywhere for its agreeable acidulous 
fruit. “ From a certain rude resemblance of old roots 
of the mandrake to the human form, whence Pythago- 
ras is said to have called the mandrake dv^pvmropop- 
tyovy and Columella (10, 10) semihomo , some strange su- 
perstitious notions have arisen concerning it. Josephus 
(ITt/r, vii, G, 3) evidently alludes to one of these super- 
stitions, though he calls the plant baaras . In a Vienna 
MS. of Dioscorides is a curious drawing which repre- 
sents Euresis, the goddess of discovery, handing to Di- 
oscorides a root of the mandrake; the dog employed for 
the purpose is depicted in the agonies of death (Daube- 
nv’s Roman Husbandry , p. 275). The mandrake is found 
abundantly in the Grecian islands, and in some parts of 
the south of Europe. The root is spindle-shaped, and 



often divided into two or three forks. The leaves, 
which are long, sharp-pointed, and hairy, rise immedi- 
ately from the ground. The flowers are dingy white, 
stained with veins of purple. The fruit is of a pale or- 
ange color, and about the size of a nutmeg ; but it would 
appear that the plant varies considerably in appearance 
according to the localities where it grows. The man- 
drake (.1 tropa mandrayora') is closely allied to the well- 
known deadly nightshade (/l. belladonna), and belongs 
to the order Solunacea (Sipith). 8ee Eiebetautz, lie 
Rachclis Dutlaim (Vitemb. 1702); Simon, De 
etc. (Halle, 1735) ; Ant. Ilertolini, Comment, de M^andra- 
fjoris (Ilol. 183G); Dougtad Analect. i, 35 ; Velthnysen, 
Comment, iib. d. llohelied, p. 502; Eichhorn, Repert. xi, 


158; Michaelis, Suppl. p. 410; Oken, Lehrb, d. Xaturs - 
yesch. II, ii, 333 ; \V. Biekerton, Disseiiution on the Man- 
drake of the Ancients (Loiul. 1737) ; Tristram, A 'at. llist . 
of Bible , p. 4GG sq. 

Mandyas (pavdvac), a vestment of the Greek 
priests, not unlike the cope of the liomanists, but with 
bells at the lower edges, in supposed imitation of the 
Jewish high -priest. 

Ma'neh (11373, maneh' , Ezek. xlv, 12, a portion as 
divided by weight; hence the Greek pva, a mina ; ren- 
dered “pound” in 1 Kings x, 17 ; Ezra ii, G9; Nell, vii, 
21, 22), a weight of a hundred shekels , as we gather from 
1 Kings x, 17 (compare 2 Chron. ix, 1G). Another and 
somewhat obscure specification is given in Ezek. xlv, 
12, “ twenty shekels, five and twenty shekels, fifteen 
shekels, shall be your maneh spoken either of a triple 
maneli of twenty, twenty five , and fifty shekels; or of a 
single maneh of sixty shekels, distributed into three parts 
of fifteen, twenty, and twenty-five. There are other ex- 
planations offered (as by the Chaldee paraphrast, by 
Jarclii, J. D. Michaelis, and others), but the latter is gen- 
erally supposed to be the best. See Weights. 

Manetho (Mnj'fSwv or MaFeSwe), of Sebenxy- 
tfs, a distinguished Egyptian historian, a native of 
Diospolis, according to some, or of Mende or Heliopolis, 
according to others, is said to have lived in the time of 
Ptolemy Philadelphia, and to have been a man of great 
learning and wisdom (^Elian, Dc Animal, x, 1G). He 
belonged to the priestly caste, and was himself a priest, 
and interpreter or recorder of religious usages, and of 
the religious and probably also historical writings. His 
name has been interpreted “ beloved of Thoth;” in the 
sony of Lagos and Ptolemy Phiiadelphus, Mai en tet , 
or Ma Xet, “beloved of Keith ;” but both interpretations 
are doubtful. Scarcely anything is known of the history 
of Manet ho himself, and he is more renowned for his 
Egyptian history than on any other account. On the 
occasion of Ptolemy I dreaming of the god Serapis at Si- 
nope, Manetho was consulted by the monarch, and, ill 
conjunction with Timotheus of Athens, the interpreter 
of the Eleusinian mysteries, declared the statue of Sera- 
pis, brought by orders of the king from Sinope, to be 
that of the god Serapis or Pluto, and the god had a tem- 
ple and his worship inaugurated at Alexandria. It ap- 
pears probable, however, that there were more than one 
individual of this name, and it is therefore doubtful 
whether all the works which were attributed by ancient 
writers to Manetho were in reality written by the Ma- 
netho who lived in the reign of Ptolemy Phiiadelphus. 
(See below.) 

1 V r it inys. — The only work of Manetho which has 
come down to us complete is a poem of six hooks, in 
hexameter verse, on the infiuenee of the stars (oTrorfAf- 
trpa rued), which was first published by Gronovius (Ley- 
den, 1G98), and has also been edited by Axtius and Big- 
ler (Cologne, 1832). It is probable, however, for many 
reasons, as Hevne has shown in his Opuscula Academica 
(i, 95), that parts, at least, of this poem could not have 
been written till a much later date. We also possess 
considerable fragments of a work of Manetho on the his- 
tory of the ancient kings of Egypt. (See below.) It was 
in three books or parts, and comprised the period from 
the earliest times to the death of the last Persian Darius. 
Some of these fragments are preserved in the treatise of 
Josephus against Apion; and still greater portions in the 
“Chronicles” of George Syncellus, a monk of the 9th 
century. The “Chronicles” of Syncellus were princi- 
pally compiled from the “Chronicles” of Julius Africanus 
and Eusebius, bishop of Ciesarea, both of whom made 
great use of Manetlio’s “ History.” The work of Afri- 
canus is lost, and we only possess a Latin version of that 
of Eusebius, which was translated out of the Armenian 
version of the Greek text preserved at Constantinople. 
Manetho is said to have derived his history of the kings 
of Egypt, whom he divides into thirty classes, called dy- 
nasties, from the sacred records in the temple at Ileli- 


MANETHO 


MANETHO 


101 


opolis. In addition to those works, Manetho is also said 
to have written, 1,'lepd Bi/3Ao£, on the Egyptian re- 
ligion ; 2, ITtpi ttp^aiapov Kai tvatfitictc, on the an- 
cient rites and ceremonies of the Egyptians; 3, <bv<wcuiv 
hriTopi] (Laertius, Proam. s. 10), probably the same 
work as that called by Snidas <pv<rio\oyncd ; 4, Bi/3A og 
ri)Q both the subject and genuineness of which 

are very doubtful. See Smith, Diet, of' Gr. and Pom. 
Biog. s. v. ; English Cyclopaedia , s. v. His name is in- 
troduced here on account of the importance of his work 
on Egyptian history in determining the list of ancient 
Egyptian kings. See Egypt. In the following dis- 
cussion of this point we chiefly make use of the elabo- 
rate and searching article on the subject in Kitto’s Cy- 
clopaedia. s. v. 

A uthenticity of Manetho's History. — Manetho was a 
learned priest at the court of the first Ptolemy, accord- 
ing to Plutarch ( de Is. et Os. e.28), who cites a religious 
work of his in Greek, which is quoted also under vari- 
ous names by vElian, Diogenes Laertius, Porphyry, and 
other late writers (Fruin. Manethonis Sebennytce Peli- 
quitv , p. 133 sq. ; Parthey, Plutarch liber Isis u. Osiris, p. 
180 sq.). Josephus (Apion, i, 14-16, 20, 27) gives two 
long extracts, with a list of seventeen reigns, from the 
Aiyv7rriaK(t 7 **a work composed in Greek by Manetho 
the Sebennyte,from materials which he professes to have 
rendered from the sacred records of which history all 
else that is extant is a catalogue of Egyptian dynasties, 
preserved in two widely different recensions by Geor- 
gius SyneelluS, A.D. 800; the one from the lost Chrono- 
graphia of Julius Afrieanus, A.D. 220; the other from 
the Chronicon of Eusebius, A.D. 325 (of which we have 
now the Armenian version); both texts are given by 
Fruin, and by Bunsen in the appendix to Egypt' s Place, 
vol. i. Uie statement that “Manetho the Scbennvte, 
of Heliopolis, high-priest and scribe of the sacred adyta, 
composed this work from the sacred records by com- 
mand of Ptolemy Philadelphus,” rests only on the dedi- 
cation (ap. Syncell.) prefixed to the Both is, an undoubt- 
ed forgery of Christian times. All that can be inferred 
from it is that the forger had grounds, good or bad, for 
placing Manetho in the time of the second Ptolemy. In 
fact, the incident with which Plutarch ( ut sup.) con- 
nects his name (the bringing in of Serapis) is related 
by other writers ( without mention of Manetho), and is 
assigned by Tacitus also (Hist, iv, 183 sq.) to the time 
of the first Ptolemy; but by Clem. Alex. ( Protrept . iv, 
48) and Cvrill. Al. (c. Julian, p. 13) to Ptolemy Phila- 
delphus, with the date 01. 124 = B.C. 284-1. If he did 
live, anil was a man of note, under the early Ptolemies, 
certain it is that “this most distinguished "writer, the 
sage and scholar of Egypt’’ (as Bunsen calls him, A eg. 
St. i, 88), was speedily and long forgotten ; for more than 
three centuries after the time at which he is said to 
have flourished not a trace of him or his writings is 
anywhere discoverable. Nothing of the kind oecurs in 
the remains of the Alexandrine scholars, the early Greek 
Jews, Polyhistor’s collections, or the chronological writ- 
ings of Castor. That the Catalogue of Thirty-eight The- 
ban Kings (ap. Syncell.) is the work of Eratosthenes 
there is nothing to show; at any rate, it contains no 
reference to Manetho. If it was from Manetho that 
Diciearchas, eir. A.D. 200 (ap. Schol. in Apollon. Phod.), 
got his two Egyptian names and dates, it was in quite 
another form of the work; to the scholiast, Manetho is 
an unknown name. The Egyptian list in the Excerpta 
Laiino-bat'bu ra of Scaliger, bearing the name of Castor, 
is a mere abstract from Afrieanus. Diodorus Sic. and 
Strabo visited and wrote about Egypt, yet neither of 
them names or alludes to Manetho ; and the former 
gives (i,44 sq., from the priests, he says) an account of 
the kingly succession altogether different from his. If, 
as Fruin suggests (p. lxiii), it was through measures 
taken by Domitian to repair the losses sustained by the 
public libraries (Sueton. Dom. 29) that Manetho’s works 
were brought to Home from the Alexandrine library, 
where they had long slumbered unregarded, still it is 


strange that the JEgyptiaca should have caught the at- 
tention of Josephus alone (among extant writers), and 
that neither those who, as Plutarch, do mention the oth- 
er w’ork, nor others who have occasion to speak of the 
ancient times of Egypt, as Tacitus and the elder Pliny 
(esp. II. N. xxx vi, 8-13), ever name this history, or show 
any acquaintance with its list of kings. Lepsius ( Chron . 
der A eg. i, 583 sq.) better meets the difficulty by sup- 
posing that the original work, never widely known, was 
so early lost that even in the 1st century all that sur- 
vived of it w as a bare abstract of its names and num- 
bers, and (distinct from this) the two passages relating 
to the “ II yksos” and the “lepers,” with the accompany- 
ing list of seventeen reigns, which some Jewish reader 
had extracted on account of their Biblical interest, and 
beyond which Josephus knew nothing of Manetho. 
Whatever be the explanation, the fact is that it is only 
through Jewish and Christian waiters that we ever hear 
of Manetho as a historian. Of these, Theophilus Ant. 
(ad A utolyc. iii, 20, cir. A.D. 181) does but copy Josephus. 
Clemens Alex, nowhere names Manetho. A history of 
“ the A cts of the Kings of Egypt, in three books” — not, 
how’ever, by Manetho, but by “ Ptolemy the Mendesian” 
— is, indeed, quoted by him (Strom, i, 2G, 101), but at 
second-hand from Tatian ; who again (ad Gentes, p. 129), 
as perhaps Justin Martyr before him (ad Gr.S), quotes 
Ptolemy, not directly, but from Apion. In short, it is 
plain, on comparing these passages and Euseb. (Pr.Er. 
x, II, 12), that Apion is the sole source of all that is 
known of this Ptolem}’- of Mendes; and Apion, as far as 
we know', makes no mention of Manetho. In wdiat re- 
lation the work of Ptolemy may have stood to Mane- 
tho’s, as there is no evidence to show r , it is idle to spec- 
ulate; and, indeed, the question with wffiich we are con- 
cerned would remain very much w’here it is, even were 
it proved that “ Manetho” is a borrowed name, and the 
Egyptiaca a product of Iloman times. P'or the impor- 
tant point is, not who w'rote the book, and when, but 
what is its value? It may not be genuine, nor so old 
as it pretends to be, and yet may contain good materi- 
als, honestly rendered from earlier u’ri tings or original 
records, probably as available in the time of Domitian 
as they were under the Ptolemies; and, in fact, exist- 
ing monuments do furnish so considerable a number of 
names unquestionably identical with those in the list, 
that to reject this altogether, and deny it all historical 
value, would betoken either egregious ignorance or a 
reckless scepticism that can shut its eyes to manifest 
facts. 

Chronological Value of Manetho' s History. — The at- 
testation w hich the list obtains from contemporary mon- 
uments cannot be held to warrant the assumption that 
it is to be depended upon where these fail. For the 
monuments which attest, also correct its statements. 
Monuments prove some reigns, and even dynasties, con- 
temporaneous, which in the list are. successive ; but we 
have no means of ascertaining what w as truly consecu- 
tive and w hat parallel, where monuments arc wanting. 
Their dates are always in years of the current reign, not 
of an a*ra. From Cambvses upward to Psammetichus, 
and his immediate predecessor, Taraeus = Tirhaka, the 
chronology is now settled [see Ciiroxologv, sec. iii]. 
Thence up to Potubastes (dyn. xxiii) the materials are 
too scanty to yield any determination. For dyn. xxii, 
headed b} r Sesonchis = Shishak. the records are copious: 
dates on apis-stela?, of which Mariette reports seven in 
this dynasty, prove that it lasted much more than the 
120 years of Afrieanus. But even these reigns cannot 
be formed into a canon, and the epoch of Sesonchis can 
only be approximately given from the Biblical synchro- 
nism, “ In 5 Eehoboam Shishak invaded Juda?a” — in 
what year of his reign the monument w'hich records the 
conquest does not say; although the epoch of Kehoboam 
is, as to B.C.. a fixed point, or nearly so, for all chronolo- 
gists. The inscription is dated 21 Shishak, but does not 
indicate the order or time of the several conquests re- 
corded. The attempt has been made to prove from Bib- 


MANETIIO 


702 


MANETIIO 


lical (lata that the invasion was in the 20th year. Thus: 
It was while Solomon was building Millo (2 Kings xi, 
27) that Jeroboam fled to “ Shishak, king of Egypt” (ver. 
40). Tliis work began not earlier than 24 Solomon (vi, 
37-vii, 1). If it began in that or the next year ; if Jer- 
oboam was immediately appointed overseer of the forced 
labor of his tribesmen ; if he presently conceived the 
purpose of insurrection, encouraged by Ahijah ; if his 
purpose became known to Solomon almost as soon as 
formed ; if, in short, his flight into Egypt was not later 
than 26 Solomon ; lastly, if Shishak became king in that 
year, then 5 Rehoboam (=45 Solomon) will be 20 Shi- 
shak. This is a specimen of much that passes for chro- 
nology, where the Bible is concerned. Some light is 
thrown on the dynastic connection of dvn. xxii and 
xxiii by a stele recently discovered by Mariette in Ethi- 
opia, which proves the fact of numerous contemporary 
reigns throughout Egypt at that time (Brugseh’s Zeit- 
sehrift , J uly, 1863 ; De 1 louge, Inscr. du roi Pianchi Meri 
Aniun , 1864). But it helps the chronology little or noth- 
ing. In dvns. xx, xxi, is another gap, at present not to 
be bridged over. The seven-named Tanites of xxi (Afr. 
130, Eus. 121 years) seem to have been military priest- 
kings ; and that they were partly contemporaneous with 
xx and xxi may appear from the absence of apis-stela?, 
of which xx has nine, xxii seven. Dyn. xx, for which 
the list gives no names, consisted of some ten or more 
kings, all bearing the name Raineses, beginning with R. 
Ill, and five of them his sons, probably joint-kings. The 
apis-inscriptions furnish no connected dates, nor can any 
inference be drawn from their number, sinee Mariette 
reports no less than flve in the first reign. For dyn. 
xix (Sethos), xviii (Aniosis), the materials, written and 
monumental, are most copious ; yet even here the means 
of an exact determination are wanting: indeed, if fur- 
ther proof were needed that the Muiethonic lists are 
not to be implicitly trusted, it is furnished by the mon- 
umental evidence here of contemporary reigns which in 
the lists are successive. It is certain, and will at last 
be owned by all competent inquirers, that in the part 
of the succession for which the evidence is clearest and 
most ample, it is impossible to assign the year at which 
any king, from Amosis to Tirhaka, began to reign. No 
ingenuity of calculation and conjecture can make amends 
for the capital defects — the want of an (era, the inade- 
quacy of the materials. The brilliant light shed on this 
point or that, does but make the surrounding darkness 
more palpable. Analysis of the lists may enable the 
inquirer, at most, to divine the intentions of their au- 
thors, which is but a small step gained towards the truth 
of facts. 

But it has been supposed that certain fixed points 
may. be got by means of astronomical conjunctures as- 
signed to certain dates of the vague year on the monu- 
ments: Thus, (i) A fragmentary inscription of Takelut 
II, 6th king of dyn. xxii, purports that “on the 25th 
Mesori of the 15th year of his father” (Sesonk II, accord- 
ing to Lepsius, A ge o f XXII Dyn., but Osorkon II, ac- 
cording to Brugsch, Dr. Ilincks, and v. Gumpach), “the 
heavens were invisible, the moon struggling . . . .” 
Hence Mr. Cooper (Athenaeum, 11 May, 1861) gathers, 
that on the day named, in the given year of Sesonk II, 
there was a lunar eclipse, which he considers must be 
that of Kith March, B.C. 851. I)r. Hi neks, who at first 
also made the eclipse lunar, and its date 4th April, B.C. 
015, now contends that it was solar, and the only possi- 
ble date 1st April, B.C. 927 ( Journal of tiac. Lit. Jan. 
1863, p. 333-376; compare Ih. Jan. 186 1, p. 459 sq.). In 
making it solar, he follows M. v. Gumpach (Hist. A ntiq. 
of the People of Egypt, 1863, p. 29), who finds its date 
Uth March, B.C. 811. Unfortunately the 25th Mesori 
of that year was 10th March. This is the ‘only monu- 
mental notice supposed to refer to an eclipse : not worth 
much at the best; the record, even if its meaning were 
certain, is not contemporary. 

(ii) In several inscriptions certain dates are given to 
the “ manifestation of Sothis,” assumed to mean the he- 


liacal rising of Sirius, which, for 2000 years before our 
aera, for the latitude of Heliopolis, fell on the 20th of 
July. (Biot, indeed, Recherches des quelques dates abso- 
lues, etc., 1853, contends that the calculation must be 
made for the place at which the inscription is dated — 
each day of difference, of course, making a difference of 
four years in the date B.C.) The dates of these “man- 
ifestations” are — (1) “ 1 Tybi of 11 Takelut II” (Brugsch); 
the quaternion of years in which 1 Tybi would coincide 
with 20th July is B.C. 845-42. (2) “ 15 Thoth in a year, 
not named, of Rameses VI, at Thebes” (Biot, ut sup.; 
De Rouge, Memoire sur quelques phenom'enes celestes , 
etc., in Revue Archeol. ix, 686). The date implied is 
20th July, B.C. 1265-62 (Biot, 14th July, B.C. 1241-38). 
(3) “1 Thoth in some year of Rameses III at Thebes” 
(Biot and De Rouge, ut sup., from a festival-calendar). 
The date implied is, of course, B.C. 1325-22 (Biot, 14th 
July, B.C. 1301-1298). (4) “28 Epiphi in some year 

of Thothmes IH” (Biot, etc., from a festival-calendar at 
Elephantine). This implies B.C. 1477-74 (Biot, 12th 
July, B.C. 1445-42). The antiquity of this calendar is 
called in question by De Rouge (A then. Frangais, 1855), 
and by Dr. Brugsch, who says the style indicates the 
19th dynasty. Mariette assigns it to Thothmes III 
(Journal Asiatique , tom. xii, Aug.. Sept., 1858). Lepsius, 
who in 1854 doubted (Monatsbericht of Berlin R. Acad.), 
now contends for its antiquity (Konigsbuck der A eg. p. 
164), having contrived to make it fit his chronology by 
assuming an error in the numeral of the month. (5) 
“ 12 Mesori in 33 Thothmes III” (Mr. S. Boole in Trans. 
R. S. Lit. v, 340). This implies B.C. 1421-18. These 
dates would make the interval from Rameses III to 
Takelut II 480 years, greatly in excess even of Ma- 
netho’s numbers, and more so of Lepsius’s arrangement, 
in which, from the 1st of Rameses III to the 11th of 
Takelut II are little more than 400 years. Again, the 
interval of only 152 years, implied in (3) and (4), is un- 
questionably too little: from the last year of Thothmes 
III to the first of Rameses III, Lepsius reekons 296, Bun- 
son 225 years. Lastly, in (4) and (5) the dates imply an 
interval of 56 years, which is plainly absurd. The fact 
must be that these inscriptions are not rightly under- 
stood. 5V c need to be informed what the Egyptians 
meant by the “manifestation of Sotliis;” what method 
they followed in assigning it to a particular day; espe- 
cially when, as in Biot’s three instances, the date occurs 
in a calendar, and is marked as a “festival,” we ask, 
were these calendars calculated only for four years? 
when a new one was set up, were the astronomical no- 
tices duly corrected, or were they merely copied from 
the preceding calendar? 

(iii) “At Semneh in 2 Thothmes III, one of the three 
feasts of the Commencement of the Seasons is noted on 
21 Pharmuthi.” Biot (ut sup.) supposes the vernal equi- 
nox to be meant, and assigns this to 6th April in the 
quaternion B.C. 1445-42 (as above), in which 6th April 
was 21 Pharmuthi. But the vernal equinox is not the 
commencement of one of the three seasons of the Egyp- 
tian year; these start either from the rising of Sirius, 
20th July, or, more probably, from the summer solstice: 
as this, in the 14th century, usually fell on 6th July, the 
two other tetramenies or seasons would commence cir. 
5th Nov. and 6th March. Now 6th March did coincide 
with 21 Pharmuthi in B.C. 1321-18, at which time it 
also occupied precisely the place which Mr. Stuart Poole 
assigns to “ the great Rukli” (Leps., “the greater Heat”), 
just one zodiacal month before the little Rukh, or ver- 
nal equinox (florin u Egypt, p. 15 sq.). 

(iv) . “On 1 Athyr of 11 Amenophis III the king 
ordered an immense basin to be dug, and on the 16th 
s. m. celebrated a great panegyrv of -the waters” (Dr. 
Ilincks, On the Age of Dynasty XVIII , Trans. R. Irish 
Acad. vol. xxi, pt. i; comp. Mr. S. Poole, Trans. R. S. 
Lit. v. 340). If the waters were let in when the Nile 
had reached its highest point — which, as it is from 90 
to 100 days after the summer solstice, in the 14th cen- 
tury wouid be at 4-14 Oet. — the month-date indicates 


MANETHO 


703 


MANETHO 


one of the years B.C. 13G9-26. But if (which is certain- 
ly more likely) the time chosen was some weeks earlier, 
the year indicated would be after B.C. 1300. So this 
and the preceding indication may agree, and so far there 
is some evidence for the supposition that the sothiac 
epochal year B.C. 1322 lies in the reign of Thotlnnes 
III. (See Dr. Hincks, tit sup., and in the Dublin Univ. 
Magazine, 1846, p. 187.) 

(v) An astronomical representation on the ceiling of 
the Raraeseum (the work of Rameses II) has been sup- 
posed to yield the year B.C. 1322 as its date (bishop 
Tomlinson, Trans. K . S. Lit. 1839; Sir G. Wilkinson, 
Manners and Customs, etc., 2d ser. p. 377) ; while Mr. 
Cullimore, from the same, gets B.C. 1 138. The truth is, 
these astronomical configurations, in the present state 
of our knowledge, are an unsolved riddle. Lepsius’s in- 
ferences ( Chron . der A eg.) from the same representa- 
tions in the reigns of Rameses IV and VI are little more 
than guesses, too vague and precarious to satisfy any 
man who knows what evidence means. 

It appears, then, that the supposed astronomical notes 
of time hitherto discovered lend but little aid, and bring 
nothing like certainty into the inquiry. We cannot ac- 
cept the lists as they stand. 1 low are they to be recti- 
fied? Until we have the means of rectifying them, 
every attempt to put forth a definite scheme of Egyp- 
tian chronology is simply futile. The appeal to author- 
ity avails nothing here. Lepsius, Bunsen, Brugsch, and 
many more, all claim to have settled the matter. Their 
very discrepancies — on the scale of which half a century 
is a mere trifle — sufficiently prove that to them, as to 
us, the evidence is defective. The profoundest scholar- 
ship, the keenest insight, cannot get more out of it than 
is in it ; “ that which is crooked cannot be made straight, 
and that which is wanting cannot be numbered.” Yet, 
from the easy confidence with which people assign dates 
— their own, or taken on trust — to the Pharaohs after 
Amosis, and even of much earlier times, it might be 
thought that from Manetho and the monuments together 
a connected chronology has been elicited as certain as 
that of the Roman emperors. In particular, there ap- 
pears to be a growing belief— even finding its way into 
popular Bible histories and commentaries — that the Pha- 
raoh of the Exodus can be identified in Manetho, and so 
the time of that event determined. 

Early Christian writers usually assumed, with Jose- 
phus, that the Hyksos or “ shepherd-kings,” whose story 
lie gives from Manetho {Apion, i, 14-10), were the Isra- 
elites, and their expulsion by Amosis or Tethmosis — 
one or both, for the accounts are confused — the Egyp- 
tian version of the story of the exode. This view has 
still its advocates (quite recently Mr. Nash, The Pharaoh 
of the Exodus, 1863), but not among those who have 
been long conversant with the subject. Indeed, there 
is a monument of Thothmes III which, if it has been 
truly interpreted, is conclusive for a much earlier date 
of t lie exode than this reign, or perhaps any of the dy- 
nasty. A long inscription of his twenty-third year gives 
a list of the confederates defeated by him at Megiddo, 
in which l)e Rouge reads the names Jacob and Joseph , 
and Air. Stuart Poole thinks he finds the names of some 
of the tribes, Reuben, Simeon , Issachar, Gad (Report of 
R. S. Lit. in Athenceum, March 21, 1863). 

But the story of the Jews put forth by “ Manetho” 
himself (Josephus, Apion, i, 26, 27), with the confession, 
however, that he obtained it not from ancient records, 
but from popular tradition (atW— orwf fwSoXoyovytva), 
represents them as a race of lepers, who, oppressed by 
the reigning king, called to their aid the Ilyksos from 
Palestine (where these, on their expulsion some centu- 
ries earlier by Tethmosis, had settled and built Jerusa- 
lem). and with these allies overran all Egypt for thirteen 
years, at the end of which Amenophis, who had taken 
refuge in Ethiopia, returning thence with his son Se- 
thos, drove out the invaders. These, headed by Osar- 
sipli (=Moses), a priest of Heliopolis, retired into Pales- 
tine, and there became the nation of the Jews. Josephus 


protests against this story as a mere figment, prompted 
by Egyptian malignity, and labors to prove it inconsist- 
ent with Manetho’s own list: unsuccessfully enough, 
for, in fact, Amenophis (Ammencphthes, Afr.) does ap- 
pear there just where the story places him, i. e. next to 
Sethos and Rameses II, with a reign of nineteen years 
and six months. The monuments give the name Me- 
neplitha, and his son and successor Seti = Sethos II, just 
as in the story. The names are not fictitious, whatever 
may be the value of the story as regards the Israelites. 
This Menephtha, then, son and successor of Rameses the 
Great, is the Pharaoh of the Exode, according to Lep- 
sius and Bunsen, and of late accepted as such by many 
writers, learned and unlearned. Those to whom the 
name of Manetho is not voucher enough, will demand 
independent evidence. In fact, it is alleged that the 
monuments of the time of Menephtha attest a period of 
depression: no great works of that king are known to 
exist; of his reign of twenty years the highest date 
hitherto found is the fourth ; and two rival kings, Amcn- 
messu (the Ammenemses of the lists) and Si-phtlia, are 
reigning at the same time with him, i. e. holding preca- 
rious sovereignty in Thebes during the time of alien 
occupation and the flight of Menephtha (Bunsen, A eg. 
Stelle, iv, 208 sq.). That these two kings reigned in 
the time of Menephtha, and not with or after Sethos II, 
is assumed without proof; that the reign of Rameses II 
was followed by a period of decadence proves nothing 
as to its cause; and the entire silence of the monuments 
as to an event so memorable as the final expulsion of 
the hated “Shepherds” (Shas-u), who so often figure in 
the monumental recitals of earlier kings (e. g. of Sethos 
I, who calls them shas-u ji'kanana-kar, “shepherds of 
the land of Canaan”), tells as strongly against the story 
as any merely negative evidence can do it. More impor- 
tant is the argument derived from the mention (Exod. 
i, 11) of the “ treasure -cities Pithom and Raamses,” 
built for the persecuting Pharaoh by the forced labor of 
the Hebrews ; the Pharaoh (says Kosellini, Mon. Storici, 

i, 291 sq.) was Rameses [II, son of Sethos 1], who gave 
one of the cities his ow n name. (Comp. Ewald, Gesch. 

ii, 66, note.) Lepsius, art. Aegypten, in Herzog’s En- 
cyklop., calls this “the weightiest confirmation,” and in 
Chronol. der Aeg. i, 337-357, enlarges upon this argu- 
ment. Raamses, he says, w*as at the eastern, as Pithom 
(Harot'juof) was certainly at the western end of the 
great canal known to be the work of Rameses II, and 
the site of the city bearing his name is further identified 
with him by the granite group disinterred at Abu Kei- 
sheib, in which the deified king sits enthroned between 
the gods Ra and Turn. Certainly a king Rameses ap- 
pears first in the 19th dynasty, but the place may have 
taken its name, if from a man at all, from some earlier 
person. 

That the exode cannot be placed before the 19th dy- 
nasty, Bunsen ( ut sup. p. 234) holds to be conclusively 
show’ll by the fact that on the monuments which record 
the conquests of Rameses the Great in Palestine, no men- 
tion occurs of the Israelites among the Kheti (Hittites) 
and other conquered nations; while, on the other hand, 
there is no hint in the book of Judges of an Egyptian 
invasion and servitude. On similar negative grounds 
he urges that the settlement in Palestine must have 
been subsequent to the conquests made in that country 
by Rameses III, first king of the 20tli dynast)-. To this 
it may be replied, (1.) that we have no clear informa- 
tion as to the route of the invaders; if it was either 
along the coast or to the east of Jordan, the tribes, per- 
haps, were not directly affected by it. (2.) The expe- 
ditions so pompously described on the monuments (as 
in the Statistical Table of Karnak, Thothmes III, and 
similar recitals of the conquests of Rameses II and III ; 
see Air. Birch, in Trans, of II. S. Lit. ii, 317 sq. ; and vii, 
50 sq.) certainly did not result in the permanent subju- 
| gation of the countries invaded. This is sufficiently 
I show r n bv the fact, that t lie conquests repeat themselves 
i under different kings, and even in the same reign. Year 


MAXETHO 


*704 


MAXETHO 


bv year the king with his army sets out on a gigantic 
razzia , to return with spoil of cattle, slaves, and prod- 
uce of the countries overrun. (3.) If the lands of the 
tribes were thus overrun, it may have been during one 
of the periods of servitude, in which case they suffered 
only as the vassals of their Canaanitish, Moabitish, or 
other oppressors. That this may possibly have been 
the ease is sufficient to deprive of all its force the argu- 
ment derived from the silence of the monuments, and 
of the book of Judges. 

There remains to be noticed one piece of documentary 
evidence which has quite recently been brought to light. 
Dr. Brugsch ( Zeitschrift , Sept. 1 863) reports that “one 
set of the Leyden hieratic papyri, now publishing by 
Dr. Leemans, consists of letters and official reports. In 
several of these, examined by M.Chabas, repeated men- 
tion is made of certain foreigners, called Ajmntju, i. e. 
Hebrews, compelled by I Jameses H to drag stones for the 
building of the city Baamses.” In his Melanges Egyptol. 
1862, 4th dissertation, M. Chabas calls them A peri it. It 
is certainly striking, as Mr. Birch remarks (in Revue 
Archeol. April, 1862, p. 201), that “in the three docu- 
ments which speak of these foreigners, they appear en- 
gaged on works of the same kind as those to which the 
Hebrews were subjected by the Egyptians; it is also 
important that the papyri were found at Memphis. Hut 
the more inviting the proposed identification, the more 
cautions one needs to be.” As the sounds B and L are 
not discriminated in Egyptian writing, it may be that 
the name is Apeliu; and as B and B have distinct char- 
acters, one does not see why the b of should be 

rendered by p. (The case of Epep = '2 m '2X is different ; 
see below.) It seems, also, that the same name occurs 
as late as the time of Baineses IV, where it can hardly 
mean the Hebrews. Besides, the monument of Thoth- 
mes Iff above mentioned leads to quite a different con- 
clusion. Where the evidence is so conflicting, the in- 
quirer who seeks only truth, not the confirmation of a 
foregone conclusion, has no choice but to reserve his 
judgment. 

The time of this Menephtha, so unhesitatingly pro- 
claimed to be the Pharaoh of the Exode, is placed be- 
yond all controversy — so Bunsen and Lepsius maintain 
— by an invaluable piece of evidence furnished by The- 
on, the Alexandrine mathematician of the 4th century. 
In a passage of his unpublished commentary on the Al- 
magest, first given to the world by Larcher (. Herodot . ii, 
553), and since by Biot (Bur la periode Sothiaqne , p. 18, 
129 sq.), it is stated that the Sothiac Cycle of Astrono- 
my which, as it ended in A.D. 139, commenced in B.C. 
1322 (20th July), was known in his time as “ the a?ra of 
Menophres” (t-g card M tuo^ptutg). There is no king 
of this name : read Mfi'o$3*wf — so we have Menephtha 
of the 19th dynasty, the king of the leper-story, the 
Exodus Pharaoh. Lepsius, making the reign begin in 
B.C. 1328, places the exode at B.C. 1314 = 15 Meneph- 
tha, in accordance with the alleged thirteen years’ re- 
tirement into Ethiopia and the return in the fourteenth 
or fifteenth year. Certainly the precise name Meno- 
phres does not appear in the lists; but in later times 
that name may have been used for the purpose of dis- 
tinguishing some particular king from others of the 
same name; and there is reason to think this was act- 
ually the case. (1.) The king Tethraosis or Thothmes j 
111 repeatedly appears on monuments with the addition i 
to his royal legend ^ fai-Re, “ Beloved of Be,” with the 
article Mai-ph-Re , and with the preposition Mai-n'-ph- 
Re, which last is precisely Theon’s M« vixj/ppQ. (2.) The 
acknowledged confusion of names in that part of the 
18th dynasty where this king occurs — Misaphris, Mis- 
pkres. Memphres (Armen.), then M isph ragm u thesis (the 
AAliM>P. of Josephus is evidently an error of copying 
for M1£4>P. : in the list ibid, the 5th aiul 6th names 
are 1\1 )]tppi)Q. MtfipapouSiomc ) — is perhaps best explain- 
ed by supposing that the king was entered in the lists 
by bis distinctive as well as his family name. (3.) In 


Pliny’s notice of the obelisks (If. jV. xxxvi, 64), that 
known to be of Thothmes III is said to belong to Mes- 
phres , which, says Bunsen (iv, 130), “ would be the pop- 
ular distinctive name given to this Thothmes.” Just 
so! And in the statement of Theon the king is pre- 
sented by “ his popular distinctive name,” Menophres. 
(4.) “There was (says Dr. Hi neks, Trans. R. Irish. A cad. 
vol. xxi.pt. 1) a tradition, if it does not deserve another 
name, current among the Egyptians in the time of An- 
toninus, to the effect that the Sothiac Cycle, then end- 
ing (A.D. 139), commenced in the reign of Thothmes 
IH. The existence of such a tradition is evidenced by 
a number of scarabsvi, evidently of Boman workmanship, 
referring to the Sothiac Cycle, and in which the royal 
legend of this monarch appears.” These are sufficient 
grounds for believing that the Menophres of Theon is 
no other than Thothmes III, and that his reign was 
supposed (rightly or wrongly) to include the year B.C. 
1322. It may be, also, that when Herodotus was told 
that Moeris lived about 900 years before the time of his 
visit to Egypt — a date not very wide of B.C. 1322 — 
Thothmes was named to him by his popular distinctive 
appellation, Mai-Re, only confused with Mares— Amc- 
iieinha HI, the Pharaoh of the Labyrinth and its Lake. 
(Other explanations of the name Menophres may be 
seen in Bbckh, Manetho , p. 691 sq. ; Biot, Reeherches , in- 
terprets it as the name of Memphis, Me?i-?io/ru, import- 
ing that the normal date, 20th July, for the heliacal 
rising of Sirius and epoch of the cycle, is true only for 
the latitude of Memphis.) What has been said is suffi- 
cient to show that there is no necessity for altering a 
letter of the name; consequently that the time of Me- 
nephtha is not defined by the authority of Theon. De 
Bouge emphatically rejects Lepsius’s notion of Meno- 
phres (Revue Archeol. ix, 664; Journal A siatique, Aug. 
1858, p.268). lie thinks the year 1322 lies in the reign 
of Bameses HI. 

In support of his date, B.C. 1314, for the exode, Lep- 
sins ( Chronoi . p.359 sq.) has an argument deduced from 
the modern Jewish chronology (Hi llel’s Mundane Era'), 
in which lie says that it is the precise year assigned to 
that event. Hillel, he is confident, was led to it by Ma- 
netho’s Egyptian tradition, which gave him the name 
of the Pharaoh, and this being obtained would easily give 
linn the time. Bunsen, though finally settling on the 
year B.C. 1320, had previously declared with Lepsius for 
B.C. 1314, “decided by the circumstance that a tradition 
not compatible with the usual chronological systems of the 
Jews , but which cannot be accidental , places the exode 
at that year. This fact seems, from Lepsius’s account 
of the Eeder Olam Rabba, to admit of no doubt” (iv, 
336). It admits of more than doubt — of absolute refu- 
tation. Hillers whole procedure, from first to last, was 
simply Biblical. Daniel’s prophecy of the seventy weeks 
gave him B.C. 422 for 1 1 Zedekiali ; thence up to 6 Hez- 
ekiah he found the sum = 133 years; for the kings of 
Israel the actual numbers were 243, of which lie made 
240 years; then 37 years of Solomon; 480 years of 1 
Kings vi, 1, added to these, made the total 890 years, 
whence the date fur the exode was B.C. 422+890 = 
1312; for that this, not 1314, was HilkTs year of the 
exode is demonstrable (Beview of Lepsius on Bible Chro- 
nologg , by II. Browne, in Arnold’s Theolog. Critic , i, 52-59, 
1851). Yet, though the process by which Hillel got his 
date is so transparent, it is spoken of as “an important 
tradition” by those who take ready-made conclusions at 
second-hand, without inquiry into their grounds. So 
Dimcker, (iesch. des A Itertkums, i, 196, note; Dr. Wil- 
liams, in Essags and Reviews, p. 58. 

It, is alleged that an indication confirmatory of the 
low date assigned by these writers is furnished by the 
month-date of the Exodus passover, 14 Abib, a name 
which occurs only in connection with that history (Exod. 
xii,2; xiii,4; xxiii, 15; xxxiv, 18; Deut.xvi. 1). This 
argument proceeds on the presumption that Abib is the 
Hebraized form of the Egyptian Epep, Coptic Epiphi, 
of which the Arabic rendering is also Abib. The Egyp- 


MANETHO 


705 


MANGER 


tian month takes its name from the goddess Apap : the 
change of p to b is intended to make the word pure He- 
brew, denoting the time of year, EHh = tlie 

month when the barley is in the ear (abiU) (Exod. ix, 
31). “At the time assigned, the vague month Epep 
would pretty nearly coincide with the Hebrew Abib” 
(Lepsius, Chron. p. 141). Hardly so, for in the year 
named 1 Epiplii would fall on 14th May, and it is scarce- 
ly conceivable that the passover month (whose full moon 
is that next to the vernal equinox, which in that cen- 
tury fell cir. 5th April) should begin so late as the mid- 
dle of May. Not till a hundred years later would the 
vague month Epiplii and the Hebrew passover month 
coincide. The argument proves too much, unless we 
are prepared to lower the exode to cir. 13.C. 1200. (To 
some it may imply that the narrative of the exode was 
written about that time— Mr. Sharpe, dilatory of Egypt, 
i, G3 — but one can hardly suppose that the Hebrews re- 
tained the vague Egyptian months as well as their 
names so long after their settlement in Palestine.) If 
in any year from B.C. 1300 upwards, the full moon next 
the vernal equinox fell in the month Epiphi, it would 
follow that the Coptic month-names (which, it is well 
understood, never occur on the monuments) belonged 
then to a different form of the year. 

For the tirst seventeen dynasties, numbering in Afr. 
more than 4000 years, a bare statement of their con- 
tents and of the monumental evidence would greatly 
exceed the limits of this article. Perhaps the time is 
not far distant when the attempt to educe a connected 
chronology from Manetho (whether for or against the 
Mosaic numbers) will be abandoned by all sensible men. 
Full and unprejudiced inquiry can have but one result: 
for times anterior to B.C. 700 Egypt has no fixed chro- 
nology. De Konge has in two words set the whole mat- 
ter in its true light : “ Les textes de Manethon sont pro- 
fondement alteres , et la serie des dates monumentales 
est tr£s incomplete .” The incompleteness of the record 
is palpable: the alteration of the texts is the result of 
their having passed through numerous hands, and been 
refashioned according to various intentions, by which 
the whole inquiry has been complicated to a degree 
that babies all attempts to determine what was their 
original form. These intentions w’ere mainly cyclical. 
A very brief statement of facts, not resting on critical 
conjecture and questionable combinations, as in the 
elaborate treatise of Bockh, but lying on the surface, 
will place the character and relations of the several 
texts in a clear light. Menes stands, 1. In Africanus 
(according to Syncellus’s running summation of the 
numbers in book i) just three complete sothiac cycles, 3 X 
1460 Julian years, before B.C. 1322 ; 2. In Eusebius, ac- 
cording to the epigraphal sum of book i, three cycles be- 
fore the epoch of Sethosis, dvn. xix ; 3. In Eusebius, ac- 
cording to the actual sum of book i, three cycles before 
the year B.C. 978-77, meant as the goal of the Diospol- 
itan monarchy or epoch of Shishak ; 4. In Syncellus’s 
period of 3555 years (accepted by Lepsius and Bunsen 
as the true Manelhonic measure from Menes to Nectane- 
bus), two cycles before the same goal; 5. In the Old 
Chronicle, according to its sothiac form, one cycle before 
the same goal; G. In the Sothis, one cycle before B.C. 
1322 ; but here it is contrived that Osiropis , or the com- 
mencement of Diospolitan monarchy, stands one cycle 
before Susakeim = Shishak. The inquirer may easily 
verify these facts for himself. In the series of papers, 
“Cycles of Egyptian Chronology,” published in Arnold’s 
Theol. Critic. 1851-52, he will find them fully stated, w ith 
many other like facts, which prove that these chronog- 
raphies, one and all, are intensely cyclical. But if Ma- 
netho, as w 7 e have him, is cyclical, t hen, Lepsiiis himself 
confesses (K.E. p. G, 7), “ the historical character of his 
work falls to the ground; for the very fact of Menes 
heading a sothiac circle could only be the result of af- 
ter-contrivance and Bunsen (Aeg.St. iv, 13) sees that 
in place of “ the genuine historical w'ork of Manetho, 
the venerable priest and conscientious inquirer,” we get 
V.— Y y 


“ a made-up thing , systematically carved to shape , and 
therefore really fabulous." Whether or not the original 
“Manetho,” whatever its authorship and date, was con- 
trived upon a cyclical plan, we have but the lists as they 
come to us finally from the hands of Annianus and Pan- 
dorus through Svncellus. It may be observed, however, 
that the cardinal dates given by Diccearchus , which we 
have from an independent source, imply that the cycli- 
cal treatment of Egyptian chronology is at least as old 
as the alleged time of Manetho (“ Cycles ,” etc., u. s ., sec. 
4, 1G, 34, 3G). 

For literature additional to the above, see under 
Egypt ; also Fruin, Dissert at io Historiea de Manethone 
(Leyd. 1847 , 8 vo); Bockh, Manetho (Berlin, 1845, 8vo) ; 
A. II. von Sagans, Manethos, die. Origines vnserer Gesch. 
(Gotha, 18G5, 8vo) ; A m. Presb. Rev. Jan. 18G6, p. 180. 

Manger is the rendering found in Luke ii, 7, 12, 1G, 
of the term fiaTvij, used to designate the place in which 
the infant Iiedeemer w’as cradled; which seems to de- 
note a crib or “stall” for feeding cattle, as it is rendered 
in Luke xiii, 15 (see Ilorrei Miscell. Crit. Leon. 1738, bk. 
ii, ch. xvi). It is employed in the Sept, in a similar 
sense for the Heb. Job xxxix, 9; Isa. i, 3; also 

by Josephus, Ant. viii, 2, 4; comp. Lucan, Tim. p. 14; 
Xenophon, Eg. iv, 1. Gersdorff ( Beitrdge zur Sprach - 
chai'akterestik des X. T. p. 220) is in favor of translating 
the word crib everywhere, and quotes /Elian (apud Suid. 
s. v.), Philo (De somniis, p. 872, b. ed. Colon. 1613), and 
Sybile. Ervth. (ap. Lactantius, vii, 24, 12) to that effect. 
Selileusner (Lex. s. v.) says it is any enclosure, but es- 
pecially the vestibule to the house, where the cattle 
were enclosed, not w'ith walls, but w'ooden hurdles; but 
in common Greek the word undoubtedly often refers to 
a trough hollowed out to receive the food for horses, 
etc. (see Homer, II. v, 271; x, 568; xxiv, 280), The 
Peshito Version evidently so understands it. On the 
other hand, it is doubtful if such a contrivance as a 
proper manger w r as know r n in the East, especially in the 
khans or “inns” of the description alluded to in the 
text. See Cauayanseuai. “Stables and mangers, in 
the sense in which we understand them, are of compar- 
atively late introduction into the East (see the quota- 
tions from Chardin and others in Harmer’s Observations r 
ii, 205), and, although they have furnished material to; 
modern painters and poets, did not enter into the cir- 
cumstances attending the birth of Christ, and are hard- 
ly less inaccurate than the ‘cradle’ and the ‘stable’ 
which are named in some descriptions of that event” 
(Smith). We are therefore doubtless here to regard 
the term as designating the ledge or projection in the 
end of the room used as a* stable, on which the hay or 
other food of the animals of travellers w 7 as placed. (See 
Strong’s llannony and Expos, of the Gospels, p. 14.) 
Several of the Christian fathers maintain that the stable 
itself was in a cave, and the identical manger in which 
the infant Jesus is traditionally stated to have lain is 
still show n by the superstitious monks, being no other 
than a marble sarcophagus; but the whole story is at 
variance with the narrative in the Gospels. (See Mel- 
don, De preesepi Christ?. Jen. 16G2.) See Betiileiiem. 
Tavernier, speaking of Aleppo, states that “in the cara- 
vanserais, on each side of the hall, for persons of the 
best quality, there are lodgings for every man by him- 
self. These lodgings are raised all along the court, two 
or three steps high, just behind which are the stables, 
where many times it is as good lying as in the cham- 
bers. Bight against the head of every horse there is a 
niche with a window into the lodging-chamber, out of 
which every man may see that his horse is looked after. 
These niches are usually so large that three men may 
lie in them, and here the servants dress their victuals.” 
In modern Oriental farm-houses, however, something 
corresponding to a Western “manger” may be found. 
“ It is common to find tw r o sides of the one room w T here 
the native farmer resides with his cattle fitted up with 
these mangers, and the remainder elevated about tw 7 o 
j feet higher for the accommodation of the family. The 


MANGEY 


MANI 


706 


mangers are built of small stones and mortar, in the 
shape of a box, or, rather, of a kneading-trough, and 
when. cleaned up and whitewashed, as they often are in 
summer, they do very well to lay little babes in” (Thom- 
son, Land and Book , ii, 98). Sec Stable. 

Mangey, Thomas, D.D., an English theologian, 
was born at Leeds in 1(184; was educated at St.John’s 
College, Cambridge; held successively the livings of 
St. Mildred, Bread Street, London; St. Nicholas, Guil- 
ford, and Ealing, in Middlesex; was chaplain to Dr. 
Robinson, bishop of London; in 1721 was presented to 
the tilth stall in the cathedral of Durham, and was ad- 
vanced to the first stall in 1722; became D.D. in 1725, 
and died in 1755. Dr. Mangey published a number of 
Sermons and controversial tracts, and a most valuable 
edition of the works of Philo Judaeus: Philonis Judcei 
Opera omnia qum reperiri potuerunt (Lond. 1742,2 vols. 
fob). — Allibone, Diet. Brit, and A mcr. A uth. s. v. ; Hook, 
Eccles. Biog. vii, 222. 

Manhartists or Haagleitnerians the name of 
a party in the Romish Church, especially in the arch- 
bishopric of Salzburg, from 1814 to 1820, whose founder 
and chief was a young priest named Caspar Haagleitner, 
of Hopfgarten; and its most distinguished and active 
member was Sebastian Manzl, of Westendorf (known also 
by the name of Manhart, from one of his estates). In 
1809 Napoleon I had appointed the prince-bishop of Chi- 
em-see and t he coadjutor of Salzburg as ecclesiastical 
authorities in the diocese. The clergy submitted with 
the exception of Haagleitner, who refused to recognise 
them, and showed symptoms of heresy. He left Hopf- 
garten and went to Tyrol, where he created some relig- 
ious and political troubles, and gained a number of fol- 
lowers. At the peace of Schdnbrunn the Tyrol fell 
again into the hands of the French, and Haagleitner 
was taken a prisoner to Kusstein and Salzburg. He 
finally succeeded in making good his escape; and when, 
in 1814, Austria recovered the Bavarian Tyrol, he was 
appointed vicar at Wdrgel. Here he continued his in- 
trigue, and succeeded so well that the people came to 
consider him as the only true priest in the country, the 
others having failed to do their duty by submitting to 
the dictates of Napoleon. Manhart assisted Ilaag- 
leitner greatly in propagating his doctrines in Westen- 
dorf, Hopfgarten, and Kirch bicliel, and their effect was 
felt even long after Haagleitner had been removed from 
Wdrgel. Manhart held meetings in his own house, 
preaching himself, or allowing his wife to preach, as 
well as another woman from Hopfgarten. The admin- 
istrator of the diocese of Salzburg, and afterwards the 
archbishop Augustin Gruber, sought in vain to recon- 
cile them with the Church; they asked to be instructed 
by the pope himself in case they were in the wrong, and 
for this purpose went to Rome in 1825. The difficulty 
ended soon after. — Herzog, Beal-Encyklopadie, v iii, 781. 

Ma'ni (M<m,Vulg. Banni), given (1 Esdr. ix, 30) 
by error for Ram (q. v.) of the Ileb. list (Ezra x, 29). 

Maui, Manes, or Manicliaeus (entitled Zendik, 
Saddncee), the founder of the heretical sect of the Ma- 
nichieans, is said to have flourished in the second half | 
of the 3d century. Little is known with regard to his 
early history, and the accounts transmitted through two ' 
distinct sources— the AVestern or Greek, and the East- 
ern-arc legendary and contradictory on almost every I 
important point. According to the most probable sup- 
position, he was a native of Persia, and was born about 
211. 1 1 is real name appears to have been Curbicus, 

and lie was the slave of a rich woman of Ctesiphon, 
who bought him when he was but seven years of age, 
had him careftdly educated, and at her decease left liTm 
all her wealth. Among the books she left him he is | 
said to have found the writings of Scythianus, which 
had been given to her by one of the latter’s disciples 
named Tcrebinthus, or Budda. The East was at this 
time in great ferment. The progress of Christianity 
had awakened the opposition of all the heathen religions I 


from the Indus to the Euphrates. Parsism was the 
most powerful among them. Mani, with the aid of the 
treasure left him in the writings of Scythianus, believed 
it possible to accomplish the amalgamation of Parsism 
and Christianity, and for this purpose he emigrated to 
Persia, changed his name so as to obliterate all traces 
of his origin and former state, and, to carry out his plans 
more successfully, he proclaimed himself the Paraclete 
promised by Christ. It is said that the attempt was 
looked upon with favor by king Sapor and by Hormisdas, 
but this appears doubtful. Followers soon gathered, and 
three of the new sect — Thomas, Buddas or Addas, and 
Hermas — propagated the doctrines, the first in Egypt 
and the secoiubin India. Hermas only remained with 
Mani to assist him. While they were away the son 
of Sapor fell ill, and Mani, who had been highly spoken 
of as a physician, was called to attend him; but, not suc- 
ceeding, he was thrown into prison. Mani bribed his 
keepers, and succeeded in escaping, but was pursued and 
captured, and publicly executed. 

There are other accounts, however, which make Mani 
the scion of a noble magian family, and a man of ex- 
traordinary mental powers and artistic and scientific 
abilities — an eminent painter, mathematician, etc. Ac- 
cording to them Mani embraced Christianity in early 
manhood, and became presbyter at a church in Ehvaz 
or Ahvaj, in the Persian province of Hazitis. He pur- 
posed to purge Christianity of its alleged Jewish cor- 
ruptions, to demonstrate its unity with Parsism, and 
thereby to present the perfect universal religion. He 
gave himself out to be the Paraclete, and styled him- 
self in ecclesiastical documents “Mani, called to be an 
apostle of Jesus Christ through the election of God the 
Father. These are the words of salvation from the 
eternal and living Source.” Persecuted by king Sapor 
1, he sought refuge in foreign countries, went to India, 
China, and Turkistan, and there lived in a cave for 
twelve months, during which he claimed to have been in 
heaven. He reappeared with a wonderful book of draw- 
ings and pictures, called Erdslienk or Ertenki-Mani. 
No doubt during his residence in these countries he had 
become acquainted with Buddhism, and had decided to 
incorporate some of its best points in his svncrctistic re- 
ligion (comp. Hardwick, Christ and other Masters, i, 288 
sq.). After the death of Sapor (A.D. 272) he returned 
to Persia, where Hormas, the new king, who was well 
inclined towards him, received him with great honors, 
and, in order to protect him more effectually against the 
persecutions of the magi, gave him the stronghold of 
Deshereh, in Susiana, as a residence. After the death 
of this king, however, Bahrain, his successor, entrapped 
Mani into a public disputation with the magi, for which 
purpose he had to leave his castle ; and he was seized 
and fla\'ed alive, A.D. 277. His skin was stuffed and 
hung up for a terror at the gates of the city Jondishapur. 

Among the works of Mani may be reckoned four 
books, sometimes ascribed to Tercbinthus and some- 
times to Scythianus, entitled the Mysteries, the Chap- 
ters or Heads , the Gospel , and the Treasure. In the 
Mysteries Mani endeavored to demonstrate the doctrine 
of two principles from the mixture of good and evil 
which is found in the world. He grounded his reasons 
on the argument that if there were one sole cause, sim- 
ple, perfect, and good in the highest degree, the whole, 
corresponding with the nature and will of that cause, 
would show simplicity, perfection, and goodness, and 
everything would be immortal, holy, and happy like 
himself. The Chapters contained a summary of the 
chief articles of the Manicluean scheme. Of the Gos- 
pels nothing certain can be asserted. Beausobre, ap- 
parently without sufficient grounds, considers it as a 
collection of the meditations and pretended revelations 
of Mani. The Treasure , or Treasure of Life , may, per- 
haps, have derived its name from the words of Christ, 
wherein he compares his doctrine to a treasure hid in a 
field. Mani also wrote other works and letters, and 
among them the Epistle of the Foundation , of which we 


MAXICIIzEISM 


707 


MANICELEISM 


have fragments still extant in St. Augustine, who under- 
took to refute it. His works appear to have been orig- 
inally written, some in Syriac, some in IVrsic. For his 
doctrine, etc., see Mantch.eism. (J. H. W.) 

Manichaeism. As we have seen in the life of 
Mani (q. v.), the origin of Manichieisni, as well as the 
history of its founder and propagator, is matter of ob- 
scure and confused tradition. Although it utterly dis- 
claimed being denominated Christian, it was reckoned 
among the heretical doctrines of the Church. It was 
intended, as we have already indicated in the sketch of 
Maui, to blend the chief doctrines of Parsism, or rather 
Magism, as reformed by Zoroaster, with a certain num- 
ber of Buddhistic views, under the outward garb of Bib- 
lical, more especially New-Testament history, which, ex- 
plained allegorically and symbolically, was made to rep- 
resent an entirely new religious system, and one wholly 
at variance with Christianity and its fundamental teach- 
ings (comp. Hardwick, Christ and other Masters, ii, 389 
sq. ; and see the references there for Lassen and others). 

Doctrines. — Like Magism, Manichadsm holds that 
there are two eternal principles from which all things 
proceed, the two everlasting kingdoms, bordering on each 
other — the kingdom of light under the dominion of God, 
and the kingdom of darkness under the daemon or hyle 
The Light, the Good, or God, and the Dark- 
ness, the Bad, Matter, or Archon, each inhabited a re- 
gion akin to their natures, and excluding each other to 
such a degree that the region of Darkness and its leader 
never knew of the existence of that of the Light. 
Twelve icons — corresponding to the twelve signs of the 
zodiac and the twelve stages of the world — had sprung 
(emanated) from the Primeval Light; while “Dark- 
ness,” tilled with the eternal fire, which burned but 
shone not, was peopled by “daemons,” who were con- 
stantly fighting among themselves. In one of these 
contests, pressing towards the outer edge, as it were, of 
their region, they became aware of the neighboring re- 
gion, and forthwith united, attacked it, and succeeded 
in taking captive the Iiay of Light that was sent against 
them at the head of the hosts of Light, and which was 
the embodiment of the Ideal or Primeval Man (Christ). 
A stronger a j on (the Holy Ghost) then hastened to the 
rescue, and redeemed the greater and better part of 
the captive Light (Jesus Impatibilis). The smaller 
and fainter portion, however (Jesus Passibilis), remain- 
ed in the hands of the powers of Darkness, and out of 
this they formed, after the ideal of The Man of Light, 
mortal man. But even the small fraction of light left 
in him (broken in two souls) would have prevailed 
against them had they not found means to further di- 
vide and subdivide it by the propagation of this man 
(Eve — Sin). Not yet satisfied, they still more dimmed 
it by burying it under dark “forms of belief and faith, 
such as Paganism and Judaism.” Once more, how- 
ever, the Original Light came to save the light buried 
in man — to deliver the captive souls of men from their 
corporeal prison. On this account there were created 
two sublime beings, Christ and the Holy Ghost. Christ 
was sent into the world clothed with the shadowy form 
of a human body, and not with the real substance, to 
teach mortals how to deliver the rational soul from the 
corrupt body, and to overcome the power of malignant 
matter. But again the da?mons succeeded in defeating 
the schemes of the power of light. Obscuring men’s 
minds, even those of the apostles, so that they could not 
fully understand Christ’s object, his career of salvation 
was cut short by the dremons seducing man to crucify 
him. His sufferings and death were, naturally, only 
fictitious, since he could not in reality die; he only al- 
lowed himself to become an example of endurance and 
passive pain for his own, the souls of light. But to 
carry out the intended salvation of men Christ, shortly 
before his crucifixion, gave the promise recorded hv 
John (xvi, 7-15), that he would send to his disciples the 
Comforter, “ who would lead them into all truth.” This 
promise, the Manichaeans maintain, vras fulfilled in the 


person of Maui, who -was sent by the God of light to de- 
clare to all men the doctrine of salvation, w ithout con- 
cealing any of its truths under the veil of metaphor, or 
under any other covering. 

Mani, like Christ, surrounded himself with twelve 
apostles, and sent them into the world to teach and to 
preach his doctrine of salvation. To carry out liis work 
more successfully, and to make converts also of the 
Christians, he rejected the authority of the Old Testa- 
ment, which, he said, u T as the work of the God of dark- 
ness, whom the Jew's had worshipped in the place of 
light, and also a good part of the New Testament, upon 
the ground that many of the books had been grossly 
interpolated, and were not the productions of the per- 
sons whose names they bear. As strictly canonical, he 
admitted only his ow n w ritings, and such parts of the 
New Testament as answored his purpose. “ Whatever,” 
says Baur (Munich. Rdiyionssystem, p. 37 5). “ i n the writ- 
ings of the New Testament seemed to concur with the 
dualism set forth by Mani was accounted among the 
most genuine ingredients in the doctrines of Christian- 
ity, and Mani and his adherents w r ere very glad to cite 
for the confirmation of their own doctrines and princi- 
ples passages like Matt, vii, 18; xiii, 24; John i, 5; viii, 
44 ; xiv,30; 2 Cor. iv, 4 (comp. Epiph. fleer. lxvi. G7-G9) ; 
and especially those in which the apostle Paul speaks of 
the opposition betw een flesh and spirit. As they found, 
however, so much in the New' Testament which not 
only did not confirm the Manicluean doctrines, but stood 
in open opposition to them, they w'ere obliged, in ac- 
cordance with the hypothesis that the original doctrines 
of Christianity did not differ from those of Manielneism, 
to regard all passages of this kind as a distortion and 
falsification of Christianity. Accordingly, they laid 
dow r n the rule that the written records of Christianity 
ought not to be received unconditionally, but must be 
subjected to a previous scrutiny, ■with a view to ascer- 
tain how far they exhibited the genuine substance of 
Christianity; and this was limited to those portions 
which bore the character of Manichaeism, so that, fol- 
lowing this criterion, whatever did not harmonize with 
their own doctrines w'as rejected without hesitation, be- 
cause original Christianity could not contradict itself.” 

Mani also taught that those souls which obeyed the 
laws delivered by Christ, as explained by himself, the 
Comforter, and struggled against the lusts and appetites 
of a corrupt nature, would, on their death, be delivered 
from their sinful bodies, and, after being purified by the 
sun and moon — “the two light-ships for conducting the 
imprisoned light into the eternal kingdom of light” — 
would ascend to the regions of light ; but that those 
souls which neglected to struggle against their corrupt 
natures would pass after death into the bodies of ani- 
mals or other beings, until they had expiated their guilt. 
Belief in the evil of matter led to a denial of the doc- 
trine of the resurrection. “These ideas,” says Donaldson 
(Christian Orthodoxy, p. 143), “they [the Maniclueans] 
worked out in a manner peculiar to themselves, and 
with results decidedly unfavorable to the integrity and 
authenticity of the New' Testament. They could accept 
neither the doctrine nor the facts of revelation, unless 
they could regard them as a reflex of their own dual- 
ism. Without w'ishing to Teject Christianity, they made 
their own system the standard of measurement, and lop- 
ped off or stretched the religion of the Cross, wherever 
it did not fit the religion of light and darkness. The 
identification of Christ with Mithras led, of course, to a 
profession of Docetism, namely, to the assertion that our 
Lord’s sufferings on the cross were not real, but appar- 
ent only. Christ had no real human body, no double 
nature, but only a fantastic semidance of corporeity, in 
which his essence, as the Son of Everlasting Light, was 
presented to the eyes of men. . . . Accordingly, Christ 
had no human birth, and his apparent sufferings were 
really inflicted on him by his enemy, the Prince of Dark- 
ness; and in thus resolving the life of Jesus into a series 
of illusory appearances, the Maniclueans take from Chris- 


MANICILEISM 


708 


MANICILEISM 


tiani trail its liistorical foundation, and leave us nothing 
but the realistic applications of a few Christian meta- 
phors.” “ Christianity,” says Dr. Schaff ( Ch . History, i, 
240) is here resolved into a fantastic, dualistico-pan- 
thcistic philosophy of nature; moral regeneration is 
identified with a process of physical refinement; and 
the whole mystery of redemption is found in light, 
which was always worshipped in the East as the sym- 
bol of deity. Unquestionably there pervades the Man- 
ichaean system a kind of groaning of the creature for 
redemption, and a deep sympathy with nature, that hi- 
eroglyphic of spirit; but all is distorted and confused. 
The suffering Jesus ou the cross, Jesus patibilis, is here 
a mere illusion, a symbol of the world-soul still enchain- 
ed in matter, and is seen in every plant which works 
upwards from the dark bosom of the earth towards the 
light; towards bloom and fruit, yearning after freedom. 
1 lence the class of the ‘ perfect’ would not kill nor wound 
a beast, pluck a flower, nor break a blade of grass. The 
system, instead of being, as it* pretends, a liberation of 
light from darkness, is really a turning of light into 
darkness.” 

Organization . — “ Manichansm,” says Dr. Schaff (i, 
250), "differed from the Gnostic schools in having a Ax- 
ed, and that a strictly hicrarchal organization. At the 
head of the sect stood twelve apostles or rnagistri, among 
whom Maui and his successors, like Peter and the pope, 
held the chief place. Under them w'ere seventy-two 
bishops, answering to the seventy-two (strictly, seven- 
ty) of the disciples of Jesus; and under these came pres- 
byters, deacons, and itinerant evangelists. In the con- 
gregations there were two distinct classes, designed to 
correspond to the catechumens and the faithful in the 
Catholic Church — the ‘ hearers’ (Auditores) and the ‘per- 
fect’ (Electi), the esoteric, the priestly caste, which rep- 
resents the last stage in the process of the liberation of 
the spirit and its separation from the world, the transi- 
tion from the kingdom of matter into the kingdom of 
light, or, in the Buddhistic terms, from the world of 
Sansara into Nirvana.” The Elect are required to ad- 
here to the Signaculum Oris, Manus, and Sinus, that is, 
they have to take the oath of abstinence from evil and 
profane speech (including “ religions terms such as Chris- 
tians use respecting the Godhead and religion”), fur- 
ther, from flesh, eggs, milk, fish, wine, and all intoxicat- 
ing drinks (comp. Manu, Inst it. vs. 51, 52, 53 : “ He who 
makes the flesh of an animal his food . . . not a mortal 
exists more sinful ... lie who . . . desires to enlarge 
his own flesh with the flesh of another creature,” etc.); 
further, from the possession of riches, or, indeed, any 
property whatsoever; from hurting any being, animal 
or vegetable; from heeding their own family, or show- 
ing any pity to him who is not of the Mnnichxan creed ; 
and finally, from breaking their chastity by marriage or 
otherwise. The Auditors were comparatively free to 
partake of the good things of this world, but they had 
to provide for the subsistence of the Elect, and their 
highest aim, also, was the attainment of the state of 
tiieir superior brethren, 

Cultus. — rn Maniclucan worship, the visible repre- 
sentatives of the light (sun and moon) were revered, 
but only as representatives of the Ideal, of the good or 
supreme God. Neither altar nor sacrifice was to be 
found in their places of religious assemblies, nor did 
they erect sumptuous temples. Easts, prayers, occa- 
sional readings in the supposed writings of Mani, chief- 
ly a certain Fundamental Epistle , were all their outer 
worship. Sunday, as the day on which the visible uni- 
verse was to be consumed, the day consecrated to the 
sun, was kept as a great festival; Church festivals they 
rejected, and, instead, made the most solemn day in their 
year the anniversary of the death of Main. Baptism 
they repudiated, considering it useless; t lie Lord’s Sup- 
per was celebrated, but only by the Elect. Of the mode 
of celebration, however, wc know next to nothing; even 
Augustine, who, for about nine years, belonged to the 
sect, and who is our chief authority on this subject, con- 


fesses his ignorance of it. Dr. Schaff (Ch. Hist, i, 250) 
says that' they partook of it without wine (because 
Christ had no blood), ‘*and regarded it perhaps accord- 
ing to their pantheistic symbolism, as the commemora- 
tion of the liglit-soul crucified in all nature.” 

Character . — As to the general morality of the Mani- 
chicans, we are equally left to conjecture ; but their doc- 
trine certainly appears to have had a tendency, chiefly 
in the case of the uneducated, to lead to a sensual fa- 
naticism hurtful to a pure mode of life. Bower, in the 
second volume of his History of the Popes, has attempted 
to prove that the Manichteans were addicted to immoral 
practices, but this opinion has been ably controverted 
by Beausobrc and Lardner. “The morality of the Ma- 
niclueans,” says Dr. Schaff, “ was severely ascetic, based 
on the fundamental error of the intrinsic evil of matter 
and the body; the extreme opposite of the Pelagian 
view of the essential moral purity of human nature. 
The great moral aim is to become entirely unworldly, 
in the Buddhistic sense; to renounce and destroy cor- 
poreity; to set the good soul free from the fetters of 
matter. This is accomplished by the most rigid and 
gloomy abstinence, which, however, is required only of 
the elect, not of the catechumens.” 

Extent . — Mani, as we have noted already in cur 
sketch of his life, was put to death about 275; but the 
sect soon spread into proconsular Asia, and even into 
Africa, Sicily, and Italy, although they were vehement- 
ly opposed by the Catholic Church, and persecuted by 
the heathen emperors, who enacted bloody laws against 
them, as a sect derived from hostile Persia. The pre- 
cise time when the doctrines of Mani made their way 
into the Roman empire it is impossible definitely to de- 
termine. The principal document on the subject, enti- 
tled Acta disputed ionis Archelai , episcopi Mesopotamia, 
et Manetis hteresiarckce, is deemed apocryphal. Dio- 
cletian, as early as A.D. 296, issued rigorous laws against 
the Maniclneans, which were reiterated by Yalentinian, 
Theodosius I, and successive monarehs. Notwithstand- 
ing this, they gained numerous adherents; and very 
many mediaeval sects, as the Priseillians, Paulieians, Bog- 
omiles, Catharists, Josephinians, etc., were suspected to 
be secretly Mnnichreans, and were therefore called "New 
Manichreans.” “Indeed, the leading features of Mani- 
charism, the dualistic separation of soul and body, the 
ascription of nature to the devil, the pantheistic confu- 
sion of the moral and the physical, the hypocritical 
symbolism, concealing heathen views under Christian 
phrases, the haughty air of mystery, and the aristocratic 
distinction of esoteric and exoteric, still live in various 
forms even in modern systems of philosophy and sects 
of religion. The Mormons of our day strongly bring 
to mind, in many respects, even in their organization, 
the ancient Maniclueans” (Dr. Schaff). It is a remark- 
able circumstance in their history, that though they 
could not stand openly against the power and severity 
of their persecutors, they continued for ages, up to the 
very time of the Reformation, to make proselytes in 
secret. Their doctrines lurked even among the clergy 
and the monks. The profound and noble Augustine 
fell under their influence, and was a member of the sect 
from his twentieth to his twenty-ninth year (374-3N3). 
They were still to he found in Leo’s time, 440. The 
Arian llunneric, in 477, began his reign with attempts 
to persecute them, and was mortified to find most of 
those whom he detected had professed to be lay or 
clerical members of his own sect. Gregory the Great, 
about 600, had. to take means for extirpating them from 
Africa; and even after his pontificate traces of them 
appeared now and then in Italy, as well as other coun- 
tries, threatening danger to the Church. About the 
year 1000 they spread from Italy into other countries, 
especially into southern France, Spain, and even Ger- 
many. 

Literature . — Arclielans (bishop of Cascar about 278), 

1 eta disputationis cum Manete (first composed in Syriac, 
but extant only in a Latin translation, and in many re- 


MANIPA 


709 


MANLY 


spects untrustworthy), in Routh’s Reliqnice sacrce,v, 3- 
‘206. The Oriental accounts, of later date, indeed (the Oth 
and 10th centuries), but drawn from ancient sources, are 
collected in Herbelot,/>i*6/. Orient . (Par. 1670), s. v. Mani. 
See Titus Bostrensis (about 360), K itra Mavtxaitov] 
Epiphanius, Jher. p. 66 (drawn from Archelaus); Za- 
chagni, Monumenta Ecclesice Grieves it La t hue (Rome, 
1698); St. Augustine, De Moribus Manichieorum ; JDe 
Geitesi contra Manichceos ; l)e duabus animabus contra 
Manichceos; De Vera religione Epistola f unda mentis con- 
tra Faust uni; Fabrieius, BibKoth. Orozco, v, 284; Beau- 
sob re, Uistoire crit.de Manickce et du M unicheisme (Amst. 
1784 and 1730, 2 vols.) ; F. Chr. Baur, Das Manichdische 
Religionssysteni nach den Qitellen untersucht (Tub. 1831); 
Fliigel, Mani, seine Lebre u. seine Schriften (Lpz. 1862); 
Trechsel, Ueber den Kanon, die Ki'itik, u.die Exegese der 
Manichder (Berne, 1832) ; Colditz, Entstehung d. munich. 
Religionssy stems (Lpz. 1837); Reichlin-Meldegg, Theolo - 
gie d.Magiers Mani u. ihr Ursprung (Frankf, 1825); Y. 
de YVagnern, Munich, indulgentias cum brevi totius Mu- 
nich. udumbratione , e fontibus descripsit (Lpz. 1827); P. 
ile Lagarde, Titi Bostreni contra Munich, libri quatnor 
Syriace (Berl. 1850) ; Stud, mill Krit. vi,3,875 sq. (review 
of Baur) : Schrockh, Kirchengesch. iv, 400 sq. ; xi, 245 sq. ; 
Neander, Ch. Hist, ii, 707 sq. ; Sehalf, Ch. Ilist. i, § 73 ; 
Donaldson, Christian Orthodoxy , p. 127 sq. ; Haag, Hist, 
des Dogmes Chretiens (see Index) ; Ilagenbach, Ilist. of 
Doctrines , i, 240 sq., 837, 352, 353; Pressense, Lltistoire 
du Dogme (Par. 1869), chap. ii. (J. II. W.) 

Manipa, the name of a monstrous idol worshipped 
in the kingdoms of Tangut and Iiarantola, in Tartary. 
It has nine heads, which rise pyramidally, there being 
three in the first and second row, then two, and one at 
the top of all. A bold, resolute young fellow, dressed 
in armor, and prompted by enthusiastic courage, on cer- 
tain days of the year, runs about the city Tanchuth, and 
kills every one he meets in honor of the goddess. By 
such outrageous sacrifices as these the devotees imagine 
they extremely oblige Manipa.' — Kireher, China illustr.; 
Broughton, Bibliotheca Hist. Sac. s. v. 

Maniple, an article of dress introduced when the 
use of the stole as a handkerchief fell into disuse. It 
now represents the cord with which our Lord was bound 
to the pillar at his scourging. — Walcott, Sac. Archceol. 
s. v. ; Siegel, A rchaol. s. v. Manipulus. 

Manitou is the name of any object used as a fetish 
or amulet among some tribes of the American Indians — 
those of the North and North-west. “ The Illinois,” 
wrote the Jesuit Marest, “adore a sort of genius which 
they call Manitou; to them it is the master of life, the 
spirit that rules all things. A bird, a buffalo, a bear, a 
leather, a skin — that is their manitou.” “ If the Indian 
word manitou,” says Palfrey, “appeared to denote some- 
thing above or beside the common aspects and agencies 
of nature, it might be natural, but it would be rash and 
misleading to confound its import with the Christian, 
Mohammedan, Jewish, Egyptian, or Greek conception 
of the Deity, or with any compound or selection from 
some or all of those ideas.” See Indians. 

Manley, Ira, a Congregational minister and home 
missionary, was born about the year 1780; was a grad- 
uate of Middlebury College, studied law, was admitted 
to the bar, and left a fine practice to enter the ministry, 
lie was a home missionary for sixty years, and a pio- 
neer in all good enterprises. The last twenty-two years 
of his life were mostly spent in Wisconsin. He died at 
Keene, Essex County, N. Y., Feb. 5, 1871. — New Amer. 
Cyclop. 1871, p. 569. 

Man'lius, the name of one of the ambassadors who 
is said to have written a letter to the Jews confirming 
whatever concession Lysias had granted them. Four 
letters were written to the Jews, of which the last is 
from “Quintus Memmius and Titus Manlius (Gr. TiVoc 
MmAtoc, v. r. Mortoc; Yulg. Titus Manilius), ambas- 
sadors (TTptcrfiv-ai) of the Romans” (2 Macc. xi, 34). 
There is not much doubt that the letter is a fabrication, 


as history is entirely ignorant of these names. Polybius 
( Reliq . xxxi, 9, 6), indeed, mentions C. Sulpitius and 
Manius Sergius, who were sent to Antioehus IY Epiph- 
anes about B.C. 163, and also {Reliq. xxxi, 12, 9) Cn. 
Octavius, Spurins Lucretius, and L. Aurelius, who were 
sent into Syria in B.C. 162 in consequence of the con- 
tention for the guardianship of the young king Antio- 
chus V Eupator, but entirely ignores Q. Memmius or T. 
Manlius. We may therefore conclude that legates of 
these names were never in Syria. The true name of T. 
Manlius maybe T. Manius, and as there is not sufficient 
time for an embassy to have been sent to Syria between 
the two recorded by Polybius, the writer may have 
been thinking of the former. The letter is dated in the 
148th year of the Seleucidan a?ra ( = B.C. 165), and in 
this year there was a consul of the name of T. Manlius 
Torquatus, who appears to have been sent on an embassy 
to Egypt about B.C. J64, to mediate between the two 
Ptolemies, Philometor and Euergetes (Livy, xliii, 11; 
Polybius, Reliq. xxxii, 1, 2). The employment of this 
Seleucidan nera as a date, the absence of the name of the 
city, and especially the fact that the first intercourse of 
the Jews and Romans did not take place till two years 
later, when Judas heard of the fame of the Romans (1 
Macc. viii, 1 sq.), all prove that the document is far 
from authentic. 

The three other letters do not merit serious attention 
(2 Macc. xi, 16-33). Sec Wernsdorff, De jid. Libr. Mac- 
cab. see. Ixvi ; Grimm, Exeg. Handbuch, ad loe. ; and on 
the other side, Patritius, De Cons. Macc. p. 142, 280. — 
Kit to, s. v. 

Manly, Basil, D.D., a Baptist divine and educator 
of note, was born in Chatham County, N. C., Jan. 28, 
1798. At the age of sixteen lie became a member of a 
Baptist Church, and not long after began speaking in 
public, though he was not regularly licensed till 1818. 
He preached his first sermon in Beaufort, S. C., and 
must have made a favorable impression, for he at onco 
received an offer of aid from a society for the education 
of ministers, and commenced his studies. In December, 
1819, he entered the junior class in South Carolina Col- 
lege, and graduated with the highest honor in 1821. 
He immediately entered into an engagement to preach 
in the Edgefield District, and was ordained in March, 
1822. A Church was formed at lulgefield Court-house 
about a year later, of which he was pastor for three 
years, gaining a wide reputation as a preacher in upper 
South Carolina. lie was called in 1826 to the pastorate 
of the Baptist Church in Charleston, and continued there 
eleven years, during which time he not only sustained 
and extended his reputation as a preacher, but was active 
in the cause of liberal and theological education, effect- 
ing the establishment of what is now known as Furman 
University, at Greenville, S. C. At that period theo- 
logical instruction was included in the plans of this and 
similar institutions. Dr. Manly lived to see the Bap- 
tists of the South concentrate their energies upon the 
establishment and support of a single theological semi- 
nary. lie took a lively interest in this matter, partly, 
no doubt, from a sense of the disadvantages under which 
he had himself labored; for, though a good scholar, he 
was a self-educated theologian. He was chosen in 1837 
to the presidency of the University of Alabama, and ad- 
ministered the office for about eighteen years with emi- 
nent ability and success. In 1855 he returned to Charles- 
ton, and to the pastoral office over one of the four 
churches that now existed in place of the one to which 
he had formerly ministered. lie was subsequently en- 
gaged as a missionary and evangelist in Alabama, and 
as a pastor at Montgomery. He died at Greenville, S. 
C., Dec. 21, 1868. As a preacher, Dr. Manly was emi- 
nently popular. His discourses, though instructive and 
convincing, were also charged with the elements of 
emotional power, and, with all his success as an educa- 
tor, this was the work in which he most delighted. Dr. 
Manly wrote a “ treatise on Moral Science,” which was 
for years a text-book in Southern colleges. It indicated 


MANN 


710 


MANN 


a high order of talent. See JVew A mer . Cyclop. 18G8, p. 
450 ; Drake, Diet. A mer. Biog. s. v. (L. E. S.) 

Mann, Cyrus, an American Congregational min- 
ister and author, was born at Oxford, N. IL, April 3, 
1785; was educated at Dartmouth College (class of 
1806) ; was principal of Gilmanton Academy two years ; 
teacher of the Troy high-school one year ; tutor at Dart- 
mouth College from 1809 to 1814; pastor of the Church 
at Westminster, Mass., from 1815 to 1841 ; then of Rob- 
inson Church, Plymouth, three years; next a teacher 
at Lowell several years; finally, from 1852 to 1850 act- 
ing pastor of the North Falmouth Church. He died at 
Stoughton, Mass., Feb. 9, 1859. Mr. Mann published 
An Epitome of the Evidences of Christianity: — History 
of the Temperance Reformation: — Memoir of Mrs. M yra 
IP. Allen: and some Sermons.— Drake, Diet, of A mer. 
Biog. p. 595. 

Mann, Horace, LL.D., one of the most prominent 
educators in our country, a philanthropist whose name 
deserves to be honored by every American — “a soul 
whose life was a galvanic thrill along the muscles of 
our age” — was born, of very humble parentage, at Frank- 
lin, Mass., May 4, 1796. Though not privileged with 
the advantages of a careful training in his early boy- 
hood, he yet managed to acquire a pretty good knowl- 
edge of the so-called “common branches.” At the age 
of twenty he resolved to secure for himself the advan- 
tages of a collegiate training. I lis instructors hitherto, 
he tells us himself, he had found to be “ very good peo- 
ple, but very poor teachers.” He had lost his father 
when only thirteen years old, and since that time “all 
the family,” he tells us, “labored together for the com- 
mon support, and toil was considered honorable, al- 
though it was sometimes of necessity excessive.” Not- 
withstanding all these disadvantages, Horace was bent 
upon a course of study in college. Within the short 
space of six months he had acquired a sufficient prepa- 
ration to enter the sophomore year at Brown Uni veri- 
ty, and at this institution he graduated, with the high- 
est honors, in 1819. The subject of his graduating 
speech was “The Progressive Character of the Human 
Race.” This was always a favorite theme with him, 
and his first oration may be said to have foreshadowed 
his subsequent career as a philanthropist and states- 
man. After serving his alma mater for two years as 
instructor, he entered upon the study of jurisprudence 
at the law-school in Lichfield, and in 1823 was admitted 
to practice at Dedham. In 1827 he was elected to the 
legislature of Massachusetts, and during his connection 
with that body was distinguished for the zeal with 
which he devoted himself to the interests of education 
and temperance. His first speech was in favor of relig- 
ious liberty. lie was active in founding the State Lu- 
natic Asylum. In 1831 he removed to Boston, and was 
elected in 1836 to the state senate, of which he became 
president. 

At the organization of the Massachusetts Board of Ed- 
ucation, June 29, 1837, Horace Mann was elected its see- 
retan', and, as such, he served for eleven years. He now 
gave up all other business, withdrew from politics, and 
devoted his whole time to the cause of education, intro- 
ducing normal schools and paid committees. During 
these eleven years he worked fifteen hours a day, held 
teachers’ conventions, gave lectures, and conducted a 
large correspondence. In 1843 he made a visit to edu- 
cational establishments in Europe. His Report was re- 
printed both in England and America. In 1848 he was 
elected to Congress, as the successor of ex-prosident 
John Quincy Adams, whose example he followed in en- 
ergetic opposition to the extension of slavery. Mr. 
Mann’s years in Congress were those stormv cloud- 
gathering years whose records are labelled “Fillmore,” 
“Fugitive-slave Law,” “New Mexico and California.” 
Staunch and steady he stood, a man of iron, in those 
days of compromise and political corruption. Hating 
slavery through every fibre of his soul, lie had his weap- 
on drawn whenever and wherever its crest arose. His 


great abilities as a statesman are evinced in his letters 
written at this time, foreshadowing the troubles of 1861- 
65. llis first speech in Congress was in advocacy of 
the right and duty of the national government to ex- 
clude slavery from the territories. In a letter dated 
Dec., 1848, he says on this'subject, “ I think the country 
is to experience serious times. Interference with slav- 
ery will excite civil commotion at the South. Still, it 
is best to interfere. Now is the time to see whether 
the United States is a rope of sand or a band of steel.” 
In another letter, dated January, 1850, he says, “Dark 
clouds overhang the future, and that is not all; they 
are full of lightning.” Again, “1 really think that if 
we insist upon passing the Wilmot Proviso for the ter- 
ritories, that the South — a part of them — will rebel. But 
I would pass it, rebellion or no rebellion. I consider no 
evil so great as the extension of slavery After having 
spent two terms in Congress, we find Mr. Mann in 1853 
embarking into a new and somewhat formidable enter- 
prise — the establishment of a college at the West to be 
open to both sexes, and to be founded and conducted on 
the educational principles which he had espoused iu 
Massachusetts, and which we shall presently pass in re- 
view. The experiment made here for the eo-ed neat ion 
of the sexes proved a success, and in onr own day the 
admission of young ladies to our best, and highest schools 
is likely to be commendatory of Mr. Mann’s enterprise 
in 1853. The labors and anxieties of this position at 
Antioch College, however, proved at length too much 
for his health, never strong, and now undermined by a 
life of the most intense and unremitting activity. The 
fiery soul consumed the body at last, Aug. 2, 1859. 

Mann on the Relation of Religion to Education. — Mr. 
Mann had been reared under the influence of the Cal- 
vinistic faith. While yet a youth he had cherished an 
aversion to this orthodox belief, because, as he tells us, 
it had taught him to look upon God as “ Infinite Ma- 
lignity personified.” When, at the mature age of forty, 
just as lie entered on his work as an educator, he fell in 
with Combe’s Constitution of Man. he at once became a 
warm admirer of the theological, psychological, or an- 
thropological school of which Mr. George Combe was 
the distinguished teacher. Education has certainly no 
less to do with the conscience and heart than with the 
understanding, as “most of our relations to our fellow- 
men, for which education is to prepare us, grow out of 
our relations to God;” it therefore should derive its 
knowledge from the holy Scriptures, and make these, 
indeed, the corner-stone. Mann, however, held that it 
should depend for its guidance on the lights of natural 
religion. He came forward now to assert that “natural 
religion stands as pre-eminent over revealed religion as 
the deepest experience over the lightest hearsay,” and 
proposed to substitute, for the Christian influence which 
pervaded our whole educational institution, a system of 
“philosophical and moral doctrines,” the prevalence of 
which would, in his view, “produce a new earth at least, 
if not a new heaven.” Believing what is called the 
“evangelical faith.” at that time ruling New England, 
to be in its influence derogatory to the character of God, 
and dwarfing and enslaving to the mind of man, he con- 
ceived it to be his task to vindicate the former and to 
emancipate the latter. Especially he conceived it his 
mission to overcome the “foul spirit of orthodoxy,” so far 
as it entered the domain of the public schools, and this 
he believed to be “the greatest discovery ever made by 
man.” “ Other social organizations,” he says, “ are. cura- 
tive and remedial; this is a preventive and antidote. 
They come to heal diseases and wounds; this is to make 
the physical and moral frame invulnerable to them, 
j Let the common school be expanded to its capabilities, 
let it he worked with the efficiency of which it is sus- 
ceptible, and nine tenths of the crimes in the penal code 
would become obsolete — the long catalogue of human 
ills would be abridged — men would walk more safely by 
day — every pillow would be more inviting by night — 
property, life, and character held by a stronger tenure; 


MANN 


MANNA 


711 


all rational hopes respecting the future brightened. It 
is obvious that these glowing anticipations were born 
of something more, if not better, than reading, writing, 
and arithmetic.” Education was, in Mann’s view, a word 
of much higher import than that popularly given to it. 
‘‘Its function is to call out from within all that was di- 
vinely placed there, in the proportion requisite to make 
a noble being.” It was one of his maxims, however, 
that “every human being should determine his relig- 
ious belief for himself.” “It seems to me,” he says, 
“ that a generation so trained would have an infinitely 
better chance of getting at the truth than the present 
generation has had.” Herein lay the greatest defect 
of the system he sought to establish in our schools. 
Stamping with the name of bigotry all religious views 
that did not coincide tfith his own, regarding ortho- 
doxy as the great thraldom by which man was enslaved, 
he would introduce a system of Christian ethics and 
doctrine respecting virtue and vice, rewards and penal- 
ties, time and eternity, constituting the basis of his 
theories and schemes of popular education, which meant 
nothing else than the substitution of natural religion for 
revealed, llow far Mr. Mann succeeded in this attempt 
we may judge by the prevalence of the doctrines of the 
so-called “liberal theology” in the Eastern States, par- 
ticularly in Massachusetts. In the West he must cer- 
tain^ have been disappointed. Though more than a 
thousand students sat at his feet in Antioch, he was 
only in a very moderate degree successful in spreading 
“a religionism from whose features the young would not 
turn away.” But if Air. Mann failed in meeting that 
success which a person of his indomitable will, uncom- 
mon energy, and rare acquirements must have looked 
for and desired, we would not in the least detract from 
the value of his labors in behalf of education among the 
masses, and the greatness of his services to common- 
school education in America. 

Besides his annual reports, a volume of lectures on 
education, and voluminous controversial writings, his 
principal work is Slavery: Letters and Speeches (Boston, 
1851). Since his decease all his writings have been 
collected and published by his wife, under the title The 
IForA'S of Horace Mann (Cambridge, 18G7 sq., 2 vols. 
8vo). See Life of Horace Mann, by his wife (Boston, 
1805, 12mo) ; Thomas, Diet. Biog. and Mythol. ; Prince- 
ton Renew t 18G6 (January); reprinted in the Brit . and 
For. Evan. Review , 18GG (August). (J. H. W.) 

Mann, William, D.D., an American educator of 
note, was born in Burlington County, N. Y., about the 
year 1784. When quite young he was placed in a print- 
ing-office, where he remained until his fourteenth year. 
Though unable to attend school a single day, he ac- 
quired a thorough education by private study, lie was 
converted in his 23d year, joined the Methodist Episco- 
pal Church, and shortly after became a local preacher. 
The principal part of his life after this time was devoted 
to teaching. He was for some years principal of Mt. 
Holly Academy, in his native state. Subsequently he 
removed to Philadelphia, where he maintained a high 
reputation for his success in teaching the classics. The 
degree of D.D. was conferred upon him by Dickinson 
College. He died in Philadelphia July 4, 18G7. — New 
Am. Cyclop. 1SG7, p. 5G7. 

Man'na (*} ">2, man, according to Gesenius. a portion, 
from the Arabic; but a different derivation is alluded to 
in the passage where it first occurs [see Tliyni, De ori- 
gine vocis Manna, etc.,Vitemb. 1G41]), the name given 
to the miraculous food upon which the Israelites were 
fed for forty years during their wanderings in the des- 
ert. The same name has in later, ages been applied to 
some natural productions, chiefly found in warm, dry 
countries, but which have little or no resemblance to the 
original manna. This is first mentioned in Exod. xvi. 
It is there described as being first produced after the 
eighth encampment in the desert of Sin, as white like 
hoar frost (or of the color of bdellium , Numb, xi, 7), 


round, and of the bigness of coriander seed (gad). It 
fell with the dew every morning, and when the dew 
was exhaled by the heat of the sun, the manna appeared 
alone, lying upon the ground or the rocks round the 
encampment of the Israelites. “When the children of 
Israel saw it, they said one to another, What is it? for 
they knew not what it was” (Exod. xvi, 15). In the 
authorized and some other versions this passage is in- 
accurately translated— which, indeed, is apparent from 
the two parts of the sentence contradicting each other 
(“ It is manna ; for they wist not what it was”). The 
word occurs only in Exod. xvi, 15, 31, 33, 35 ; Numb, xi, 
G, 7, 9; Deut. viii, 3, 1G; Josli.v, 12; Neh. ix, 20; Psa. 
lxxviii, 24. In the Sept, the substance is almost al- 
ways called manna {pavva, and so the N. Test, always: 
John vi, 31, 49, 58; lleb. ix, 4; Kcv. ii, 17; also the 
Apocrypha, Wisd. xvi, 20, 21) instead of man (pav, 
Exod. xvi, 31, 33, 35). Josephus (Ant. iii, 1, G), in 
giving an account of this substance, thus accords with 
the textual etymology: “The Hebrews call this food 
manna (pavva), for the particle man (par) in our lan- 
guage is the asking of a question, ‘ What is this?' (lleb. 
XW'jEi, man-hit).” Moses answered this question by 
telling them, “ This is the bread which the Lord hath 
given you to eat.” We are further informed that the 
manna fell every day, except on the Sabbath. Every 
sixth day, that is on Friday, there fell a double quantity 
of it. Every man was directed to gather an omer (about 
three English quarts) for each member of his family; 
and the whole seems afterwards to have been measured 
out at the rate of an omer to each person: “He who 
gathered much had nothing over, and lie who gathered 
little had no lack.” That which remained ungatliered 
dissolved in the heat of the sun, and was lost. The 
quantity collected was intended for the food of the cur- 
rent day only, for if any were kept till next morning it 
corrupted and bred worms. Yet it was directed that a 
double quantity should be gathered on the sixth day 
for consumption on the Sabbath. It was found that 
the manna kept for the Sabbath remained sweet and 
wholesome, notwithstanding that it corrupted at other 
times if kept for more than one day. In the same man- 
ner as they would have treated grain, they reduced it to 
meal, kneaded it into dough, and baked it into cakes, 
and the taste of it was like that of wafers made with 
honey or of fresh oil. In Numb, xi, G-9, where the de- 
scription of the manna is repeated, an omer of it is di- 
rected to be preserved as a memorial to future genera- 
tions, “that they may see the bread wherewith I have 
fed you in the wilderness;” and in Josh, v, 12 we learn 
that after the Israelites had encamped at Gilgal, and 
“did eat of the old corn of the land, the manna ceased 
on the morrow after, neither had the children of Israel 
manna any more.” 

This miracle is referred to in Deut. viii, 3 ; Neh. ix, 
20; Psa. lxxviii, 24; John vi, 31, 49, 58; Heb. ix, 4. 
Though the manna of Scripture was so evidently mirac- 
ulous, both in the mode and in the quantities in which 
it was produced, and though its properties were so dif- 
ferent from anything with which we are acquainted, 
yet, because its taste is in Exodus said to be like that 
of wafers made with honey, many writers have thought 
that they recognised the manna of Scripture in a sweet- 
ish exudation which is found on several plants in Arabia 
and Persia. The name man, or manna, is applied to 
this substance by the Arab writers, and was probably so 
applied even before their time. But the term is now 
almost entirely appropriated to the sweetish exudation 
of the ash-trees of Sicily and Italy ( Ormis Europe? a and 
Fraxinus roUindifolia). These, however, have no rela- 
tion to the supposed manna of Scripture. Of this one 
kind is known to the Arabs by the name of guzuvjbin, 
being the produce of a plant called guz. which is as- 
certained to be a species of tamarisk. The same spe- 
cies seems also to be called titrfa, and is common along 
different parts of the coast of Arabia. It is also found 
in the neighborhood of Mount Sinai. Burckhardt, 


MANNA 


712 


MANNA 


while in the valley warty el-Sheik, to the north of 
Mount Serbal, says: “In many parts it was thickly 
overgrown with the tamarisk or tiirfa ; it is the only 
valley in the Peninsula where this tree grows at present 
in any quantity, though some small bushes are here and 
there met with in other parts. It is from the turf a 
that the manna is obtained ; and it is very strange that 
the fact should have remained unknown in Europe till 
M. Seetzen mentioned it in a brief notice of his ‘Tour 
to Sinai,’ published in the Mines de V Orient, The sub- 
stance is called by the Arabs mcinn . In the month of 
June it drops from the thorns of the tamarisk upon the 
fallen twigs, leaves, and thorns which always cover the 
ground beneath the tree in the natural state. The 
Arabs use it as they do honey, to pour over their un- 
leavened bread, or to dip their bread into; its taste is 
agreeable, somewhat aromatic, and as sweet as honey. 
If eaten in any quantity it is said to be highly purga- 
tive.” He further adds that the tamarisk is one of the 
most common trees in Nubia and throughout the whole 
of Arabia; on the Euphrates, on the Astaboras, in all 
the valleys of the Ilejaz and Bcja it grows in great 
quantities, yet nowhere but in the region ' of Mount 
Sinai did he hear of its producing manna. Ehrenberg 
has examined and described this species of tamarisk, 
which he calls T. mannifera , but which is considered 
to be only a variety of T. gallica . The manna he con- 



siders to be produced by the puncture of an insect which 
he calls Coccus manuiparus . Others have been of the 
same opinion. When Lieut. Wellsted visited this place 
in the month of September, he found the extremities of 
the twigs and branches retaining the peculiar sweetness 
and llavor which characterize the manna. The Be- 
douins collect it early in the morning, and', after strain- 
ing it through a cloth, place it either in skins or gourds ; 
a considerable quantity is consumed by themselves; a 
portion is sent to Cairo, and some is also disposed of to 


the monks at Mount Sinai. The latter retail it to the 
Bussian pilgrims. “The Bedouins assured me that the 
whole quantity collected throughout the Peninsula, in 
the most fruitful season, did not exceed 150 wogas 
(about 700 pounds); and that it was usually disposed 
of at the rate of GO dollars the woga” ( Travels in A ra~ 
bia, i, 511). 

Another kind of manna, which has been supposed to 
be that of Scripture, is yielded by a thorny plant very 
common from the north of India to Syria, which by 
the Arabs is called A l-haj, whence botanists have con- 
structed the name Alhagi. The two species have been 
called A Ikagi Manrorum and A . desertorum. Both spe- 



cies are also by the Arabs called ushter-lchar, or “ cam- 
ers-thorn;” and in Mesopotamia agul, according to some 
authorities, while by others this is thought to be the 
name of another plant. The Alhagi Manrorum is re- 
markable for the exudation of a sweetish juice, which 
concretes into small granular masses, and which is usu- 
ally distinguished by the name of Persian manna. The 
late professor Don was so confident that this was the 
same substance as the manna of Scripture that he pro- 
posed calling the plant itself Manna Ihbraica. The 
climate of Persia and Bokhara seems also well suited to 
the secretion of this manna, which in the latter country 
is employed as a substitute for sugar, and is imported 
into India for medicinal use through Caubnl and Kho- 
rassan. In Arabian and Persian works on Materia Mcd- 
ica it is called Turungbin. These two, from the locali- 
ties in which they arc produced, have alone been thought 
to be the manna of Scripture. But, besides these, there 
are several other kinds of manna. Burckhardt, during 
his journey through El-Ghor, in the valley of the Jor- 
dan, heard of the Beiruk honey. This is described as a 
substance obtained from the leaves and branches of a 
tree called Gharb or Garrab , of the size of an olive-tree, 
and with leaves like those of the poplar. When fresh 
this grayish-colored exudation is sweet in taste, but in a 
few days it becomes sour. The Arabs eat it like honey. 
One kind, called Sliir-khisht , is said to be produced in 
the country of the Uzbccs. A Caubul merchant in- 


MANNA 


MANNHEIMER 


713 


formed Dr. Doyle that it was produced by a tree called 
Gundeleh , which grows in Candahar, and is about twelve 
feet high, with jointed stems. A fifth kind is produced 
on Culotropis proceru, or the plant called Ashur. The 
sweet exudation is by Arab authors ranked with sugars, 
and called Shukur-al-ashur . It is described under this 
name by Avicenna, and in the Latin translation it is 
called Zuccarum-al-htsar. A sixth kind, called Bed- 
khisht, is described in Persian works on Materia Mcdica 
as being produced on a species of willow in Persian Kho- 
rassan. Another kind would appear to be produced on 
a species of oak, for Niebuhr says, “At Merdin, in Meso- 
potamia, it appears like a kind of pollen on the leaves 
of the tree called Ballot and Afs (or, according to the 
Aleppo pronunciation, As), which I take to be of the 
oak family. All are agreed that between Merdin and 
Diarbckir manna is obtained, and principally from those 
trees which yield gall-nuts.” Besides these there is a 
sweetish exudation found on the larch, which is called 
JManna briganfiaca , as there is also one kind found on 
the cedar of Lebanon. Indeed a sweetish secretion is 
found on the leaves of many other plants, produced 
sometimes by the plant itself, at others by the punctures 
of insects. It has been supposed also that these sweet- 
ish exudations, being evaporated during the heat of the 
day in still weather, may afterwards become deposited, 
with the dew, on the ground and on the leaves of plants, 
and thus explain some of the phenomena which have 
been observed by travellers and others. — Kitto. Ac- 
cording to Col. Chesney, “ The most remarkable produc- 
tion in ancient Assyria is the celebrated vegetable known 
here by the name of manna, which in Turkish is most 
expressively called Kudret-hul-vassiz, or ‘the divine 
sweetmeat.’ It is found on the leaves of the dwarf oak, 
and also, though less plentifully and scarcely so good, 
on those of the tamarisk and several other plants. It is 
occasionally deposited on the sand, and also on rocks 
and stones. The latter is of a pure white color, and ap- 
pears to be more esteemed than the tree manna. It is 
collected chiefly at two periods of the year, first in the 
early part of spring, and again towards the end of au- 
tumn; in either case the quality depends upon the rain 
that may have fallen, or at least on the abundance of 
the dews, for in the seasons which happen to be quite 
dry it is understood that little or none is obtained. In 
order to collect the manna the people go out before sun- 
rise, and having placed cloths under the oak, larch, 
tamarisk, and several other kinds of shrubs, the manna 
is shaken down in such quantities from the branches as 
to give a supply for the market after providing for the 
wants of the different members of the family. The 
Kurils not only eat manna in its natural state, as they 
do bread or dates, but their women make it into a kind 
of paste; being in this state like honey, it is added to 
other ingredients used in preparing sweetmeats, which, 
in some shape or other, are found in every house through- 
out the East. The manna, when partially cleaned, is 
carried to the market at Mosul in goat-skins, and there 
sold in lumps at the rate of pounds for about 24d. 
But for family consumption, or to send to a distance out 
of the country, it is first thoroughly cleansed from the 
fragments of leaves and other foreign matter by boiling. 
In the natural state it is described as being of a delicate 
white color. It is also still, as in the time of the Israel- 
ites, like coriander seed, and of a moderate but agreeable 
sweetness” (Euphrates Expedition , i, 123). 

“The manna of European commerce comes mosth r 
from Calabria and Sicih*. It is gathered during the 
months of June and July from some species of ash (6b- 
nus European and Omits rotundifolia ), from which it 
drops in consequence of a puncture by an insect resem- 
bling the locust, but distinguished from it bv having a 
sting under its body. The substance is fluid at night, 
and resembles the dew, but in the morning it begins to 
harden.” 

“The natural products of the Arabian deserts and 
other Oriental regions, which bear the name of manna, 


have not the qualities or uses ascribed to the manna of 
Scripture. They are all condiments or medicines rather 
than food, stimulating or purgative rather than nutri- 
tious; they are produced only three or four months in 
the year, from May to August, and not all the year 
round ; they come only in small quantities, never afford- 
ing anything like 15,000,000 pounds a week, which must 
have been requisite for the subsistence of the whole Is- 
raelitish camp, since each man had an omer (or three 
English quarts) a day, and that for forty years; they 
can be kept for a long time, and do not become useless 
in a day or two; they are just as liable to deteriorate 
on the Sabbath as on any other day; nor docs a double 
quantity fall on the day preceding the Sabbath ; nor 
would natural products cease at onee and forever, as the 
manna is represented as ceasing in the book of Joshua. 
The manna of Scripture we therefore regard as wholly 
miraculous, and not in any respect a product of nature” 
(Smith). 

Manna is the emblem or symbol of immortality (Rev. 
ii, 17): “I will give him to eat of the hidden manna;” 
i. e. tlie true bread of God, which came down from heav- 
en, referring to the words of Christ in John vi, 51, a 
much greater instance of God’s favor than feeding the 
Israelites with manna in the wilderness. It is called 
hidden , or laid up, in allusion to that which was laid up 
in a golden vessel in the holy of holies of the tabernacle 
(comp. Exod. xvi, 33, 34, and Ileb. ix, 4). 

See Liebentanz, De Manna (Vitemb. 1CG7); Zeibich, 
De miraculo M union Israeliticce (Gera 1 , 1770) ; Iloheisel, 
De vasculo M annee (Jen. 1715) ; Schramm, De vrna 
Mannce (Herb. 17*23); Fabri 1 Estonia Manner, in Fabri 
et, Reiskii Opusc. med. Arab. (Hal. 177G), p. 121 ; Hard- 
wick, in Asiatic Researches, xiv, 182; Frederic, in Tran- 
sact. of the Lit. Society of Bombay (Loud. 18 HI), i, 251 ; 
Ehrenberg, Symbol. Phys. (Berl. 1829) ; Martins, Pliar- 
makogn. p. 327 ; Oedmann, Samml. vi, 1 ; Buxtorf, Exer- 
cit. (Basil. 1G59), p. 335 (and in Ugolini, Thesaur. vol. 
viii) ; Rosen mu Her, A Itcrthmnsk. iv, 31 G sq. ; Kitto, Daily 
Bible Illust. ad loc. ; Tristram, Nat. Hist, of Bible, p. 3G2; 
comp. Robinson’s Researches, i, 470, 550; and other Ori- 
ental travellers. 

Mannheimer, Isaak Noa, one of the most cele- 
brated of modern Jewish pulpit orators and theologians, 
was born at Copenhagen, Denmark, Oct. 17, 1793. II is 
father was the reader of the synagogue of the Danish 
capital, and, anxious to afford his Isaak all the advan- 
tages of modern culture, plaeed the child in a school at 
the tender age of three years and a half. When only 
nine years old, Isaak was introduced to the study of the 
Talmud, and at the age of responsibility (thirteen) was 
noted for his great erudition in Jewish tradition. In 
his secular studies, also, he made rapid progress, and 
promised much for the future. In 1808 he entered the 
gymnasium, and by 1814 he was ready to pass his ex- 
amination for admission to the university. Here he de- 
voted himself to the study of philosophy, philology, and 
the Oriental languages. Scarcely had his course been 
completed when the government offered him employ- 
ment as catechist of the Jewish society of his native 
place; he accepted the proffered position, and served 
his people to their great satisfaction. About this time 
the reformatory movements among the Jews of North- 
ern Europe were taking place, and Mannheimer became 
one of the leaders in the progressive step. lie was es- 
pecially encouraged by a personal acquaintance with 
the German-Jewish reformer Jacobson, whom he met 
in Berlin, whither be was called in 1821, as pastor of 
the Temple. But, by the interference of the govern- 
ment, the reform movement was greatly barred there, 
and, after a vain struggle with the orthodox, he accepted 
a call from Vienna in 1824, and removed to the Austrian 
capital in June, 1825. Austria, which was always slow 
to grant religious liberty to non-Roman-Catholics, had 
not up to this time recognised the Jews as a religious 
sect, and, without authority to act as pastor, Mannhei- 
mer was called to perform substantially similar duties 


MANNING 


MANSE 


714 


in the official capacity of “principal of the Religious 
School” (“ Direktor tier Wiener Kaiserlich Konigl. of- 
fentlichen israelitischen Religionsschule”). Though per- 
sonally decidedly in favor of the reform movement in- 
augurated by Jacobson and others, he felt it his duty, in 
this new relation, to assume a conservative position, and 
by his moderation and wisdom succeeded in building up 
one of the best Jewish congregations in Germany. His 
great oratorical talent did much to swell the number of 
his auditors, but his success as a leader of the Jews of 
the Austrian capital is due solely to his determination 
“to produce no rupture in the Jewish camp.” He served 
his people faithfully to the end of his terrestrial course, 
March 17, 18G5. His influence on the Jews of Germany, 
however, still remains, and will be felt for years to come, j 
During the stormy days of 1848 he represented his peo- 
ple in the nation’s councils, as a deputy from Lemberg 
(Gallicia). His humane principles are manifest in his 
exertions for the abolishment of capital punishment. 
“Isaak Noa Mannheimer,” says Griitz ( Gesch.d.Juden , 
xi. 433), “might be called the embodied nobility of the 
Jews. He was a perfect man. . . . The inner and outer 
man, disposition and wit, inspiration and wisdom, ideal 
life and practical safety, poetical talent and sober sense, 
childlike goodness and hitting sarcasm, gushing oratory 
and earnest activity, love for Judaism and a special liking 
for reform, were in his being most harmoniously blend- 
ed.” As a pulpit orator he had no peer among his He- 
brew brethren. Unfortunately, however, but few of his 
sermons were ever printed. For a list of them see Kay- 
serling. Bibliotkek jiid . Kanzelredner, Jahrgang i (Berl. | 
1870), p. 291. 1 1 is other works consist of a translation 

of the Jewish Prayer-book for Sabbath and holy-days 
(Sidur and Machzor), a few polemical tracts, and a 
translation of part of the Bible for Salomon’s German 
version. For the study of homiletics his sermons are 
valued by both Christian and Jewish divines. See, be- 
sides Griitz and Kayserling, Ehrentheil,./«W. Charakfer- 
bilder (Rest. 1807), i, 57— GG ; Wolf. Isak Xoa Manheimer 
(Vienna, 1863); the same, Gesch. d. israelit. Cultusge- 
meinde in Wien (1861); Geiger, Zeitschrift, iii, 167 sq. 
(J.H.W.^ 

Manning, James, D.D.. a Baptist minister, was 
born at Elizabethtown, N. J., Oct. 22, 1738, and was edu- 
cated at Princeton College (class of 1762), Soon after 
the completion of his collegiate course he was ordained 
pastor of a Baptist Church in Morristown, N. J., but 
lie remained only a year, and then became pastor of 
the Baptist Church in Warren, R. 1. During his minis- 
try there he instituted a Latin school, which seems to 
have been the germ of the great Baptist College, now 
the Brown University, he having been chiefly instru- 
mental in the procuring of the charter in 1764. He 
was appointed its first president and professor of lan- 
guages in 1765, when the college went into operation at 
Warren, whence it was removed to Providence in 1770, 
and was given the name it now bears. President Man- 
ning remained connected with the college until his 
death. July 29, 1791. During his residence at Provi- 
dence, however, he was also pastor of a church for twen- 
ty years, absenting himself only for some six months in 
1786. when he was chosen member of Congress for Rhode 
Island. *• Dr. Manning was equally known in the re- 
ligious, political, and literary world. Nature had given 
him distinguished abilities. The resources of his genius 
seemed adequate to all duties and occasions. He was 
of a kind and benevolent disposition, social and commu- 
nicative in habit, and enchanting in manners, llis life 
was a scene of labor for the benefit of others, llis piety, 
and his fervent zeal in preaching the Gospel, evinced 
his love to God and man. Willi a most graceful form, 
a dignified and majestic appearance, his address was 
manly, familiar, and engaging, his voice harmonious, 
and his eloquence irresistible. In the government of 
the college he was mild, yet energetic. lie lived be- 
loved and died lamented, beyond the lot of ordinary 
men. The good order, learning, and respectability of 


the Baptist churches in the Eastern States, under God, 
are much owing to his personal influence, and assiduous 
attention to their welfare” (Benedict, ii, 346). See Guild 
(R. 11.), Life, Times , and Correspondence of Dr, James 
Manning (1864, 8 vo); Sprague, A nnals, vi, 89. 

Manning, Owen, an English clergyman, was born 
at Orlingburg, Northamptonshire, in 1721; was educated 
at Queen's College, Cambridge, of which he became fel- 
low in 1741; became prebend of Lincoln in 17(50; iu 
1763, vicar of Godaiming, Surrey ; in 1769, rector of Pcp- 
perharrow, and died in 1807. Mr. Manning published 
Two Occasional Sermons : — Sermons on Important Sub- 
jects (1812, 2 vols. 12mo): — Discourse on Justification, 
Rom. iii. 28; published by Rev. J. II. Todd, with a dis- 
course of Abp. Sharp’s (1829, 8vo) ; and several works 
of a secular character. — Allibone, Diet. Brit, and A mer. 
A nth. s. v. ; Thomas, Diet, of Biog. s. v. 

Maiinus, according to Tacitus, the name given by 
the Germans to the son of the earth-born god Tuisco. 
From his three sons they derived their three great tribes, 
the Ingavones, the Iskavones, and the Ilerminoncs. 
Mannus belongs, not to the Teutonic people alone, but 
to the great my thus of the origin of the human race, 
common to the whole Aryan family, and, like the Hindu 
Manu or Manus, stands forth as the progenitor of the 
inhabitants of earth endowed with reason. The name 
is derived from the Aryan root man, to think. Com- 
pare Wackernagel, in Ilaupt’s Zeitschrift fur Deutsches 
A Iterthum, vol. vi. — Chambers, Cyclop . s. v. 

Mano'ah (Heb. Mano'ach, rest, as in Gen. 

viii, 9, and often; Sept. Mni'aJ ; Josephus Manwy//f, 
.1 nt. v, 8, 2 [where the Biblical narrative is greatly em- 
bellished] ; Vulg. Mamie), the father of Samson, of the 
tribe of Dan, and a native of Zorah (Judg. xiii, 2-22 ; 
xvi,31). B.C. 1 185. “The narrative of the Bible (xiii, 
1-23). of the circumstances which preceded the birth of 
Samson, supplies ns with very few and faint traits of 
Manoah’s character or habits. He seems to have had 
some occupation which separated him during part of 
the day from his wife, though that was not field-work, 
because it was iu the field that his wife was found by 
the angel during his absence. He was hospitable, as 
his forefather Abraham had been before him ; he was a 
worshipper of dchovah, and reverent even to a degree 
of fear. We hear of Manoah once again in connection 
with the marriage of Samson and the Philistine of Tim- 
nath. llis father and his mother remonstrated with 
him thereon, but to no purpose (xiv, 2. 3). They then 
accompanied him to Timnath, both on the preliminary 
visit (ver. 5, 6) and to the marriage itself (ver. 9, 10). 
Manoah appears not to have survived his son : not he, 
I but Samson’s brothers, went down to Gaza for the body 
of the hero, and bringing it up to the family tomb be- 
[ tween Zorah and Eshtaol, reunited the father to the son 
(xvi, 31) whose birth had been the subject of so many 
prayers and so much anxiety. Milton, however, does 
not take this view. In Samson Ar/onistes Manoah bears 
a prominent part throughout, and lives to bury bis son” 
(Smith). See Samson. 

Manse, the Scottish name synonymous with our 
word parsonage. In Scotland the manse, with unen- 
dowed churches, is the property of the Church, erected 
and maintained by it. In the Established Church it is 
built and maintained by law, and belongs to the heritors. 
Dunlop says, “While manses and houses which had be- 
longed to the popish clergy were still standing, these, 
of course, fell to be first designed for a manse, and an 
order of designation, similar to that prescribed by the 
act of 1593 as to globes, seems to have been followed. 
See Gi.kke. A minister accordingly was not allowed 
to have a manse designed to him within the precincts 
of an abbey or bishop’s palace if there was a parson s or 
vicar’s manse in the parish ; nor was he entitled to any 
house which, though erected on Church lands, had not 
of old belonged to any kirkman, or incumbent serving 
i at the church. Where there is no manse in a parish 


HANSEL 


715 


MAN SION ARII 


the minister is entitled to have designed to him by the 
presbytery of the bounds half an acre of land for the 
manse, offices, and garden, and to have the heritors or- 
dained to erect a manse and offices thereon. The stat- 
utes regarding manses require that they shall be situated 
near the parish church ; and in general the manse and 
glebe are contiguous. The presbytery are, of course, in 
the designation of a new manse, entitled, in the lirst in- 
stance, to tix its situation ; and even in the case of an 
old manse to be rebuilt they may tix on a new situation, 
always, of course, within the ground or glebe allotted to 
the minister. The act of 1GG3 provides ‘ that where com- 
petent manses arc not already built,’ the heritors shall 
4 build competent manses to their ministers, the expenses 
thereof not exceeding one thousand pounds, and not be- 
ing beneath five hundred merks;’ and it has been ques- 
tioned whether, in respect of the phrase ‘competent 
manses,’ heritors can be compelled to expend a greater 
sum than one thousand pounds Scots on the erection of 
a manse.” Hill says, “The law of Scotland provides 
the minister of every country parish with a dwelling- 
house, called a manse, a garden, a glebe of not less than 
four acres of arable land, designed out of lands in the 
parish near the manse, and with grass, over and above 
the glebe, for one horse and two cows; and with the 
out-houses necessary for the management of his small 
farm. As the act of James VI, pari. 3, e. 48, declares 
that the manse and glebe shall be marked and designed 
by the archbishop, bishop, superintendent, or commis- 
sioner of each diocese or province, upon whose testimo- 
nial being presented by the minister, the lords of Coun- 
cil and Session arc instructed to direct letters, charging 
the former occupiers to remove, and entering the minis- 
ter to possession; as the act of Charles II, pari. 1, sess. 
3, c. 21, ordains that the heritors of the parish, at the 
sight of the bishop of the diocese, or such ministers as 
he shall appoint, with two or three of the most knowing 
and discreet men of the parish, build competent manses 
to the ministers; and as, by the settlement of presby- 
tcrian government in Scotland, the presbytery has come 
in place of the bishop, all applications concerning manses 
and glebes are made, in the first instance, to the pres- 
bytery of the bounds. After taking the regular steps 
suitable to the nature of the business, which, as a civil 
court specially constituted for that purpose, they are 
called to discuss, the presbytery pronounce a decreet; 
and their sentence, unless brought by a bill of suspen- 
sion before the Court of Session, is binding upon all con- 
cerned.” Prior to the lleformation, canon xiii ordained 
that every parish should have a dwelling for the minis- 
ter, built at the expense of the parsons and their vicars, 
the support of it afterwards falling as a burden on the 
vicars. By the General Assembly of 15G3 ministers 
having manses were required to live in them. — Eadie, 
Eccles. Dirt. s. v. 

Mansel, IIexry Longuevilt.e, one of the leading 
English divines of our day, noted particularly for his 
ability as a philosopher of the Hamiltonian school, was 
born in 1820 in the parish of Cosgrove, Northampton- 
shire, of which his father was then reetor. lie was ed- 
ucated at Merchant Taylors’ School, and later at St. 
John’s College, Oxford, where he graduated in 1843. 
He was shortly after ordained, and served the Church 
in various positions until 1855, when he was appointed 
reader in moral and metaphysical philosophy at Magda- 
len College, Oxford, and in 1850 became the Wayntlete 
professor. In 18G7 he was made regius professor of ec- 
clesiastical history, and at the same time also canon of 
Christ Church, Oxford. In October, 18G8, he was ap- 
pointed dean of St. Paul’s, London, and died in the Eng- 
lish metropolis in 187] . His works are : Aldrich's Logic. 
with Notes (1840): — Prolegomena Logica (1851): — ar- 
ticle “Metaphysics.” in the 8th ed. of the Lncg eloper din 
Britamiica (1857), afterwards published separately: — 
Bampton Lectures — The Limits of Religious Thought 
(1858) : — The Philosophy of the Conditioned (1866), in 
reply to Mill’s Review of Hamilton's Philosophy. He 


was also one of the editors of Sir William Hamilton’s 
Lectures. Mansel wrote in a clear and elegant style. 
His Bampton Lectures occasioned much controversy, 
both theological and philosophical. In the first one 
mentioned, on The Limits of Religious Thought , which 
passed through a number of editions, both in England 
and in this country, he takes as the basis of his argu- 
ments Sir W. Hamilton’s position that “the uncondi- 
tioned is incognizable and inconceivable.” This treatise 
of Mansel is regarded as “one of the most important 
applications of the Hamiltonian philosophy to questions 
of religion.” Farrar (in his Crit. Hist, of Free Thought . 
p. 470) thus speaks of The Limits of Religions Thought : 
“ It is a work which is valuable for its method, even if 
the reader differs (as the author of these lectures does 
in some respects) from the philosophical principles main- 
tained, or occasionally even from the results attained. 
It is an attempt to reconstruct the argument of Butler 
from the subjective side. As Butler showed that the 
difficulties which are in revealed religion are equally 
applicable to natural, so Mr. Mansel wishes to show that 
the difficulties which the mind feels in reference to re- 
ligion are parallel with those which are felt by it in ref- 
erence to philosophy. Since the time of Kant a subjec- 
tive tone has passed over philosophy. The phenomena 
are now studied in the mind, not in nature; in our mode 
of viewing, not in the object viewed. Hence Butler’s 
argument needed reconstructing on its psychological 
side. Mr. Mansel has attempted to effect this; and the 
book must always in this respect have a value, even 
to the minds of those who are diametrically opposed to 
its principles and results. Even if the details were 
wrong, the method would be correct, of studying psy- 
chology before ontology; of finding the philosophy of 
religion, not, as Leibnitz attempted, objectively in a 
theodicee, but subjectively, by the analysis of the relig- 
ious faculties; learning the length of the sounding-line 
before attempting to fathom the ocean.” See The A r a- 
iion (N. Y.), Jan. 10, 18G7, p. 27 sq. ; Grote, Review of 
Kiel's Examination of Hamilton's Philosophy (Loud. 
1868, 18mo), p. 43 sq. ; McCosh, Intuitions of the Mind 
(see Index) ; Porter, Human Intellect (Index). See 

1 Iamilton, Sir W. (J. H. W.) 

Mansi, J. Dominicus, a noted Italian prelate, was 
born in Lucca Feb. 1G, 1692; entered the Church at an 
early age, and was for a long time professor of theology 
at Naples. He was created archbishop in 1765, and 
died Sept. 27, 1769. He was distinguished for his his- 
torical and philological acquirements, as also for his zeal 
as a compiler. Among his principal works are Supple- 
mentum collectionis concilior. et decretorum Kicol . Coleti 
(Luca?, 1748-52, G vols.) : — his own very complete col- 
lection, Saervrum conciliorum novu et amplissima col- 
lection etc. (Florent. et Tenet. 1759-88, 31 vols.), which 
was continued after his death. He published also a 
valuable edition of St. Baluzii Miscellanea (Lucca, 1761, 

2 vols.), and the splendid Lucca edition of Baron ins’s 
Annal. Eccles ., with the continuation by L’aynaldus 
(1738-5G); a new edition of Natalis Alexandri Histo- 
ria eccles. Vet. Novique Test. (Lucre, 1748-52), and of 
J. A. Fabrieii Bill. Lat. med. et iff. cet. (Patavii, 1754). 
lie also published the 2d edition of the important Me- 
morie, della Gran Contessa Matilda da Fr.M. Fiorcntini 
(Lucca, 175G), to which he made many important addi- 
tions. He wrote also De epochis conciliorum Sardicen- 
sis et Sirmiensium. See Ant. Zatti, Commentar.de vita 
et script is ./. I). Mansi (Yen. 1772); Anton. Lombardi, 
Storia della letteratura Italian a nel secolo xviii (Modena, 
1827); Sartcschi, De Script oribus Congrcg. Matris Dei , 
p. 352; Saxii Onom. lit. vii, 4 sq. ; Baur, Nates hist.- 
biog.-fit. J/andb. iii, 488; Hocfer, None. Biog. Gene rale, 
xxxiii,259; Herzog, Real-Encghlopddie, ix. 1. See Ma- 
im aciii. 

Mansionarii (^apapordpiot'), a class of function- 
aries who were not only keepers of churehes, blit espe- 
cially bailiffs or stewards of the glebes or lands belong- 
ing to the Church or the bishop. See Doorkeepers. 


MANSIOXATICUM 


716 


MAXT 


Mansionaticum. See Taxes. 

Manslayer meratstse'iich, a murderer , av- 

FpotybroQ, 1 Tim. i, 9, as sometimes rendered), one who 
by an accidental homicide was entitled to the benefit of 
asylum (Numb.xxxv,G, 12; elsewhere usually “slayer”). 
See Blood- revenge. “One of the most peculiar pro- 
visions in the statute respecting the manslayer was the 
limitation of the period of his compulsory residence in 
one of the cities of refuge: ‘lie shall abide in it until 
the death of the high-priest, which was .anointed with 
che holy oil.’ After that he was allowed to ‘ return into 
the land of his possession’ (ver. 28). Different reasons 
have been assigned by commentators for making the 
one event dependent on the other, which it is unneces- 
sary to particularize. As the enactment was intended 
for the whole body of the people, and is recorded in 
Scripture without any explanation, the most simple 
view that can be taken of it is likely to be the nearest 
to the truth. One thing, however, all knew respecting 
the anointed high -priest, viz. that he was the head 
and representative of the whole community in matters 
pertaining to life and death ; and as some limitation 
would evidently require to be set to the restraint laid 
on the manslayer, the thought would naturally com- 
mend itself to the people to make responsibility for an 
accidental death cease and determine with the death of 
him who stood nearest to God in matters of that descrip- 
tion. In the general relations of the community a 
change had entered in that respect, which touched all 
interests, and it was fit that it should specially touch 
those who had been casually bereft of the freedom of 
life” (Fairbairn). “The principle on which the ‘man- 
slayer’ was to be allowed to escape, viz. that the person 
slain was regarded as ‘delivered into his hand’ by the 
Almighty, was obviously open to much wilful perver- 
sion (1 Sam. xxiv, 4, 18; xxvi, 8; compare Philo, De 
Spec. Ley. iii, 21 ; ii, 320), though the cases mentioned 
appear to be a sufficient sample of the intention of the 
lawgiver, a. Death by a blow in a sudden quarrel 
(Numb, xxxv, 22). b. Death by a stone or missile 
thrown at random (ib. 22, 2.3). c. By the blade of an 
axe Hying from its handle (Deut. xix, 5). d. Whether 
the case of a person killed by falling from a roof unpro- 
vided with a parapet involved the guilt of manslaugh- 
ter on the owner is not clear; but the law seems in- 
tended to prevent the imputation of malice in any such 
case, by preventing, as far as possible, the occurrence of 
the fact itself (Deut. xxii, 8) (Mi chad is, On (he Lows 
o f Moses, arts. 223, 280, ed. Smith). In all these and 
the like cases the manslayer was allowed to retire to a 
city of refuge. See City of Refuge. Besides these, 
the following may be mentioned as cases of homicide : 
a. An animal, not known to be vicious, causing death to 
a human being, was to be put to death, and regarded as 
unclean. But if it was known to be vicious, the owner 
also was liable to line, and even death (Exod. xxi, 28, 
31). b. A thief overtaken at night in the act might 
lawfully be put to death, but if the sun had risen the 
act of killing him was to be regarded as murder (Exod. 
xxii, 2, 3). Oilier cases are added by the Mishna, 
which, however, are included in the definitions given 
above (Sank, ix, 1.2,3: Maccoth, ii, 2; compare Otho, 
Lex. Iiabb. s.v. llomicida)” (Smith). See IIIukder. 

Mansus Ecclesice. J fansus is in reality equiv- 
alent to locus , ubi quis manet, the residence including 
the portion of land belonging to it (huobu), and both 
expressions are sometimes used the one for the other 
(see Du Fresno, s. v. ; Grimm, Jieutsche Rechtsalterthii- 
mtr, p. 530; Kichhorn, Deutsche Rechtsyeschichte , vol. i, 
§81; Guerard, Po/yptiqnc de Vttbbe Innimn [Paris, 1844, 
4 to]). Birnbaum, in Die rechtliche Xatur der Zehnten 
(Bonn. 1831 ),p. 174, is of opinion that t lie wprd mansus is 
derived from mannmissio or mancipium , from the slaves 
in early times becoming free in obtaining an estate, a 
mansus hereditarily. But, putting aside the philolog- 
ical difficulties, we find that the inansi were properties 


with which serfs ( ylebee adscripti ) or even freemen were 
invested on some conditions, hence the distinction be- 
tween inansi serriles and ingenu iles (Grimm, p. 537; 
Kichhorn, vol. i, § 83). In the 9th century the whole of 
France was divided into mansi, as the taxes were based 
on this division, as well as the obligation to military 
service (see Capitulare, i, a. 803, c. 1, a. 807, 811; Pertz, 
Monumenta Germanice , iii, 119, 172; Walter, Corpus ju- 
ris Germanici t ii, 228; I lineman Kemensis A nnales, ad 
a. 800, 877). The Church itself was not free from these 
taxes, but paid according to the number of mansi it held 
(see Capital. A quisy ran. a. 812, cap. 11; Pertz, iii, 175 : 
“ Ut de rebus nude censum ad partem regis exirc sole- 
bat, si ad aliquam ecclesiam traditae sunt, ant tradantur 
propriis heredibus,, aut qui eas retinuerit, vel ilium cen- 
sura pcrsol vat”), with the exception of those which they 
held from the liberality of the king, and which were 
given with such immunities; as also the mansi forming 
the dos of a church, and given to it at its foundation. 
See Immunity. In this ease the immunity covered the 
whole mansus ( mansus inteyer ), and it became the duty 
of the incumbents to see to it that their privilege was 
not infringed (see Capitulare 1 Vormatiense, a. 829, cap. 
general i a. no. 4 ; Pertz, iii, 350). This principle was also 
adhered to afterwards, so that both Gratian (see e. 24, 
25, can. xxiii, qu. viii) and Kaymondus si Pennaforte (c. 
i, x, de censibus, iii, 39) considered it well to recall these 
enactments. The size of the mansus did not always re- 
main the same ; yet it was at all times calculated so as 
to afford a dos competens to the church, the income from 
which would be sufficient to defray the expenses of wor- 
ship and to supply the greater part of the requisites of 
the clergy (see Ziegler, De dote ecclesiastica ejusque ju - 
ribus et privileyiis [Wittemb. 1G8G, 4to], chap, vii, § 34 
sq.). If we study the history of the establishment of 
Christianity in the different countries, we find that many 
adopted these principles of the French law. Thus in 
Prussia, at the foundation of churches, they were each 
endowed with eight hides of land. In 1232 we see the 
parishes of Kulm and Thorn receiving besides forty 
hides. When in 1249 peace was made with the hea- 
then Prussians, a stipidation required that each new 
church should receive a dos of eight hides (see Voigt, 
Gesch. Preussens, ii, 239, G30). The later documents on 
the subject (see Voigt, Codex diplomatics Prussicus ) 
show that this custom was observed in after times. 
This practice of church endowments was continued not- 
withstanding the changes introduced by the Reforma- 
tion. Sec Jacobson, Gesch. der Qnellen d. cvanyelischen 
Kirchenrcchts von Preussen, i, 2,Urkunden, p. 8, 25, etc. ; 
Moser, A llyem. Kirchenbl. 1850,p. 141 sq % ; Berlin Evany. 
Kirchenzeit. 1857, No. 9 ; llerzog, Real-Encyklopadie , ix, 
1. (J.N.P.) 

Mant, Richard (1), D.D., an English prelate and 
commentator, was born at Southampton in 1770; was 
educated at Winchester College, and Trinity College, 
Oxford; became fellow of Oriel College in 1798; vicar 
of Great Coggeshall, Essex, in 1810; of St. Botolph’s, 
Bishopsgatc, London, in 1815; and of East llorsley, 
Surrey, in 1818; bishop of Killaloe and Kilfenora, in 
1820; was translated to Down and Connor in 1823; and 
in 1842 succeeded bishop Saurin in the diocese of Dro- 
more. He died in 1848. He published, in conjunction 
with D’Oyly, A n Edition of the Bible , with Notes (1817) : 
— Eight Sermons : — An Appeal to the Gospel, or an In- 
quiry into the Justice o f the Charge that the Gospel is not 
preached by the National Clergy (1812, 8vo; 0th et* 
1810, 8vo; reviewed in the Load. Quart. Rev. viii, 350- 
374, and xv, 475) : — The Book of Common Prayer , se- 
lected, with Notes (1829, 4to; abridged, 2 vols. Svo; 5th 
ed. 1840, 4to) :—The Book of Psalms in an English Met- 
rical Version^ with Notes , critical and illustrative (1824, 
8vo): — Biographical Notices of the A pasties, Evangel- 
ists, and other Saints (1828, Svo): — Primitive Christian- 
ity (Lond. 1843, Svo) : — Hist. Ch. of Ireland (1840, 2 vols. 
8vo) : — 1 force liturgicce (1845, sm. Svo) : — Sermons, and 
other productions on various subjects. See Alii bone, 


JUANT 717 MANTLE 


Diet. Brit. and Amer. Biog. s. v. ; Darling, Cyclop. Bib- 
Uoyr. s. v. 

Mant, Richard (2), D.D., an English divine, who 
flourished in the latter part of the 18th and beginning 
of the 19th century; was educated at Trinity College, 
Oxford, and became rector of All Saints, Southampton. 
He died in 1817. lie published a sermon entitled Pub- 
lic Worship (1790, 8vo) : — Order for the Visitation of the 
Sick, from the Book of Common Prayer (1805, 12mo) : — 
Eight Sermons on the Occurrences of the Passion Week 
(1807, 12mo) : — Guide to the U nderstanding of the Church 
Catechism (1807). — Allibone, Diet. Brit, and A mer. A nth. 
s. v. 

Mantchuria, a Chinese territory in Eastern Asia, 
extending between lat. 42° and 53° N., is now the pos- 
session partly of the Chinese and partly of the Russians. 
It is bounded, according to its present limits, by the 
Amur on the north ; by the Usuri and the Sungacha on 
the east, separating it from the Russian maritime terri- 
tory of Orochi; by the Shan-Alin range on the south, 
separating it from Korea ; and by a portion of the Khin- 
gan Mountains, the river Sira-Muren, and the district of 
the upper Sungari, which separate it on the west from 
the desert of Gobi. Previously to the recent incursions 
of the Russians on the north, the area of this territory 
was about 082,000 square miles. Since the treaty of 
Nov. 11, 1800, the Russians possess all the territory east 
of the Usuri and north and east of the Amur, and the 
Chinese possession is reduced to about 378,000 square 
miles. The population is variously estimated at from 
3.000,000 to 4,000,000. Mantchuria is divided into three 
provinces: Siting -King (formerly Leaotong), which 
alone contains upwards of 2,100,000 inhabitants, and the 
chief town of which, Mukden, is the seat of government 
for the three provinces; Girin, or Kirin; and Tsi-tsi-har. 
The country is mountainous, densely wooded in the 
south, but consisting chiefly of prairies and grass-land 
in the north. It is well watered and fruitful in the val- 
leys. Chinese form the great bulk of the population. 
The Mantchus themselves are for the most part soldiers ; 
they are the present rulers of China, who gradually sub- 
jugated the country. They are not a nomadic race like 
the Mongols, but are given to agriculture or hunting, 
according to the part of their country they inhabit. 
They are of a lighter complexion and slightly heavier 
build than the Chinese, have the same conformation of 
the eye-lids, but rather more beard, and their counte- 
nances present greater intellectual capacity. Literary 
pursuits are more esteemed by them than by Mongo- 
lians. They are of the same religious faith as the 
Chinese, but they are less under the priesthood. The 
Mantchus, in short, may be regarded as the most im- 
provable race in Central Asia, if not on the continent. 
See Williams, Middle Kingdom, i, 153 sq. ; Chambers, 
Cyclop, s. v. See also China ; Tartauy. 

Mantelet, a long cape, with slits for the arms, worn 
by prelates. Regular bishops wore it without the ro- 
chet : and cardinals, vested in rochet and mozzetta, lay 
it aside when visiting another of their order. The man- 
teflone is a purple cloak, with long, hanging sleeves. — 
Walcott, Sac. . \ rchceol. s. v. 

Mantle, in the A.V., is the term used to render 
four Hebrew words, viz., 

1. adde'reth. from “ample,” and there- 

fore probably meaning a large over-garment like the 
Roman pallium. The Sept, renders it by pijXojTi) (a 
sheep's skin), 1 Kings xix, 13, etc.; ctppig, Zech. xiii, 
4 : and oopci, Gen. xxv, 25. From the passages in which 
it is mentioned we can conjecture its nature. It is used 
most frequently (1 Kings xix; 2 Kings ii,8, 13, etc.) of 
Elijah's tk mantle,” which was in all probability a mere 
sheepskin, such as is frequently worn by dervishes and 
poor people in the East, and which seems, after Elijah’s 
time, to have been in vogue among the prophets (Zech. 
xiii, 4). Accordingly, by it only is denoted the cape or 
wrapper which, with the exception of a strip of skin or 


leather round his loins, formed, as we have every reason 
to believe, the sole garment of the prophet. The Bap- 
tist’s dress was of a similar rough description, and we see 
I from Ilcb. xi, 37 (tv fnjXtoraig, tv aiytioiQ ceppacnv) 
that such garments were regarded as a mark of poverty 
and persecution. The word addereth twice occurs with 
the epithet “hairy” (Gen. xxv, 25; Zech. xiii, 4). 
On the other hand, it is sometimes undoubtedly applied 
to royal and splendid robes, and is even used to mean 
“magnificence” in Ezek.xvii,8 (“vine of magnificence”) 
and Zech. xi, 3. It is the expression for the “goodly 
Babylonish garment” stolen by Achan, and the “ robe” 
worn by the king of Nineveh (Josh, vii, 21 ; Jonah iii, 
6). The connection between two meanings apparently 
so opposite is doubtless to be found in the etymology of 
the word (from ample'), or in the notion of a dress 

richly lined or trimmed with costly furs. See Robe. 

2. ^”“0, met l', which in the A. V. is variously ren- 
dered “ mantle,” “ robe,” “ cloke and in the Sept. Imv- 
dvrijg, &7T Xotg, virobvTTjc, 7roM]pi]c, \ltwv. Josephus 
calls it pttip. It is a general term derived from 

to cover, and is most frequently applied to “ the robe of 
the ephod” (Exod. xxviii, 4, etc. ; Lev. viii, 7), which is 
described as a splendid under-tunic of blue, wrought on 
the hem with pomegranates of blue, purple, and scarlet, 
with golden bells between them. It came below the 
knees, being longer than the ephod, and shorter than 
the kittoneth. It was a garment of unseamed cotton, 
open at the top so as to be drawn over the head, and 
having holes for the insertion of the arms (Joseph. Ant. 
iii, 7, 4; Jahn, Bill. Arch. sec. 122; Brannius, Be )~est. 
Sac. p. 43G; Schroder, De Vest. J Iul. p. 237, etc.). It 
was worn, however, not only by priests, like Samuel (1 
Sam. ii, 19 : xv, 27 ; xxviii, 14), but by kings and princes 
(Saul, 1 Sam. xxiv, 4; Darid, 1 Cliron. xv, 27), and rich 
men (Ezra, ix, 3-5; Job and his friends, i, 20; ii, 12), 
and even by king’s daughters (2 Sam. xiii, 18), although 
iu the latter case it seems to have had sleeves (see Go- 
senius, Thesanr. p. 811). Properly speaking, the meil 
was worn under the simlah, or outer garment, but that 
it was often itself used as an outer garment seems prob- 
able from some of the passages above quoted. It is in- 
teresting to know that the garment which Samuel's 
mother made and brought to the infant prophet at her 
annual visit to the holy tent at Shiloh was a miniature 
of the official priestly tunic or robe; the same that the 
great prophet wore in mature years (1 Sam. xv, 27), and 
by which he was on one occasion actually identified. 
When the witch of Endor, in answer to Saul’s inquiry, 
told him that “an old man was come up, covered with a 
meil,” this of itself was enough to inform the king in 
whose presence he stood — “Saul perceived that it was 
Samuel” (xxviii, 14). 

3. nz‘i^b,5e;??i’A , «/P(Judg.iv, 14), the garment (raarg. 
“ rug,” or “ blanket”) used by Jael to fling over the weary 
Sisera as a coverlid (Sept. t7rt(36\ator, but otppig ap- 
pears to have been the reading of Origen ami Augus- 
tine). The word is derived from imponere, and is 
evidently a general term. Ilesychius defines tTrtjSo- 
Xatov by Triop a i) pdicoc, and Suidas by to rig t - port pig 
t7rij3aXX6ptvov. The word used in the Targum is 
•122 *3, which is only the Greek Kavvanj, and the Latin 
gaunucum; and this word is explained by Varro to be 
“niajus sagum et amphimallon” (De Ling. Lat. iv, 35), 
i. e. a larger cloak woolly on both sides. Ilesychius dif- 
fers from Varro in this, for he says Kavvanat orptbpara 
i] t7rt(36Xaia irtpopciXXij, i. e. woolly on one side; the 
Scholiast, on Aristophanes, adds that it was a Persian, 
and Pollux that it was a Babylonian robe (Rosenmtiller, 
Schof. ad loc.). There is, therefore, no reason to under- 
stand it of a curtain of the tent, as Faber docs. Since 
the Orientals constantly used upper garments for bed- 
ding, the rendering “ mantle,” though inaccurate, is not 
misleading (compare Ruth iii, 9; Ezek. xvi.8, etc.)’. In 
the above passage the Hebrew word lias the definite ar- 


MANTLE 


718 


MANTON 


tide prefixed, and it may therefore be inferred that it 
was some part of the regular furniture of the tent. The 
due to a more exact signification is given by the Arabic 
version of the Polyglot, which renders it by al-katifah, a 
word which is explained by Dozy {Dietionnaire des Vete- 
ments Arabes, p. 232), on the authority of Ibn Batuta 
and other Oriental authors, to mean certain articles of a 
thick fabric, in shape like a plaid or shawl, which are 
commonly used for beds by the Arabs: “When they 
sleep they spread them on the ground. For the under 
part of the bed they are doubled several times, and one 
longer than the rest is used for a coverlid.” On such a 
bed, on the floor of Heber’s tent, no doubt the weary 
Sisera threw himself, and such a coverlid must the semi- 
leak have been which Jael laid over him. 

4. maataphoth ', occurs only in Isa. iii, 22. 

It was some article of female dress, and is derived from 
M3?, to weave, Schroder, the chief authority on this 
subject, says it means a large exterior tunic with sleeves, 



In-door Dress of a modern Egyptian Lady, showing the 
back Veil and the Mantle. 


worn next to the pallium (/)e !>.<?/. Mul. xv, 247-277). 
In this same verse, and in Ihith iii, 15, occurs the word 
mitpachoth ', A.V. “wimples,” which appears 
to have been a sort of square covering like a plaid (Mi- 
chaelis. Supplem. p. 1021; Rosenmiiller, Sehol. ; Isa. iii, 
22). We cannot find the shadow of an authority for 
Jalni’s very explicit statement, that both these words 
mean the same article, being the fashion for 

the winter, and nnSw’p for the summer; though his 
assertion that “it covered the whole body from head to 
foot” may be very true (3 aim, MW. Arch. sec. 127). 

For other terms, such as nb*2 : r. .<? indcih' (Gen. ix,23, 
etc.), (Matt, xxvii, 28), oroXi] (Mark xii, 38). 

etc., see Dress. The (A. A", eloko) to which 

St. Paul makes such an interesting allusion in 2 Tim. iv, 
13, seems to have been tlie Latin panula (comp. 
a sort of travelling-cloak for wet weather. A great deal 
has been written about it, and at least one monograph 
(Stosch, Dissert, de Pallio Pauli , Ltigd. 1703).* Even in 
Chrysostom’s time some took it to be r'o yXwatruKKoyov 
rd fiifiXia tictiro (a sort of travelling-bag), and 
Jerome, TheophylactjGrotius, etc., shared in this opinion 
(Schleusner, Lex. X. T. s. v. tyaiXovtiz'). — Kitto; Smith. 
See Cloak. 


Manton, Thomas, D.D., one of the most eminent 
of the Puritan divines of the 17th century, was born in 
1G20 at Lawrence-Lydiard, Somerset, England. Ilis fa- 
ther and both his grandfathers were ministers, lie was 
educated at Wadham College, Oxford, and received or- 
ders from bishop Hall before he had attained the age 
of twenty, being regarded by the good prelate as an ex- 
traordinary young man. The greatness of his charac- 
ter displayed itself even at this early age. Believing 
that admission to deacon’s orders constituted authority 
to preach, he steadfastly refused priest’s orders after hav- 
ing received deacon’s. After staying a short time at 
Colyton, in Devonshire, he removed to London, and was 
presented in 1G43 with the living of Stoke-Newington, 
near London. Here he prepared and afterwards pub- 
lished his Expositions of James and Jude. (The former 
was published in 1G51 ; edited by Sherman, 1840, royal 
8vo; edited by M‘Douough, 1842, 8vo: the latter was 
published in 1058, 4to; newed. 1838, 8vo.) During the 
Involution he was frequently called to preach before 
Parliament, where he had the courage to speak against 
the death of the king, though he gave great offence. In 
1G53 he was chosen preacher of St. Paul’s, Covent Gar- 
den, where he had a numerous congregation of persons 
of great note and rank, and was eminently successful in 
his ministry. Joining in the Rebellion, lie became one 
of the chaplains to the protector, and one of the com- 
mittee for examining ministers under the common- 
wealth. He was forward, however, to promote the Res- 
toration in 1GG0, was chosen one of the king’s chaplains, 
and was also honored by Oxford at this time with the 
degree of D.D. by special request of king Charles II. 
In IGG1 he was offered the deanery of Rochester, but 
this position he refused. Like Baxter, he clung to the 
last to the hope that a scheme of comprehension might 
be carried for the Presbyterians ; and he had yielded so 
far as to receive episcopal institution from Sheldon to 
permit the reading of the Common Prayer in his church, 
but when he clearly saw that there was peace only 
within the Establishment, and by an utter abandon- 
ment of all Puritan principles, he let the deanery go, 
content to remain in the position he was then filling, 
'flic passing of the Act of Uniformity forced him into 
the ranks of the Nonconformists. Efforts were made by 
Calamv, Manton, and Bates, the leaders of those Pres- 
byterians who still hoped for redress, to secure their 
rights from the king by personal interview, and they 
even received encouragement from Charles II of a favor- 
able change, who “promised to restore them to their em- 
ployments and places again, as pitying that such men 
should lie vacant” (Stoughton, i, 302). But the king 
proved false, and the Puritans lost their places. Among 
the Nonconformist ministers who would not quit the 
pulpit until forced was Thomas Manton. Deprived of 
a church, he opened his rooms in Covent Garden, and 
there gathered a congregation. Here the Oxford oath 
was tendered to him, and on refusal he was committed 
a prisoner to the Gate-house, and was kept confined for 
six months. He died Oct. 18, 1G77. Perhaps few men 
of that age had more virtue and fewer failings; but his 
only trust was in the Lamb of God. As a preacher he 
was most highly esteemed by his contemporaries. Lusher 
calls him “one of the best preachers in England.” As 
a practical expositor of Scripture he was perhaps never 
surpassed. Tie left numerous writings, chiefiv sermons 
and expositions. A collective edition of his works was 
published in 5 vols. 8vo, in 1G8 1-84-89-93-1 701, with 
Life by Dr. William Harris; but this collection is in- 
complete. A list of all his productions is given by Dar- 
ling, Cyclop. Bibliog. i, 1953-56. The publication of a 
complete collection of his works, prepared under the su- 
pervision of the* Rev. Thomas Smith, D.D., and others, 
with full indexes and an original memoir bv the Rev. 
J. C. Ryle, was begun in 18G9, and is to be completed, in 
20 vols. demy Kvo, in 1874. See the excellent article 
in AUibone’s Dictionary of British and American An- 
thers , vol. ii, s. v. ; Hook, Ecclesiastical Biogr. vol. vii, 


MANUEL 


719 


MANTUA 

s. v. ; Middleton, Evangelical Biography, iii, 429. (J. 

H. \\ r .) 

Mantua, an Italian province, formerly an indepen- 
dent duchy, had a high reputation in the time of the 
Romans. After sharing the fate of the rest of Northern 
Italy, it was seized by the Gonzagas about the com- 
mencement of the 14th century. The last duke of the 
house of Gonzaga died childless at Padua in 1708, when 
Mantua fell into the hands of Austria. In 1859 the 
proviuce was given up to Italy, but the town of Mantua 
was not restored to Italy until I860, since which time 
Mantua has formed a proviuce of the new kingdom of 
Italy. See Italy. The city of Mantua is noted in ec- 
clesiastical history for a council that was held there in 
1007 to judge pope Alexander II for a charge of simony 
brought against him. Alexander II took an oath to 
deny the accusation, and, proving the validity of his 
election, was recognised as the proper incumbent of the 
papal chair; while Honorius II (q. v.), the anti-pope, 
was unanimously condemned as simoniacal. See Lan- 
don, Manual of Councils, p. 390. 

Mantuan, Baptist, a famous Italian monastic and 
poet, was born at Mantua in 1448 ; joined the Carmel- 
ites, became general of the order, quitted it in 1515, and 
devoted himself for the remainder of his life to belles- 
lettres. lie died in 151G. His works were published 
at Paris in 1513 (3 vols. fob), with the Commentaries of 
S. Murrhon, S. Brant, and J. Badius; and at Antwerp 
in 1576 (4 vols. 8vo), under the title,/. Baptistm Man- 
tuani , Carmelitee, theologi, philosopki, poetie, et oratoris 
clarissimi. opera omnia, pluribus libris aucta et restituta. 
— Gen. liiog. Diet, ix, 51, s. v. 

Mantz, Felix, a Baptist martyr of the early part 
of the 16th century, and a leader of the Reformation in 
Germany, was a native of Zurich. In 1519 he studied 
Hebrew with Zwingle, under Carlstadt, and was inti- 
mate with that reformer, and also with Myconius, Cap- 
ito, and other leaders of the Swiss Reformation. About 
1522 he objected openly to the doctrine of infant bap- 
tism, to the tithes, usury, and other peculiarities of the 
Iiomish Church, and thus failing to harmonize with the 
opinions of Zwingle, lie was led to a separation from the 
party of that reformer, and became connected with the 
Baptists. In 1523 he preached publicly on the subject 
of baptism. In the three disputes held at Zurich in 
1525, Mantz appears to have taken part, and after that 
of March was thrown into prison, from which, however, 
he escaped. He afterwards preached in different parts 
of Switzerland ; in 1526 was imprisoned in the tower of 
Wcllenberg, on the charge of baptizing contrary to the 
prohibitory edict of the magistrates of Zurich, and, re- 
fusing to recant, was condemned, and drowned in Janu- 
ary, 1527. See Brown, Baptist Martyrs, p. 49 (Amer. 
Bap. Pub. Soc. Phila.). 

Manu (from the Sanscrit man, to think; literally, the 
thinking being ) is the name of the reputed author of the 
most renowned law-book of the ancient Hindus, and 
likewise of an ancient Kalpa sntra (q. v.). It is mat- 
ter, however, of considerable doubt whether both works 
belong to the same individual, and whether the name 
Manu, especially in the case of the author of the law- 
book, was intended to designate a historical personage. 
In several passages of the Vedas (q. v.), as well as of the 
Mahfibharata (q. v.), Manu is spoken of as the progeni- 
tor of the human race, and in the lirst chapter of the 
law-book ascribed to him he declares himself to have 
been produced by Virnj, ail offspring of the Supreme 
Being, and to have created all the universe. Hindu 
mythology, moreover, recognises a succession of Manns, 
each of whom created, in his own period, the world anew 
after it had perished at the end of a mundane age. The 
word Maim — kindred with our “man ” — belongs there- 
fore, properly speaking, to aucient Hindu mythology, 
and it was connected with the renowned law-book in 
order to impart to the latter the sanctity on which its 
authority rests. This work is not merely a law-book in 


the European sense of the word ; it is likewise a system 
of cosmogony, or, as Sir "William Jones has it, “ com- 
prises the Indian system of duties, religious and civil.” 
It propounds metaphysical doctrines, teaches the art of 
government, and, among other things, treats of the state 
of the soul after death. The chief topics of its twelve 
books are the following; 1. Creation; 2, Education and 
the duties of a pupil, or the lirst order; 3. Marriage and 
the duties of a householder, or the second order; 4. 
Means of subsistence, and private morals; 5. Diet, pnri-. 
tication, and the duties of women; 6. The duties of an 
anchorite and an ascetic, or the duties of the third and 
fourth orders; 7. Government, and the duties of a king 
and the military caste; 8. Judicature and law, private 
and criminal; 9. Continuation of the former, and the 
duties of the commercial and servile castes; 10. Mixed 
castes, and the duties of the castes in time of distress; 

1 1. Penance and expiation ; 12. Transmigration and final 
beatitude. It is the opinion of Maine ( Ancient Law') 
and other eminent scholars that the code of Manu was 
never fully accepted or enforced in India, and remained 
always an ideal of the perfect Brahmanic state. It is 
supposed, by Wilson, Lassen, MaxM tiller, and Saint Mar- 
tin, to have been written about B.C. 900 or 1000. The 
text of this work lias been published in several editions 
both in India and Europe. An excellent English trans- 
lation of it we owe to Sir W. Jones (Calcutta, 179G; 2d 
ed., by llaughton, Load. 1825), and a very good French 
translation to A. Loiseleur Deslongchamps (Paris, 1833). 
See Johiintzen, Ueber das Gesetzbuch des Manu (Berl. 
1863); 5 1 ax M idler, Chips from a German Workshop 
(Index to vol. ii) ; El ph instone, Ilist. of India (3d ed.), 
p. 226 sq. ; Hardwick, Christ and other Masters, i, 194 
sq. ; James Freeman Clarke, Ten Great Religions, p. 100 
sq. See Hinduism. 

Manuductor is the name of an ecclesiastical officer 
whose duty it was to give the signal to the choristers 
to sing, to mark the measure, beat the time, and regu- 
late the music. The word means to lead by means of 
the hand ; and the officer was so called because he was 
required to stand in the middle of the aisle, and to guide 
the choir by the motions of his hand. The Greek 
Church has an officer who performs similar services, 
who is called J [esochoros, because he is seated in the 
midst of the choir. — Farrar, Eccles. Diet. s. v. 

Manuel Charitopulus (5 XapiroTTovXot;), or Sa- 
rantenus (o Eapai'rj/i'dc), or the Philosopher, a Greek 
ecclesiastic who flourished in the 12th and 13th centu- 
ries, acquired a high reputation by his philosophical 
attainments. He was appointed patriarch of Constan- 
tinople on the death of Maximus II, A.D. 1215, and held 
the patriarchate for five years and seven months. He 
died about A.I). 1221. Three synodal decrees of a Man- 
uel, patriarch of Constantinople, are given in the Jus 
Grecco-Romanum of Leunclavius (lib. iii, p. 238, etc.), who 
assigns them to Charitopulus, and is followed by Cave 
and Oudin, who have confounded Charitopulus with an- 
other Manuel (of Constantinople). Le Quien objects to 
this judgment of Leunclavius, as not founded on evi- 
dence, and, with better reason, adjudges them to Man- 
uel Brycnnius. Ephraem of Constantinople celebrates 
Charitopulus as “ an exact observer of the laws and can- 
ons” (Georg. Acropolit. A nnal. [e. 19, p. 17, ed. Paris; p. 
35, ed. Bonn] ; Ephraem. De Patriarchis [Charitop. vs. 
10, 251, ed. Bonn] ; Anonymous [supposed by some to 
be Niceph, Callist.], De Patriarchis Charitopolitanis 
Carmen Iambicum, and Patriarchee Charitopoleos, apud 
Labbe, De Ilistor. Byzant. Scriptorib. llporptirriKov ; 
Le Quien, Oriens Christianas, i, col. 278 ; Cave, Hist. Litt. 
ad aim. 1240, ii, 297 [ed. Oxford. 1740-42) ; Oudin, Com- 
ment de Scriptorib.et Scriptis AVc/es. iii,col. 177). — Smith, 
Diet, of Gr. and Rom. Biog. and Mythol. s. v. 

Manuel (I) Comnenus (Mrruom/X b K opvgvog), 
emperor of Constantinople from 1143 to 1180, was the 
fourth son of John II, and was born about A.D. 1120. 
Two of his elder brothers, Alex is and Andronicus, both 
died before their father, and a special declaration of the 


MANUEL 


no 


MANUEL 


emperor appointed Manuel as his successor, to the prej- 
udice of his third son, Isaac Sebastocrator. As soon as 
Manuel ascended the throne, he surrounded himself with 
the bravest warriors of the West, and soon became fore- 
most even among them for his courage. 1 1 is reign was 
a succession of wars, sometimes in Asia, sometimes in 
Europe. Conrad III and Louis VII having informed 
him that they were preparing a new crusade, Manuel, 
although apparently disposed to help them, gave secret 
information to the Turks of the approaching danger. 

The relation which Manuel Comnenus sustained to 
the Church of Lome is of special interest to us. His 
Latin subjects he treated with kindness, embellished 
their churches, and readily did all they asked of him. 
This generous disposition on the part of Manuel Com- 
nenus towards the Latins encouraged pope Hadrian IV 
(1154-1159) to make proposals for a union of the East- 
ern with tlie Western Church, but the plan failed of 
success because of the objections of the Greek patriarch 
to acknowledge the supremacy of the pope of Home. 
See Greek Church. After Hadrian’s death Manuel 
entered into correspondence with Alexander III, de- 
clared himself in favor of the Crusades, and offered as- 
sistance. The German emperor, Frederick I, had taken 
sides with the rival pope Victor, and Manuel embraced 
this opportunity to urge upon Alexander the claims of 
the Greek emperor to the Homan crown, promising in 
return to aid the pope in establishing the papal power 
in all Italy, and in the union of the Eastern and West- 
ern Church. So long as the pope was in danger from 
the invading Allemanni, he acted as if he felt inclined 
to acknowledge the true representative of Constantine 
and Augustus. Hut after the establishment of peace 
and friendship with Frederick, Alexander “spoke a more 
peremptory language, confirmed the acts of his prede- 
cessors, excommunicated the adherents of Manuel, and 
pronounced the final separation of the churches, or at 
least the empires of Constantinople and Rome” (Gibbon, 
v,491). Manuel died Sept. 24, 1180. He is said to have 
been deeply versed in theology, but “ was certainly rath- 
er a great talker than a great thinker on religion.” See 
Smith, Diet, of Gr. and Rom. Dior/, s. v. ; Lebeau, Hist . 
(hi Bus-Empire (Paris, 1834), xvi, Go sq. ; Wetzer u. 
Welte, Kirchen-Lexikon , s. v. 

Manuel of Constantinople. There were two 
Manuels patriarchs of Constantinople, Manuel I (Chari- 
topulus), and Manuel II, the subject of the present arti- 
cle. Cave, Oudin, and others seem to have confounded 
the two, for they state that Manuel Charitopulus suc- 
ceeded Germanus II in A.D. 1240. Charitopulus was 
the predecessor of Germanus, not his successor; Manuel 
II was his successor, though not immediately, for the 
brief patriarchate of Methodius II and a vacancy in the 
see, of considerable but uncertain length, intervened. 
Manuel's death is distinctly fixed as having occurred 
two months before that of the emperor Joannes Ducas 
Vatatzcs, A.D. 1255, Oct. 30. The duration of his pa- 
triarchate is fixed by Nicephorus Callisti, according to 
Le Quien, at eleven years; but the table in the Protrep- 
ticon of Labbe assigns to him fourteen years, so that A.D. 
1240 or 1244 may be assumed as the year of his acces- 
sion, according as one or the other of these authorities 
is preferred. Manuel held, before his patriarchate, a 
high place among the ecclesiastics of the Byzantine 
court, then fixed at Nice, and was reputed a man of 
piety and holiness, “though married,” and of a mild and 
gentle disposition, but by no means learned. The three 
Sentential Sy nodales of the patriarch Manuel given in 
the Jus Greeco- Romanian undoubtedly belong to this 
patriarch, not to Charitopulus, for the second of them. 
De Translatione Episcopomm , is expressly dated July, 
Indict. 8, A.M. 6578, ivra of Constant. = A.D. 1250. Some 
works in MS., especially a letter to pope Innocent by 
“Manuel Patriarcha CPol.,” probably belong to Manuel 
of Constantinople (Le Quien, Orievs Christiamis , i, col. 
279; Cave, Hist. Lift, ad aim. 1210, ii, 297 [ed. Oxford, 
1740-12] ; Oudin, Comment de Scriptorib . et Scriptis Ec- 


cles. iii, col. 177 ; Fabricius, Bill. Grcee. xi, 6G8). — Smith, 
Diet-, of Gr. and Rom. Biog. and Mythol. s. v. 

Manuel IIolobolus, a Byzantine ecclesiastic of the 
13th century, about 1261 or 1262 was cruelly mutilated 
by the cutting off of his nose and lips, by order of the 
ambitious Michael Palieologus, because he had express- 
ed grief at the deposition, persecution, and banishment 
of Joannes Lascaris, emperor of Niciea, by Palteologus, 
his successor in the empire. Holobolus was then con- 
fined to the monastery of the Precursor, where, having 
excellent abilities and opportunities, he pursued his stud- 
ies with success. About A.D. 1267 Germanus III, bish- 
op of Constantinople, procured for him the appointment 
of teacher of a school of young ecclesiastics, and pre- 
vailed upon the emperor to remit his punishment and 
allow him to quit the monastery. Germanus also con- 
ferred on him the ecclesiastical office of rhetor, reader 
and expounder of the Scriptures. When the emperor 
Pakeologus attempted a reconciliation of the Greek and 
Latin churches, he sought the counsel of Holobolus, but 
he declared against the plan of reconciliation. This 
brought upon him the emperor’s indignation, and he 
was obliged to take refuge in the church sanctuary to 
escape violence from the emperor’s courtiers; was ban- 
ished thence to the monastery of Hyacinthus, at Nice, 
A.D. 1273; was afterwards taken back to Constantino- 
ple, and beaten and paraded ignominiously through the 
streets. In A.D. 1283, after the accession of Andronicus 
II, Pakeologus, son of Michael, who pursued with re- 
spect to the union of the churches an opposite policy 
to that of his father, Holobolus appeared in the Synod 
of Constantinople, in which Joannes Veccus was deposed 
from the patriarchate of Constantinople, and lie. took 
part in the subsequent disputations with that chief of 
the Latinizing party. Little else is known of Holobo- 
lus. See Smith, Diet, of Gr. and Rom. Biog. and Mythol. 
s. v. 

Manuel Pal.eologus. See Ferrara; Florence, 
Synod of. 

Manuel, Niclaus, or Nicolas, sometimes called 
Deutscu, one of the most prominent characters in the 
ecclesiastical history of Switzerland, in the age just pre- 
ceding the Reformation, was born at Bern in 1484. Ilis 
real name is conjectured by his biographer, Dr. Griin- 
eisen,to have been A lleman, but, as he was illegitimate, it 
was, for family reasons, changed anagrammatically into 
that of Manuel. It is further conjectured that he was 
brought up by his maternal grandfather, Thtiring Frick- 
art. lie was an artist by profession, but he excelled 
also as a poet and author. He studied the art of paint- 
ing at Colmar, under the successors of the celebrated 
Martin Schon, until the fame of Titian attracted him to 
Venice, where, about 151 1, he became one of his pupils: 
he is the Emanuello Tedesco of Ridolti and other Italian 
writers. lie is said to have assisted Holbein, in 1515, 
in his “ Dance of Death but this is very improbable, 
as he was himself employed at that time in painting the 
same subject in the cloister of the Dominican convent 
at Bern. It was executed in fresco or distemper. The 
picture consisted of forty-six subjects, forty-one of which 
were the actual Todtentanz ; it has long since been de- 
stroyed, but the compositions are preserved in prints 
and copies : the wall on which it was painted was pulled 
down in 1660. Manuel was an active reformer, and 
many of these designs are reflections upon the abuses 
of the Roman Church. He also ornamented his own 
house with a large fresco, representing Solomon wor- 
shipping idols. But of these and several other of his 
works nothing now remains, except some small water- 
color copies preserved in the library at Basle. How- 
ever, eitiicr because his pencil did not bring him suffi- 
cient for the maintenance of his family, or from his po- 
litical ardor, he was induced to engage in military and 
public affairs. He served, as quartermaster or commis- 
sary, among the Swiss allies who assisted Francis I in his 
expedition against Milan, 1522, and was present both at 


MANURE 


721 


MANUSCRIPTS 


the storming of Novara and the battle of Bieocca. In 
the following year he was chosen landvogt of Erlach, 
and from the year I52C distinguished himself by his 
zeal in the cause of the Reformation. From this period 
he was entirely devoted to that cause, and to his various 
public employments. He died in 1530, when only forty- 
six years of age. As a writer he began to distinguish 
himself in 1509, by various popular poems and songs in 
the Swiss dialect, full of humor and sharp satire, lie is 
said by some to be the author of a song, which origi- 
nated in the early part of the lGth century, deriding the 
belief in the immaculate conception of the Virgin Mary. 
But though this be doubtful, it is certain that Manuel 
wielded his pen in support of the Reformation by at- 
tacking the gross abuses of the clergy and the licen- 
tiousness of monastics, llis Fastnachtsspiele, or “Dra- 
matic Moralities and Mysteries,” which he began to 
compose about 1522, are marked by the same qualities 
as his polemical pieces. See Dr. Griineisen, Ficclas 
Manuel, Leben und Werke eines Malers, Dichters, Krie- 
gers , Staatsmannes,nnd Reformators (Stuttgart and Tu- 
bingen, 1837) ; Nagler, Neues A llgemeines K Hustler- Lex- 
ikon , s. v.; Herzog, Real-Encyklop. ix, 4 sq.; English 
Cyclop, s. v. 

Manure. Although the Scriptures do not furnish 
us with many details respecting the state of agriculture 
in Judtea, yet we may collect from various passages 
many interesting hints that will enable us to form some 
idea of the high state of its cultivation. See Agricul- 
ture. It is not probable that the Hebrews derived 
their knowledge of manures from Egypt, but they doubt- 
less adopted and preserved the customs which existed 
among the previous inhabitants of the country. In the 
parable of the tig-tree which had for three years been 
barren, and which the proprietor therefore doomed to be 
cut down, the gardener is represented as praying for de- 
lay, until he should “dig about it and dung it” (Luke 
xiii, 7). To explain this, Light foot quotes the follow- 
ing from the Talmud : “They lay dung to moisten and 
enrich the soil; dig about the roots of trees; pluck up 
the suckers; take off the leaves; sprinkle ashes; and 
smoke under the trees to kill vermin.” In addition to 
the various modes of irrigation, the soil was likewise 
enriched by means of ashes; to which were added the 
straw teben ), stubble (1L ; £, kash ), husks, or chaff 

(yV2, mots), together with the brambles and grass that 
overspread the land during the sabbatical year; all be- 
ing reduced by fire and used as manure (Prov. xxiv, 31 ; 
Isa. vii, 23; xxxii, 13). The burning over the surface 
of the land had also another good effect, that of destroy- 
ing the seeds of noxious herbs (Jahn, Bibl. Arch . § 57). 
Dunghills are mentioned in 1 Sam. ii,8; Ezra vi, 11 ; 
Dan. ii, 5 ; iii, 29, and one of the gates at Jerusalem was 
called the Dung-gate, from dung being carried out there 
(Neh. ii, 13). That the soil was manured with dung, we 
learn from 2 Kings ix,37 ; Psa. Ixxxiii, 10; Jer. viii, 2; 
ix, 22; xvi,4; xxv, 33; Luke xiv. 35. The Israelites 
had comparatively few horses and few swine, two sources 
of excellent strong manure. Their animals consisted 
chiefly of oxen, camels, asses, sheep, and goats. The 
dung of the cow and camel was used to a considerable 
extent for fuel, and the dung of the sacrifices was direct- 
ed to be burned — circumstances calculated to diminish 
the supply. That salt was used for manure we learn 
from Matt, v, 13 and Luke xiv, 34, 35, and it would ap- 
pear that salt was sometimes sown by itself on the land, 
at others mixed in the dunghill. From the Talmud we 
learn that a dunghill in a public place exposed the own- 
er to. the payment of whatever damage it might occa- 
sion, and any person might remove it as a nuisance. 
Dung might not, during the seventh year, be transport- 
ed to the neighborhood of the fields intended to be ma- 
nured. Under certain restrictions it was, however, per- 
mitted to fold cattle, for the sake of their manure, upon 
the lands that required it in the sabbatic year, and it is 
from this only we learn that the practice existed among 
V.— Z z 


the Jews, who would seem more generally to have fold- 
ed their sheep within walled enclosures (John x, 1-5), 
the occasional clearance of which must have afforded a 
principal supply of manure. It would seem that gar- 
dens, except a few old rose-gardens, were not allowed 
within the walls of Jerusalem, on account of the manure 
they would have required, and “ because of the stench,” 
as the Mishnah states, this produced, as well as because 
of that arising from the weeds thrown out from gardens. 
From another passage of the Talmud we are informed 
that the surplus blood of the sacrifices offered in the 
Temple, that is to say, the blood which was poured out 
at the foot of the altar, after the altar had been duly 
sprinkled, was conducted by a subterraneous channel to 
the outside of the city, and was sold to the gardeners as 
manure for their gardens; by which we are to under- 
stand that the gardeners were allowed to use it on pay- 
ing the price of a trespass-offering, without which it 
could not be appropriated to any common use after hav- 
ing been dedicated at the altar. See Dung. 

Manus Mortua. See Amortisation. 

Manuscripts, Biblical. These are either He- 
brew or Greek ; we shall treat of them separately, using 
largely the matter found in the Dictionaries of Kitto 
and Smith. 

I. Jewish Manuscripts. — 1. These are divided into (a.) 
Synagogue rolls or sacred copies , and (5.) Private or 
common copies. 

(o.) The synagogue rolls contain the Pentateuch, the 
appointed sections of the prophets, or the book of Es- 
ther, which last is used only at the F east of Purim. The 
three are never put together, but are written on separate 
rolls. They are in the Chaldee or square Hebrew char- 
acter, without vowels and accents, accompanied with 
the pu?icta extraordinaria , and having the unusual forms 
of certain consonants. The parchment is prepared in 
a particular manner by the hands of Jews only, and 
made from the hides of clean animals, which, when duly 
wrought, are joined together by thongs made out of the 
same material. They are then divided into columns, 
the breadth of which must not exceed half their length. 
These columns, whose number is prescribed, must be of 
equal length and breadth among themselves, and con- 
tain a certain number of lines, each line having no more- 
than three words. The Talmud contains strict rules- 
concerning the material, the color, the ink, letters, divi- 
sions, writing instrument, etc., which are closely fol- 
lowed, especially in the Pentateuch. These rules are 
extracted from the Talmud, and translated in Adler’s 
Judceorum Codicis Sacri rite scribendi leges, etc. (Ham- 
burg, 1779, 8vo). The minuteness of such regulations 
renders it a most irksome task for the sopher or scribe 
to write out a synagogue roll. The revision of the 
Torah , as the synagogue roll is often called, must be 
undertaken within thirty days after its transcription,, 
else it is unfit for use. Three mistakes on one side or 
skin are allowable ; but should there be four, or should 
there happen to be an error in the open and close sec- 
tions of the law, in the position of the songs in Exod. v 
and Deut. xxii, which are the only portions of the Pen- 
tateuch written in poetical lines, then the whole copy 
is worthless. The great beauty of penmanship exhib- 
ited in these synagogue copies has always been admired. 
They are taken from authentic exemplars, without the 
slightest deviation or correction. Seldom do they fall 
into the hands of Christians ; since, as soon as they cease 
to be employed in the synagogue, they are either buried 
or carefully laid aside, lest they should be profaned by 
coming into the possession of Gentiles. 

( b .) Private MSS. are written partly in the square or 
Chaldee character, partly in the Rabbinical. They are 
held in far less esteem than the synagogue rolls, and are 
wont to be denominated profane ( pesulim ). Their form 
is entirely arbitrary. They are in folio, quarto, octavo, 
and duodecimo. Of those written in the square char- 
acter, the greater number are on parchment, some on 


MANUSCRIPTS 


722 


MANUSCRIPTS 


paper. The ink of the letters is always black, but the 
vowel points are usually written with ink of a different 
color from that of the consonants. Initial words and 
letters are frequently decorated with gold and silver col- 
ors. The prose parts are arranged in columns; the po- 
etic in parallel numbers. Some copies are -without col- 
umns. The columns are not always occupied with the 
Hebrew text alone; for a version is frequently added, 
which is either written in the text after the manner of 
verses, or in a column by itself, or in the margin in a 
smaller character. The number of lines is not prescribed 
hv the Talmud. The upper and lower margin are tilled 
with the Great Masorah, and sometimes with a rabbin- 
ical commentary; as also with prayers, psalms, and the 
like. The external margin is for corrections, scholia, 
variations, notices of the haphtaroth (sections from the 
prophets), parshioth (sections from the law), the com- 
mentaries of the rabbins, etc. The inner margin, or 
that between the columns, is occupied with the Little 
Masorah. The single books of the O. T. are separated 
from one another by spaces, except the books of Samuel, 
Kings, Chronicles, Ezra, and Nehemiah, which are writ- 
ten continuously. The sections of the law and prophets 
are generally marked. In the MSS. of different coun- 
tries the books are differently arranged. These copies 
generally pass through various hands before they are 
finished. The consonants proceed from the sopher or 
scribe. When the same person writes both consonants 
and vowels, as is frequently the case — he never makes 
them at the same time — the former are finished before 
he begins to append the latter. The Keris in the mar- 
gin uniformly proceed from the vowel-writer. It is 
probable that these copies were in no instance made by 
Christians. 

The square character employed in the MSS. of which 
we have spoken has varieties. The Jews themselves ; 
distinguish in the synagogue rolls — 1. the Tam letter, 
with sharp corners and perpendicular coronuke, used 
among the German and Polish Jews; 2. the Yelshe let- 
ter, more modern than the Tam, and rounder, with co- | 
ron ulse, particularly found in the sacred copies of the 
Spanish and Oriental Jews. See Old Testament. 

2. The age of Hebrew MSS. is not easily determined. 
It is true that they often contain subscriptions giving 
an account of the time when they were written, and the 
name of the scribe, or also of the possessor. But these 
accounts are often ambiguous, occasionally incorrect. 
Where they are altogether wanting it is still more diffi- 
cult to discover the age. In the latter ease the charac- 
ter of the writing, the color of the ink, the quality and 
complexion of the parchment, the absence of the Maso- 
rah, of the vowel-points, 
of the unusual letters, 
etc., have been chiefly 
rested upon. Still, how- 
ever, such particulars are 
uncertain marks of age. 

The oldest Hebrew 
MS. known to Kennicott 
or De Rossi was 034 of 
I)e Rossi, a mere frag- 
ment, containing small 
portions of Leviticus and 
Numbers. .According to 
its former possessor, it 
belongs to the 8th cen- 
tury. So much uncer- 
tainty attaches to the in- 
ternal marks adopted by 
these two Hebraists that 
the ages to which they 
assign several Hebrew 
?d S S. are gratuitous. 

Siuee Pinner examined a number of MSS. belonging to 
the Bible Society of Odessa, older ones are now known. 
(For the dates of his MSS., see below.) In the imperial 


1 public library at St. Petersburg there is a collection of He- 
brew MSS. made by Mr. Firkowiez, containing several 
very ancient ones. The oldest date is in a roll found 
in a Karaite synagogue in the Crimea, viz. A.D. 489; 
but that date is very suspicious. Several fragments of 
rolls give, as the dates of purchase or dedication, A.D. 
G39, 704, 781, 789, 798, 805, 815, 843, 848. 

3. A few of the oldest Hebrew MSS. may be briefly 
described here. We begin with the 

Uelali or llillel Codex (^N^n “ISO), one of the most 
ancient and most celebrated codices of the Hebrew Scrip- 
tures, which derived its name from the fact that it was 
written at llilla (r&NJfi), a town built near the ruins 
of ancient Babel. Others, however, maintain that it 
was called llilali because the name of the man who 
wrote it was llillel. But whatever uncertainty there 
may be about the derivation of its name, there can 
hardly be any doubt that it was written A.D. GOO, for 
Sakkuto tells us most distinctly that when he saw the re- 
mainder of it (cir. A.D. 1500) the Codex was 900 years 
old. His words are, “ In the year 4956, on the 28th of 
Ah (1I9G, better 1197), there was a great persecution of 
the Jews in the kingdom of Leon from the two king- 
doms that came to besiege it. It was then that the 
twenty-four sacred books which were written long ago, 
about the year 600, by K. Moses ben-llillel (on which 
account the Codex was called Hilali), in an exceedingly 
correct manner, and after which all the copies were cor- 
rected, were taken away. I saw the remaining two 
portions of it — viz. the earlier and later prophets — writ- 
ten in large and beautiful characters, which were brought 
to Portugal and sold in Africa, where they still are, hav- 
ing been written 900 years ago. Kimchi, in his Gram- 
mar oil Numb, xv, 4, says that the Pentateuch of this 
Codex was extant in Toleti” {Juchassin, ed. Filipowski, 
Lond, 1857, p. 220). The Codex had the Tiberiau vow- 
els and accents, Masorah and Nikud glosses, and it 
served up to A.D. 1500 as a model from which copies 
were made. The Codex which Haja had in Babylon 
about A.D. 1000 was conveyed to Leon, in Spain, where 
the greater part of it became a prey to the fury of the 
martial hosts who sacked the Jewish dwellings in 1197. 
The celebrated grammarian, Jacob ben-Eleazar, fixed the 
renderings of the Biblical text according to this Codex, 
and the older philologians frequently quote it. Comp. 
Griitz, Geschichte de r Juden (Lpz. *1859), vi, 132, 229; 
Fiirst, Geschichte des Karaerthums (Leipzic, 18G9), i, 22, 
138 ; Kimchi, Radicum Liber 'ed. Biesenthal ft Lebreckt 
(Berolini, 1847), p. 26. See Jacob ben-Eleazar. 

No. 1, Pinner. This is a Pentateuch roll on leather, 
containing the five Mosaic books complete. It has no 


vowels, accents, or Masorah. The roll consists of forty- 
five pieces. As to the form of the letters, it differs con- 
siderably from the present style. This is particularly 



Odessa MS., No. 1 of Pinuer (Mai. iv, C). 


MANUSCRIPTS 


723 


MANUSCRIPTS 


observable in the case of X - 3 T b E. The variations 
in the text from the Masoretic recension are few and in- 
considerable. The MS., according to the subscription, 
was corrected in the year 580, consequently the roll 
must have been written upwards of 1280 years. It was 
brought from Derbend, in Daghestan, and is now at St. 
Petersburg. If the subscription be genuine, it is the 
oldest MS. known, except that one in the Firkowicz col- 
lection dated 489. (See Rule, Karaites , p. 100 sq.) 

No. G34, De Rossi, quarto. This is but the fragment 
of a MS., containing Lev. xxi, 19-Numb. i, 50. It is on 
parchment, without the vowel-points, Masorah, or Ke- 
ris. It has also no interval between the parshioth or 
sections. But there are sometimes points between the 
words. It belongs, in De Rossi’s opinion, to the 8th 
century, and is corroded by age. The character of the 
letters is intermediate, approaching the German. It is 
now at Parma. 

No. 5, Pinner. This is a roll of the Pentateuch, but 
incomplete. The writing begins with Numb, xiiq 19. 
The form of the letters is very different from the pres- 
ent style. It is carelessly written, words and letters be- 
ing frequently omitted. The subscription states that it 
was written A.D. 843. 

No. 11, Pinner. This is a fragment of a synagogue 
roll, beginning with Deut. xxxi, 1. The date is 881. 

No. 503, De Rossi, in quarto. This is a MS. of the 
Pentateuch, made up of different pieces. It begins with 
Gen. xlii, 15, and ends with Deut. xv, 12. There is a 
chasm in it from Lev. xxi, 19 to Numb, i, 50, because 
De Rossi separated this portion, thinking it to be older 
than the rest, and characterized it as an independent 
fragment by the No. 034. The vowel-points are at- 
tached, but not throughout, evidently by the same hand 
as that which wrote the consonants. There are no traces 
of the Masorah or Keris. Sometimes its readings have 
a remarkable agreement with those of the Samaritan 
text and ancient versions. De Rossi places the various 
pieces of which it is made up in the 9th and 10th cen- 
turies. 

No. 3, Pinner, small folio. This MS. contains the 
greater and lesser prophets, on 225 leaves. Every page 
is written in two columns, between which, as well as 
below, and in the outer margin, stands the Masorah. 
Every column contains twenty-one lines. After each 
verse are two points, to which, without any interval, a 
new verse succeeds. The vowels and accents, as well 
as the greater and lesser Masorah, are wholly different 
from the Masoretic. The former are placed above the 
consonants. The first page has a twofold pointing, viz. 
above and below, but this does not occur again except 
occasionally in verses or words. From Zeeh. xiv, G to 
Mai. i, 13 there is no punctuation, and the first three 
verses of Malachi alone have been pointed much later in 
the manner now usual. The whole Codex is very cor- 
rectly written. The form of the consonants differs con- 
siderably from the present text. The various readings 
of this MS., according to Pinner’s collation, are numer- 
ous and important. The date is 91G. Two others in 
the same collection, Nos. 15 and 17. have the same vowel 
and accent system, i. e. the Babylonian or Eastern, which 
originated in the Gth century, and from which, in the 
7th, that of the Western, or the school of Tiberias, was 
developed. Pinsker has written ably on the subject 
( Einleitung in das Babylonisch-Ifebraische Punktations - 
system , etc., Wien, IG83), reviewed by Fiirst in the Zeit- 
schrift der deutsehen morgenlandischen Gesellschaft , xviii. 
314 sq. 

No. 13, Pinner, folio. This is an incomplete MS., 
consisting of 115 leaves, on good parchment, containing 
2 Samuel from vi, 10 to the end, and the books of Kings. 
Each page has three columns, between which, as also at 
the sides of the text, stands the Masorah. The vowels 
and accents are different from those now in use. The 
text has many and important readings; and the Maso- 
rah deserves to be examined. Two points stand after 
each verse ; and 2d succeeds 1st Kings without a vacant 


space between. An inscription states that the IMS. was 
purchased in 938. It is obviously an important codex. 

Codex 590, Kennieott, folio. This MS. contains the 
Prophets and Ilagiographa on parchment. The text 
has the vowel-points, but apparently from a later hand. 
The margin does not exhibit the Masorah, but variations 
are noted here and there. Some books have the final 
Masorah. The separate books have no titles, and they 
are arranged in the oldest order, Jeremiah and Ezekiel 
coming before Isaiah, and Ruth before the Psalms. Ac- 
cording to the subscription, it was written A.D. 1019, or 
1018 by another reckoning. The MS. is in the impe- 
rial library of Vienna. 

— , Pinner, small folio. A MS. containing the Pen- 
tateuch, Prophets, and Ilagiographa, on good parch- 
ment. Every page has three columns, except in Psalms, 
Job, and Proverbs, where there are but two. The text 
is furnished with vowels and accents, two points stand- 
ing after each verse. The letters and accents are like 
those in No. 3 of Pinner. The Great and Little Maso- 
rah are in the margins. Being a Karaite IMS., it has 
not been written with great accuracy. Words and 
verses are sometimes repeated. It is highly ornamented 
with gold and silver colors. The Codex states that it 
was written in Egypt in the year 1010. 

The most important and oldest Hebrew MSS. collated 
by Kennieott, Bruns, De Rossi, Pinner, and others, are 
described in Davidson’s Biblical Criticism , i, 34G sq. ; 
and his Text of the Old Testament considered , etc., p. 98 
sq. See also the third section of Tychsen’s Tent amen de 
rariis Codicum Ilebraicorum Yet. Test . MSS. generibus , 
etc. (Rostock, 1772, 8vo), in which the learned writer ex- 
amines the marks of antiquity assumed by Simon, Jab- 
lonski,Wolf, Houbigant, Kennieott, and Lilienthal, and 
shows that the Masorah alone is a certain index for de- 
termining the age and goodness of Hebrew MSS. See 
also the same writer’s Beurtheilung dcr Jcthrzahlen in 
den Hebraisch-Biblischen Handschriften (Rostock, 178G, 
8vo), in which the mode of deterraininf the age of MSS. 
adopted by Kennieott. Bruns, and De r.ossi is rejected; 
and Schnurrer’s Dissertatio I naugurulis de Codicum II e- 
brceo'ntm Vet. Test, cetate dijjiculter determinanda (Tu- 
bingen, 1772, 4to), reprinted in his Dissert ationes Philo- 
logico-Cnticce (Gotha and Amsterdam, 1790, 8vo). 

Private MSS. written in the Rabbinical character are 
much more recent than the preceding, none of them be- 
ing older than 500 years. They are on cotton or linen 
paper, in a cursive character, without vowel-points or 
the Masorah, and with many abbreviations. 

The MSS. found among the Chinese Jews are partly 
synagogue rolls, partly private copies, whose text does 
not differ from the Masoretic. The Pentateuch of the 
Malabar Jews, brought from India to England by the 
late Dr. Buchanan, and described by Mr. Yeates, resem- 
bles, on the whole, the usual synagogue rolls of the Jews, 
except that it is written on red skins. Its text is the 
Masoretic, with a few unimportant deviations. 

Eight exemplars are celebrated among the Jews for 
their correctness and value. They are now lost, but ex- 
tracts from them are still preserved. From Jewish writ- 
ings, and from the margin of some MSS., where a refer- 
ence is made to them, we learn that they were highly 
prized for their singular accuracy. They formed the 
basis of subsequent copies. They are, 1. The Codex of 
Ilillel (sec above); 2. The Babylonian Codex; 3. The 
Codex of Israel ; 4. An Egyptian Codex ; 5. Codex Sinai ; 
G. The Pentateuch of Jericho; 7. Codex Sanbuki ; 8. 
The book Taggin. 

For a more copious account of Hebrew MSS. we refer 
to Eichhorn’s Einleitung (Introduction), vol. ii ; Kenni- 
eott’s Dissertatio generalis ; Walton's Prolegomena to the 
Polyghtt , separately edited by Bathe and Wrangham ; 
Tychsen’s Tent amen ; De Rossi’s Varies Lectiones Vet. 
Test, etc.; and his Scholia critica in V. T. libros , etc.; 
De Wette, Lehrbvch der Ilisto risch - Kritischen Einlei- 
tung; Davidson’s Treatise on Biblical Criticism ; and his 
Introd. to the Old Test ., in Ilorne. See Old Testament. 


MANUSCRIPTS 


724 


MANUSCRIPTS 


1 1. Manuscripts of the Greek Testament. — 1. Those that 
have descended to our time are either on vellum or pa- 
per. The oldest material was the Egyptian papyrus, 
but even so early as the 4th century the N. T. was writ- 
ten on the skins of animals. This writing material con- 
tinued in use till the llth century, when paper began 
to be employed. Till the 10th century, MSS. were usu- 
ally written in capital or uncial letters; then the cur- 
sive character eame into use. The most ancient copies 
have no division of words, being written in a continued 
series of lines. Aceents, spirits, and iota, postscribed or 
subscribed, are also wanting. 

2. The whole of the N. T. is contained in very few 
MSS. Transcribers generally divided it into three parts; 
the tirst, containing the four Gospels; the second, the 
Acts of the Apostles and the Epistles; the third, the 
Apocalypse of St. John. The greatest number of MSS. 
are those which have the four Gospels, because they 
were most frequently read in the churches. Those con- 
taining the Acts and Epistles are also numerous. Such 
as have the book of Revelation alone are extremely few, 
because it was seldom read in public. 

Greek codices are not often complete in all their parts. 
They have many chasms. Again, some contain merely 
detached portions of the N. T., or sections appointed to 
be read on certain days in the churches. Such codices 
are called civayvoiatiq or dvayvoxypara in Greek; in 
Latin, lectionaria. Those containing lessons from the 
Gospels are called evangelistaria ; such as were taken 
from the Jcte, npa^aTrocrToXoi ; those from the epistles, 
epistolaria or diroaroKoi. 

Several 31 SS. are accompanied with a Latin transla- 
tion interlined, or in a parallel column . Such have been 
called bilingues or Grceco-Latini. 

3. We shall now advert to the uncial MS. of the Greek 
Testament, and to those usually quoted in the examina- 
tion of the controverted passage 1 John v. 7. The for- 
mer are marked with the letters ot the alphabet, A, B, 
(-.etc.; the latter by the Arabic numerals, 1,2, 3, etc. 
(in some late critics by small letters, a, b, e, etc.). 

The number of uncial MSS. remaining, though great 
when compared with the ancient MSS. extant of other 
writings, is inconsiderable. (See the table in 4, below.) 
Tischendorf (V. 7. Praef. exxx) reckons 40 in the Gos- 
pels, of which 5 are entire, B K 31 S U ; 3 nearly en- 
tire, E LA; 10 contain very considerable portions, A 
C D F G II V X E A; of the remainder, 14 contain 
very small fragments, 8 fragments more (I P Q E Z) 
or less considerable (N T Y). To these must be added 
X {Cod. Sinait.), which is entire; £ (14). a new 31S. of 
Tischendorf (Xot. Cod. Sin. p. 51-52), which is nearly 
entire; and 3 {Cod. Zucgnth.), which contains consider- 
able fragments of Luke. Tischendorf has likewise ob- 
tained 9 additional fragments ( l.c.\ In the Acts there 
are 12, of which 1 contain the text entire (X A B), or 
nearly so (E 2 ); 5 have large fragments (C I) Il 2 G 2 = 
L 2 and 1^), 3 small fragments. In the Catholic Epis- 
tles 7, of which 5,X A B lv 2 G 2 — L 2 are entire; 2 (C 
1\>) nearly entire. In the Pauline Epistles there are 18 : 
1 (K) entire; 3 nearly entire, D 2 L 2 P 2 ; 7 have very 
considerable portions, A B C E 3 F 2 G 3 lv 2 (hut E 3 
is of little account); the remaining 7 some fragments. 
In the Apocalypse 5: 3 entire (X A R 2 ), 2 nearly en- 
tire (C IV). 

According to date these 31SS. are classed as follows: 

Fourth century : N B. 

Fifth century: A C, and some, fragments. 

Sixth century: I) P R Z E 2 L) 2 11 3 , and 9 smaller 
fragments. 

Seventh century : Some fragments. 

Eighth century: E h (A) 3 B 2 , .and some frag- 
ments. 

Xinth century; F lv 31 V X P A II II 2 G 2 =L 2 F 2 
G 2 1\ 2 3I 2 P 2 , and fragments. 

Tenth century: G 11 S U (Ej). 


A complete description of these 3ISS. is given in the 
great critical editions of the N. T. : here those only can 
be briefly noticed which are of primary importance. 

{a.) Uncials. 

X, Codex Sinaiticus {Cod. F?'id. Aug. of the Sept.) at 
St. Petersburg, obtained by Tischendorf from the con- 
vent of St. Catherine, 3Iount Sinai, in 1859. The frag- 
ments of the Sept, published as Cod. Frid. Aug. (184(1) 
were obtained at the same place by Tischendorf in 1844. 
The N. T. is entire, and the Epistle of Barnabas and 
parts of the Shepherd of llermas are added. The whole 
3IS. was published in 1802 by Tischendorf, at the ex- 
pense of the emperor of Russia. It is probably the old- 
est of the 3ISS. of the N. T., and of the 4th century 
(Tischendorf, Xot. Cod. Sin. 18G0). Sec Sinaitic Man- 
uscript. 

A, Codex Alexandrinus (British 3Iuseum), a 3IS. of 
the entire Greek Bible, with the Epistles of Clement 
added. It was given by Cyril Lucar, patriarch of Con- 
stantinople, to Charles I in 1G28, and is now in the Brit- 
ish Museum. It contains the whole of the N. T. with 
some chasms : 3Iatt. i.-xxv, 6, itep\taQt ; John vi, 50, 
iVa-v iii, 52, \kyti ; 2 Cor. iv, 13, fc7nor£V<ra-xii, 6, 
Ipov. It was probably written in the first half of the 
5th centnrj'. The N. T. has been published by AVoide 
(178G, fob), and with some corrections by Cowper (18G0, 
8vo). Compare Wet stein, Proleg. p. 13-30 (cd. Lotze). 
See Alexandrian Manuscript. 

B, Codex Yaticanus (No. 1209), a 3IS. of the Greek 
Bible, which seems to have been in the 3"atican Library 
almost from its commencement (cir. A.D. 1450). It con- 
tains the N. T. entire to Heb. ix, 14, icaOa ; the rest of 
the Epistle to the Hebrews, the Pastoral Epistles, and 
the Apocalypse were added in the 15th century. Vari- 
ous collations of the New Test, were made by Bartoloeei 
(1GG9), by 31ico for Bentley (cir. 1720), whose collation 
was in part revised by Rulotta (1726), and by Birch 
(1788). An edition of the whole 3IS., on which 3Iai 
had been engaged for many years, was published three 
years after his death in 1858 (5 vols. 4to, edWercellone ; 
N. T. reprinted, London and Leipsic). 3lai had himself 
kept back the edition (printed 1828-1838), being fully 
conscious of its imperfections, and had prepared another 
edition of the N. T., which was published also by Ver- 
cellone and others in 1859 (8vo)., This was revised by 
Tischendorf (Lpz. 18G7). The whole of Codex B is to 
be published by authority of the pope, and the N.-T. 
part has already appeared (Rome, 18G8), nearly com- 
plete. The 318. is assigned to the 4th century (Tisch- 
endorf, X. T. p. cxxxvi-exlix). See Vatican Manu- 
script. 

The Apocalypse in these last editions is taken from 
Codex J ’aticanus, 20GG (formerly Codex Basilianus, 105), 
in the 3 r atican Library. It belongs to the 8th century 
(sec Tischendorf’ s X. T. p. cxlii sq. [7th cd.]). 

C, Codex Fphraemi rescript us (Paris, Bill Imp. 9), a 
palimpsest 3IS. which contains fragments of the Sept, 
and of every part of the N. T. In the 12th century the 
original writing was effaced, and some Greek writings 
of Ephraem Svrns were written over it. The 3IS. was 
brought to Florence from the East at the beginning of 
the IGth century, and eame thence to Paris with Cath- 
erine de 3Icdici. Wetstcin was engaged to collate it 
for Bentley (17 1G), but it was first fully examined by 
Tischendorf, who published the N.T. in 1843 ; the O.-T. 
fragments in 1845. The only entire books which have 
perished arc 2 Thcss. and 2 John, but lacunae of greater 
or less extent occur constantly. It is of about the same 
date as the Codex Alex. Sec Ephraem 3Tanuscuipt. 

i) (of the Gospels), Codex liezee (University Library, 
Cambridge), a Graeco- Latin 318. of the Gospels and Acts, 
with a small fragment of 3 John, presented to the Uni- 
versity of Cambridge by Beza in 1581. Some readings 
from it were obtained in Italy for Stephens’s edition, 
but afterwards Beza found it at the sack of Lyons in 
1562, in the 3lonastcrv of St. Ircnauis. The text is very 
remarkable, and, especially in the Acts, abounds in sin- 


MANUSCRIPTS 


*725 


MANUSCRIPTS 


gular interpolations. The MS. has many lacunie. It 
was edited in a splendid form by Kipling (1793, 2 vols. 
fol.), but so imperfectly that it has been published anew 
under the care of the Kev.F. 1 1. Scrivener (Cambr. 1864, 
4to). The MS. is referred to the 6th century. Comp. 
Credner, Beit rage, i, 452-518; Bornemann, Acta Apos- 
tolorum , 1848 ; Schulz, L)e Codice D , Cantab . 1827. See 
Cambridge Manuscript. 

1 1 i« (of the Epistles), Codex Claromontanus , or Regius 
(in the Imperial Library at Paris, 107), marked by the 
same letter of the alphabet as the preceding, but con- 
taining a different part of the N. T., viz., all Paul’s Epis- 
tles with the exception of a few verses. It is a Greek- 
Latin MS., written sticliometrically, with accents and 
breathings, but without division into words. Accord- 
ing to Montfaiu^on, it belongs to the 7th century, but 
Tisehendorf assigns it to the 6th. The text was edited 
by the latter scholar in 1852, and is very valuable. Va- 
rious correctors may be traced, but it is not always easy 
to distinguish them. The first readings are of course 
the principal ones (see the prolegomena to Tiseliendorf’s 
edition). See Clermont Manuscript. 

E (of the Gospels), Codex BasUiensis (K, iv, 35 in the 
public library at Basle). It contains the Gospels, with 
a very few chasms in Luke’s. In some parts smaller 
writing has taken the place of the older. It belongs to 
the middle of the 8th century, and was collated by 
Tisehendorf in 1843. See his description in the Studien 
vnd Kritiken for 1844. See Basilean Manuscript. 

E 2 (of the Acts), Codex Laudianus, a Greek-Latin VIS. 
in the Bodleian Library at Oxford. The text is writ- 
ten stichometrically. It contains the Acts, and has a 
hiatus from xxvi, 29 to xxviii, 26. Its age is the end 
of the 6th century, as Tisehendorf supposes ; or the 7th, 
as Wetstein prefers. The readings are very valuable. 
Ilearne published an edition at Oxford (1715, 8vo), and 
Tisehendorf proposes to publish it more correctly in a 
future volume of his Monumenta Sacra; but Scrivener 
has undertaken a new edition. See Laudian Manu- 
script. 

E 3 (of the Epistles), Codex Sangermanensis (in the Im- 
perial Library of St. Petersburg), a very incorrect tran- 
script of the Codex Claromontanus, and therefore pos- 
sessing no authority or importance. It appears to be- 
long to the 10th century. 

F (of the Gospels), Codex Boreeli , now in the libra- 
ry of Utrecht, containing the Gospels, but with many 
chasms. It was collated and described by Heringa, 
whose work was published by Vinke (1843). The INIS, 
belongs to the end of the 9th century. See Boreel’s 
Manuscript. 

F a , Codex Coisliniamis , containing a few fragments of 
the Gospels, Acts, and Epistles, found among the scholia 
of Codex Coislin. 1, which has the Octateuch, with the 
book of Kings. They were edited by Tisehendorf in 
his Monumenta Sacra inedita (1846), p. 400 sq. The 
fragments belong to the 7th century. See Coislin 
Manuscript, I. 

F b , in the British Museum, 17,136, a rescript fragment 
from the Nitrian desert, containing a few places of 
John’s Gospel, which were deciphered and published bv 
Tisehendorf in his J fonum. ined. vol. ii. The text agrees 
with the most ancient and best authorities. Tisehendorf 
assigns the fragment to the 4th century ; it rather be- 
longs to the 5th. 

F 2 (of the Epistles), Codex Augiensis, a Greek-Latin 
MS. of St. Paul’s Epistles, in the library of Trinity Col- 
lege, Cambridge. It wants the Epistle to the Hebrews 
in Greek, and Homans i, I-iii, 18. Dots are inserted be- 
tween many of the Greek and Latin words. The text 
is ancient and valuable. It belongs to the 9th century. 
In 1842 and 1849 it was collated by Tisehendorf, and ed- 
ited by Serivener (1859). See Augian Manuscript. 

G (of the Gospels), Codex llarleianus (5684 in the 
British Museum), a MS. of the four Gospels, but imper- 
fect in many places. It belongs to the 9th or 10th cen- 
tury, and was collated by Tregelles and Tisehendorf. 


G 2 (of the Epistles), Cod. Boemerianus, a Greek-Latin 
MS. of Paul’s Epistles, now in the Koval Library of Dres- 
den. It has the same chasms as F, Augiensis, with 
which it agrees remarkably, so that both texts seem to 
have proceeded from the same copy. They belong to 
one country and age — probably to Switzerland and the 
9th century. Matthaei published it in 1791, 8vo. See 
Boerner Manuscript. 

II (of the Gospels), Codex Seidelii , II, a VIS. of the 
four Gospels in the public library of Hamburg. It is 
imperfect in many places, belongs to the 9th or 10th 
century, and was collated by Tregelles in 1850. 

11 2 (of the Acts), Codex Mutinensis (196 in the Dueal 
Library of Modena), a VI S. of the Acts, with considera- 
ble gaps. Its age is the 9th century. From Acts xxvii, 
4 till the end was supplied in uncial letters in the 1 1th 
century. The Pauline and Catholic Epistles were added 
in cursive letters in the 15th or 16th century. Tischen- 
dorf collated it in 1843. 

11 3 (of the Epistles), Codex Coislinianus (202 in the 
Imperial Library at Paris). This ]\IS. contains frag- 
ments of Paul’s Epistles. It consists only of twelve 
leaves, two which it formerly had being now at Peters- 
burg. Another leaf was recently brought by Tisclien- 
dorf from Mount Athos, containing Col. iii, 4—1 1 . The 
fifteen leaves should be put together. It has been col- 
lated by Tisehendorf, who intends to publish it all. It 
belongs to the 6tli century. See Coislin Manuscript, 2. 

I, a MS. in the library of St. Petersburg, found by 
Tisehendorf on his travels in the East. It is a rescript , 
containing the remains of seven very ancient MSS. ex- 
hibiting parts of the Gospels, Acts, and two Pauline 
Epistles. Tisehendorf thinks that the first, second, and 
third belong to the 5th century. All are edited by him 
in the first volume of Monumenta Sacra , p. 1, etc. 

I b . See N b . 

K (of the Gospels), Codex Regius , or Cyprius (now 
63 in the Imperial Library of Paris). It contains the 
four Gospels complete, belongs to the middle of the 9tli 
century, and was accurately collated by Tisehendorf in 
1842. See Paris Manuscripts. 

Iv 2 (of the Epistles), Codex Mosquensis (xcviii in the 
Library of the Iloly Synod at Moscow), containing the 
Catholic and Pauline Epistles. It belongs to the 9th 
century, and was collated by Matthau. 

L (of the Gospels), Codex Regius (62 in the Imperial 
Library at Paris), containing the Gospels entire with 
the exception of five places. The text of this codex 
contains very old and good readings, agreeing remark- 
ably with B. It belongs to the 8tli century, and was 
published by Tisehendorf in his Monum. Sacra , 1846, 
p. 57. See Paris Manuscripts. 

L 2 (of the Acts and Epistles), Codex Bibliotheca} An- 
gelicas (A 2, 15 in the library of the Augustine monks 
at Home), a IMS. containing the Acts, Catholic Epistles, 
and those of Paul. It begins with Acts viii, 10, and 
ends with Hebrews xiii, 10. Its age is the 9th century. 
It was first collated with care by Fleck; afterwards by 
Tisehendorf and Tregelles. 

M (of the Gospels), Codex Regius (48 in the Imperial 
Library of Paris), containing the Gospels entire. This 
MS. has been transcribed by Tisehendorf, but is not yet 
published. He assigns it to the latter part of the 9th 
century. See Paris Manuscripts. 

M 2 (of the Epistles), two fragments ; one at Hamburg, 
the other at London. The former contains some parts 
of the Epistle to the Hebrews; the latter, portions of 
the Epistle to the Corinthians. Both were published by 
Tisehendorf in his Anecdota Sacra, p. 174 sq. The text 
is both ancient and valuable. 

N (of the Gospels), Codex purpureus, the fragment of 
a INIS., of which four leaves are in the British Museum, 
six in the Vatican, and two at Vienna. Tisehendorf 
has recently found 33 leaves more, containing about a 
third of the entire Gospel of Mark, between vi, 53 and 
xv, 3. The letters were silver on purple vellum. They 
are larger and rounder than in A B C. The text is in 


MANUSCRIPTS 


726 


MANUSCRIPTS 


two columns. The Ammonian sections aud Eusebian 
canons are placed in tlie margin. All contain portions 
of the Gospels. The contents of the twelve leaves were 
published by Tischendorf in his Monumenta inedit a, who 
assigns the fragment to the end of the, 6th century. 
See Purple Manuscript. 

No (of the Epistles), a fragment consisting of two 
leaves, with Gal. v and vi, and 1 Ieb. v and vi. Assign- 
ed by Tischendorf to the 9th century. 

N b [Tisch. I b ] (Brit. M us. A dd. 17, 136), a palimpsest 
of the 4th or 5th century, deciphered by Tregelles, and 
published by Tischendorf (Mon. hied. vol. ii). 

N c , a few fragments, now at Moscow, of the Epistle 
to the Hebrews. Tischendorf thinks they may be of 
the 6th century, but Matthau did not state enough to 
determine their age. 

0, a small fragment, consisting of two leaves, con- 
taining 2 Cor. i, 20-ii, 12, belonging to the 9th century. 

O', Codex Mosquensis (exx, at Moscow), a fragment 
consisting of eight leaves, containing a few parts of 
John's Gospel ; probably of the 9th century. Mattliaei 
published the text. 

0 1 , the two hymns, Luke i, 46-55 and i, 68-79, in a 
Latin MS. containing the grammar of Pompeius. They 
are written in uncial Greek letters, and belong to the 
9th century. Tischendorf published them in his Anec- 
dotu sacra et prof ana, p. 206 sq. 

O b , the same two hymns, together with a third, Luke 
ii, 29-o2, in a Psalter in the Bodleian Library, No. 120, 
belonging to the 9th century. See Tischendorf, A nec- 
dota. p. 206. 

O’, the hymn of Mary, Luke i, 46-55, contained in 
the Verona Psalter, and belonging to the 6tli century. 
The Greek is in Latin letters. It was published by 
Blauchini in the Psalterium duplex appended to his 
V indictee canonicarum Scripturarum (Roma?, 1740). 

U 1 , the three hymns of Luke i and ii, as contained in 
the Psalter of Turin, written in gold and silver letters, 
belonging to the 7th century. Tischendorf is about to 
publish the entire Psalter. 

0\ the same three hymns in a St.-Gall Codex, 17, 
written partly in Greek aud partly in Latin. Tischen- 
dorf assigns the MS. to the 9th century. 

P (of the Gospels), Codex Guelpherbytanus, A (in the 
library of Wolfenbuttel), a palimpsest MS. containing 
fragments of the Gospels. In 1762 Knittel published all 
he could read. In 1854 Tischendorf succeeded in de- 
ciphering almost all the portions of the Gospels that ex- 
ist, which he has published in his Monumenta Sacra 
inedita (I860). See below, Q. 

P 2 (of the Acts and Epistles), a MS. of the Acts, Cath- 
olic and Pauline Epistles, and Apocalypse, belonging to 
the library of bishop Uspcnski in St.. Petersburg. This 
is a valuable palimpsest, consisting of upwards of 300 
leaves. Though belonging to the 9tli century, the text, 
except in 1 Peter and Acts, agrees with that of the old- 
est codices. The Epistles were published in 1805, and 
the Acts and Rev. in 1869, by Tischendorf, in his Monum. 
Sacra. 

Q, Codex Guelpherbytanus , B, another palimpsest, con- 
taining fragments of Luke and John’s Gospels, discov- 
ered by Knittel, and published with the last fragments. 
Tischendorf is about to re-edit it in a more complete 
and accurate state. According to him, P belongs to the 
6th, and Q to the 5th century. See Wolfenbuttel 
Manuscripts. 

()', a papyrus fragment, containing parts of 1 Cor. i, 
vi. vii, belonging to the 5th or 6th century. 

R, a rescript MS. belonging to the British Museum, 
brought from the Nitrian desert, with many other cod- 
ices, chiefly Syriac ones. The Syriac text of Severns 
of Antioch was written over it. The forty-eight leaves 
contain parts of Luke’s Gospel. The writing is in two 
columns; and the Ammonian sections have not the can- 
ons of Eusebius. Tischendorf published almost the 
whole text (for some of it is illegible) in his Monumejita 
Sacra inedita, vol. ii. Dr. Wright found three leaves 


overlooked by Tischendorf, of which he gave an ac- 
count in the Journal of Sacred Literature for January, 
1864. It is assigned to the 6th century, but may belong 
to the 7th. 

S, Codex Vaticanus, 354. This MS. contains the four 
Gospels entire. It is in the Vatican Library, where 
Birch carefully collated it twice for his Greek Testa- 
ment. A subscription to it states that it was written 
A.D. 949. See Tischendorf, in the Annales Vindobon. 
(1847), where a fac-simile better than those of Blanchini 
and Birch is given. 

T, Codex Borgianus (1 in the library of the Propa- 
ganda at Rome), a MS. of thirteen leaves, containing 
fragments of John’s Gospel. The Greek text has a 
Thebaic translation by its side. Giorgi published the 
text in 1789 at Rome. Tischendorf, who inspected the 
MS. and made a fac-simile of it, assigns it to the 5th 
century. See Borgian Manuscript. 

T b , six leaves, containing John i, ii, iii, iv, belonging 
to the 6th century. 

T c , two leaves, containing Matt, xiv, xv, belonging 
to the 6th century. The writing and text resemble 
those of the Borgian fragments. 

T d , fragments of Matthew, Mark, and Luke, from Bor- 
gian MSS. of the 7th century. 

T s , Fragmentum Wouleanum, a few leaves, Greek and 
Sahidic, whose text was edited by Woide (contained in 
the Appendix to the Codex Alexandrinus, 1799). The 
one contains Luke xii, 15-xiii, 32; the other, John viii, 

33- 42. Tischendorf has discovered that these frag- 
ments are parts of T, published by Giorgi. Hence they 
belong to the same time. 

U, Codex Venetus Marcianus, formerly Nanianus (in 
St. Mark’s Library at Venice), a MS. of the Gospels com- 
plete, with a text elegantly written. It was first colla- 
ted accurately by Tischendorf in 1843, and again by 
Tregelles in 1846. According to Tischendorf it belongs 
to the end of the 9th or to tlie 10th century. 

V, Codex Mosquensis (in the library of the Holy 
Synod at Moscow), a MS. of the four Gospels, with sev- 
eral chasms. From John vii, 39 has been supplied by 
a more recent hand of the 13th century, in cursive let- 
ters. It belongs to the 9th century, and was twice col- 
lated by Mattlnei. . 

W a , two leaves at the end of Codex Begins, now in 
the Imperial Library of Paris. They contain Luke ix, 

34- 47 ; x, 12-22, and are the fragment of a continu- 
ous IMS. of the Gospels belonging to the 8th century. 
Tischendorf has edited the whole in his Monumenta 
Sacra inedita. 

W b , Codex Xeapolitanus rescriptus, consisting of four- 
teen leaves which contain fragments of the first three 
Gospels as old as the Sth century. Tischendorf edited 
some verses of it in the Annales Vindobonenses (1847); 
and it is described by Scotti. Tischendorf supposes that 
the leaves belong to the same MS. as W a . 

W c , three leaves at St. Gall, containing fragments of 
Mark and Luke. They are a sort of palimpsest, the 
| writing having been effaced, though nothing new was 
written over. Tischendorf, who copied, and intends to 
edit these fragments, assigns them to the 9th century. 

W d , fragments of Mark's Gospel, vii, viii, ix. found in 
Trinity College, Cambridge, belonging to the 9tli cen- 
tury. 

X, Codex Monacensis, in the library of the University 
of Munich, containing fragments of the four Gospels. 
Commentaries of several fathers, especially Chrysostom, 
accompany the text, except Mark’s. It belongs to the 
9th or 10th century. Between John ii, 22 and vii, 1, is 
supplied by a later hand of the 12tli century. Tlie MS. 
was collated by Tischendorf and Tregelles. 8oe Mu- 
nich Manuscript. 

Y, Codex Barber inns, No. 225, six leaves containing 
fragments of John’s Gospel, belonging to the 8th cen- 
tury, copied by Tischendorf in 1843, and published ill 
his Monumenta Sacra inedita , 1840. They are now in 
the Barberinian Library at Rome. 


MANUSCRIPTS 


727 


MANUSCRIPTS 


Z, Codex Dublinensis , in the library of Trinity Col- 
lege, Dublin, a palimpsest, containing fragments of Mat- 
thew’s Gospel, and belonging to the Gth century. The 
text of this MS. presents ancient and valuable readings. 
It was published in fac-simile by Barrett, 1801, 4to, and 
Tregclles has since (1853) deciphered the remainder 
{Printed Text , p. 166 sq.). See Dublin Manusc ript. 

F, a IMS., now in the Bodleian Library, consisting of 
157 leaves large 4to. It contains Luke’s Gospel entire, 
and parts of the other three. The form of the letters 
resembles the Codex Cyprius or K. Tischendorf, who 
got it in the East, assigns it to the 9th century. He 
collated and described it in Aneedota sacra et prof ana. 

The second half of this MS. has recently been found, 
containing the greatest part of Matthew and John. The 
date is 844. 

A. Codex Sangallensis, a Greek -Latin MS. in the 
library of St. Gall, containing the four Gospels entire, 
with the exception of John xix, 17-35. It is very sim- 
ilar in character to G {Cod. Boernerianns), both belong- 
ing to the same age and country, i. e. they were written 
in the monastery of St. Gall, in Switzerland, in the 9th 
century. Rettig published it at Zurich, in fac-simile, 
in 1836. This MS., with the codices Augiensis and Bo- 
ernerianus, are portions of one and the same document. 
See Gall, St., Manuscript. 

0. Codex 'Tischendorf anus I, in the library of Leip- 
zic University, consisting of four leaves, of which the 
third is almost decayed, containing a few fragments of 
Matthew's Gospel. Tischendorf assigns them to the 
end of the 7th century. He published the contents in 
his Monumenta Sacra inedit a, p. I, etc. 

0 b , a fragment, containing six leaves, with.Matt. xxii 
and xxiii, and Mark iv, belonging to the 7th century. 

0 C , two leaves, containing Matt, xxi, 19-24, and John 
xviii, 29-35, belonging to the Gth century. 

0 d , a small fragment of the 8th century, containing 
Luke xi. 

0 e , a fragment of Matt, xxvi, of the Gth century. 

0 f , four leaves, containing Matt, xxvi, xxvii, Mark i 
and ii. Of the Gth century. 

0s, a fragment of John vi, belonging to the Gth cen- 
tury. 

0 h , a Greek-Arabic MS., containing three leaves, with 
Matt, xiv and xxv, belonging to the 9th century. 

A, a MS. in the Bodleian Library, containing the Gos- 
pels of Luke and John entire. It consists of 157 leaves, 
and belongs to the 9tli century. Tischendorf and Tre- 
gellcs have collated it. 

II, a valuable MS. of the Gospels, almost complete, 
brought by Tischendorf from Smyrna to" St. Peters- 
burg. It belongs to the 9th century. (See Tischen- 
dorfs Notitia editionis codicis Bibliorum Sinaitici , etc., 
p.51.) 

a, Codex Zacynthius, a palimpsest containing frag- 
ments of Luke’s Gospel, belonging to the committee of 
the British and Foreign Bible Society. It is of the 8th 
century, and is accompanied by a catena of the 13th. 
Tregclles transcribed and published the fragments 
(1861). Sec Zacyntiiian Manuscript. 

Such are the uncial MSS. hitherto collated. Their 
number is not great, but every year is adding to it. 
There are known upwards of a hundred uncials, includ- 
ing evangclistaria and apostoli. (See the table below.) 

4. The number of the cursive MSS. {minuscules') in 
existence cannot be accurately calculated. Tischendorf 
catalogues about 500 of the Gospels, 200 of the Act9 and 
Catholic Epistles, 250 of the Pauline Epistles, and a lit- 
tle less than 100 of the Apocalypse (exclusive of lection- 
aries); but this enumeration can only be accepted as a 
rough approximation. Many of the MSS. quoted arc 
only known by old references ; still more have beeu 
“inspected” most cursorily; few only have been thor- 
oughly collated. In this last work the Rev. F. H. Scriv- 
ener {Collation of about 20 MSS. of the Holy Gospels , 
Camb. 1853; Cod. Aug. etc., Camb. 1859) has labored 
with the greatest success, and removed many common 


errors as to the character of the later text. His sum- 
mary is as follows : 



Uncial. 

Cursive. 

Duplicates | 

already 

deducted. 

Gospels 

34 

Gtll 

32 

Act. Cath. Epp 

10 

229 

12 

Paul 

14 

283 

14 

Apoc 

4 

102 


Evangelistaria 

5S 

183 

6 

Apostoli 

7 

65 


Total 

127 

1403 

| 04 


Among the MSS. which are well known and of great 
value the following are the most important : 

A. Primary Cursives of the Gospels: 

1 (Act. 1 ; Paul. 1 ; Basileensis , K. iii, 3). 10th cent. Very 
valuable in the Gospels. Collated by Roth and Tregclles. 

33 (Act. 13; Paul. 17 ; Paris, Bihl. Imp. 14). 11th cent. 
Coll, by Tregelles. 

59 (Coll. Gonv. et Cai. Cambr.). 12th cent. Coll, by 
Scrivener, 1860. but as yet unpublished. 

69 (Act. 31 ; Paul. 37 ; Apoc. 14 ; Cod. Leicestrensis) . 14th 
cent. The text of the Gospels is especially valuable. Coll, 
by Tregelles, 1852, and by Scrivener, 1855, who published 
his collation in Cod. Aug. etc., 1S59. 

118 (Bodleian. Miscell. 13 ; Marsh 24). 13th cent. Coll, 
by Griesbach, Sumb. Crit. i, ccii sq. 

124 (Caesar. Viudob. Nessel. 1SS). 12th cent. Coll, by 
Treschow, Alter, Birch. 

127 (Cod. Vaticanus, 349). 11th cent. Coll, by Birch. 

131 (Act. 70; Paul. 77; Apoc. 66; Cod. Vaticanus, 360). 
11th cent. Formerly belonged to Aldus Maniitius, and 
was probably used by him in his edition. Coll, by Birch. 
157 (Cod. Urbino-Vat. 2). 12th cent. Coll, by Birch. 

218 (Act. G5 ; Paul. 57; Apoc. 33; Cresar -Viudob. 23). 
13th cent. Coll, by Alter. 

238, 259 (Moscow, S. Synod. 42, 45). 11th cent. Coll, hy 
Matthaei. 

2G2, 300 (Paris, Bibl. Imp . 53, 180). 10th and 11th cent. 
Coll. (?) hy Scholz. 

346 (Milan, Ambros. 23). 12th cent. Coll. (?) by Scholz. 
2p e (St. Petersburg. Pctropol. vi, 470). 9th cent. Coll, 
by Mnralt. (Transition cursive.) 

cser, gser (Lambeth, 1177, 52S, Wetstein, 71). 12th cent. 
Coll, hy Scrivener. 

pscr (Brit. Mus. Burney, 20). 13th cent. Coll, by Scriv- 
ener. 

w acr (Cambr. Coll. SS. Trim B.x,lG). 14th cent. Coll, 
by Scrivener. 

To these must be added the Evangelistarium (B. M. 
Burney, 22), marked y scr , coll, by Scrivener. (Cut, fig. 4.) 
The following are valuable, but need careful collation : 
13 (Paris, Bibl. Imp. 50). Coll. 1797, 12th cent. (Comp. 
Griesbach, Symb. Crit. i, cliv-clxvi.) 

22 (Paris, Bibl. Imp. 72). 11th cent. 

2S (Paris, Bibl. Imp. 379). Coll, by Scholz. 

72 (Brit. Mus. Harl. 5647). 11th cent. 

106 (Cock Winchelsea). 10th cent. Coll, by Jackson 
(used by Wetstein), 174S. 

113, 114 (Brit. Mus. Harl. 1810, 5540). 

126 (Cod. Guelpherbytanus, xvi, 16). 11th cent. 

130 (Cod. Vaticanus, 359). 13th cent. 

209 (Act. 05 ; Paul. 138 ; Apoc. 46 ; Venice, Bibl. S. Marci, 
10). 15th cent. The text of the Gospels is especially val- 
uable. 

225 (Vienna, Bibl. Imp. Kollar. 9, Forlos. 31). 12th cent. 

1 372, 382 (Rome, Vatican. 1161, 2070). 15th and 13th cent. 

| 405, 40S, 409 (Venice, S. Marci, i, 10, 14,15). 11th and 12th 

cent. 

B. Primary Cursives of the Acts and Catholic Epistles: 
13=Gosp. 33, Paul. 17. 

31=Gosp. 69 ( Codex Leicestrensis). 

65=Gosp. 21S. 

73 (Paul. SO. Vatican. 367). 11th cent. Coll, by Birch . 
95. 96 (Venet. 10, 1 1). 14th and 11th cent. Coll, by Rinck. 
ISO (Argentor. Bibl. Sem. M.). Coll, by Areudt. 
loti—pscrCl (Tregelles, Brit. Mus. Add. 20,003). 11th cent. 

Coll, bv Scrivener. See cut, fig. 2. 
a scr (Lambeth, 1182). 12th cent. Coll. by Scrivener. 
c«<-r (Lambeth, 1184). Coll, by Sanderson ap. Scrivener. 
The following are valuable, hut require more careful 
collation : 

5 (Paris, Bibl. Imp. 106). 

25, 27 (Paul. 31 ; Apoc. 7 ; Paul. 33. Brit. Dins. Uarl. 5537, 
5620). Comp. Griesbach, Symb. Crit. ii, 184, 185. 

29 (Paul. 35 ; Genev. 20). ‘ 11th aud 12th cent. 

36 {foil. Xov. Oxoil). 

40 (Paul. 46 : Apoc. 12. Alex. Vatican. 179). 11th cent. 
Coll, by Zacngni. 

66 (Paul. 67). 

68 (Paul. 73, U psa i). 12th and 11th cent. 

69 (Paul. 74; Apoc. 30 ; Guelph, xvi, 7). 14th and 13th 
cent. 

81 (Berberini, 377). 11th cent. 

137 (Milan. 97). lltli cent. Coll, by Scholz. 

142 (Mutiuensis, 243). 12th cent. 


MANUSCRIPTS 


728 


MANUSCRIPTS 




TAriAK/MK/TflKv 

HAfTffi HHOAO 

roc+K\i«/y« x m; 

hNnjoVroHHhH, 

mwunmru* 

O^TMHNiNAfXff 
np0CT)ltfrN+riAH 


( 2 -) 


C. Primary Cursives 
in the Pauline Epistles : 

17=Gosp. 33. 
37=Gosp. 69 ( Codex 
$ Leicestrensis). 

57— Gosp. 218. 

1 OS, 109= Act. 95, 96. 
115, 116 (Act. 100, 101 , 
Mosqn. Matt. d. f.). 

137 (Gosp. 263 ; Act. 
117, Paris, Bibl. Imp. 
61). 

The following are 
valuable, but require 
more careful collation : 
5=Act. 5. 

23 (Paris, Coisliju2S). 
11th ceut. Descr. by 
Montfaufou. 

31 (Brit. Mrs. Hurl. 
5537)=l9cr J Apoc. 13th 
cent. 

39 (Act. 33. Oxford, 
Coll. Lincoln. 2). 
46=Act. 40. 

47 (Oxford, Bodleian. 
Roe, 16). 11th cent. 

55 (Act. 46. Moua- 
censis). 

67 (Act. 66. Vindob. 
Lambec. 34). The cor- 
rections are especially 
valuable. 

70 (Act. 67. Vindob. 
Lambec. 37). 

71 (Vindob. Forlos. 
19). 12th ceut. 

73 (Act. 68). 

80 (Act. 73. Vatican. 
367). 

177-S-9 (Matin.). 

D. Primary Cursives 
of the A pocalijpse: 

7=bcr (Act. 25. Brit. Mas. liarl. 
5537). 11th ceut. Coll, by Scriven- 
er. 

14=Gosp. 69 (Corl. Leicestrensis). 
31=c scr (Brit. Mas. Ilarl. 5678). 
15th eeut. Coll, by Scrivener. 

3S (Vatican. 579). 13th ceut. Coll, 
by B. II. Alford. 

47 (Cod. Dresdeusis). lltli cent. 
Coll, by Matthmi. 

51 (Paris, Bibl. Imp.). Coll, by 
Reiche. 

gacr (Parham, 17). 11th and 12th 
cent. Coll, by Scrivener. 

macr (Middlehill)=S7. 11th and 
12th cent. Coll, by Scrivener. 

The following are valuable, but 
require more careful collation : 

2 (Act. 10; Paul. 12; Paris, Bibl. 
Imp. 237). 

6 (Act. 23 ; Paul. 2S. Bodleian. Barocc. 3). 
12th and 13th cent. 

11 (Act. 39; Paul. 45). 

12= Act. 40. 

17, 19 (Ev. 35; Act. 14; Paul. IS; Act. 17; 
Paul. 21. Paris. Coisliu. 1S9, 205). 

28 (Bodleian. Barocc. 4S). 

36 (Vindob. Forlos. 29). 14th ceut. 

41 (Alex. Vatican. 6S). 14th cent. 

46= Gosp. 209. 

82 (Act. 179; Paul.l2S; Monac. 211). 

5. MSS. are sometimes divided by the crit- 
ics of Germany into, 1. Such as were written 
before the practice of stichometry, a mode of 
dividing the text in lines or clauses. See 
SriciiOMETKY. 2.Thc stichome triced. S.Those 
written after stichometry had ceased. So Hug 
and Dc Wctte, in their Introductions to the 
X.T. According to this classification, A, 

B, and C belong to the first class; I), P 2 , etc., 
to the second ; and bv far the greatest number 
to the third. We have alluded to them un- 
der the two great heads of uncial and cursive. 

_ In examining MSS. and comparing their 

Specimens of Greek MSS. from the 10th to the 14th century nowin the characteristic readings, it is not easy in every 
British Museum : Fig. 1 is from the Ilarleian Evangelistary, No. 5598 instance to arrive at the true original form 

htam" r&i " f ? »“*?<?• circumstances are to 

No.“ *lo tl ”). Fig. 3, from Harleiau Evangelistary, l)C takcn lllto acc0l,ut » and man V cautions to 

John l, 1-3 (Scrivener, p. 157, No.“ 115”). Fig. 4, from I 
tiouary, 22, contains Johu i, 1-3 (Scrivener, p. 220, No. “ 


<MJTOVr 'TH i - p >oa®3 . p.dLr(yirkuJH 
6rn r-Lj, ^^pci> 

K A h p o p o . 

‘ ~ feeders i' f cl^<. o ado i<r_5 'rrb'fS'vf Kgn 


CO | 

*ToC» 



(3.) 


N<*e Vu^o/x^Kr • i<a4o/L)fcc-' 

oGyo <r lew fry cfoir0-(j* kboM 

*TO 08 pOTDu 6 Y^() ^t3-t^a|,- )C tOg\ a - (Wtti 

. W \ ~ o\ 

O^O yO (X H p/TSOp 

JTO p Qy } Ixcu 0 Imy 

°p$yov ovroa h 


*yacr oy 


be observed. They are more useful in de- 
tecting interpolated passages than in rcstor- 


MAOCH 


729 


MAPLETOFT 


ing tlie correct reading. The reading of an older INIS, is 
preferable cteteris paribus. In determining the age of a 
MS. internal marks arc chiefly followed, such as the form 
of the letters, the divisions, abbreviations, the nature of 
the lines, the presence or absence of the accents, etc. 
These particulars, however, are not safe criteria. Age 
alone is not sufficient to insure the value of the text of a 
MS. The copyist may have been guilty of negligence or 
inattention. In proportion to his accuracy or carelessness 
the authority of the codex will be greater or less. Again, 
a document certainly copied I'rom one which is very an- 
cient will have greater authority than an earlier taken 
from another of no great antiquity. Thus a MS. of 
the eighth century may have been directly copied from 
one of the fifth, and consequently the former will be 
entitled to greater estimation than one belonging to the 
7th century transcribed from one of the Gth. In deter- 
mining the value of a eodex, it is usual to refer to the 
country where it was written. ( Jriesbaeh and others pre- 
fer the A fricaii ; Scholz, the Constantinopolitun. Those 
written in Egypt are the best. With respect to He- 
brew MSS., it is admitted by all that the Spanish are 
the best. The Italian, again, are superior to the Ger- 
man. The reading contained in the greater number of 
MSS. is preferable to that of a less number. Mere ma- 
jority. however, is not a safe criterion. A majority 
arising from independent sources, or, in other words, of 
those belonging to different recensions , can alone be re- 
lied on as decisive. But here critics are not agreed as 
to the number of recensions belonging to Greek MSS. 
Some have proposed four, some three, others two. Be- 
sides, the same MS. may belong to a different recension 
in different parts of itself. In others, the characteristic 
readings of two or three recensions are mingled togeth- 
er, rendering it difficult to determine which recension or 
family preponderates. Hebrew MSS. belong to one and 
the same recension. It is true that some have distin- 
guished them into Masoretic and A nte-masoretic, but 
the existence of the lattef is a mere fiction. One great 
family alone, viz. the Masoretic , can be distinctly traced. 
Since the time of Lachmann’s first edition, greater im- 
portance has been attached by N.-T. critics to the age 
of MSS. It has been the object of his followers in the 
same department to adhere for the most part to the old- 
est copies. This is right within certain limits. The 
true text of the X. T., as far as we can now obtain it, 
lies in the MSS. of the 4th till the 8th centuries, accom- 
panied and modified by the testimony of ancient ver- 
sions and fathers during that period. But within this 
period we can easily distinguish MSS. of a second order 
in goodness, viz. E, F, G, II, K, 31, S, U, V, from those 
of the first class, K, A, 13, C, Z (see Davidson’s Biblical 
Criticism , vol. ii). See Criticism, Biblical. 

Ma'ocll (Ilcb. 2faok', compressed ; Sept. 

‘Aju/toy, Vulg. 2faocli), the father of the Aehish king of 
Gath to whom David repaired for safety (l Sam. xxvii, 
2). B.C. ante 1054. By many he has been confounded 
with the Maacaii of 1 Kings ii, 39. See Acmsii. 

Ma'on (Heb. Matin', j’ 1 -'*?? habitation, .as often ; 
Sept. Mown), the name of a man and of a place. See 
also Maoxite. 

1. The son of Shammai, of the tribe of Judah and 
family of Caleb, and the “ father” (i. e. founder) of Beth- 
zur (1 Chron, ii, 45). B.C. prob. post 1018. 

2. A town in the tribe of Judah (Josh, xv, 55), which 
gave name to a wilderness (part of the desert of Jtidiea), 
where David hid himself from Saul, and around which 
the churlish Xabal had great possessions (1 Sam. xxiii, 
24, 25; xxv, 2). Josephus calls it Emma (’E/t/m, Ant. 
vi, 13, 6). Eusebius and Jerome place it to the east of 
Daroma ( Onomast . s. v. Moi'wn, Maon). Irby and Man- 
gles were in the neighborhood in 1818, but did not de- 
tect this and other ancient names. Kobinson finds it in 
the present Main, which is about seven miles south by 
east from Hebron. Here there is a conical hill about 


200 feet high, on the top of which are some ruins of no 
great extent, consisting of foundations of hewn stone, a 
square enclosure, the remains probably of a tower or 
eastle, and several cisterns. The view from the sum- 
mit is extensive. The traveller found here a band of 
peasants keeping their flocks, and dwelling in caves 
amid the ruins (Bibl. Researches , ii, 190-190). With 
this identification De Saulcy (. Narrative , i, 441) and 
Schwarz ( Palestine , p. 100) agree. See Mehunim. 

Ma'onite (Heb. same word as Maon, used collec- 
tively; Sept, and Vulg. interpret Xavactv [v. r. Natii- 
dfi], Chanaan, Auth. Vers. “ Maonites”), an Arabian 
tribe mentioned in connection with the Amalekites, Si- 
donians, Philistines, and others as having oppressed the 
Hebrews (Judg. x, 12). They arc the same as the Me- 
cnites (DNlte’E, Meihiim' , the plural of Maon; ,Sept. 
Mcrrnot, confounding them with the Ammonites: Vulg. 
A mmonitce, and tabernacula ; Auth. Vers. “Mchunims,” 
and “the habitations”), elsewhere mentioned in a simi- 
lar connection (2 Chron. xxvi, 27 ; 1 Chron. iv, 41). See 
also Mehunim. At the present day there exists a town 
called M a' an, with a castle, in Arabia Petrrca, to the 
south of the Dead Sea (see Seetzen, in Zacli’s Manatl. 
Corresp. xviii, 382; Burekhardt, Travels in Syria, p. 
437). Prof. Robinson says, “Ma’an, the well-known 
town on the route of the Syrian Haj, nearly east of 
wadv Musa, is with good reason assumed as the proba- 
ble seat of the Maonites mentioned in the Scriptures. 
Abulfeda (Syr, p. 14) describes Ma’an as inhabited by 
Ommiades and their vassals” {Researches, ii, 572). That 
the Mincei of Arabia (Diod. Sic. iii, 42; Ptol. vi, 7, 23; 
Strabo, xvi, 708) are a different people lias long since 
been shown by Bochart ( Phaley , ii, 23). Traces of the 
name Maon are found in several localities besides that 
of the above passages. It is given to a town in the 
south of Judah, now identified with the ruins of Tell 
Main (Porter, Handbook for S. and P. p. 01). In pro- 
nouncing a prophetic curse upon Moab, Jeremiah men- 
tions Bcth-mcon (xlviii, 23), which may perhaps be the 
same as the Beth-baal-meon of Josh, xiii, 17, and the 
Baal-meon of Numb, xxxii, 38, and would thus be iden- 
tical with the ruin Main, three miles south of lleshbon. 
See Betii-baal-meon. Hence “ it is probable that all 
these names indicate the presence of an ancient and 
powerful nomad tribe, which was allied to the Phoeni- 
cians (or Sidonians), whose earliest settlements were in 
the vale of Sodom, and with the Amalekites who dwelt 
in the wilderness south of Palestine. These Maonites 
migrated eastward, leaving their name at Maon in the 
south of Judah, where they may have had their head- 
quarters for a time, and again at Beth-mcon, on the 
plateau of Moab; and also at the large modern village 
above described” (Kitto). 

Maphrian is in the Syrian Church the highest 
episcopal dignitary after the patriarch of Antioch. The 
jurisdiction of the maphrian extends over Chaldiea, As- 
syria, and Mesopotamia. His residence was formerly 
at Tafrits, on the Tiger, but since this see has coalesced 
with that of Mosul it is at the latter place. Xeale (/»- 
trod. Hist, of the Eastern Church, p. 152) says that “the 
maphrians are now only nominally distinguished from 
the other metropolitans.” 

Maoris. See New Zealand. 

Mapletoft, John, D.D., an English minister, was 
born at Margaret- Inge, Huntingdonshire, in 1031 ; re- 
ceived his education at Westminster School and Trinity 
College, Cambridge; in 1053 became fellow of Trinity; 
in 1058 became tutor to Joscelin, earl of Northumber- 
land; in 10G0 entered upon the study of medicine, and 
finally practiced it with great success, filling at one time 
the chair of phvsie in Gresham College, London. Hav- 
ing turned his attention to the study of divinity, he took, 
in 1082, both deaeon’s and priest’s orders; was soon af- 
ter presented to the rectory of Braybrooke, in North- 
amptonshire, by lord Griffin; in 1084 was chosen lec- 
turer of Ipswich; in 1085 vicar of St. Lawrence, Jewry, 


MAPPA 


1 30 


MAR AN ATH A 


and lecturer of St. Cliristopher’s, in London; received 
his D.l). in 1689, and in 1707 was chosen president of 
Sion College, lie died at Westminster in 1721. Dr. 
Mapletoft published Principles uml Duties of the Chris- 
tian Reliyion (2d ed., corrected and enlarged, Lond. 1713, 
8vo), and other minor pieces upon moral and theological 
subjects. — Gen. Bioy. Diet. s. v. 

Mappa, the name of the linen cloth with which the 
communion table, and subsequently the altar, was cov- 
ered. It came to be considered essential that this cloth 
should be of linen, according to some, in commemora- 
tion of the linen cloth in which the body of the Lord 
was wrapped. This, however, it seems would apply 
better to the corporale (q. v.). Optatus of Milcne, in 
De schismate Donatistarum, speaks of this custom as 
general. In the lloman Catholic Church there are a 
number of regulations concerning the mappa, which is 
always to be blessed by the bishop, or by some one com- 
missioned by him for the purpose. — Picrer, Universal - 
Lex ikon, x, 848; Herzog, Real-Encyklopddie, ix, 7. 

Ma'ra (bleb. Mara', frO'O, for Pl'l'J, hitter, as ex- 
plained in the context ; Sept. 7rucpia, Vulg. Mara, id est 
amara), a symbolical name proposed for herself by Na- 
omi on account of her misfortunes (Ruth i, 20). See 
Ruth. 

Mara, a famous diva of Hindu mythology men- 
tioned in the history of Gautama (q. v.). 

Marabuts, a name given to the descendants of the 
Mora rides (q.v.; see* also Mohammedans), or Almora- 
I'ides, a certain Arabic tribe which, in 1075, founded a 
dynasty in the north-western parts of Africa, and held 
Morocco and Spain for a considerable period. The Al- 
mohades having put an end to their temporal dominion, 
their descendants exercise to this day a kind of spiritual 
superiority over the Moslem negroes in Barbarv, the 
coast of Guinea, etc. At present the Marabuts form a 
kind of priestly order, officiating at mosques and chap- 
els, explaining the Koran, providing the faithful with 
amulets, prophesying, and working miracles. They arc 
looked up to with great awe and reverence by the com- 
mon people, who also allow them a certain vague li- 
cense over their goods and chattels, their wives not ex- 
cluded. The Great Marabut ranks next to the king, 
and the dignity of a Marabut is generally hereditary. 
One of the most eminent Marabuts of our day is the 
celebrated Mohammedan warrior Abd-cl-Kader, who 
was born in 1807, and in 1832 opened the contest against 
the French to expel the latter from African territory, 
which resulted so unsuccessfully to the Mohammedan 
cause. 

Marafoschi, Puospero, an Italian prelate, was 
born Sept. 29.1053, at Maeerata; entered the priesthood 
while yet a youth ; became canon of St. Peter’s at Rome, 
and later bishop in partibus of Cvrene. He enjoyed the 
favor and contidcncc of several of the incumbents of the 
papal chair. Clement XI, in 1721, gave him the archie- 
piscopal see of Ciesarea and Cappadocia; Benedict Xll I 
created him cardinal in 1724, and in 1726 made him 
vicar-general of Rome. lie died Feb. 24, 1732. — llocfer, 
Xouv. Jiioy. Gene rale, xxiii, 347. 

Ma'rah (Hebrew Marah' , PH'S, bitterness, from the 
taste of the water; Sept. Mepyd, UiKfna, Vulg. Mara), 
a brackish fountain, forming the sixth station of the 
Israelites, three days distant from their passage across 
the Red Sea (Lxod. xv, 33; Numb, xxiii. 8). Finding 
here a well so bitter that, thirsty as they were, they 
could not drink its water, they murmured against Mo- 
ses, who at the divine direction cast in “a certain tree,” 
by which means it was made palatable. “ It has been 
suggested (Burekhardt, /Syria, p. 474) that Moses made 
use of the berries of the plant Gharkud (Robinson says 
[i, 26] the Peyannm retusum of Forskal,’ Flora Kg. A rah. 
p. Ixvi; more correctly, the Xitraria tridentata of Des- 
fontaincs, Flora Atlant. i, 372), and which still.it is im- 
plied, would be found to operate similarly. Robinson, 


however (i, 67), could not find that this or any tree was 
now known by the Arabs to possess such properties ; nor 
would those berries, he says, have been found so early in 
the season as the time when the Israelites reached the 
region. It may be added that, had any such resource 
ever existed, its eminent usefulness to the supply of hu- 
man wants would hardly have let it perish from the tra- 
ditions of the desert. Further, the expression ‘ the Lord 
showed’ seems surely to imply the miraculous character 
of the transaction” (Smith). With regard to the cure 
of the water, it has been well argued (Kitto, Pictorial 
History of Palestine, p. 209) that no explanation of the 
phenomena on natural grounds has proved consistent or 
satisfactory; neither is there any tree in that region or 
elsewhere now known which possesses such virtue in 
itself, or which is used for a similar purpose by the 
Arabs. We are therefore compelled to conclude, as, in- 
deed, the narrative spontaneously suggests, that the 
shrub selected was indifferent, being one nearest at 
hand, and that the restorative property ceased with the 
special occasion which had called for its exercise, leav- 
ing the well to resume its acrid taste as at present found. 

The name Marah, in the form of A marah, is now 
borne by the barren bed of a winter torrent, a little be- 
yond which is still found a well called Howarah , the bit- 
ter waters of which answer to this description. Camels 
will drink it, but the thirsty Arabs never partake of it 
themselves — and it is said to be the only water on the 
shore of the Red Sea which they cannot drink. The 
water of this well, when first taken into the mouth, 
seems insipid rather than bitter, but when held in the 
mouth a fev r seconds it becomes exceedingly nauseous. 
The well rises within an elevated mound surrounded by 
sand-hills, and two small date-trees grow near it. The 
basin is six or eight feet in diameter, and the water 
about two feet deep. (See Burekhardt, Trav. in Syria , 
p. 472; Robinson, Researches, i, 96 sq. ; Bartlett, Forty 
Days in the Desert, p. 30 ; and other travellers.) Wi- 
ner says (Handwb. s. v.) that a still bitterer well lies 
east of Marah, the claims of which Tischendorf, it ap- 
pears, has supported. Lepsius prefers wady GhurundeL 
Prof. Stanley thinks that the claim maybe left between 
this and Howarah, but adds in a note a mention of a 
spring south of Howarah ‘so bitter that neither men 
nor camels could drink it,’ of which ‘ Dr. Graul (ii, 254) 
was told.’ The Ayonn Mousa, ‘ wells of Moses,’ which 
local tradition assigns to Marah, are manifestly too close 
to the head of the gulf, and probable spot of crossing it, 
to suit the distance of ‘three days’ journey.’ The soil 
of this region is described as being alternately gravelly, 
stony, and sandy; under the range of the Gebel Wardan 
chalk and Hints are plentiful, and on the direct line of 
route between Ayoun Mousa and Ilowarah no water is 
found (Robinson, i, 67)” (Smith). See Exode. 

Mar'alah (Ileb. Maralah Jl 5 17^*2, a trembling; 
Sept. MapaXo), a place on the southern boundary of 
Zebulon, but apparently within the bounds of Issachar, 
west of Sarid and east of Dabbasheth (Josh, xix, 11). 
These indications point to some locality not far from 
the present MujeidU, although the name would seem to 
agree better with that of the neighboring site, MeluL 
The latter place agrees with the identification of Porter, 
who remarks that Malul is a little village about four 
miles south-west of Nazareth, on the top of a hill, con- 
taining the ruins of a temple, and other vestiges of an- 
tiquity. In the surrounding rocks and cliffs are some 
excavated tombs ( Handbook , p. 385). 

Maran-a'tlia (Mapdu a$d, from the Aramaean 
nrx "pw, mu ran' athah', our Lord comes, i. e. to judg- 
ment, Buxtorf, Lex . C/udd. col. 1248, and so found in the 
Peshito version), a phrase added to the sentence of ex- 
communication byway of appeal to the divine Head of 
the Church for ratification (1 Cor. xvi, 22). See Anath- 
ema. “ Iu the A. V. it is combined with the preceding 
k anathema,’ but this is unnecessary ; at all events it can 
only be regarded as adding emphasis to the previous 


MARANOS 


731 


MARBLE 


adjuration. It rather appears to be added 4 as a weighty 
watchword’ to impress upon the disciples the important 
truth that the Lord was at hand, and that they should 
be ready to meet him (Alford, Gr. Test, ad loe.). If, on 
the other hand, the phrase be taken to mean, as it may, 
‘our Lord has come,’ then the connection is, ‘the curse 
will remain, for the Lord has come who will take ven- 
geance on those w r ho reject him.’ Thus the name 4 Ma- 
ronite’ is explained by a tradition that the Jews, in ex- 
pectation of a Messiah, were constantly saying Maran, 
i. e. Lord ; to which the Christians answered Maran 
atha , the Lord is come, why do } r ou still expect him ? 
(Stanley, Corinthians, ad loc.)” (Smith). 

Maraiios is one of the names used to designate 
the new Christians of Spain, i. e. those Jews (q. v.) 
who, during the religious persecutions under Romish 
rule, publicly avowed conversion to Christianity and 
yet privately confessed the religion of their fathers, as 
e. g. the family of Maimonides (q. v.). The name owes 
its origin to the fact that not only Jews, but also Moors 
(q. v.) made a feigned profession of conversion to the 
Christian faith. See Inquisition ; Spain. 

Maran(us), Prudentius, a noted French theolo- 
gian, was born, according to Winer (Theol. Literatur, p. 
054), at Sezanne, whilst Le Cerf ( Biblioth . historique de 
la Cong, de St.Maur, p.293) andZedler ( Universallex - 
ikon) consider him to have been born at Troyes, in 
Champagne, October 14, 1083. In 1703 he entered the 
Congregation of St. Maur, taking the vows at the Abbey 
of St. Faron, at Meaux. lie subsequently resided at 
the Convent of St. Germain des Pres, Paris. He died 
April 2, 1702. He published the works of Cyril of Jeru- 
salem in Greek and Latin (Paris, 1720; Venice, 1703). 
Though the best edition of Cyril’s works, it was attack- 
ed by the author of the Memoires de Trevoux. Mara- 
nus defended himself in his Dissertation sur les semi - 
Ariens (Paris, 1722). He also completed the edition of 
the works of Cyprian commenced bv St. Baluze (Paris, 
1720; Venice, 1728), and published the works of Justin 
Martyr in Greek and Latin, with a valuable introduc- 
tion (Paris, 1742; Venice, 1747.). He published also a 
work of his own on the divinity of Christ, under the title 
Divinitus Domini nostri Jesu Christ i manifesto in scrip - 
turis et traditione (Paris, 1740). This work is divided 
into four parts. The tirst treats of the proofs contained 
in the Old and the New Testaments ; the second, of the 
unanimity, on this point, of the Roman Catholic Church 
and of the different sects; the third, of the continuous 
controversies with the Jews, heathen, and heretics; and 
the fourth, of the unanimous testimony of the fathers. 
It contains, besides, arguments to prove the divinity of 
the Holy Ghost. Marauus took also an active part in 
the controversies arising from the bull *■ Unigenitus 
Dei lilius,” siding with the party called appellants; and, 
although he had written nothing on the subject, he had 
in consequence to endure great annoyances from the 
acceptants, who were the strongest. — Herzog, Real-En- 
cyliopddie , ix, 9. See Jan sexists. (J. X. P.) 

Maratta or Maratti, Carlo, a celebrated Italian 
painter, was born at Camurano, near Ancona, May, 1025 ; 
became a pupil of Andrea Saeelii and a devout student 
of Raphael’s works, and chose Rome as his permanent 
residence, lie was employed by Clement IX and by 
four oth-r successive popes, and received the title of 
painter ordinary to Louis XIV, for whom he painted a 
picture of Daphne. His Madonnas are admired for 
modest dignity and amiable expression. Maratta also 
excelled in the art of etching. He was the last great 
painter of the Roman school, lie died in 1713. — 
Thomas, Diet. Blog, and Mythol. s. v. 

Maraviglia (Latin Mirabilia), Giuseppe Maria, 
an Italian philosopher, a native of Milan, flourished near 
the middle of the 17th century. He at first belonged 
to the body of regular clergy, was commissioned in 1051 
to teach ethics in Padua, and exchanged the duties of 
provincial prior lor those of bishop at Xovara in 1067. 


He died there in 1G84. Among his -works we find Leges 
honestce Yitee (Ven. 1657, 12mo), a moral treatise dedica- 
ted to Christine, queen of Sweden : — Leges Doctrince a 
sanctis Putribus (Venice, 1GG0, 24mo) : — Proteus ethico- 
politicus seu de multiformi hominis statu (Venice, 1GG0, 
folio) : — Pseudomantia veterum et recentioi'um explosa , 
seu de fide divinationibus adhibenda (Ven. 16G2, fol.): — 
De erroribus virorum doctorum (Ven. IGG2, 12mo; Rome, 
1GG7, 4to) : — Legatus adprincipes Christianos (Ven. 1GG5, 
12mo) : — Ammcestramenti deW anima Christiana (Xo- 
vara, 1675, 8vo). — Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Gen. xxxiii, 362. 

Marbach, Johann, an eminent German Protestant 
theologian, was born at Lindau Aug. 24, 1521, and was 
educated at the University of Wittenberg, where he 
commenced in 1539 the study of theology. lie became 
successively deacon at Jena in 1540, preacher at Ivry in 
1544, and at Strasburg in 1545. He was afterwards 
sent by the latter city to the Council of Trent, together 
with Sleidan. In 1552 he was appointed chief pastor 
and professor of theology. Here he labored to intro- 
duce the Lutheran doctrines in the place of the Re- 
formed, whereby he became involved in numberless 
controversies. In 1556 he was employed by the elector 
Otto Henry to organize the Reformation in the Palati- 
nate, and in 1 557 -was present at the Diet of Worms. He 
ceased preaching in 1558, and died deacon of Thomas 
College, March 17, 1581. He wrote Christlicher mid 
ivahrhafter Unterricht von d. I Vorten d. Einsetzungd. hell. 
Abendmals, etc. (Strasb. 1565, 8vo), and other similar 
works, all upholding the ultra- Lutheran views, bee 
Treuss, Situation interieure de VEglise Lntkerienne de 
Strasbourg sous la direction de Marbach (Strasb. 1857) ; 
Pierer, Universal-Lexikon , x, 852 ; Herzog, Iieal-Encykl. 
ix, 10. 

Marban, Pedro de, a Spanish Jesuit and mission- 
ary, flourished near the close of the 17th century. In 
1675 he went to Bolivia, and later to Mexico, and la- 
bored industriously to spread the Gospel of Christ among 
the savages of America, and finally became superior of 
all the missions of the Jesuits in this quarter. He 
wrote Arte de la Lengua Moxa, con su vocabnlario y 
catechismo (Lima, 1701, 8vo). — Iloefer, Nouv. Biog. Gen. 
xxxiii, 361. 

Marbeck or Merbecke, John, the composer of 
the solemn and now venerable notes set to the k * Preces’’ 
and Responses in use in the cathedrals of England, to 
our day with only slight modifications, was organist of 
Windsor during the reigns of Henry VI 11 and his suc- 
cessor. A zeal for religious reformation led him to join 
a society in furtherance of that object, among the mem- 
bers of which were a priest, a singing-man of St. George’s 
Chapel, and a tradesman of the town. Their papers 
were seized, and in the handwriting of Marbeck were 
found notes on the Bible, together with a concordance, 
in English. He and liis three colleagues were found 
guilty of heresy, and condemned to the stake. The 
others were executed according to their sentence; but 
Marbeck, on account of his great musical talents, and 
being rather favored by Gardiner, bishop of Winchester, 
was pardoned, and lived to witness the triumph of his 
principles, and to publish his work, which appeared un- 
der the title of The Boke of Common Pretier, noted. The 
colophon is “ Imprinted by Richard Grafton, printer to 
the kinges majestie, 1550, cum privilegio ad imprimen- 
dum solum” (a verbatim reprint was given by John Pick- 
ering, London, 1848, sm. 4 to). In the same year appear- 
ed also his Concordance of the Whole Bible (1550, folio), 
the tirst complete work of the kind in English; and, in 
1574, The Lives of Holy Saints, Prophets, Patriarchs, 
and others ; and, subsequently, his other hooks connect- 
ed with religious history and controversy. See Alliboue, 
Diet. ofBntisk and Amer . A uthors , vol. ii, s. v. ; English 
Cyclop, s. v. 

Marble is the rendering in the Auth.Vers. of two 
forms of the same Heb. word, and is thought by some to 
be signified by others differently rendered, dd ( shesh , 


MARBLE 


732 MARBURG CONFERENCE 


Esth. i, 6, Sept. 7 rdpivog; Cant, v, 15, Sept, pappdpivog), 
or ( sha ' yish , 1 Chron. xxix, 2, Sept. 7zdptog), so 

called from its whiteness, undoubtedly refer to a pure 
kind of marble, pappapog (Rev. xyiii, 12). Primary 
limestone, or marble, is a simple rock, consisting of car- 
bonate of lime. In its pure state, it is granular, crystal- 
line, and of a color varying from pure white to gray and 
yellowish. It is sometimes found in irregular masses, 
or beds, or large nodules, with little or no appearance of 
stratification; more generally, however, it is regularly 
stratified, and these strata alternate with other rocks, 
and are of all varieties of thickness. The texture va- 
ries from a highly crystalline, of a larger or finer grain, 
to a compact and even earthy. Other substances are 
sometimes combined with the simple rock, which mod- 
ify its appearance and texture, such as mica, quartz, 
hornblende. It is never found in veins, except in the 
form of regular crystals, and, in this respect, it exactly 
resembles quartz. There is considerable difficulty in 
drawing the line of distinction between the primary and 
secondary limestones, where the latter do not happen to 
contain organic remains. In the primary limestone, 
strictly speaking, no organic remains have yet been dis- 
covered. With one or two exceptions, and as a general 
rule, it may be said, they, like the primary schists, are 
almost destitute of organic bodies. Like the strata 
which it accompanies, beds of limestone are often bent 
and contorted, evidently from disturbance below. The 
colors vary from a pure white, which constitutes the 
statuary marble, to various shades of gray, brown, black, 
and green. These tints are derived from a carbona- 
ceous matter or oxide of iron, or an admixture of other 
minerals. 

Several other terms occur in Esth. i, 6, as the names 
of stones in the pavement of the magnificent hall in 
which Ahasuerus feasted the princes of his empire. That 
rendered “white” marble, is "i-Jjdtir, which some take to 
signify Parian marble, others white marble; but nothing 
certain is known about it. In Arabic, the word dar 
signifies a large pearl. Now pearls were certainly em- 
ployed by the ancients in decorating the walls of apart- 
ments in royal palaces, but that pearls were also used in 
the pavements of even regal dining-rooms is improbable 
in itself, and unsupported by any known example. The 
Septuagint refers the Hebrew word to a stone resem- 
bling pearls (tt'ivvivoq Xi'.S’of), by which, as J. D. Mi- 
ehaelis conjectures, it intends to denote the Alabastrites 
of Pliny (Hist. Xat. xxxvi,7, 8), which is a kind of ala- 
baster with the gloss of mother-of-pearl. See Alabas- 
ter. The liqfS ( bah at Sept. <t pa pay? in; red” mar- 
ble) of the same passage was, Gesenius thinks, the verde- 
witiqne , or half-porphvry of Egypt. The rV*no (soche'- 
nth; Sept. Yldpivog ArS’oc, “ black” marble) is likewise 
there mentioned with the other kinds of marble for 
forming a pavement. Gescnius says, perhaps tortoise- 
shell. Others, from the rendering of the Syriac, think 
it refers to black marble. It was probably some spotted 
variety of marble. See Mineralogy. The pavement 
in the palace of Ahasuerus was no doubt of mosaic work, 
the floors of the apartments being laid with painted 
tiles or slabs of marble, in the same way as Dr. Russell 
describes the houses of the wealthy in modern times. 
In these a portion of the pavement of the courts is of 
mosaic, and it is usually that part which lies between 
the fountain and the arched alcove on the south side 
that is thus beautified. Sec House. 

“ The marble pillars and tessera* of various colors of 
the palace at Susa came doubtless from Persia itself, 
where marble of various colors is found, especially in the 
province of Ilamadan, Susiana (Marco Polo, Travels , p. 
78. cd. Holm; Chardin, Pay. iii, 280, 308, 358; and viii, 
253 ; P. della Valle, 1 iaggi, ii-j 250). The ♦so-called mar- 
ble of Solomon’s architectural works, which Josephus 
calls \i$og \tvicvg, may thus have been limestone — (a) 
from near Jerusalem; ( b ) from Lebanon (Jura lime- 
stone), identical with the material of the Sun Temple at 


Baalbek ; or (e) white marble from Arabia or elsewhere 
(Josephus, A nt. viii, 3, 2 ; Diod. Sic. ii, 52 ; Pliny, If. X. 
xxxvi, 12; Jamieson, Mineralogy, p. 41 ; Raumer, Pal. 
p. 28 ; Volney, Trav. ii, 241 ; Kitto, Phys. Geagr. of Pal. 
p. 73, 88 ; Robinson, ii, 493 ; iii, 508 ; Stanley, S', and P. 
p. 307,424; Wellsted, Trav. i, 42G ; ii, 143). That this 
stone was not marble seems probable from the remark 
of Josephus, that whereas Solomon constructed his build- 
ings of ‘ white stone,’ he caused the roads which led to 
Jerusalem to be made of ‘black stone,’ probably the 
black basalt of the Ilauran; and also from his account 
of the porticoes of Herod’s temple, which he says were 
/.iovoX&oi XevKOTijTijg pappcipov (Josephus, Ant. 1. c., 
and War, v, 5, 1, 6 ; Kitto, ut sup. p. 74, 75, 80, 89). But 
whether the ‘ costly stone’ employed in Solomon’s build- 
ings was marble or not, it seems clear, from the expres- 
sions both of Scripture and Josephus, that some, at least, 
of the ‘great stones/ whose weight can scarcely have 
been less than forty tons, must have come from Lebanon 
(1 Kings v, 14-18; vii, 10; Josephus, Ant. viii, 2,9). 
There can be no doubt that Herod, both in the Temple 
and elsewhere, employed Parian or other marble. Re- 
mains of marble columns still exist in abundance at Je- 
rusalem (Josephus, Ant. xv, 9, 4, 6, and 11,3,5; Williams, 
Holy City , ii, 330 ; Sandys, p. 1 90 ; Robinson, i, 30 1 , 305)” 
(Smith). See Stone. 

Marburg Bible is the name given to an edition 
of the holy Scriptures, published at Marburg (1712, 4to), 
under the care of Prof. Dr. Ilorch (with the aid of oth- 
ers, particularly of inspector Scheffer, in Berleburg). 
It contains the text of Luther’s, corrected by compari- 
son with the original texts, and gives, in the introduc- 
tions and in the headings, commentaries on the most 
important allegories and prophecies (by Cocceius). The 
most complete of these are the notes on Solomon’s Song 
and the Apocalypse. It was highly prized by the the- 
ologians and Mystics of that time, and was the prede- 
cessor of the Mystic Berleburg Bible (1726-74, 8 vols. 
fob), hence it is sometimes called the little Mystic Bible. 
— Herzog, Real-Encyliopddie, ix, 13. See Berleburg 
Bible. 

Marburg Conference, a gathering of all the re- 
formed theological leaders, held at the city of Marburg, 
Oct. 3, 1529, and designed to bring about, if possible, an 
agreement between Luther and Zwingle and their ad- 
herents. The landgrave Philip of Hesse, one of the 
noblest princes of the Reformation days, believing that 
the dissensions in the Protestant camp should be allayed, 
directed all his energies towards the conciliation of the 
two reformed factions, caused by a difference of opinion 
as to the proper observance of the eucharistie ceremony. 
With such a purpose in view, he invited the principal 
theologians of both parties to meet for the purpose of 
comparing their opinions in a friendly manner. Melane- 
thon had already, in 1529, at the Diet of Spires, de- 
clared his readiness to attend such a conference (Corp. 
Ref. i, 1050 and 1078), and even had gone so far as to 
declare that he attached no special importance to the 
differences concerning the Eucharist (Corp. Ref i, 1046). 
Philip of Hesse now applied to Zwingle (Zwingli Opp. 
viii, 287), who also expressed his willingness to come 
(Zwingli Opp. viii, 662). Luther, however, at first 
strongly opposed the plan, fearing that it might result 
in more harm than good ; but the landgrave persisting, 
Luther finally consented, and on Sept. 30, 1529, Luther, 
Melancthon, Cruciger, Jonas, Mykonius, and Mcnius, 
accompanied by the Saxon counsellor Ebcrhard, went 
to Marburg, where Philip had called the conference. 
The Swiss theologians had arrived the day before; 
among them, Zwingle, professor Rudolph Collin, CEco- 
lampadius, Sturm, Bucer, and lledio. Osiander, Brenz, 
and Agricola arrived only on October 2. A number of 
other theologians and eminent persons from all parts of 
Germany were also present. After a private conference 
between Luther and (Ecolampadius, and Zwingle and 
Melancthon, the public debates commenced. “In the 
first place, several points were discussed touching the. 


MARBURY 


MARCELLINUS 


*733 


divinity of Christ, original sin, baptism, the Word of 
God, etc., regarding which the Wittenbergers suspected 
the orthodoxy of Zwingle. These were all secondary 
matters with Zwingle, in reference to which he dropped 
his unclmrehly views, and declared his agreement with 
the views of the oecumenical councils. But in regard 
to the article of the Lord’s Supper he was the more 
persistent. Appealing to John vi, 33, ‘ The flesh prof- 
iteth nothing,’ he argued the absurdity of Luther’s 
view” (Kurtz). Luther had insisted upon the literal 
interpretation of the expression, I/oc est corpus meum. 
Both parties disputed without arriving at any better 
appreciation of each other’s views. “Agreement was 
out of the question. Zwingle, nevertheless, declared 
himself ready to maintain fraternal fellowship, but Lu- 
ther and his party rejected the offer. Luther said, ‘lhr 
liabt einen aiidcrn geist denn wir.’ ” Still the conference, 
while failing in its main object, was not entirely fruit- 
less. “ Luther found that his opponents did not hold 
as offensive views as he supposed, and the Swiss also 
that Luther’s doctrine was not so gross and Capernaitic 
as they thought.” Both parties engaged to refrain in 
future from publishing injurious pamphlets against each 
other as they had formerly done, and agreed “to ear- 
nestly pray God to lead them all to a right understand- 
ing of the truth.” At the request of the landgrave, 
Luther drew up a series of fifteen articles (Articles of 
Marburg), containing the common fundamental prin- 
ciples of the Reformation, which were subscribed to by 
the Zwinglians. “In the first fourteen they declared 
unanimous consent to the cecumencical faith of the 
Church against the errors of papists and Anabaptists. 
In the fifteenth the Swiss conceded that the body and 
blood of Christ were present in the sacrament , but they 
could not agree to his corporeal presence in the bread 
and wine ” (Kurtz). The Articles of Marburg were sub- 
sequently used as a basis for the Confession of Augsburg 
(q. v.). See L. J. K. Schmitt, Das Religionsgesprdck z. 
Marburg (Marb. 1840) ; A. Ebrard, D. Gesch . d. Dogma's 
v. h. A bendmahle , ii, 268 ; llassenkamp, llessiche Kirchen - 
gesch. ii, 1, p. 35 sq. ; II. Heppe, D.fiinfzehn Marburger 
Artikel (Cassel, 1847 and 1854); Krauth, The Conserva- 
tive Reformation (Philadel. 1871, 8vo), p. 355 sq., 427; 
llagenbach, Hist, of Doctrines, ii, 309, 314; Gieseler, 
Eccles. Hist. (Harper’s edit.), iv, 133; Kurtz, Ch. Hist, 
since the Reformation, p. 72 sq. ; Ilerzog, Real-Encyklo- 
pddie, ix, 13 sq. (J. H. \\\) 

Marbury, Edward, an English minister of the 
17th century, became rector of St. James’s, Garlickhithe, 
London, in 1613; subsequently rector of St. Peter’s, 
Paul’s Wharf, and retired from public labors during the 
Rebellion. He died about 1655. Marbury published 
A Commentary on Obadiah (Loiul. 1649, 4to) : — A Com- 
mentary on llabakkuk (1650, 4to). — Allibone, Did. of 
Brit, and A mer. A uthors, s. v. 

Marca, Pierre de, a French Roman Catholic the- 
ologian and historian, was born at Pau, in Bearn, Jan. 
24, 1591. lie was of good family, was brought up by 
the Jesuits of Auch, and afterwards studied law at Tou- 
louse. In 1613 he became member of the Council of 
Pau, and when, in 1621, this body was erected into a 
parliament by Louis XIII, he was appointed its presi- 
dent, as a reward for his services to Romanism. After 
the death of his wife, which occurred in 1632, he entered 
the Church. In 1639 he was made counsellor of state. 
Cardinal de Richelieu having commissioned him to re- 
ply to llerscnt’s Optatus G alius, Marca composed De 
Concordia Sacerdotii et Imperii (Paris, 1641 sq.), which 
is his ablest work, and was rewarded by the bishopric of 
Conserans, to which he was appointed in 1643. The pope, 
however, would not approve the Gallican writer as in- 
cumbent of the episcopal office, and the appointment was 
not sanctioned at Rome until Marca had recalled the 
work in 1647. In 1652 he was promoted to the arch- 
bishopric of Toulouse ; later was transferred to the archi- 
episcopal see of Paris, and there died in the year of his 
transfer, 1662. lie wrote also Dissertatio de Primatu 


Lugdunensi et cceteris primatibus (1644, 8vo) : — Relation 
de ce qai s' est fait depuis 1653 dans les assemblies des 
eveques au sujet des cinq propositions (Paris, 1657, 4to). 
This was unfavorable to the Jansenists, and was refuted 
by Nicole in his Belga percontator , and some other 
writers. Collections of some other writings of Marca 
on divers subjects were published bv Baluze (1669 and 
1681, 2 vols.8vo) and abbe Faget (1668, 4to), who, how- 
ever, brought out the best edition of Marea’s De Concor- 
dia (Paris, 1663, and often). See Gallia Christiana, vols. 
i and vii; De Faget, Vie de Pierre de Marca; Bompart, 
Eloge de Marca (Paris, 1672, 8vo); De Longue rue, Dis- 
sertations di verses ; Mercure de France, 1644 to 1662; 
Fisquet, France Pontificale. See lloefer, Nouv. Biog. 
Generale, xxxiii, 374; Ilerzog, Real-Encyklop. ix, 17 sq. 

Marcella, St., is the name of two saints in the 
Romish Church. (1) One of these was a Roman wid- 
ow, the intimate friend of Paula and of Eustochius, 
and a pupil of the noted Church father Jerome, who 
said of her that we could judge of her merits by her no- 
ble disciples. Marcella was a Christian, and deeply 
learned in the Scriptures. She was greatly opposed to 
the errors of Origcn, who mingled the dogmas of Ori- 
ental philosophy with the truths of Christianity. On 
difficult passages of Scripture she consulted Jerome ; but 
she herself was consulted from all parts as a great the- 
ologian, and her answers were always dictated by pru- 
dence and humility. She died A.D. 409, soon after Rome 
was taken by the Goths, from the effects of the assault 
and abuse of the troops of Alaric. She is commemo- 
rated January 31. (2) The second, a martyr of the 

Church in Alexandria, flourished in the days of the em- 
peror Severus. She is commemorated Jmie 28. 

Marcellians, a sect of heretics who flourished to- 
wards the close of the 4th century; so called from Mar- 
cellus of Ancvra, whom the Arians unjustly accused of 
reviving the errors of Sabellius. Epiphanius informs 
us that great diversity of opinion prevailed in his day 
on the justness of charging Marcellus of Ancyra with 
the heretical tendencies of the so-called Marcellians. 
The latter denied the three hypostases, holding the Son 
and the Holy Ghost as two emanations from the divine 
nature, to exist independently only until the perform- 
ance of their respective offices, and then to return again 
into the substance of tbc Father. See Marcellus of 
Ancyra. 

Marcellina, a noted female pupil of Carpoerates 
(q.v.), commenced teaching at Rome the Gnostic system 
of her instructor, in 160, under Anicetus, and met with 
so great success (see Irenceus, Adi\ llcer. i, 25, 6; Epi- 
phanius, lher. 27, 6) that her followers and pupils were 
denominated Marcellinists. This is the sect mentioned 
by Cclsiis (Orig. c. Celsum , vol. v), and are not to be mis- 
taken for the followers of Marcellus of Ancyra, the Mar- 
cellians. Origcn asserts that lie could find no trace of 
the Marcellinists. Another Marcellina was the sister 
of Ambrosius, and a strict ascetic. — Herzog, Real-Ency - 
klopddie, ix, 20; Pierer, Universul-Lexihon, x,855. 

Marcellinus, a native of Rome, son of Projectus, 
is said to have been made bishop of Rome May 3, 296. 
As he lived in a period of violent persecution, we have 
but little certain information concerning him; the acts 
of a synod said to have been held at Sinuessa in 303 
(published by Mansi', Coll. i, 1250 sq.; and Ilardouin, Coll. 
Cone, i, 217 sq.) relate as follows: Diocletian bad suc- 
ceeded in compelling the hitherto steadfast bishop to 
come with him into the temple of Vesta and Isis, and to 
offer up incense to them; this was afterwards proclaim- 
ed by three priests and two deacons who had witnessed 
the deed, and a synod was assembled to. investigate the 
affair at Sinuessa, at which no less than three hundred 
bishops were present — “ a number quite impossible for 
that country, especiall}' in a time of persecution” (Dr. 
H. B. Smith, in Dollinger’s Fables, p. 82, foot note). Mar- 
cellinus denied everything for the first two days, but on 
the third came in, his head covered with ashes, and made 


MARCELLUS 


734 


MARCELLUS 


a full confession, adding that he had been tempted with 
gold. The synod declared that Marcellimis had con- 
demned himself, for the prima sedes non judicatur a quo - 
quam. This resulted, however, in Dioeletian causing a 
large number of the bishops who had taken part in the 
synod, and even Mareellinus himself, to be put to death, 
August 23,303. Although the Roman Breviary itself 
credits this account of the weakness and punishment of 
Mareellinus (in Xoeturn. ii, April 20), this account of the 
synod is now considered spurious both by Romanists and 
bv Protestants. Indeed, Augustine (De nnico baptismo 
contra Petilianum , c. 16) and Theodoret (Hist. Eccles. i, 
2) declared the statement of Mareellinus having be- 
trayed Christianity and offered sacrifices to idols false. 
Dr. Dbllinger, in his Fables respecting Popes in the Mid- 
dle Ages (edit, by Dr. H. B. Smith, X. Y. 1872, 12mo), p. 
84, says “ the acts of the pretended synod are evidently 
fabricated in order to manufacture a historical support 
for the principle that a pope can be judged by no man. 
This incessantly-repeated sentence is the red thread 
which runs through the whole; the rest is mere appen- 
dage. By this means it is to be inculcated on the laity 
that they must not venture to come forward as accusers 
of the clergy, and on the inferior clergy that they must 
not do the like against their superiors.” As the date 
and occasion of the fabrication, Dr. Dollinger assigns 
“those troubled sixteen years (498-514) in which t he 
pontificate of Symmachns ran its course. At that time 
the two parties of Laurentius and Svmmachus stood op- 
posed to one another in Rome as foes. People, senate, 
and clergy were divided; they fought and murdered in 
the streets, and Laurentius maintained himself for sev- 
eral years in possession of part of the churches. Sym- 
maeluts was accused by his opponents of grave offences. 
. . . The hostile party were numerous and influential 
. . . and therefore the adherents of Svmmachus caught 
at this means of showing that the inviolability of the 
pope had been long since recognised as a fact and an- 
nounced as a rule. . . . This was the time at which Eu- 
nodius wrote his apology for Symmachns, and this, ac- 
cordingly, was also the time at which the Synod of Sin- 
uessa, as well as the Constitution of Sylvester, was fabri- 
cated.” Mareellinus is commemorated in the Romish 
Church April 24. See Pagi, Crit. in annales Baronii ad 
aim. 302, n. 18 ; Papebroch, A eta Sand a in Propyl. Maji, 
t. viii ; Xaver de Marco, Difesa di alcuni pontejici di er- 
rore, c. 12; Bower, Ilist. of the Popes , i, 80 sq. ; Ilefele, 
Conciliengesch. i, 118; iii, § 10, note 2, where the main 
authorities against the fable are cited. (J. 1 1. W.) 

Marcellus, St. ( martyr ). Aside from Mareellus I, 
pope of Rome (q. v.), and Mareellus of Apamea (q. v.), 
the martvrologues mention a number of other martyrs 
of that name, the more important of which are : 

I. Marcellus who perished during the persecution 
of Antoninus Philosophus. Having refused to partici- 
pate in a repast with the prefect Prisons, and remon- 
strated with the latter and his guests on account of their 
idolatry, he was half buried in the ground, in the open 
air, and died thus after three days. The year 140 is 
given as the date of his death ; he is commemorated on 
September 4. See Snrius, T. V. Gregorii Turon. Lib. 
de gloriamart. e. 53; Ruinart, A da primorum mar - 
tyrum , p. 73. 

II. Marcellus, the chief of the Trajan Legion, who, 
for refusing to participate in heathen sacrifices at Tin- 
gis, in Mauritania, was beheaded by order of the gov- 
ernor, Aurelianus Agrieola, in 270. See Surius, vol.v; 
Ruinart, p. 302 sq. He is commemorated on Oct. 20. 

III. Marcellus who suffered at Argenton, in France, 
under Aurelian. He was a native of Rome, son of a 
heathen father and a Christian mother, who brought 
him up a ( ’hristian. When of age, he tied to Argenton 
on account of the persecution of Aurejian. Here he 
wrought some wonderful cures, which attracted the at- 
tention of the prefect Ileraclius. Arrested, he fearlessly 
confessed his faith, and, after scourging, was roasted on 
a spit ; but as this neither converted nor killed him, he 


was beheaded. He is commemorated on June 29. See 
Gregorii Turon. Lib. de gloria mart. c. 52. 

IV. Marcellus, bishop of Die, in France, was bom 
at Avignon of Christian parents, and religiously brought 
up. He was ordained by his brother, who was bishop 
of Die before him. At the time of his election another 
was also appointed, but he was taken to the church by 
his adherents and there reconciled with his adversaries. 
On this occasion, it is said, a dove was seen to descend 
upon his head. He was thrown into prison by the 
Arians for opposing their views, and died there in the 
beginning of the 6th century. He is commemorated on 
April 9. See Gregorii Turon. Lib. de gloria confess, c. 
70. — Herzog, Real-Encyliopadie, ix, 22; Pierer, Unit \- 
Lexikon , x, 855. (J. X. P.) 

Marcellus, bishop of Axcyra, in Galatia, noted 
for the part he took in the Synod of Ancyra (314 or 315), 
held at the end of the persecution of Maximin (see An- 
cyra), made himself conspicuous at the Council of Xi- 
ea?a (325) by his homoousian views, and was upheld by 
Athanasius and the whole Western Church. We next 
find him at the Council of Tyre (335), where he opposed 
the condemnation of Athanasius, and of Maximus HI, 
patriarch of Jerusalem. In the Council of Jerusalem, of 
the same year, he declared against the admission of 
Arius to eommunion. At the Council of Constantino- 
ple, in 336, the Arians having the majority, Mareellus 
wa£ deposed with the assent of the emperor, who had 
been prejudiced against him. After the death of Con- 
stantine, May 22,337, he was restored to his bishopric; 
but once more expelled, he sought refuge in the West, 
where he was absolved by the councils of Rome and of 
Sardiea (347). He returned to Ancyra, but Basil, who 
had been appointed bishop in his place, refused to sur- 
render his seat. Marcellus, who was already well ad- 
vanced in years, retired to a monastery, where he sub- 
sequently died. St. Jerome states that he wrote several 
works, principally against the Arians; but we now pos- 
sess under his name only a letter addressed to Julius I, 
containing an exposition of his doctrine, given by St. 
Epiphanius; two confessions of faith, given by his dis- 
ciples ; and some passages, quoted by Eusebius, of his 
work against Asterius. There has been great diversity 
of opinion concerning his orthodox}'. His confessions 
are perfectly correct; but in the passages of the work 
against Asterius, his doctrine, otherwise very difficult to 
make out, seems to border on Sabellianism. Photinns 
of Sirmium, who was condemned as a heretic, was his 
disciple, and had been his deaeon, and a sect who re- 
fused to admit the three hypostases took the name of 
Marccllians (q. v.). Yet all ecclesiastical writers agree 
in calling him a saint; and it is possible that his enemies, 
the Arians and others, unjustly made Marcellus the fa- 
ther of heretic views. See Athanasius, A poll. 2 ; Basil- 
ins, Epist. lii ; Theodoret, Ilist. Eccl. vol. ii ; Socrates, 
Hist. Eccles. vol. i ; Sozoraen, Hist. Eccl. vol. ii and iii ; 
llermani, 17c de St. A thanase ; Du Pin ,Bibl. Ecclesias- 
tique , ii, 79; Rettberg, Marcelliana (Gbtting. 1794); 
Klose, Gesch. u. Lehre des Marcellus nnd Photin (llamb. 
1837) ; Zalm, Marcellus von A ncyra (Gotha, 1867, 8vo) ; 
Willenborg, Uebcr die Orthodoxie des M arcellus (M tinich, 
1859 ) ; Schaft', Ch. Hist, iii, 651 sq. ; I lagenbaeh, History 
of Doctrines, i, 255, 263, 368; Lardner, \)'orks (see In- 
dex) ; Herzog. Rcal-Encyklopadie, ix, 22 sq. 

Marcellus, bishop of Apamea (1), in Syria, near 
the close of the 4th eenturv, distinguished himself par- 
ticularly by his zeal for the destruction of the heathen 
temples. He considered them as maintaining heathen 
tendencies among the people. Having attempted to de- 
stroy the main temple of the city with the help of sol- 
diers and gladiators, he was taken by the people and 
put to death. - His sons sought to avenge his death, 
but were restrained by the provincial synod, held in 391. 

(2.) Another Marcellus of Apamea is mentioned, who 
is said to have lived in the 5th century. He was a na- 
tive of Syria, of a wealthy family, and .after the death 
of his parents went to Antioch, where he devoted him- 


MARCELLUS I 


735 


MARCHETTI 


self to study. Dividing his fortune among the poor, he 
went to Ephesus, and there attempted to support him- 
self by copying books. He subsequently joined abbot 
Alexander at Constantinople, and was afterwards chosen 
as his successor. To avoid this honor, Mareellus fled to 
a neighboring convent until another abbot had been se- 
lected, and then returned and was made deacon. The 
new abbot, named John, however, became jealous of his 
deacon, and obliged him to perform menial service. 
Mareellus cheerfully submitted; but after the death of 
John he was again appointed abbot. Under his direc- 
tion the convent acquired such reputation that it had 
to be greatly enlarged, and other convents applied to 
be governed by pupils of Mareellus. He died in 485. 
See Fleury, Hist, ad «.448; Herzog, Real-Encyklopddie , 
ix, 25; Lardner, Works (see Index). 

Mareellus I, Pope, son of Benedict, a Roman 
priest, succeeded Mareellinns (q. v.) as bishop of Rome 
(according to Pagi, June 30, 308), but held that position 
only during eighteen months. He endeavored to re- 
store ecclesiastical discipline, which had become much 
relaxed during the persecutions. For this purpose he 
organized in Rome twenty dioceses, the incumbents of 
which were to administer to converts from heathenism 
the sacraments of baptism anti penance. They were 
also bound to attend to the burial of the martyrs. By 
command of Maxentius, who had ordered him to resign 
his oftiee of bishop and to sacrifice to idols, he was im- 
prisoned, and condemned to serve as a slave in the im- 
perial stables. After nine months he was freed by his 
clergy, and concealed in the house of a Roman matron 
named Lueinia, who, it is said, converted that house af- 
terwards into a church. Maxentius was so angry when 
he heard of it that he commanded the church to be 
turned into a stable, and condemned Mareellus to the 
lowest employment about the stables. Mareellus is said 
to have died a martyr. He is commemorated on the 
16th of January. — I lerzog, Real-Encyklop. ix, 21 ; Pierer, 
Universal- Lexikan, x, 855. (J. N. P.) 

Mareellus II, Pope, succeeded Julius III, April 9, 
1555, but died twenty-two days afterwards. He was a 
native of the Papal States, and was originally named 
Marcello Cerrini . He was first secretary of Paid III, 
and afterwards cardinal of Santa Croce. By appoint- 
ment from pope Julius III, he took part in the Council 
of Trent as cardinal legate, and evinced in that capacity 
great talents, as well as moderation. His election gave 
rise to many hopes, which were speedily crushed by his 
death, the result, no doubt, of poison. He is also noted 
for the minor but curious circumstance of his refusing 
to comply with the ancient custom by which the pope, 
on his election, lays aside his baptismal name and as- 
sumes a new one. Marcello Cervini retained on his 
elevation the name which he had previously borne. 
See Herzog, Real-Encyklopddie, ix, 21; Pierer, Univer - 
sal-Lexikon , x, 855 ; Chambers, Cyclop. : Bower, Hist, of 
the Popes, vii. 459 , Riddle, Papacy (see Index); Artaux 
de Montor, Hist, des Souverciins Pontifes Remains, s. v. 

Mareellus, Aaron A., a (Dutch) Reformed min- 
ister, was born in Amsterdam. N. Y., May 1 1, 1799; was 
prepared for college by the Rev. Drs. Van Zarnlt and 
Spencer, of Brooklyn, N. Y. ; graduated at Union Col- 
lege, N. Y., in 1826, afterwards followed teaching, and 
for some years had charge of the Female Seminary in 
Syracuse, and subsequently of Schenectady, N. Y. He 
removed to New York, and was for a short time superin- 
tendent of the Orphan Asylum; but, feeling that his duty 
pointed in the direction of the ministry, he entered the 
Theological Seminary of the Reformed (Dutch) Church 
at New Brunswick, N. .1., and graduated in 1830. He 
was licensed by the New York Chassis, and in July, 
1830, became pastor of the Reformed (Dutch) Church 
at Lysander, N. Y. ; subsequently of the Church of 
Scliaghticoke ; missionary near the Dry Dock, New 
York ; principal of the Lancaster County Academy, Pa. ; 
pastor at Freehold, N. J., in 1839; of the Church in 


Greenville, N. Y., in 1856 ; and in 1859 removed to Ber- 
gen, N. J., where he labored as a teacher until he died, 
May 24, 1860. Mr. Mareellus was courteous rind refined 
in manners, an earnest preacher, and an excellent in- 
structor of vouth. See Wilson, Presb. Hist. Almanac , 
1861, p. 252.* (J.L.S.) 

Marcheshvan Cjldn'l'B, Marcheshvan' , of the 
later Hebrew; Josephus, Ant. Map<roi’di'//c, i, 3, 3; the 
Macedonian Aloe) is the name of that month which 
was the eighth of the saered and the second of the civil 
year of the Jews, and began with the new moon of 
our November. There was a fast on the 6tli in memory 
of Zedekiah’s being blinded, after he had witnessed the 
slaughter of his sons (2 Kings xxv, 7). This month is 
always spoken of in the Old Testament by its numerical 
designation; except once, when it is called Bui (bis, 1 
Kings vi, 38; Sept.BadA). According to Kimehi, Bid is 
a shortened form of the Hebrew bin" 1 , “ rain,” from 
The signification of rain-month is exactly suitable to 
November in the climate of Palestine. Others derive 
it from bbn. Benfey, availing himself of the fact that 
the Palmyrene inscriptions express the name of the god 
Baal, according to their dialect, by bin (as bl-bn2 ? 
’AyAi/SdAoc), has ventured to suggest that, as the 
months are often called after the deities, Bui may have 
received its name from that form of Baal (Monatsnamen, 
p. 182). The rendering of the Sept, might have been 
appealed to as some sanction of this view. He supposes 
that Marcheshvan is a compound name, of which the 
syllable mar is taken from the Zend Ameretdt , or its 
later Persian form Moi'ddd, and that cheshvdn is the 
Persian chezdn, “ autumn,” both of which are names be- 
longing to the same month ( l . c. p. 136 sq.). — Ivitto. 
See Bul. 

Marchetti, Francois, an eminent French writer 
and archaeologist, was born at Marseilles about the open- 
ing of the 17th century; was educated at a college of 
the “Fathers of the Oratory,” entered their order in 
1630, and became one of the ablest members. lie died 
at his native place in 1688. Of his works the follow- 
ing are of particular interest to us: Paraphrase sur les 
Epitres de Saint Pierre (1639), and Traite sur la Messe 
avec 1' explication de ses ceremonies. 

Marchetti, Giovanni, an Italian ecclesiastic of 
note, was born at Empoli, in Tuscany, in 1753, of hum- 
ble parentage. After struggling for years to secure the 
advantages of a thorough education, he entered the 
priesthood in 1777. Later he took np the pen in de- 
fence of the rights of the Roman see. His works, which 
made him known as a brilliant writer and a learned stu- 
dent, attracted the attention of pope Pius VI, who ac- 
corded him a pension and invested him with different 
offices. In 1798, after Rome had been proclaimed a 
republic, he was banished. In 1799 he was conducted 
to Florence, where he endured imprisonment for one 
month. On his return to Rome (1800) he opened an 
academy of theology. When the excommunication of 
the emperor Napoleon by Pius \\ I became known (1809), 
Marchetti and cardinal Mattel, accused of aiding the 
pope in this violent part, were imprisoned in the castle 
of St. Angelo. Some time after Marchetti obtained per- 
mission to go to his native town. lie returned to Rome 
in 1814 ; in 1822 was appointed vicar of Rimini ; in 1826 
became secretary of the Assembly of Bishops, and died 
Nov. 15, 1829. Among his works, which have been 
translated into many languages, we find Saggio critico 
sopra la Storia Ecclesiastica di Fleury (Rome, 1780, 
12mo) : — Critica della Storia Ecclesiastica e de ’ discorsi 
di Fleury (Bologne, 1782, 2 vols. 12mo): — Esceritazioni 
Ciprianiche circa il battesimo deyli eretici (Rome, 1787, 
8vo): — Del concilia di Sardica (Rome, 1785, 8vo ) : — II 
Christianesimo dimonstrabile sopra i suoi libn (Rome, 
1795, 8vo) : — St rattenimenti di famiylia sulla storia della 
reliyione con le sue prove (Rome, 1800, 2 vols. 8vo) : — 
La Providenza (Rome, 1797, 12mo) '.—Metamorfosi ver- 


MARCIOX 


733 


MARCION 


date da Basilide Veremita sul terminare del secolo xviii 
(Florence, 1799, 8vo) : — 11 si ed il no , parallelo delle. dot - 
trine e regole ecclesiastiche (Home, 1801, 8vo) : — Lezioni 
sacre daW ingresso del popolo di Dio in Cananea jino 
alia schiaritu di Babilonia (Home, 1803-8, 12 vols. 8vo) : 
— Della Chiesa quanto alto stato politico della ciita 
(Home, 1817-18, 3 vols. 8vo) : — La vita razionale dell ’ 
vomo (Rome, 1828 f 8vo). lie also contributed many ar- 
ticles to t lie Giornale Kcclesiastico (Rome) from 1788 to 
1798. See Ifoefer, Xouv. Biog. Generate , xxxiii, 491. 

Marcion (M apKtiov), founder of the sect of Mar- 
cion iies, flourished near the middle of the 2d century, 
lie was a native of Sinope. According to Tertullian, 
he was a pilot. Some critics have expressed their 
doubts that so learned a man should have followed such 
a trade, but nothing proves Marcion having been a very 
learned man. lie seems to have at first, connected him- 
self with the Stoics, and, although his father was a 
bishop (probably of Sinope), he long inquired into the 
merits of Christianity before becoming a convert to it. 
lie either retained some of his former views, or else in- 
dulged in new speculative views which caused him to 
be excommunicated by his own father. Epiphanius, I 
who states that Marcion was driven out of the Church 
for having seduced a young girl (not credited any Ion- ; 
ger by modern scholars, as Beausobre and Neander), af- | 
firms that he afterwards endeavored to regain admission i 
into it by affecting to be deeply penitent, but his father 
refused to admit him again. Marcion now went to 
Rome, where he arrived, according to Tillemont, in 142, 
or, according to Lipsius (Zeitschrift fur wissenschaftl. 
Theologie , 1847, p. 77), in 143 or 144, but, more probably, 
in 138, as St. Justin mentions his residence in Rome in 
his Apology, written in 139. According to St. Epipha- 
nius, Marcion’s first step upon reaching Rome was to ask 
readmission into the Church, but he was refused. The 
same writer further states that Marcion aimed to succeed 
pope Hvginus, who had just died, and that his regret at 
having failed was the cause of his accepting Gnosticism. 
These Oriental doctrines were then preached at Rome 
bv a Syrian named Cerdon. Marcion joined him, and 
proclaimed his intention of creating an abiding schism in 
the Christian Church. Quite different is the statement 
of Epiphanius. Marcion, says he, was at first received 
into the Church at Rome, and professed at first orthodox 
views, but being of a speculative turn of mind, his pry- 
ing, theorising intellect constantly led him into opinions 
and practices too hostile to the opinions and practices 
of the Church to escape opposition, and he was there- 
fore constantly involved in controversies, in which he 
often espoused heretical views. After repeated warn- 
ings, he was finally cut off* from communion with the 
Church, “in perpetuum discidium relegatus.” lie con- 
tinued to teach, still hoping to become reconciled with 
the Church. Finally lie was offered reconciliation on 
the condition of returning with all his followers, but 
died while endeavoring to do so. Ilis disciples were 
then but few, and did not hold all the doctrines after- 
wards maintained by the Marcionites, who flourished 
as a sect, in spite of untold persecution, until the 6th cen- 
tury, particularly in Egypt, Palestine, and Syria. The 
most distinguished among his disciples and followers 
were Apelles, Lucanus, Basilus, Blastus, and Potitus. 

The fundamental point of Marcion’s heresy was a 
supposed irreeonciliable opposition between the Creator 
and the God of the Christians, or, in other words, be- 
tween the two religious systems, the Law and the Gos- 
pel. His theological system is but imperfectly known. 
St. Epiphanius accuses him of recognising three first 
principles, one supreme, ineffable, and invisible, whom 
he calls good ; secondly, the Creator, thirdly, the devil, 
or perhaps matter, source of evil. According to The- 
odorct, he admitted three, the good God, the Creator, 
matter, and evil which governs matter, i. e. the devil. 
It is proved that Marcion believed in the eternity of 
matter, but it is uncertain whether he considered the 
Creator as a first principle, or as, in some degree, an ema- 


nation of the good God. At any rate, he considered them 
as essentially antagonistic. This conclusion he arrived 
at because he could not find in the 0. T. the love and 
charity manifested in the Gospel of Christ, lie there- 
fore made the Creator, the God of the O. T., the author 
of evil, “ malorum faetorem,” by which he meant suffer- 
ing, not moral evil. The old dispensation was, accord- 
ing to his views, the reign of the Creator, who chose the 
Jews for his own special people, and promised them a 
Messiah. Christ is not this Messiah, but is the Son of 
the invisible, good God, and appeared upon earth in hu- 
man form (being, perhaps, but a phantom), to free the 
soul and overthrow the dominion of the Creator. Mar- 
cion also supposed that when Christ descended into hell, 
he did not deliver those who in the O. T. are desig- 
nated as saints, such as Abel, Enoch, Noah, Abraham, 
Moses, David, etc., but rather those who had disobeyed 
and rejected the Creator, like Cain, Esau, Korah, Da- 
than, and Abiram. The other doctrines of Marcion were 
the natural consequences of these principles. lie disap- 
proved of marriage, and did not admit married persons 
to baptism, considering it wrong to propagate a race 
subject to the cruel dominion of the Creator. His dis- 
ciples, convinced that this world is a prey to evil, hailed 
death, even a martyr’s, as freeing them from it. They 
denied the resurrection of the body, and, notwithstand- 
ing Epiphanius’s assertion, it appears doubtful whether 
they believed in the transmigration of the soul. They 
were in the habit of being baptized several times, as 
if the sins of every day diminished the effect of that 
sacrament ; but this custom, which is not mentioned 
by Tertullian, was probably introduced after the death 
of Marcion. Women were allowed to baptize persons 
of their sex, and the new converts were admitted to 
witness the mysteries. To make the Scripture agree 
with his views, Marcion rejected a large portion of the 
N. T. He looked upon the O. T. as a revelation of the 
Creator to the Jews, his chosen people, which not only 
differed from, but was entirely opposed to Christianity. 
He admitted but one Gospel, and that a truncated ver- 
sion of Luke’s, the first four chapters of which he re- 
jected, making it to commence by the words: In the fif- 
teenth year of the reign of Tiberius Ciesar, God came to 
Capernaum, a town in Galilee, and spoke on the Sab- 
bath. He carefully omitted all the passages in which 
Christ acknowledged the Creator as his Father. Among 
the Epistles, he admitted those to the Romans, 1st and 
2d to the Corinthians, Galatians, Ephesians, Pliilippians, 
Colossians, 1st and 2d to the Thessalonians, Philemon, 
and some part of a supposed Epistle of St. Paul to the 
Laodiceans; but all these Epistles were expurgated and 
interpolated to suit his views. Marcion also composed 
a work entitled Antithesis; it is a collection of passages 
from the O. and the N.T. which he looked upon as con- 
tradictory. Jn reality, the system of Marcion bore a 
close resemblance to that of Maui (q. v.); it was an at- 
tempt to explain the origin of evil. Marcion, as after- 
wards Maui, thought to solve the problem by supposing 
two first principles ; but there is this essential difference 
between them, that while Marcion based his system on 
the Scriptures, interpreted with daring subtility, Mani 
derived his from Parseeism, without direct reference to 
Christian dogmas or traditions. See Tertullian, Con- 
tra M arcionem, libri v; De Preescriptione Hcereticorum ; 
J iislin, Apologia ; Irenauis, A drersus litres. ; Clement of 
Alexandria, Stromata , iii, 3 ; St. Epiphanius, Banarium ; 
Ittigius, De Haresiarchis , sect, ii, c. 7 ; Cave, llistoria 
Litteraria , i, 51; Tillemont, Memoires Eccles. ii, 266; 
Beausobre, Hist, dn Manicheisme, lib. i v, e. v, viii ; Lard- 
ner, Hist, of Heretics, vol. ii, c. x ; Esnig, Darstcllung des 
marcionitischen Systems , from the Armenian by Neu- 
mann, in the Zeitsch rift Jit r hist, theol. 1834 ; Ilahn, A n- 
iithesis Marcionis (1823); id. De canone Marcionis an- 
ti nomi (1824); Becker. Examen critique de Vevangile de 
Marcion (1837); Ritschl, Das Erangelinm Mar cion's v. 
d. Evangel, des Lukas (1846): Ililgenfeld, Krit. I hter- 
suchungen ii. d. Evangel. Justin's d, clement. Horn. v. Mar - 


MARCIONITES 


737 


MARCUS 


cion's (1852) ; Heim, Ma rcion, sa doctrine et son evangile 
(18G2) ; Scbaff, Ch. Hist . i, 245 ; Milman, Hist, of Latin 
Christianity ; Donaldson, Literature ; Werner, Gesch. d. 
apologet. u. golem. Literutur ; llagenbach, Hist, of Doc- 
trines, i, 58 sq., 85, 190, 198 ; Zdtschrf f. Wissensch. theol. 
18G0, ii, 285 ; Stud. u. Krit. 1855, ii, 29G ; A m. Prcsb. Rev . 
18G0 (May), p. 3G0; Neander, Ch. Hist, ii, 458 sq.; id. 
Christian Dogmas (see Index) ; Baur, Dogmengesch. vol. 
ii (see Index) ; Iiayle, Diet. Hist, and Crit. ; Diet, des 
Sciences philosophiques ; Iloefcr, Nouv. Biog. Generate , 
xxxiii, 505 ; Smith, Did. Gr. and Rom. Biog. s. v. See 
Trinity. 

Marcionites. See Marcion. 

Marcites or Marcitae, a sect of heretics in the 
2d century, who also called themselves the Perfecti , and 
made profession of doing everything with a great deal 
of liberty, and without fear. This doctrine they bor- 
rowed from Simon Magus, who, however, was not their 
chief ; for they were called Marcites, from one Marcus, 
w'ho conferred the priesthood and the administration of 
the sacraments on women. 

Marck, Johann van, a distinguished Dutch theo- 
logian, was born Dec. 31, 1G55, at Sncek, in Friesland, 
and educated at the University of Leyden. His early 
reputation was such that before the completion of his 
twenty-first year he was appointed to the professorship 
of theology at Franeker. In 1G82 he removed to Gron- 
ingen as professor primarius of theology and university 
preacher. In 1G90 he accepted a theological chair at 
Leyden, and in 1720 succeeded the younger Spanheim 
as professor of ecclesiastical history. He died Jan. 30, 
1731. He wrote several works on dogmatic theology, 
which arc highly esteemed in the Reformed Church, 
and made various valuable contributions to the inter- 
pretation of the Scriptures. Ilis principal works are, 
De Sybyllinis carminibus (Frankf. 1G82, 8vo) : — Di Apoc- 
alypsin Commentaria sen analysis exegetica (Lugd. Bat. 
1G89, cd. auct. 1G99, 4to) : — In Canticum Salomonis Com- 
mentarius sen analysis exegetica cum analysi Psa. xlv 
(Lugd. 1703, 4to) : — In prcecipuas quasdam partes Pen - 
tateuchi Commentarius , seu ultimorum Jacobi , reliquo- 
rum Bilhami et novissimorum Mosis analysis exegetica 
(Lugd. 1713, 4to) : — Commentarii seu analysis exegetica 
in Prophetas minores (Amsterd. 1G9G-1701, 5 vols. 4to). 
This is a very complete and carefully-executed work. 
Walch characterizes it as one of the best of the com- 
mentaries on the minor prophets: — Sylloge dissertatio- 
num philologieo-exegeticarum ad selectos quosdam text us 
N. T. (Rotterd. 1721, 4to) : — Compendium theologicc Chris- 
tiana} didadico-elencticum (Amsterd. 1722, 4to) : — Fasci- 
culus dissert at ionum philologieo-exegeticarum ad selectos 
textus V. et Y. Testamenti (Lugd. 1724-27, 2 vols.), etc. 
A selection from his works was published at Groningen 
in 1748, in 2 vols. 4to. See Kitto, Cyclop, of Bibl. Lit. 
vol. iii, s. v. ; Darling, Cyclop. Bibliog. vol. ii, s. v. 

Marckius. See Marck. 

Marconville or Marcouville, Jean de, a 
French writer of note, who flourished in the second half 
of the IGth century at Paris, is the author of several 
works of interest to the theological student. Among 
them the following deserve special mention : L'origine 
des temples des Juifs, Chretiens , et Gentiles (Paris, 15G3, 
8vo) : — La diversites des opinions de Vhomme (1563, 8vo) : 
— Chretien avertissement aux refroidis et ecartes de la 
vraie et ancienne Eglise Catholique (1571, 8vo), a work 
in which Marconville, though displaying great attach- 
ment to the Roman Catholic Church, condemns her con- 
duct towards the Protestants. See Hocfcr, Nouv. Biog. 
Generate , xxxii, 509. 

Marcomanni, a Germanic tribe of the Suevic 
branch, dwelt from the Helvetian border to the Main, 
and from the Rhine to the Danube. They are first 
mentioned by Julius Ciesar in his Gallic wars (i, 51), who 
reckons them among the forces of Ariovistus, king of 
the Sucvi. The conquests of the Romans brought them 


into dangerous proximity to the Marcomanni, and in- 
duced the latter to seek a ncw r home in modern Bohemia. 
They w'erc ledbyMarobodhus,aman of noble rank among 
them, trained in the Roman armies, and lie became their 
king after the conquest of Bohemia. The Marcomanni 
quickly acquired influence, and w’ere greatly strength- 
ened by alliances w T ith all the neighboring tribes, so 
that their pow r er became threatening to the empire. 
Tiberius concluded a treaty of peace with them, winch 
secured the empire against an attack, but turned against 
them the hatred of the remaining Germanic tribes. 
Led by Arminius, these enemies defeated the Marco- 
manni in A.D. 17, after which date their history pre- 
sents ail almost uninterrupted succession of conflicts. 
They defeated the emperor Domitian (Dio Cassius, 
lxvii, 7), and in A.D. 1G4 advanced to Aquilcia, in Italy. 
The fruits of a decisive victory over them, won by the 
generals of M. Aurelius, were lost by a treaty which the 
emperor Commodns concluded with them (A.D. 180), 
and they continued to make frequent irruptions into the 
neighboring provinces of the empire, penetrating in 
A.D. 270 even to Milan, besieging Ancona, and threat- 
ening Rome itself. Their name gradually disappears 
from history during the 5tli century, when the migra- 
tion of more distant barbarians brought a succession of 
new peoples into their land. 

It is not definitely known how or when they became 
acquainted with Christianity. Their frequent incur- 
sions into the empire doubtless brought them into con- 
tact with its disciples, some of whom must have been 
among their prisoners of w ar. A statement in the life 
of St. Ambrose, by Paulinus — which, however, is not con- 
firmed by any contemporaneous author — relates that in 
the time of that bishop an Italian Christian had visited 
the Marcomanni, and had awakened the interest of their 
queen in Christianity to an extent that led her to ap- 
ply to Ambrose for instruction. He sent, in compli- 
ance with her request, a w'ork in the form of a cate- 
chism, by which both she and the king were led to em- 
brace Christianity towards the close of the 4th century. 
See Schrockh, Kirchengesch. vii, 347 ; Ilefelc, Gesch. d. 
Einfuhrung des Christentkums im sud-westl. Deutschland , 
vol. vii ; Tacitus, Annals; Dio Cassius, Ilist. Rom. 1, 54, 
and Greek and Roman historians of this period. See 
also Herzog, Rea l- Lbicyklopddie , ix, 1 1 2 ; AYetzer u.AYelte, 
Kirchen-Lex. s. v. (G. M.) 

Marcosians or Colobarsians, an ancient sect 
in the Church, making a branch of the Yalentinians. 
Irenoeus speaks at large of the leader of this sect, Mar- 
cus, w'ho, it seems, u'as reputed a great magician. The 
Marcosians had a great number of apocryphal books, 
which they held as canonical, and of the same author- 
ity with ours. Out of these they picked several idle fa- 
bles touching the infancy of Jesus Christ, which they 
circulated as authentic histories. Many of these fables 
are still in use and credit among the Greek monks. — 
Henderson, Buck, Theol. Did. s. v. See Yalentinians. 

Mar'cus (Col. iv, 10 ; Philem. 24 ; 1 Pet. v, 13). See 
Mark. 

Marcus, Pope, one of the early bishops of Rome, 
succeeded Sylvester Jan. 18, 33G ; but little is known 
either of his life or administration. Anastasius states 
that by him the bishop of Ostia was first appointed to 
ordain the bishop of Rome. He died October 7 of the 
same year in which he had been chosen, and w'as buried 
in the cemetery of Balbina, w'hich was thenceforth call- 
ed after his name. “His body,” says Bow'er, “ has since 
been worshipped in the church of St. Lawrence at Flor- 
ence, though no mention has been made by any writer 
of its having been translated thither.” Novaes relates 
that Marcus bore the title of cardinal before his elec- 
tion, and that with him originated this dignitary of the 
Church of Rome. He is aiso by some w’riters believed 
to have been the first pontiff to order the reading of the 
Nicenc confession of faith, after the Gospels, in the cele- 
bration of mass. See Bower, II Lstory of the Popes , i, 1 14 ; 


MARCUS 


MARCUS 738 


Shepherd, Hist, of the Church of Rome to Damasus (A.D. 
384), p. 77. 

Marcus of Alexandria, a patriarch of Alexan- 
dria, nourished early in the 13th century, and was par- 
ticularly well versed in ecclesiastical law. lie proposed 
certain questions for solution on various points of eccle- 
siastical law or practice. Sixty-four of these questions, 
with the answers of Theodorus Balsamon, are given in 
the Jus Orientule of Bonefidins, p. 237, etc. (Paris, 1573, 
8vo), and in the Jus Graco-Romanum of Leunclavius, i, 
302-394 (Frankfort, 1590, fol.). Some MSS. contain two 
questions and solutions more than the printed copies. 
Fabricius suggests that Mark of Alexandria is the Mar- 
cus cited in a INIS., Catena in Matthcei Evangelium, of 
Macarius Chrysoceplialus, extant in the Bodleian Libra- 
ry at Oxford. — Cave, Hist. Lift, ad ann. 1203, ii, 279 (cd. 
Oxford, 1740-42); Smith, Diet, of Gr . and Rom. Biog. 
and Mythol. s. v. 

Marcus of Aretuusa, a bishop in the Eastern 
Church, was one of three prelates sent to Rome, A.D. 
342, by the emperor Constantins IT, to satisfy the West- 
ern emperor Constans of the justice and propriety of the 
deposition of Athanasius of Alexandria and Paidus of 
Constantinople. Marcus and his fellow- prelates are 
charged with having deceived Constans by presenting 
to him as their confession of faith, not the Arian or Eu- 
sebian confession, lately agreed on at the Synod of An- 
tioch, but another confession of orthodox complexion, 
yet not fully orthodox, which is given by Socrates. 
Marcus appears to have acted with the Eusebian or Semi- 
Arian party, and took part on their side, probably in the 
Council of Philippopolis, held by the prelates of the 
East after their secession from Sardica (A.D. 347), and 
certainly in that of Sirmium (A.D. 359), where a heter- 
odox confession of faith was drawn up by him. The 
confession which is given as Marcus’s by Socrates is be- 
lieved by modern critics not to be his. They ascribe to 
him the confession agreed upon by the Council of Arimi- 
num, A.D. 359, and also given by Socrates. During the 
short reign of Julian, Marcus, then on old man, was 
cruelly tortured in various ways by the heathen popu- 
lace of Arethusa, who were irritated by the success of 
his efforts to convert their fellow-townsmen to Christi- 
anity. He appears to have barely survived their cru- 
elty. 11 is sufferings for the Christian religion seem to 
have obliterated the discredit of his Arianism, for Greg- 
ory Nazianzen has eulogized him in the highest terms, 
and the Greek Church honors him as a martyr. See 
Athanasius, De Synodis , c. 24, s. v. ; Socrates, Hist. Ec- 
cles. ii, 18, 30, 37, with the notes of Yalesius; Sozomen, 
Hist. Bccles. iii, 10: iv, 17 ; v, 10: Thcodorct, Hist. Be- 
des. iii, 7; Gregorius Naz. Oratio iv; Holland, A eta 
Smictor. Mart, iii, 774, etc.; Tillemont, .Ifemoires, vol. 
vi and vii : Smith, Diet, of Gr. and Rom. Biot 7. and My- 
thol. s. v. ; Neander, l list . of Chr. Ch. ii, 51, Gl. 

Marcus Aurelius. See Aurelius. 

Marcus Diadochus, who flourished probably in 
the 4th century, was the author of a short treatise enti- 
tled TiV patcapiov XidpKov rov Amcoyoo K*nrd ’Apfi- 
avdiv \byoc, Beati Marei Diadochi Sermo contra Ari - 
anos, published with a Latin version by Jos. Rudolph. 
Wetstenius, subjoined to his edition of Origcn, Be Ora- 
tione (Basle, 1G94, 4to; reprinted with a new Latin ver- 
sion in the Bibliotheca Putrum of Galland, v, 242). Sec 
Fabricius, Bibl. G riven, ix, 2GG sq. ; Cave, Hist. JJtt. ad 
ann. 350, i, 217 ; Galland, Biblioth. Putrum, Prolog, ad 
vol. v, c. 14; Smith, Diet, of Greek and Rom. Bioy. and 
Mythol. s. v. 

Marcus Erkmita (o ’Kpijplrijc, the Ascetic , called 
also Morflyoc, ’Afifiag, and ' Aok?]ti)i ; or Bxcercitator ), 
a disciple of Chrysostom^and contemporary of Nilus and 
Isidore of IVIusium, was a celebrated Egyptian hermit of I 
the Scythian deserts, who lived at the close of the 4th and 
the beginning of the 5th century. From early manhood 
he was noted for his piety, meekness, and ascetic vir- 


tues, and for his exact acquaintance with the holy Scrip- 
tures, the whole of which he had committed to memory ; 
and in his old age he enjoyed the repute of an especial 
sanctity and wonder-working power. Palladius, who 
visited him in person about A.D. 395, Sozomen, and the 
Greek menologics relate many of his miracles; but some 
of them are elsewhere attributed to Macarius (q. v.). In- 
1 deed, the writings of Palladius and the monkish tradi- 
! tions seem frequently to confound the names of Marcus 
and Macarius ; and, as both names were common among 
monks, it is difficult to decide whether the scattered no- 
tices of a prominent saint of this name that have reach- 
ed us refer to one person or to several. There arc traces 
of a younger Marcus, living early in the 5th century, 
and of others living in the 9th and 10th centuries. Bel- 
larmine attributes the nine or ten tracts of Marcus Ere- 
mita which still exist, and are classed among the most 
interesting relics of the mystico-ascetie literature of the 
Greek Church, to a monk of the 9th century; but trust- 
worthy authorities assign to them a much earlier date. 
Photius (f 891) mentions nine tracts of Marcus (Bibl. 
cod. 200, p. 519, edit. Bekker), which are identical with 
ours. Maximus Confessor, in the 7th century, furnishes 
a work by Marcus (cd. of Combefis, i, 702 sq.) ; and Do- 
rotheas cites expressions from him in the 6th century 
(comp. Tillemont, x, 801 ; Ceillier, xvii, 504). Besides, 
the contents of these tracts are so related to what is 
found in Chrysostom, Macarius, and to some extent in 
Jovinian (comp. Neander, Ch. Hist, ii, 390), that we are 
compelled to recognise in their author a contemporary 
of Chrysostom. The only remaining question is, wheth- 
er the author of the tracts be identical with the Marcus 
of Palladius and Sozomen, or a younger contemporary. 
The preponderance of authority points decidedly to the 
former (see Prolegomena in Galland’s Bibl. Patr. viii, 
3 sq. ; and works on Church history and history of lit- 
erature, especially Du Pin, Xouv. Bibl. iii, 8.2 sq. ; On- 
din, Comm, de scr. eed. i, 902 sq. ; Ceillier, A uteurs Bccl. 
xvii, 300 sq.; Cave, Script. eccl. hist. bibl. i, 372 sq.; Tille- 
mont, Memoires, vols. viii and x). The Roman Cath- 
! olie Church historians generally ignore him. Marcus 
Eremita is said to have died about A.D. 410, aged more 
than a hundred years. The Greek Church surnamed 
him the wonder-worker, and commemorated him on the 
25th of March ; a day in October was formerly observed 
in his honor by a portion of the Latin Church. 

The nine tracts of Marcus are, in brief, as follows : 1. 
ITtpi vojiov mavyariKov , De lege spirituidi s.de paradiso, 
u Profitable for those who have chosen an ascetic life.” 
Tt comprises an introduction, which is followed by two 
hundred separate propositions designed to comment on 
the scriptural expression ropog ttviv par near. The lead- 
ing thoughts are : All good centres in God ; without his 
aid men can neither believe nor do good, lienee hu- 
mility is necessary to obedience, and its expression is to 
be found in restraining our passions rather than in an 
ascetic hatred of God’s creatures. 2. nqoi nil' olopimov 
i'pywv CucaiovoSai, De his qui putant se ex operibus 
jnstifeari, seems originally to have formed part of the 
first, and comprises two hundred and eleven capita or 
propositions, treating mainly of justification bv faith. 
Saving faith must be accompanied by works of right- 
eousness, but heaven cannot be earned. The kingdom 
of God is of grace, which God has provided for his faith- 
ful servants. Such as do good for a reward, serve not 
God, but their own will. 3. Tltpi ptTavoiag ri]g ndr- 
rore ttuiti 7 rponi}Kovo)jC, De panitentia cunctis necessu- 
ria. Repentance consists of three parts : purification of 
our thoughts, persistent prayer, and patient endurance 
of tribulation. None can be saved except they contin- 
ually repent, and none are damned except they despise 
repentance. 4. Of baptism ; a series of questions and 
answers relating to the worth and effects of baptism. 
It is represented as the channel through which Christ 
imparts gracious aid, rather than as an agency that 
works perfection in its subject. 5. Salutary precepts, 
addressed to the monk Xicholas , and shoieing how to lead 


MARCUS 


739 


MARCUS 


a Christian life , and especially how to restrain anger and 
Jleshly lusts. Ascetic exercises are rejected as a means, 
aiul looking to Jesus is recommended as pre-eminently 
the way to virtue and true Christianity. Annexed 
is a reply from Nicholas, returning thanks for this coun- 
sel. C. Brief reflections of a pious and mystical charac- 
ter , generally bearing on some passage or expression of 
the Scriptures, treated in the freest style of allegorical 
interpretation. A state of mystical ecstasy, in which 
the soul is lost to all created things, and in an ecstasy 
of love is wholly absorbed in God, is characterized as 
the most exalted spiritual condition, and aseetie duties 
are accorded only a secondary value. Another tract, 
upon the subject of fasting, is wanting in the older edi- 
tions, and was first published in 1748 by Eemondini. 
It possibly formed a part of G, which closes abruptly. 
7. General questions of Christian morality ; a disputation 
with a jurist as to the possibility of reconciling capital 
punishment with Christian principles, and a discussion 
of the nature and use of prayer, of the various ways to 
honor God, of the desire to please men, etc. 8. A mys- 
tical dialogue between the soul and spirit concerning sin 
and grace , chiefly remarkable because of its decided re- 
jection of the doctrine of original sin, and of its clear 
and pointed statement of the doctrines of the Greek fa- 
thers respecting sin and human freedom. We arc to 
seek the source of our sinfulness neither in Satan, Adam, 
nor other men. No power can compel us to good or 
evil, but rather the condition of every person is that 
which he has chosen from the time of his baptism. The 
same passions which seduced Adam and Eve still exist 
in human nature, and produce a like result in every 
soul that, in the exercise of its freedom, submits to their 
control. The conflict with sin is therefore a struggle 
against our own will, in which Christ aids us when we 
keep his commandments to the extent of our power. 
9. Christ's relation to M elchisedek. This tract is direct- 
ed against a class who regarded Melchiseclek as a divine 
being; probably the Origenistic sect founded in Egypt 
by llieracas, who were said to regard M elcliisedck as 
the holy Spirit or an incarnation of the Spirit. While 
combating such views, the tract reveals a tendency to 
Monophvsitism, in ascribing to the human nature of Je- 
sus all the attributes of the Godhead. These tracts of 
Marcus Eremita reveal to us the memorials of a partly 
ascetic, partly ecstatic mysticism, which was especially 
cultivated among the Egyptian monks, and which aim- 
ed to spiritualize the practices of Monachism. In its 
excess of pious feeling over dogmatic conceptions, it 
contained the seeds of many diverse systems of dogmat- 
ics and ethics. Monophvsitism had essentially its root 
in the mysticism of the Egyptian monks; and in these 
writings are found, in curious juxtaposition, Pelagian- 
ism and Augustinism, the strongest assertion of human 
freedom and of the sole efficiency of grace in the work 
of salvation, the evangelical view of justification by 
faith and the Homan Catholic doctrine of works, lienee 
Bellarminc and other Pom an Catholics supposed that 
modern heretics had forged these writings, while Prot- 
estant writers have remarked their Pelagian cast. The 
tracts of Marcus were in the 17th century placed in the 
Index, as “ caute legenda.” They are chiefly important 
as a connecting link between the mysticism of Macarius 
and that of the Areopagite and Maximus Confessor. 

Eight of the above mystical treatises are Adyoi oictci , 
“equal to the number of the universal passions.” A Latin 
version of all together was prepared by Joannes Ficus 
(Paris, 15G3, 8vo ; later editions in Bill. Patri ) ; a Greek 
version by Guillaume Morel, with the Antirrhetica of 
ilesychius of Jerusalem (Par. 1563, 8vo). Both versions 
were reprinted in the first volume of the Auctarium of 
Ducaeus (Paris, 1624, folio), in the eleventh volume of 
Bibl. Patrum (Paris, 1G54, folio), and in the eighth vol- 
ume of the Bibl . Patrum of Galland. Marcus Eremita 
was probably the author also of the traet LLpi rrjrrrii- 
ag. Be Jejunio; Latin version by Zinus (Venice, 1574, 
8vo). Two of Marcus’s tracts — the first and second, 


viz. rifpe voyov TrvevpariKov , Be Lege Spiritually and 
Ilf pi twv oioptviov i£ tpyojv CucaiovoQat. Be jus quipu- 
tant se Operibus justijicari , were published together by 
Vincentius Opsopceus, with a Latin version (Hagucnau, 
1531, 8vo). The first was reprinted in the Micropres- 
byticon (Basle, 1550), and in the Orthodoxographa (Basle, 
1555). The tract Be Jejunio . and another, Be Melchi- 
zedehy were first published by B. M. Kemondiiius (Pome, 
1748). Sec Fabricius, Biblioth. Graca , ix, 2G7 ; Cave, 
Ilistor. Lift, ad aim. 401, i, 372 ; Oudin, Be Scriptor. Ec - 
cles. i, col. 902 sq. ; Tillemont, Memoires, x, 801; Gal- 
land, Biblioth. Patrum , Proleg. ad viii, c. 1 ; Smith, Bid. 
of Gr. and Rom. Biog. and J fythol. s. v. ; and especially 
Wagenmann, in Herzog, Real-Encyk. xx, 85-91. (G. 31.) 

Marcus Eugenicus. See Eugenicus. 

Marcus of Gaza, the biographer of St. Porphyry 
of Gaza, lived in the 4th and 5th centuries; was prob- 
ably a native of Proconsular Asia, whence he travelled 
to Palestine, there became acquainted with Porphyry, 
and then lived at Jerusalem some time before A.I). 393. 
Porphyry sent him to Thessalonica to dispose of his 
property in those parts, and after his return 31 arcus ap- 
pears to have been the almost inseparable companion of 
Porphyry, by whom he was ordained deacon, and sent 
(A.I). 398) to Constantinople to obtain of the emperor 
Arcadius an edict for destroying the heathen temples at 
Gaza. He obtained an edict to close, but not to destroy 
them. This, however, was not effectual for putting 
down heathenism ; and Porphyry went in person to Con- 
stantinople, taking 3Iarcus with him, and they obtained 
an imperial edict for the destruction both of the idols 
and the temples of the heathen. 3Iarcus afterwards re- 
turned with Porphyry to Gaza, where he probably re- 
mained till his death, of which we have no account, 
fie wrote the life of Porphyry, the original Greek text 
of which is said to be extant in 31S. at Vienna ; it has 
never been published. A Latin version, Vita St.Por- 
phyrii Episcopi Gazensis, was published by Lipomanus 
in his Vita Sanctorum ; by Surius, in his Be Probatis 
Sanctorum Vitis ; and by the Bollandists, in the Acta 
Sanctorum Vebruar. iii, G43 sq., with a Commentarius 
Pravius and notes by Hensehenius. It is given also in 
the Bibliotheca Patrum of Galland. ix, 259 sq. Sec Fa- 
bricius, Biblioth. Graca , x, 316 ; Cave, Hist . Lift, ad anil. 
421, i, 403 ; Oudin, Be Scriptor. Eccles. i, col. 999; Gal- 
land, Bibl. Patrum , Proleg. ad ix, c. 7 ; Smith, Bid. of 
Gr. and Rom. Biog. and My t hoi. s. v. 

Marcus the Ueresiarcii, sometimes called the 
Gnostic, a teacher of Gnosticism in the 2d century, 
thought by Jerome to be a native of Egypt; by Gard- 
ner, of Proconsular Asia ; and by Xeander, of Palestine. 
That Jerome’s conjecture is correct, seems probable from 
the statement of Irenaeus that 3Iarcus was a disciple of 
Valentinus. The followers of 31 arcus were called 31 ar- 
cosians. His peculiar tenets were founded on the Gnos- 
tic doctrine of aeons; professing to derive his knowledge 
of these .Tons, and of the production of the universe, by 
a revelation from the four primal emanations in the svs- 
tem of aeons, who descended to him from the region of 
the ineffable and invisible in the form of a female. He 
set forth his system in a poem, in which he introduced 
the divine aeon discoursing in liturgical forms, and with 
gorgeous symbols of worship. He prominently devel- 
oped in his system the idea of a Aoyot; roi) bvroc, of a 
word manifesting the hidden divine essence in the crea- 
tion — creation being a continuous utterance or becoming 
expressed of the ineffable. See Irenaeus, A dr. Hares, i, 
8-18 ; Epiphanius, Hares, xxxiv, s. ut alii, xiv ; Tertul- 
lian, Be Prescript. Hard. c. 50 sq. ; id. Adv. Valent. 
c. 4; id. Be Resurred. Carnis, c. 5; Theodoret, Hare - 
ticaruni Fabularum Compend. c. 9; Eusebius. II. E. iv, 
11 ; Philastrius, Be flaresib. post Christum , c. 14; Prae- 
destinatus, Be Ifaresib. i, 14 ; Augustin. Be Hares , c. 
15 ; Jerome, Comm, ad Isa. lxiv. 4, 5 ; Ep. ad Theod. 29 ; 
Ittigius, Be Haresiarchis , Iect. ii, c. G, $ 4 ; Tillemont, 
Memoii's, ii, 291 ; Lardner, Hist, of Heretics, book ii, c. 7 ; 


MARCUS 


740 


MARECIIAL 


Neamlcr, Jlist. of the Christ. Ch. i, 440 ; Mosheim, Ec~ 
eles. Ilist. i, 147 ; Smith, Diet, of Greek and Homan Dior/, 
and Mythol. s. v. See Makcosians; Valenti mans. 

Marcus the Heretic (sometimes confounded with 
Marcus the IIeresiarch), a native of Memphis, in 
Egypt, flonrislied in the 4th century. He is said by 
Isidore of Seville, and Sulpieius Severus in Hist. Sacra , 
to have been a skilful magician — a Manichrean, perhaps 
personally a disciple of Manes, and the originator of the 
doctrine of the Priscillianists. See Priscilltanists. 
lie travelled to Spain, and is said to have disclosed his 
doctrines to Elpidius, a rhetorician, and to his wife 
Agape ; from them the doctrines were communicated to 
Priseillian (see Pkiscillian), who, by embodying them 
in systematic form and giving them spread, became the 
founder of the sect. — Smith, Diet, of Greek and Roman 
Biog. and Mythol. s. v. ; Neander, Ch. Hist, ii, 710. 

Marcus ITieromonachus, said by Oudin to have 
been a monk of the convent of St. Saba, near Jerusalem, 
flourished in the opening of the 11th century. He 
wrote 'Svvraypa tig rd taropovptva tov tvitikov, De 
Dubiis qmc ex Typico onnntur , contained in the Typi- 
cum, or ritual directory of the Greek Church (TWikw 
cvv ciytqj Ttaptixov ndoav n)v diara^iv rijg Bc- 
KXtoiaoTtKpg aKoXovSriag tov ypib'ou Typieum, 

favente Deo. eontinens integrum Officii Eeelesiastici Ordi- 
nem per totum Annuni). See a description of the work 
in Cave, II ist. Litt. vol. ii ; Dissert, ii, 38. This commen- 
tary is adapted to the arrangement of the Typieum , as- 
cribed to St. Saba, but which Oudin supposes to have 
been drawn by Marcus himself, and produced by him as 
the work of St. Saba, in order to obtain for it an au- 
thority which, had it appeared in his own name, it would 
not have secured. A Life of Gregory of A grigentum 
is supposed to be by the same author as the Typieum. 
See Cave, Ilist. Lift, vol. ii; Dissert, i, 13; Oudin, De 
Seriptorib. Eccles. ii. col. 584, etc. ; Fabricius, Bibl. Greec. 
x, 232, 678 ; Smith, Diet, of Biog. and Mythol. s. v. 

Marcus, bishop of Otranto, probably of the 8th 
century. Allatins says he was ceconomus or steward 
of the great Church of Constantinople before he be- 
came bishop, which seems to be all that is known of him. 
He wrote T<p ptyaXip aa(3l3dnp i) nrpoorixig, Hynmus 
A crostichus in Magnum Sabbatum. s. In Magno Sab- 
bato Capita, Versuum. published by Aldus Manut ins, with 
a Latin version, in his editions of Prudentius and other 
early Christian poets (Venice, 1501, 4to). A Latin ver- 
sion of the hymn is given in several editions oi Bibli- 
otheca Rat rum. — Fabricius, Bibl. Grerc. xi, 177, C77 ; 
Cave, Hist. Litt. ad ann. 750, i, 630; Smith, Diet, of Gr. 
and Rom. Biog. and Mythol. s. v. 

Mardochae'us (MojoCoyaToi;), the Sept, or Greek 
equivalent of Mordecat (q. v.), in the Apocrypha; 
namely, («.") the uncle of Esther, in the apocryphal ad- 
ditions (Esth. x, 1 ; xi, 2, 12; xii, 1-6; xvi, 13; 2 Macc. 
xv, 36). '['he 14th of the month Adar, on which the 

feast of Purim was celebrated, is called in the last pas- 
sage ** Mardochauis’s day” (>/ MnpcoyaiK/) ypipa). (b.) 
A Jew who returned with Zerubbabel and Joshua (I 
Esdr. v, 8 ; comp. Ezra ii, 2). 

Mardochai, a name borne by many rabbins and 
Jewish savans. The most renowned of them are the 
following : 

1. Mardochai Ashkenast, a fanatical adherent of 
Sabbathai Zewi, flourished very near the middle of the 
17th century. A man of prepossessing appearance, and 
remarkably talented as a pulpit orator, he travelled 
through Hungary, Moravia, and Bohemia, everywhere 
preaching the Sabbat hical doctrines, and declaring him- 
self a prophet, insisted upon the duty of his people to 
welcome Sabbathai Zewi as the veritable Messiah. The 
persecutions which were so-frequent at that time in Ger- 
many, France, and Spain had softened tlic hearts of the 
poor Jews, and they were anxiously looking for relief 
from some quarter. Finding that his declarations were 
favorably received, Mardochai finally announced that he 


himself was the risen Zewi, who had been dead three 
years, and actually found many adherents, especially in 
Italy and in Poland. He is said to have lost his reason, 
and to have died, a poor and forsaken wretch, somewhere 
in Poland, about 1682. See Griitz, Gcsch. d. Juden, x, 
334 sq. ; and lxii,in Appendix. 

2. Mardochai’ ben-Eleasar Comino (or Comiano) 
flourished in the second half of the 15th eentury (1460 
-1490), first at Constantinople, later at Adrianople. A 
thorough master of mathematics and astronomy, he 
fell in with the writings of Aben-Ezra (q. v.), and be- 
came one of his most ardent admirers and devoted fol- 
lowers. He commented on the sacred writings, and by 
his generous ways secured the love and admiration of 
both Karaites and Babbinitcs. lie also studied the Aris- 
totelian philosophy, introduced by the works of Moses 
Maimonides, and thus as a philosopher secured no mean 
reputation. He wrote min “irs, a Commentary on 
the Pentateuch (1460); a Commentary on Aben-Ezra’s 

*11D n ; a Commentary on Ezra’s CITH “"SO; a 
Commentary on Ezra’s *iri5<n ^20 ; a Commentary on 
Maimonides’s Logik, and other logical writings, etc. 

3. Mardochai ben-11illel, a German rabbi, who, 
while a resident of Nuremberg, was accused of insulting 
the Christian faith and defending the cabalistic writ- 
ers, and was visited with the death penalty for his hasty 
conduct in 1310. He wrote Mardochai Magnus, a com- 
mentary on Alplicsius’s Compendium Tahnudieum (Hiva, 
1559, 4to; Cracow, 1598, folio, and often): — De Ritibus 
mactationis (Venice, 8vo). See Auerbach, Berit Abra- 
ham, p. 15; Wiirfel, Hist. Naclmeht von der Judengc- 
meinde in Niirnberg, 

4. Mardochai ben-Nissan, a Polish rabbi, flourished 

at Crosni-ostliro, in Galicia, in the second half of the 
17th century. He wrote ^VT, or “the friend 

of Mardochai” (Hamb. 1714 and 1721, 4to, with a Latin 
transl. by Wolf, in Notitia Karaiorum ), a work which 
contains a complete expose of the doetrines of the Ka- 
raites. Mardochai was himself a Karaite, and wrote 
this work by special request of the learned Trigland, 
who afterwards translated this valuable contribution to 
the history of the Karaite Jews. Mardochai ben-Nis- 
san wrote also ISlib (published by Neubauer), 

another work on Karaism. See Wolf, Bibl. Hebr. ; Fiirst, 
Bibl. Judaica ; Griitz, Geseh. d. Juden, x, 301, and note 5 
in the Appendix. 

5. Mardochai, Isaac Nathan, an Italian rabbi, flour- 
ished at Borne near the middle of the 11th century, lie 
was the author of Concordantue Hebraicee (Basle, 1581, 
fob; Cracow, 1584. 4 to, with a German transl.; Borne, 
1622, fob, with additions by Mario de Calasio; London, 
1747-49,4 vols. fob); a Latin translation was published 
at Basle in 1556. 

6. Mardochai’, Jarhe Sciilesinger, a noted rabbi 

and learned cabalist, flourished at Prague, in Bohemia, 
near the opening of the 17th eentury. He was a pupil 
of the celebrated Isserles (q. v.Lwhen the latter lived at 
Cracow. He was a native of Prague, and was born, ac- 
cording to Griitz [Gcsch. d. Juden, ix, 485), about 1530, 
and lived in the capital of Bohemia until the persecu- 
tions against the Jews made his stay impossible; be 
went first to Venice, and later returned to Poland, where 
he was successively rabbi at Grodno, Lukin, Krzcmiiitz 
(1575-1592), and, in a good old age. found a refuge in 
his native place, lie died at Prague about 1612, as 
rabbi of his people, lie wrote H**— 5, a caba- 

listic treatise, divided into six books, which is believed 
to have been completed about 1560. It has been fre- 
quentlv published at Cracow (1594-1599,4 vols. fob), 
Prague (1609, J623, 1688, 1701), and Venice (1622, fob). 

7. Mardochai ibn-Alciiakbija. See Saad Ad- 
danla. (J.I1.W.) 

Marechal, Ambroise, D.D., a Roman Catholic 
prelate, was born at Ingre, near Orleans, France, in 1769, 
and was educated at the seminary of St. Sulpiee. He 


MARECHAL 


741 


MARESIUS 


came to Baltimore in 1792 ; returning to France, he was 
from 1803 to 181 1 professor in the seminaries of St. Fleur, 
Aix, and Lyons; afterwards became coadjutor to the 
archbishop of Baltimore, whom he succeeded on his de- 
cease, Dec. 14, 1817. 1 Ie visited Borne in 1821-2, to pro- 
cure aid for his Church in Baltimore. He died Jan. 29, 
1828. — Drake, Diet . of A mer. Dior/, s. v. 

Marechal, Bernard, a noted French writer, was 
born at Bethel in 1705, and, after completing his studies 
under the guidance of the congregation of the Benedic- 
tines of St. Maur, took the vows in 1721 ; in 1755 he be- 
came prior of Beaulieu, in Aragon. After this we know 
of him only as a writer. He died at Metz July 19, 1770, 
lie wrote Concordance des Saints Peres de VEylise , Grecs , 
et Latins, oil Von se propose de montrer leurs sentiments 
snr le dogme, la morale, et la discipline , etc. (Baris, 1739, 
2 vols. fol. ; in Latin, Strasb. 1709,2 vols. fol.) ; the work 
comprehends the fathers of the Church of the first three 
centuries. — Iloefer, Xouv. Biog. Generate, xxxiii, 522; 
Francois, Biblioth. de Vordre de Saint-Benoit , it, 307. 

Marechal, Pierre Sylvain, a noted French 
atheist, was born at Baris, Aug. 15, 1750, and was destined 
bv his father to the mercantile profession. Breferring 
a literary life, his father educated him for the profession 
of law. Bierre, however, was determined to get a live- 
lihood from his friends, and eschewed all personal care. 
When inclined to work, he would write something for 
the daily press, and, endowed with great facility of the 
pen and a vivid imagination, he soon gained great no- 
toriety for his excellences as a writer. Had he re- 
mained within his legitimate channels, his name would 
have had no interest for us; but Bierre, believing that 
popularity must be gained at the expense even of man- 
hood and morality, courted the tendency of his age, and 
became a scoffer of religion and decency. In imitation 
of Lucretius, he published the fragments of a moral (!) 
poem, which denies the existence of a God. Not suf- 
ficing to provoke public attention to him, he next at- 
tacked the Bible, parodied the prophetical writers, and 
applied himself to all manner of work to further the in- 
terests of atheism. Sad, indeed, was the life of such a 
being as Bierre Sylvain Marechal, and as his life so was 
his death. When the hour of his departure had arrived, 
Jan. 18, 1803 (at Montrouge, near Baris), he was heard 
to exclaim, “Mes amis, la unit est venue pour moi.” 
His works are noticed in detail in Iloefer’s None. Biog. 
Generate, xxxii, 522 sq. See also Lalande, Notice sur 
S. Marechal (1803). (J. H. W.) 

Mar'eshah (Hebrew Mareshak', fully 

Josh, xv, 44; I Chron. ii, 42; iv, 21; Sept. 
'Maparci and Mapijcd, but in I Chron. ii, 42, M apiadg), 
the name of one or two men, and also of a place, possi- 
bly settled by one of them. 

1. A person named as the “ father” of Hebron among 
the descendants of Judah, but it is only left to be in- 
ferred that he was the brother of Caleb’s son Mesha, 
with whom the Sept, confounds him (1 Chron. ii, 42). 
B.C. prob. ante 1612. 

2 . In 1 Chron. iv, 21, a person of the name of Mare- 
shah is apparently mentioned as the son of Laadah, of 
the family of Shelah, perhaps as being the founder of 
the city of the same name (B.C. cir. 1612); possibly 
identical with the foregoing. 

3 . A town in the tribe of Judah, “in the valley,” 
enumerated with Keilali and Aclizib (Josh, xv, 44), re- 
built (comp. 2 Chron. iv, 21) and fortified by Behoboam 
(2 Chron, xi, 8). The Ethiopians under Zerah were 
defeated by Asa in the valley of Zephathah, near Mare- 
shah (2 Chron. xiv, 9-13). It was the native place of 
Eliezer ben-Dodavah, a prophet who predicted the de- 
struction of the ships which king Jelioshaphat had built 
in conjunction with Ahaziah of Israel (2 Chron. xx, 37). 
It is included by the prophet Micah among the towns 
of the low country which he attempts to rouse to a sense 
of the dangers their misconduct is bringing upon thorn 
(Mic. i, 15). Like the rest, the apostrophe to Mareshali 


is a play on the name : “ I will bring your heir (yoresh) 
to you, O city of inheritance” (Mareshah). The fol- 
lowing verse (16) shows that the inhabitants had adopt- 
ed the heathen and forbidden custom of cutting off the 
back hair as a sign of mourning. In the time of the 
Maecabteans it was occupied by the Iduma?ans (2 Mace. 

xii, 35), but it was laid desolate by Judas on his march 
from Hebron to Ashdod (1 Macc. v, 65-68 ; Josephus, 
Ant. xii, 8, 6). Only a few years later it is again reck- 
oned to Idumaea; and Hyrcanus 1 took it and compelled 
its inhabitants to practice circumcision (Josephus, .1 tit. 

xiii, 9, 1). Josephus mentions it among the towns pos- 
sessed by Alexander Jannseus, which had been in the 
hands of the Syrians (Ant. xiii, 15, 4); but by Bompey 
it was restored to the former inhabitants, and attached 
to the province of Syria ( ib . xiv, 1, 4). Maresa was 
among the towns rebuilt by Gabinius (ib. xiv, 5, 3), 
but was again destroyed by the Barthians in their ir- 
ruption against Herod (ib. xiv, 13, 9). A place so often 
mentioned in history must have been of considerable 
importance; but it does not appear that it was ever 
again rebuilt (see Beland, Palaist. p. 888). The site, 
however, is set down by Eusebius and Jerome (Onomast. 
s. v. Morasthi) as within two miles of Eleutheropolis, 
but the direction is not stated. Dr. Bobinson (Bibl. Re- 
searches, ii,422) found, at a mile and a half south of the 
site of Eleutheropolis, a remarkable tel, or artificial hill, 
with foundations of some buildings. As there are no 
other ruins in the vicinity, and as the site is admirably 
suited for a fortress, this, he supposes, may have been 
Mareshah. According to Schwarz (Palest, p. 104) these 
ruins are still known by the Arabs by the name M a ra- 
sa, probably the Marash described by Tobler (Dritte 
Wand. p. 129, 142) as lying on a gently swelling hill 
leading down from the mountains to the great western 
plain, from which it is but half an hour distant (Van de 
Velde, Memoir , p. 333). 

Maresius or Marets, Jean de, a most remark- 
able character in French history, flourished in the 17th 
century. In his youth he was an infidel. He has him- 
self left us a picture of his morals in early life, which is 
by no means an advantageous one; for he owns that, in 
order to triumph over the virtue of such women as ob- 
jected to him the interest of their salvation, he made 
no scruple to lead them into atheistical principles. “I 
ought,” says he, “ to weep tears of blood, considering 
the bad use I have made of my address among the la- 
dies; for I have used nothing but specious falsehoods, 
malicious subtleties, ami infamous treacheries, endeav- 
oring to ruin the souls of those I pretended to love. I 
studied artful speeches to shake, blind, and seduce them ; 
and strove to persuade them that vice was virtue, or, at 
least, a thing natural and indifferent.” But after his 
conversion Marets ran into as great extremes in the 
opposite direction. In short, he became at last a vision- 
ary and a religions fanatic, dealing in nothing but in- 
ward lights and revelations. Among other things, he 
promised the king of France, upon the strength of some 
prophecies, whose meaning, he tells us, was imparted to 
him from above, that he should overthrow Moham- 
medanism and become the promoter of Christian unity, 
under the leadership of the pope of Borne. But 31a- 
resius deserves our attention especially for the relation 
he sustained to the Jansenists. Appointed inquisitor, 
he became one of the severest persecutors of Jansenism, 
and was bent upon the extirpation of this heresy from 
French ground. In Delices de I'esprit, one of his pro- 
ductions, he seriously boasts that “God, in his infinite 
goodness, had sent him the key of the treasures con- 
tained in the Apocalypse, which was known but to few 
before him;” and that, “by the command of God, he 
was to levy an army of 144,000 men, part of which he 
had already enlisted, to make war upon the impious and 
the Jansenists” (p. 76). He died in 1676. See Gen. 
Biog. Diet. vol. ix, s. v. ; Iloefer, Xouv. Biog. Generate, 
vol. xxxiii, s. v. 

Maresius (Des Marets), Samuel, a noted French 


MARETS 


742 


MARGARET 


Reformed theologian, was born at Oisemond, Fieardv, in 
1599; was educated at Geneva and at Paris; studied 
theology at Saumur and Geneva, entered the ministry 
in 1620, and was settled at Laon by the Synod of Cha- 
renton. Ilis experience in this place was rather of a 
peculiar nature. He was stabbed one night, and this 
attack on his life is charged to the Jesuits, because he 
had violently opposed them, and had, in a pamphlet de- 
fending the Protestant faith, severely criticised their 
conduct. In 1624 he accepted a call to Sedan, both as 
pastor and theological instructor in the school of theol- 
ogy situated in this place, lately so celebrated in history. 
Before he entered upon this new position he went to 
Leyden, and there secured the degree of D.D. in July, 
1625. Having made a small tour into England, he re- 
turned to Sedan. In 1632 lie was called as pastor to 
Maestricht ; in 1636 be removed to Ilerzogenbusch as 
minister and professor at the Schola illustris; in 1640 
he had an invitation to a professorship at Franeker, and 
to another at Groningen in 1642. This last he accept- 
ed, and from that time to his death did such great ser- 
vices to that university that it was reckoned one of the 
most nourishing in the Netherlands. The magistrates 
of Bearn, well informed of his abilities and learning, of- 
fered him, in 1671, the professor of divinity’s chair at 
Lausanne; and in 1673 the University of Leyden in- 
vited him to a like professorship there, lie accepted 
this last, but died before he had taken possession of it 
(May 18. 1673). Maresius’s literary activity was very 
great, and his ability as a writer equal to that of any 
man of his day. lie was an able polemic, and wrote 
much against the Roman Catholics, the Socinians, the 
jUillenarians, and the Arminians, and even against many 
of his own confession. Indeed, Marosius was quite a lit- 
erary pugilist. His contest with Yoetius, the Utrecht 
professor, is famous. See Yoetius. His ablest work is 
his Systema theologiie (Gron. 1673), in the appendix of 
which is found a list of all the productions from his pen. 
Their number is prodigious, and the variety of their 
subjects shows an unbounded genius. He designed to 
collect all his works into a body, as well those which 
had been already published as those which were in MS. 
He revised and augmented them for that purpose, and 
had materials for four volumes in folio, but his death 
prevented the execution of that project. The first vol- 
ume was to have contained all those works which he 
had published before settling at Groningen. The second 
his Optra theologica dulactica. The third his Opera the - 
ohgica polemica. The title of the fourth was to have 
been Impietas triumph at a. Its contents were to have 
been the “Hydra Socinianismi expugnata.” one of the 
ablest works against the Socinians, the “ Riga fanatico- 
rnm cvcrsa,” and the “Fabula pneadamitarum refutata,” 
three works which had been printed at different times. 
Marets’s system of divinity was found to be so method- 
ical that it was made use of at other academies; indeed, 
his reputation procured him so much authority in for- 
eign countries as well as liis own that a person in Ger- 
many who had published some severe censures against 
Marets received orders to suppress his book. See Gen. 
Bing. J)ict. vol. ix, s. v. ; llayle, Diet. Hist. s. v. Marets; 
Kjfigies ct Vita prof essorum (Ironing.; Herzog, Rtal-En- 
cyklopdilie. vol. ix, s. v. (J. 11. W.) 

Marets. See Maresius. 

Marezoll, Johann Gottlor, a German theologian, 
was bom at Plauen, grand-duchy of Saxe-Weim.-Eis., 
Dec. 25, 1761; studied theology at the University of 
Leipsic from 1770 to 1783; became then tutor for three 
years in a private family; in 1780 became preacher of 
the University of Gottingen, with the dignity of profess- 
or extraordinary of divinity, and lectured with success 
on moral philosophy andjiomiletics ; in 1704 was hon- 
ored by the University of Helmstadt with the doctorate 
of divinity, and in the same year also accepted a call to 
Copenhagen as pastor primarius of the German St. Pe- 
ter’s Church, where he was allowed much time for study ; 


but the northern climate injuring his health, he ob- 
tained in 1802, by Herder’s intinence, a position at Jena 
as superintendent and pastor of the town church, and 
at the same time commenced lectures on homiletics at 
the university of that place. He died Jan. 15, 1828. 
Marezoll was a child of the rationalistic times in which 
he flourished ; but still, with a strong desire to preach 
and spread abroad the teachings of the Gospel, and gift- 
ed with a spirited language and animating mode of de- 
livery", he became a blessing to many thousands of hear- 
ers, and an example and a subject of imitation to thou- 
sands of students. His productions were repeatedly re- 
printed, and translated into several languages, and ef- 
fected much good. He is justly styled one of Germany’s 
greatest preachers of the 19th century. He wrote Das 
Christ entkum ohne Gesch. u. Einldeidung (1787) : — Bc- 
stimmung ties Kanzelredners (1793), besides his sermons, 
published in 1790-1, 1806, 1811, 1829, etc.: — Predigtcn 
zur Erinncrvng an die fortdaverndt Wirkmnikeit der Re- 
formation (Jena, 1822): — Ilomilien (1828) : — Xachgelas- 
sene Predigtcn (1852, and since). See 1 1 erzog, Real- En- 
cyklopddie , vol. xx, s. v. ; Dbring, Kanztlredner d. [& len 
u. Vd t€n Jahrh. s. v. 

Margaret, St., the name of several Roman Catho- 
lic saints. 1. The latest of these was canonized through 
the influence of the Dominicans, who manifested a spe- 
cial interest in her, both before and after her death; she 
is patronized, however, simply in the neighborhood of 
her native village, San Severin, in the duchy of Ancona. 
From the former name of that place, she was called 
Septernpeda ; the practice of such virtues as are com- 
mon among saints, and which she cultivated during her 
widowhood, gave her the surname Vidua; and since, in 
her humility, she would never wear shoes, she received 
the appellation Discalceata. The only inheritance left 
to her daughter comprised a pair of shoes and the soles 
of her feet, which became loosened in death and as- 
sumed the form of shoes, and which were the principal 
relics exhibited in her memory by the Dominicans. She 
died in 1395. 

II. The merely beatified saints [see Beatification] 
of this name belong, without exception, to the monastic 
orders; and in their legends the fancy and the jealousy 
of the monks are equally apparent. The more cele- 
brated are : 

1. A beautiful Italian from the neighborhood of Peru- 
gia, who had up to her twenty-fifth year led a grossly 
licentious life, hut afterwards, having been awakened by 
a startling incident, distinguished herself by turning to 
a life of the severest penance in the convent of the 
Franciscans at Cortona (hence called Margaret de Cor- 
tona'). Her confessor, however, resisted her desire to re- 
visit the scenes of her former shame, accompanied only 
by an old woman. She is usually represented with the 
instruments of torture, because in spirit she experienced 
the entire passion of the Saviour, who refused to desig- 
nate lur his handmaiden, but honored her as his friend. 
Her conversations with Christ and the Yirgin Mary 
served to endorse the more lenient treatment of the 
Spiritualists (^ ct. SS.. 1. c., p. 648). When she died, in 
1297, the Franciscans claimed that they saw her soul 
ascend from purgatory to heaven. In 1623 Urban YIII 

! permitted them to pay her religious honors. 

2. As an offset to Margaret do Cortona, the Domini- 
cans raised up one of their tertiaries. a blind girl of Ur- 

! bino. in whose heart were found, after death, three won- 
drous stones, bearing the image of the Yirgin Mary 
with the child in the manger (J ct. SB., April 13; beat- 
ified ( )ct. 19, 1609). 

Other Margarets, including a royal princess of Hun- 
gary, who died a Dominican. Jan. 28, 1271, are obscure. 
They are found in the Act. SS. under Jan. 23; Feb. 1 1 ; 
March 5, 7, 13, and 22 ; April 1 2 and 30 ; May 1 5. 18, and 
23; and June 4, 10, and 13. — Herzog, Real-Encyllap. ix, 

1 54 ; Wetzer und Welte, Kirchen-Lt.r. vi, 835. (G. 31.) 

Margaret of France, duchess of Bern' and Savoy, 


MARGARET 


743 


MARHEINEKE 


daughter of Francis I, was born in 1523, and received a 
superior education. She was a patroness of the sciences 
and learned men ; and after the death of her father 
gained a high reputation by her beauty, piety, learning, 
and amiable qualities. She married Philibert, duke of 
Savoy, in 1559, and diell in 1574, aged fifty-one. The 
most illustrious of the literati contended who should 
praise her best, and her subjects called her the Mother 
of her People. 

Margaret (or Marguerite) of Orleans, duchess 
of Alemym and afterwards queen of Navarre, occupies 
an important place in the history of French Protestant- 
ism. She was born at Angouleme April 11, 1492, and 
was brought up at the court of Louis XII. Her brother, 
afterwards Francis I, after he had ascended the throne, 
employed her in numerous important affairs, and she 
went to Madrid to attend to him when he was a prison- 
er there. In 1509 she was married to duke Charles of 
A1 en^on, but he dying in 1525, she in 1527 again mar- 
ried, this time Henry d’Albret, king of Navarre, and 
from this marriage was born Jeanne d’Albret, mother of 
Henry IV. Henry d’Albret died in 1544, and Margaret 
continued to govern the kingdom with great wisdom. 
She died Dec. 21, 1549. She was very handsome and 
highly talented, and her court was the refuge of all per- 
secuted for the sake of their religious belief; yet very 
different opinions have been advanced concerning her 
personal views. Some consider her a fervent Protes- 
tant, whilst others look upon her as a very orthodox 
Koman Catholic, and still others as a free-thinker. The 
fact seems to he that she observed Roman Catholic 
practices, although firmly believing in the doctrine of 
justification by faith in Christ only; she protected the 
Protestants, without herself leaving the Roman Church ; 
she loved poetry and even pleasure, although strictly 
moral and truly pious. All these apparent contradic- 
tions find a natural explanation in her inclination to- 
wards mysticism, verging even on quietism, and result- 
ing in indifference towards the mere externals of relig- 
ion — a tendency common also to a number of the most 
distinguished theologians of that time, and one that 
helps us to understand many otherwise obscure points 
in the early history of the Reformation in France. Her 
private character was the object of many attacks, yet 
none of these accusations have been substantiated ; they 
were all made bv her enemies. Margaret of Orleans 
wrote Miroir de V dme pecheresse (1533), which was con- 
demned by the Sorbonne, as it made no mention either 
of the saints or of purgatory E Heptameron des non - 
velles, a collection of tales after the manner of Boccaccio, 
but intended as moral lessons; they have since been 
used as illustrating the supposed immorality of her life. 
The work was first published under the title IJistoires 
des amants fortunes (Paris, 1558 ; afterwards by Gruget, 
Paris, 1559, 2 vols. ; Amsterd. 1698 ; Berne, 1780, 3 vols. ; 
Leroux de Lericy, Paris, 1853, 3 vols.; Lacroix, Paris, 
1857 ; in English dress it is published in Bohn’s collec- 
tion, extra volumes) : — fragments published after her 
death by Jean de la Ilaye, under the title Marguerites 
de la marguerite des Princesses (Lyon, 1547 ; Par. 1554). 
Her Correspo?ulance was published by Genin (Par. 1842) ; 
also Nouvelles lettres de la Reine de Navarre (Par. 1842), 
The Hist.de M.de Valois, etc., published at Amsterdam 
(1696, 2 vols.), is a mere novel. In the library of Rouen 
there is to be found a MS. of the 17th century, entitled 
Intrigues secretes de la reyne Marguerite pour etablir 
les erreurs et les nouveautes de Calvin et de Luther dans 
son rogaume de Bearn et de Navarre. See Bayle, Diet. 
Hid. s. v. ; Polenz, Gesch. des f ranzosischen Calvinismus , 
i, 199 sq. ; Haag, La France Protestante , vii, 228 sq. ; 
Victor Durand, Marguerite de Valois et la Cour de Fran- 
cis I (1848, 2 vols. 8vo) ; Miss Freer, Life of Margue- 
rite, (pieen of Navarre (1855) ; Herzog, Real-Encyklop. 
ix, 55 sq. ; Pierer, Universal- Lexikon , x, 867; Foreign 
Quar. Rev. (October, 1842). 

Margaret of Scotland, daughter of king Edward 


III, fled to Scotland with her brother, Edgar Edolings, 
when William the Conqueror invaded England, and in 
1070 there married king Malcolm, who afterwards died 
fighting against William II of England, she following 
him only four days later to the grave (Nov. 16, 1093). 
She was canonized by Innocent IV in 1251, and in 1673 
Clement X made her the patron saint of Scotland. Ac- 
cording to the statement of her confessor Theodorie, 
Margaret of Scotland was very active, generous, and 
even lavish in helping the poor. She had regularly 300 
persons dependent on her charity, and did much towards 
softening the native rudeness of the Scottish nobility. 
She founded a number of churches, working herself in 
adorning them, and gained her place in the Martvrolo- 
gium Romanum by her efforts to unite the Church of 
Scotland with that of Rome, and to civilize the country. 
She had worked no miracles, but her children were ac- 
counted such; among them was David I, “splendor 
generis,” who Romanized Scotland. In after times her 
cathedral was destroyed by the Puritans, and her relics 
were scattered ; such portions as were subsequently col- 
lected were transferred by Philip II to the Escurial. 
The “ toast of Margaret” is named after her ; pope Eu- 
genius IV in 1430 attached to it an indulgence of forty 
days, but with the express condition that this toast 
should be the last. Margaret is commemorated June 
16 bv the Church of Rome.— Herzog, Real-Encyklop. 
ix, 54. (J. N. P.) 

Margarit (or MaygueriC), Juan de, a Spanish car- 
dinal, was bom at Girona about 1415. He belonged to 
an ancient and illustrious house of Catalonia; one of 
his ancestors, Be'ranger, distinguished himself at the 
siege of Tyre. Margarit became doctor of theology at 
Girona; in 1453 he was elevated to the episcopal see of 
Elna. The king of Aragon, Alfred V, employed him in 
several important diplomatic missions to Naples, and he 
was so successful that he was made ambassador to pope 
Pius II. In 1461 Margarit became chancellor at Giro- 
na, and in this office mediated peace between Sixtus IV 
and the king of Naples, Ferdinand I. For his services 
to the holy see he was honored with the cardinal’s hat 
towards the close of 1443. He died at Rome in 1444. 
See Iloefer, Nouv.Biog. Generale, xxxiii, 543. 

Margarita (papyapiriQ, margarit uni), the pearl, 
was the name given in the Greek Church to the vessel 
in which the consecrated host was kept. Margaritae, on 
the other hand, designated the pieces of the host which 
the priests preserved in a special vessel for the use of 
the sick. These pieces were dipped in consecrated wine, 
and given to the sick with a spoon. See Du Fresne, 
Gloss. Latin, ii, 510. 

Magarltes. See Pearl. 

Margil, Jesus de (Father Antonio), an early Fran- 
ciscan missionary to Texas, was born at Valencia Aug. 
18, 1657, and died in Mexico Aug. 6, 1726. lie was the 
author of El Pei'eyrino Seyytentrional Atlante (Valencia, 
1742). lie is styled “Notario Apostolico,” “Cqmmis- 
sario del Santo Oficio,” “Fnndador v ex Gnardian de 
tres Coligios,” and “Prefecto de las Missiones de Pi'opa- 
gande Fide en todas las Indias Occidentales.” See Hist. 
Mag. June, 1864, s. v. ; Drake, Diet. A mer. Biog. s. v. 

Marguerite of Valois. See Margaret of Or- 
leans. 

Margunius, Maximus, an Eastern theologian, was 
born in Crete in 1522; studied divinity at Padua and 
Venice; became a monastic; in 1589 bishop of Cvthera 
(Cerigo) ; and died at Crete in 1602. He published 
MtjvoKbyiov and Bsoi dy’nov, as well as a collection of 
sacred poems in Old Greek (Leyden, 1592). and"V/i»'oi 
’A vaKpiovTioi. — Regensburger Real - Eneyldopddie, vol. 
ix, s. v. 

Marheineke, Philip Konrad, an eminent Ger- 
man theologian and writer, was born at Ilildesheim May 
1, 1780. He studied theology at Gottingen, where he 
was made a professor in 1805. He afterwards became 


MARIA ANGELICA 


MARIANA 


V44 


successively professor in the University of Heidelberg 
in 1807, and professor in the university, and, in 1810, 
minister of the Trinity Church of Berlin, as colleague 
of the renowned Sehleiermacher. lie died in the capi- 
tal of Prussia, May 31, 1846. Marheineke’s studies 
were especially directed towards Christian symbolics 
and dogmatics, which he treated from the speculative 
stand-point of Daub and Ilegel. lie was, indeed, the 
head of that fraction of the Hegelian school which as- 
serted the coincidence of the Hegelian philosophy with 
Christianity. lie was equally distant from the strict 
orthodox views held by the Lutheran, as from Rational- 
ism, or from the old supernaturalism. He wrote Gesch. 
d. christlichen Moral seit d. A nfange d. Reformation (Nu- 
remb. 1805) : — Universalhistorie d. Christenthums (Er- 
langen, 1806) : — Christliche Symbolik (Ileidelb. 1810-13, 
3 vols.) : — Gnindriss d. HomUetik ([Iamb. 1811; 2d edit. 
1827): — I nstitntiones symbolicee (1812; 3d edit. 1830): — 
Aphorismen z. Erneuerung d. Kirchlichen Lebens (1814): 
— Predigten (1814-18): — Geschichte d.deutschen Refor- 
mation (Perl. 1816,2 vols.; 2d edit. 1831-34,4 vols.): — 
Grundlekren d. christlichen Dogmatik (Perl. 1819; other 
edit. 1827) : — Ottomar. Gcspvdche if. Freiheit d. Willens u. 
gbttlicke Gnade (Berl. 1821) : — Lehrbuch d. christl. Ghiu- 
bens u.Lebens (Perl. 1823; 2d edit. 1836): — Betrachtun- 
gen ii.d. Leben u. d. Lehre d. Welterlbsers (Perl. 1823): — 
Ueber d. wakre Stelle d. liturgischen Rechtes (1825) : — 
Katech ismus d. christlichen Lehre (1825; 2d edit. 1840): 
— Entu'urf d. praktiseken Theologie (Perl. 1837) : — Prc- 
digten z. Vertheidigung d. evangelischen Kirclie gegen d. 
papstliche (1839): — Einleitung in d. ojfentl. Vorlesnngcn 
it. d. Bedeutung d. Hegelschen Philosophic in d. christl. 
Theologie (Perl. 1842) : — Das gottesdienstliche Leben d. 
Christen (Magdcb. 1842) : — Zur Kritik der Schellingschen 
Offenbarungsphilosophie (Perl. 1843): — Der Erzbishop 
Clemens A ugust als Friedenstifter zv'ischen Stoat u. 
Kirche (Perl. 1843) : — Die Reform der Kirche durch den 
Stoat (1844): — Furze Erzahlung d. Reformation (1846). 
After his death his lectures were published under title 
Vorlesungcn iiber die christliche Dogmatik (1847); iiber 
die theologische Moral (1847); iiber die christliche Sym- 
bolik (1848) ; and iiber die Dogmengeschichte (1849). See 
Saintes, Hist, of German Rationalism, p. 284; Kahnis, 
Mod. German Protestantism, p. 244 sq. ; Morell, Hist, of 
Mod. Philos, ii, 199. 203 ; Prctschneider, Dogmatik, i, 1 15 
sq. ; Farrar, Crit. Hist, of Free Thought, p. 265; and the 
excellent articles in Wagner, Staats-Lexikon, s. v. ; Pie- 
rer, l r nicer sal- Ltxikon , x, 871 ; Herzog, Real-Encyklopa- 
die, ix, 62, 

Maria Angelica de S. Magdalena is the name 
by which Japieline, one of the daughters of Anthony 
Arnauld (q. v.), was known after she became the prioress 
of the noted convent of Port Royal. “She at first led 
a very dissolute life, such as was common at that time 
in the French nunneries; but in 1609 the fear of God 
came upon her, and she entered upon a very different 
course of life; and afterwards becoming intimate first 
with Francis de Sales, and then, in 1623, with the abbot 
of St. Cyran, she conformed both herself and her con- 
vent to their views and prescriptions The con- 

secrated virgins inhabiting it followed with the utmost 
strictness the ancient, severe, and almost everywhere 
abrogated rule of the Cistercians; nay, they imposed on 
themselves more rigors and burdens than even that rule 
prescribed.” Dr. Murdoch's Moslieim, Eccles. Hist. bk. 
iv, cent, xvii, sec. ii, pt. i, eh. i, § 46. See Port Royal. 
The relation which this retreat sustained to the Jan- 
senists has been detailed in the article Jans knius, 
Cornelius (2). 

Maria Theresa, empress of Austria and Germany, 
the daughter of Charles VI, was born at Vienna May 13, 
1717, and succeeded to the throne, by the “ Pragmatic 
Sanction,” Oct. 21. 1740. With her secular history we 
have nothing to do here, but as to her influence on the 
interests of Romanism and Protestantism, we must add 
here a few particulars to the article on Austria. Al- 


though herself a zealous Roman Catholic, she maintain- 
ed the rights of her crown against the court of Rome, 
and endeavored to correct some of the worst abuses in 
the Church. She prohibited the presence of priests at 
the making of wills, abolished the right of asylum in 
churches and convents, suppressed the Inquisition in 
Milan, and in 1773 the Order of Jesuits. She also for- 
bade that any person, male or female, should take mo- 
nastic vows before the age of twenty-five years. She 
did nothing, however, to ameliorate the treatment of the 
Protestants in her dominions. She professed personal 
sympathy with their oppressed condition, but pretended 
to be unable to do anything for them on account of her 
coronation oaths and the laws of the country. This 
was especially the ease in Hungary. Maria Theresa 
died Nov. 29, 1780, leaving as her successor to the throne 
Joseph II, who is noted for his generous efforts in be- 
half of his Protestant subjects. See Duller, M. Theresia 
u. Joseph JJ (Wiesbaden, 1844) ; Ramshom, M. Theresia 
u. Hire Zeit (Lpz. 1859 sq.); Wolf, 0 ester eich unter Ma- 
ria Theresa (1855); Co s.e, House of Austria, iii,189 sq., 
241 sq. ; Yehse, Memoirs of the Court of A u stria, ii, 164 
sq. Comp. Austria ; Bohemia; Hungary. 

Mariales, Xantis, an Italian theologian, was born 
at Venice at the close of the 16th century. He belonged 
to a patrician family of the Pinards. He was appoint- 
ed lecturer at Padua, and afterwards inspector of the 
schools. These offices he filled till 1624, when he re- 
tired in order to give his whole time to politics. 1 1 is 
zeal for Rome and his hatred towards France caused his 
expulsion from his native country twice. He retired 
to Boulogne, afterwards obtained his recall from ban- 
ishment, and died in April, 1660, We give him place 
here mainly on account of his many theological produc- 
tions. The most important are Controversies ad univer- 
sam sumtnam Theologiee St.Thomee Aqukiatis (Venice, 
1624, fob) : — Biblioth . Interpretum, ad nniv. sinnm. theol. 
St. 7'homce (Yen. 1660, 4to) : — Stravaganze nuovamente 
segnite nel Christianissimo regno di Francia (Col. 1646 
4to) : — Enormita inaudita nuovamente uscite in luce nel 
Christianismo regno di Francia, contra il decor o della 
seele apostoliea Romana in due libri intitolati; Vuno: DelV 
arrogante potesta de Papi in difesa della chiesa Galli- 
cana; Valtro Del Divitto della Regalia (Frlvf. 1649, 4to). 
— Hoofer, Xouv. Biog. Generate, xxxiii, 615. 

Mariamne (M apidpvij, a Greek form of the Heb. 
Miriam ), the name of several females of the Herodian 
fa mil}', whose history is detailed by Josephus, especially 
the two following (see Smith, Diet, of Class. Biog. s. v.): 

1. The daughter of Alexander, son of Aristobulns, and 
of Alexandra, daughter of Hvrcanus, liigh-priest of the 
Jews, was the most beautiful princess of her age. She 
married Herod the Great, by whom she had two sons, 
Alexander and Aristobulus, and two daughters, Salam- 
pso and Cypros: also a son called Herod, who died young, 
during his studies at Rome. Herod was excessively 
fond of Mariamne, who but slightly returned his pas- 
sion, and at length cherished a deadly hatred towards 
him. Herod had her put to death, but afterwards his 
affection for her became stronger than ever. Josephus 
mentions a tower that Herod built in Jerusalem, which 
he named Mariamne. See Herod. 

2. A daughter of the high-priest Simon, and likewise 
wife of Herod the Great; by him she had a son called 
Philip, who married first the infamous Herodias, after- 
wards paramour of Herod Autipas, and the instigator of 
the death of John the Baptist. See Herodian Family. 

Mariana, Juan, a distinguished Spanish Jesuit, was 
born at Talavera, in the diocese of Toledo, in 1537. In 
1554 he joined the Jesuits, and soon acquired great rep- 
utation for Ids historical, theological, and philological 
learning. In 1561 he taught theology at Rome (where 
the celebrated Bellarmine was one of his pupils), and in 
1565 in Sicily; in 1569 he went to Paris, where he re- 
mained five years, and lectured on Thomas Aquinas. 
In 1574 he returned to Spain on account of his health. 


MARIANA 


745 


MARIANA 


and died there in 1624. Among Mariana’s works we 
notice De rege et regis institution (Toledo, 1 598) , writ- 
ten at the request of Garcia de Loayso, and dedicated 
to Philip III. In this work he expresses his views on 
royalty with the greatest freedom, even going so far as 
to maintain that, under certain circumstances, it may 
be legitimate to put a king to death. The sixth chap- 
ter of the tirst book is entirely taken up with the ques- 
tion whether it is allowable to assassinate. a tyrant, and 
he concludes affirmatively. Mariana begins by an ac- 
count of the murder of Henry III, and quotes the divers 
opinions expressed bv others on this event, but it is easy 
to perceive that he approves of the deed. From this 
individual fact he passes to the general theory, which 
he bases on the principle that regal power is intrusted 
to a king by his people under certain conditions, and 
that the nation therefore retains the supreme right of 
making kings accountable for their conduct, and revok- 
ing them if need be. From this principle, that sover- 
eignty resides essentially in the nation, he deduces the 
following consequences: 1. according to theologians and 
philosophers, every citizen has a right to kill a prince 
who has usurped sovereign authority without the con- 
sent of the nation (“perimi a quoconque, vita et princi- 
pal spoliari posse”) ; 2, if a prince regularly elected, or 
who has regularly come on the throne by succession, 
seeks to overthrow religion or the laws, and refuses to 
listen to the remonstrances of the nation, he is to be got 
rid of by the surest possible means; 3, the surest way 
is to assemble the states-general, who will depose him, 
and, should he resist, proclaim him an enemy of the 
country, and treat him accordingly; 4, the states-gen- 
eral have the right to condemn to death a prince de- 
clared the enemy of the country, and every citizen has 
then a right to kill him; 5, if it is impossible to assem- 
ble the states-general, and yet it is the wish of the na- 
tion that the tyrant perish, then a citizen is not guilty 
who accomplishes this general wish (“qui votis publicis 
favens eum perimere tentavit haudquaquam iniqne eum 
fecisse existimabo”). Mariana, however, puts one re- 
striction to the exercise of this terrible right: he de- 
clares that the judgment of one or several citizens is not 
sufficient; that the general wish of the nation must 
have been clearly expressed, and that the advice of se- 
rious and well-informed men should also he taken. 
After thus justifying the assassination of kings under 
certain circumstances, Mariana examines the means by 
which it may be accomplished. All means, he thinks, 
are allowable, but such as will be least likely to commit 
the nation or the individual are to be preferred. lie 
shows some partiality for poison, yet maintains that it 
should not be administered in the food, but rather placed 
in things of daily use, such as the clothes, etc. The ap- 
pearance of this work created quite a sensation in France. 
The Sorbonne and Parliament informed against his book; 
the desuits’ congregation of the province of France con- 
demned Mariana, and the condemnation was approved 
by general Aquaviva (Mariana had formerly opposed 
him in Spain) until the book should be revised. See 
Jbsuits. After the murder of Henry IV the Parlia- 
ment condemned the book to be publicly burned, July 
8, 1010, and his treasonable doctrines, as they were 
called, continued during the whole of that age of loyalty 
and part of the following to furnish a common subject 
of animadversion, and a chief ground of accusation 
against the Jesuits. It is, however, but just to add here 
that like doctrines were taught also by Protestant con- 
temporaries of Mariana, and that by no means should 
the Society of Jesus be held accountable for the propa- 
gation of such views (Compare Hallam, Literary /Jis- 
ton/, iii, 130-140). The Jesuits have, indeed, occasion- 
ally supported the claims of the people against their 
rulers, but always with a view to the interests of their 
own body only. Mariana, on the contrary, discussed 
this subject on better and higher grounds. Mankind 
occupied his thoughts, and had a much stronger hold 
on his affections than the interests and plans of his order. 


When Leon de Castro questioned the orthodoxy of 
Arias Mon tanus for introducing rabbinical readings and 
commentaries into the Plantina Regia or Philippina 
Polyglot, a new edition of the Complutensis which Mon- 
tanos had undertaken at the command of Philip II, 
Mariana silenced the noisy polemic by his historical, 
ecclesiastical, and Biblical lore, as well as by the fair 
and candid tone of his discussion ; but by this step he 
lost all chance of preferment, which, however, he was 
glad to exchange for learned leisure and the gratification 
of his love of historical research. Mariana published 
next, in 1599, his imperfect work, De Ponderibus et Men - 
suris , a subject which his countrymen Lebrija, or Ne- 
brija, Diego Covarrubias, Pedro Ambrosio Morales, and 
Arias Montanus had treated before, and which Eisen- 
schmidt, Freret, Paucton, etc., have pursued much fur- 
ther since. Observing that the sudden rise and ascend- 
ancy of Spain excited a general interest and curiosity 
abroad, while its origin and causes were either unknown 
or misunderstood, and that the Spanish historians, though 
numerous, were at that time little read, and some of 
them hardly known, he came forward with a History of 
Spain (in twenty books, under the title Ilistoriie de rebus 
Hispanice, Toleti, 1592, lib. xx, fol., but subsequently ex- 
tended to thirty books, in the complete edition of 1005, 
publ. at Mayence). This is a compact and lucid exhibi- 
tion of an unbroken chronological narrative, from the ori- 
gin of the Spanish nation to the death of Ferdinand the 
Catholic (a period of twenty-five cent uries at least), and 
embraces the history of all the Spanish kingdoms, which 
had hitherto been treated separately. A subject so ex- 
tensive, expressed in classical Latin, met with universal 
favor and acceptance. A Spanish translation soon be- 
came necessary, and fortunately Mariana accomplished 
the task himself, and carried the work through four suc- 
cessive Spanish editions in his lifetime. Mariana has 
been charged with credulity; but traditions held sacred 
in times past, although rejected in the present age — 
prodigies which formed part of history, and which Ma- 
riana could not dismiss with the disdainful smile of 
modern criticism, are spots which will never obscure 
the brilliancy of his digressions on some of the most im- 
portant events of the world — events which appear as 
great causes when so admirably interwoven with those 
peculiarly belonging to t he history of Spain. The manly 
feelings of the historian, his noble indignation against 
crimes, his bold exposure of the misdeeds of princes and 
their abettors, deserve still higher commendation. Yet 
he, as well as Ferreras and Masdcu more recently, has 
spared a gross instance of queen Urraca’s licentious con- 
duct; but, on the other hand, the defence of queen 
Blanca’s honor is highly creditable to Mariana. It is 
true also that Mariana did not always examine all the 
original authorities, as Banke observes in the Kritik 
neuerer Geschichtsschreiber ; but to institute an inquiry 
into every minor detail, to comprehend a wide field of 
inquiry, and yet to open new and to disdain all trodden 
paths, would have required the perusal of whole libra- 
ries, and a single life would not have been sufficient to 
complete the undertaking. And if others had been in- 
vited to join in the labor of the investigation, a motley 
compilation might have been the only result of so much 
research, which it is almost impossible ever to combine 
into one harmonious whole. Mariana’s portraits of lords 
and favorites were found too original and faithful by the 
living, as in the case of the detestable Fernandez Ve- 
lasco, of Castile, and his worthy secretary Pedro Man- 
taono. The secretary, after having been a panegyrist of 
the new historian, tried to serve his master by his attack 
on Mariana, entitled A drertencias a la IJisto?'ia de Mari- 
ana. He was discovered, however, and roughly treated 
by Tamayo Vargas in La Defensa de Mariana . Prob- 
ably to this criticism may be traced many improve- 
ments in Mariana’s second Spanish edition of his history, 
which appeared at .Madrid in 1(308. It is on this edition, 
and the various readings selected from the editions of 
1617 and 1623, that the edition of Valencia is based, 


MARIANA 


746 


MARIE 


which contains ample notes and illustrations (1783-9G, 
i) vols. 8vo). This edition also closes, like the original, 
with the reign of Ferdinand the Catholic (1515-1G). 
There have subsequently been published at Madrid — 1. 
The continuation of Mariana bv Mihana, translated 
from the Latin by Romero (1804, lbl.) ; 2. A complete 
Mariana, continued down to the death of Charles III, 
1788, by Sabau v Blanco (1817-22, 20 vols. 4to); 3. An- 
other by the same, brought down to the year 1808 (9 
vols. 8 vo, with portraits). 

The profound erudition of Mariana is also displayed 
in another publication, his Tract at us Septem (Cologne, 
1G09). The second of these treatises, De Editione 1 'ul- 
gata , is an epitome of his report on the fierce controver- 
sy between Arias Moutanus and Leon de Castro. The 
fourth, De Mutatione Monet cv, provoked the indigna- 
tion of the duke of Lerma and his partners in the sys- 
tem of general peculation and frauds which Mariana ex- 
posed. lie foretold the calamities which threatened the 
Spanish nation; and his words, which had been disre- 
garded, were remembered when the opportunity was 
gone. As a reward for proclaiming such unwelcome 
truths, at the age of seventy-three he suffered a whole 
year of judicial trickery, humiliations, and confinement 
in the convent of St. Francis at Madrid. In searching 
his papers another exposure was found, entitled Del Go - 
lienw de la Compaiiia , or on the defects of his order, in 
which he also pointed out the means of correcting them. 
Copies of this 31 S. had multiplied so alarmingly that, 
the year after the author’s death, the general of the 
Jesuits, Yitaleselii, issued a circular, dated Rome, July 
29, 1024, enjoining the collection of such papers in order 
to be burned. Still that measure did not prevent its 
being priuted at Bordeaux in 1625, and reprinted else- 
where in several languages. This curious circular was 
found in the archives of the Jesuits of Valencia at the 
time of their sudden expulsion from the Spanish domin- 
ions in 17G7. After his persecution he made an epitome 
of the Bibliotheca of Photius, translated some homilies, 
revised his Distort/ of Spain, and published a supple- 
ment, or, rather, a summary, of concise annals of Spain 
from 1515 to 1G12. At the age of eiglity-three he pub- 
lished his Scholia on the Old and New Testament, avail- 
ing himself of the best Hebrew commentaries, and some 
valuable and very early 31 SS., which dated from the age 
of the ancient Gothic dominion in Spain. This work, 
though written at this advanced stage of life, “displays 
a degree of vigor and of learning which might well pro- 
voke the admiration of modern Biblical students.” It 
secured for him a place among the best commentators 
in the Ilistoire Critique du Yieux Testament of the hy- 
percritical father Simon, who is usually unfavorable to 
Spaniards. Bayle, in his Dictionary, supposes Mariana 
to be also author of a work Despublica Christiana , but 
neither Alegambe nor Nicolas Antonio, both of them 
Spaniards, mentions it. Stevens, the English translator 
of 3Iariana’s history, misstates some particulars of the 
author’s life, and very unaptly compares him with Ral- 
eigh. 31ariana left MSS. of at least twice the extent of 
all his publications. 1 le died Feb. (>. 1G23, in the eighty- 
seventh year of his age and the forty-ninth of his re- 
tirement to Toledo. See 3Iondejar. Adcertcncias d Ma- 
riana; Juicio y Xoticia de los JJistoriadores de Esparto ; 
Andrade, 1 Ida de Mariana; Acosta, Vida de Mariana ; 
Andr. Schot., llispan . Dlustrat.; Baronins, Annul. Eccle - 
siast. ; Bernard. Gerald., Pro Scnatu Veneto , quoted in 
Colomesius. Uispanin Orientalis ; Rene Rapin, Deflex- 
ions sur V Distoirc ; Nicolas Antonio, Bibliotheca Uispa- 
nonova ; Saavedra, Despublica Literaria ; Tamayo de 
Vargas, Vida del J\ Juan Mariana ; Alegambe, Biblioth. 
scrijtt. societatis Jesu ; Bayle, Hist. Diet. s. v. : Prosper 
Marchand, Dictionnaire: F roller, Tkeutmm YJrorum cla- 
ornm , i, 347 ; Woltmann, Gesch. u. Politik, 1801. i, 2G5; 
Sismondi. 1 Attend tire dn Midi de l' Europe, iv, 100 ; Bou- 
terweek, Hist, de la Litteratnre Espagnole , 1812, vol. ii; 
Ticknor, History o f Spanish Literature , iii. 113; Ranke, 
Zur Kritik neucrer Gesch ichtssch n iber (1824); llerzog, 


Deal-Encyklopddie , ix, 105 sq. ; Pierer, Universal- Lexi- 
kon, x, 884 ; Engl. Cyclopaedia, s. v. ; Hoefer, Nouv. Biog „ 
Generate , xxxiii, G18 sq. (J. N. P.) 

Marianists, an order of knighthood. See Knight- 
hood, p. 132 (iv) ; Teutonic Knights. 

Mari anus Scotus, a noted ecclesiastic, was born 
in Ireland or Scotland A.D. 1028 ; became a monk ; trav- 
elled on the Continent in 1058, especially in Germany, 
and frequented the German monasteries of Cologne, Ful- 
da, and 3lentz, and died A.D. 10SG. Marianus Scotus 
was the first to correct the inaccurate chronologies of 
the chronicles in his Chronicon (3 vols. to 1084; contin- 
ued by Dbdechin up to 1200). It is published among 
the Scriptores rerum Germamcarum by Struve and oth- 
ers. The most valuable is the 3d volume, treating of 
the Carlovingian and following emperors. See Hansen, 
De antiques, codice chronici M ariaui Scoti (Frankfort- 
on-the-Oder, 1782). 

Mariastein, a noted place of pilgrimage in the 
Swiss canton of Solotliurn, is annually visited by some 
GO, 000 persons. The pilgrimages to this place began in 
the 31iddle Ages, and continue unabated to our day. 
During the first and second French Revolutions the 
place was ransacked by the French soldiers, but the mo- 
nastics of the adjoining convent repaired and rebuilt it 
each time. See Wotzer u.Welte, Kirchen-Lex. xii, 7G7. 

Mariazell, a famous place of pilgrimage in Aus- 
tria, situated on the north border of the crown-land of 
Styria, twenty-four miles north of Bruck. It consists 
of a number of inns or lodging-houses, and contains 1200 
inhabitants. It is visited by 300,000 pilgrims annually, 
who come hither to pay homage to an image of the 3Tr- 
gin believed to possess the power of working miracles, 
which was brought to 3Iariazell about 1157 by the 
Benedictine St. Lambrecht. A pilgrim chapel was first 
erected there about 1200 by margrave Henry I of 3Iora- 
via. King Louis I of Hungary built a pilgrim church 
in 1343. The large pilgrim church now standing was 
built near the end of the 17th century ; the miracle- 
working image is within a cliapcl, closed by a heavy 
gate of solid silver. During the great annual proces- 
sion from Vienna, the greater part of the pilgrims of 
botli sexes spend the night in the woods in drinking, 
singing, and general riot and debauchery. See Ilillbach, 
Der Bilge r u. Tourist nuch Maria-Zell (Vienna, 1857, 
8vo). 

Marie a la Coque, a visionary, whose real name 
was Margaret, was born July 22, 1G47, at Lauthecour, in 
the diocese of Autun, France. She boasted of religions 
transports, and heavenly visions and revelations, besides 
which she is reputed to have worked manifold wonders. 
She evinced a deep aversion to all evil in her infancy, and 
from her fourth year maintained an intimate communion 
with God. On the death of her father, which took place 
in the eighth year of her age, she entered a convent. 
Attributing the cure of a disease that had afflicted her 
during four years to the 3Trgin 3Iary, she gratefully 
adopted the name “3Iarie,” and always used it by pref- 
erence. She entered the Order of Salesians on the 27th 
of August, 1G71, as a novice, and on the Gth of Novem- 
ber. 1G72, took the veil. From this time she claimed to 
be constantly favored with visions and revelations, and 
is said to have performed many miracles; such were her 
transports that she carved in large letters the name of 
Jesus on her breast. She had knowledge of the time 
when she should die. and prepared for that event in 
deep retirement, closing her life Oct. 17, 1690. She left 
a small work of a mystical character, entitled Iai devo- 
tion an recur de Jesus, and others of a similar nature. 
Her life was published by Jean Joseph Languct under 
the title La vie de la venerable mere Marguerite Marie ; 
but lier memory has been kept alive chiefly through 
the four songs, J cr-J "n't. in (Earns de M. Cresset (Am- 
sterd. 1748), i, 9-45. On the 4th of February, 183(1, the 
advocate of the pontifical consistory addressed the pope, 
for the first time, on the process of her beatification; 


MARIE 


747 


MARIOLATIIY 


but Talleyrand, as bishop of her native diocese, had al- 
ready sought to effect her canonization during the last 
decennials of the I8th century. — I lerzog, Real-Encgklop. 
xx, 92 sq. (G. M.) 

Marie de l’Incarnation, a Frencli female mission- 
ary, whose original name was Guyard, was born at 'Fours 
in 1509. She early joined the Ursuline nuns; visited 
Canada in 1030, where she made many converts among 
the Indians; and founded a convent of her order. Site 
died in 1072. See Charlevoix, Vie de la Mere Marie de 
linear nation; Bzographie Universelle , s. v. 

Marietu, a celebrated Hindu sage or dcmi-god,was, 
according to one account, the son of Brahma — accord- 
ing to another, the son of Bhrigu. lie was the father 
of Kasyapa.' By some he is considered as the god of 
“light,” which appears to be the etymological signitica- 
tion of his name. See Moor, Hindu Pantheon; Insti- 
tutes ofManu , chap, i ; Thomas, Piet, of Bioy. and My- 
thology, s. v. 

Marillac, Charles de, a noted prelate of the 
Church of Rome, was born at Auvergne, in France, about 
1510. lie was advocate in the Parliament of Paris when, 
perceiving himself suspected of Lutheranism, he follow- 
ed John de la Forest, ambassador of France to Constan- 
tinople, and thus avoided persecution from the inquisi- 
tors. lie afterwards became abbot of St. Pere and arch- 
bishop of Vienne; also counsellor in the privy council 
when the assembly of notables convened at Fontaine- 
bleau in 15G0, and in it advocated the calling of a na- 
tional council and a meeting of the states-general, but 
without much effect, lie endeavored to take measures 
to prevent the mischiefs threatening the country at that 
time, but, despairing of success, he became melancholic, 
was preyed upon by disease, and died at his abbey of 
St. Pere, in December, 15G0. See Bayle, Hist. Piet. s. v. 

Mar'imoth (2 Esdr. i,2),the Latin form of Mere- 
motii (q.v.). 

Marin, Mictiel Ange, a French ecclesiastical writ- 
er, was born of a noble family at Marseilles in 1G97. In 
1714 he was admitted to the order of the M mimes; was 
employed in their schools, and four times tilled a pro- 
vincial office. He possessed not only a liking for the- 
ology and natural history, but also a natural taste for 
belles-lettres. His style is a little diffuse, and some- 
times weak and incorrect, without being entirely void 
of elegance. He died April 3, 17G7, at Avignon. His 
works are mainly in the department of practical relig- 
ion. We note Lei desastres de Barbacan chin errant 
dins A rig noun (Avignon, 1722, 1759, lGmo; Aix, 1744) : 
— Conduite Spirituelle de la sceur \~iolet (Avignon, 1740, 
12mo ): — Adelaide de Witsbury ou la Pieuse pensionnaire 
(Avignon, 1744, 12mo ) ; — La Pcirfaite Religieuse (Avign. 
1752, 12mo) : — Virginie, ou la virge Chretienne, histoire 
Sicilienne (Avignon, 1752, 2 vols. 12mo) : — 1 r ies des Peres 
des deserts d' Orient, avec leur doctrine spirituelle it leur 
discipline monastique (Avignon, 17G1-64, 3 vols. 4to, or 9 
12ino; Lyons, 1824, 9 vols. 8vo): — Le Baron de Van Hes- 
den , ou la republique des incredules (Toulouse, 17G2, 5 
vols. 12mo) \ —Agnes de Saint-Amour, ou la fervente no- 
vice (Avignon, 17G2, 2 vols. 12m<> ; Marseilles, 1829) : — 
Theodule on l enfant de la benediction (Avignon, 17G2, 
12mo): — Fa rf alia , ou la eommedienne convertie (Avig- 
non, 17G2, 12tno) : — Agelique (Avignon, 17GG, 2 vols. 
12mo; Marseilles, 1830 ) : — La Marquise de los Valientes, 
ou la Paine Chretienne (Avignon, 17G5, 2 vols. 12mo) : — 
Lettres uscetiques et morales (Avignon, I7G9, 2 vols. 
12mo). — Hocfer, Xouv. Biog. Generate , s. v. 

Marina de Escobar. See Escobar. 

Mariner (n£"3, mallach a seaman , comp. Gr. aXi- 
evg, Eng. “ an old salt Ezek. xxvii, 9. 27, 29 ; Jonah i, 
5; S“'I yHJ, shatim'f Ezek. xxvii, 8, “ rowers” as in vcr. 
2G), a sailor. See Ship. 

Marini, Giovanni Filippo, an Italian Jesuit and 
missionary, was horn near Genoa in 1G08; resided four- 
teen years at Tonking, Japan, and died in that country 


in 1G77. He published Pella Missione de padri della 
comp.di Giesu nella provincia di Giappone e purticolar- 
mente di quella di Tunchino (Rome, 1GG3, 4to) ; and A 
New and Curious Account of the Kingdoms of Tonquin 
and Laos (1GGG), considered quite valuable. — Hoefer, 
Xouv. Biog. Generate , s. v. 

Marino, or San Marino, one of the most ancient 
and most limited republican states of Europe, consists 
of a craggy mountain 2200 feet in height, situated amid 
the lesser ranges of the Apennines, and encircled by 
provinces formerly belonging to the pontifical states. 
It possesses a total area of twenty-one miles, and com- 
prises a town of the same name, and several villages in 
the adjacent territory. The climate is healthy, but, 
owing to its exposure, high winds and frequent rains 
prevail. The inhabitants, who are reckoned at 8000, 
are noted for their hospitality, sobriety, industry, and 
general morality. They are sensitively jealous of their 
rights, and cling with tenacity to their territorial and 
legislative independence. The religion of the country 
is Roman Catholic. The early history of the republic is 
very obscure. During t lie medieval wars of Italy, Ma- 
rino had its pigmy feuds and factions, which seem to 
have been none the less envenomed from the pettiness 
of the arena in which they were enacted. In 1740 the 
democrat ical form of government was securely guaran- 
teed against further assault. The rights of this min- 
iature state were scrupulously respected by Napoleon 
during his Italian campaign. The government, desig- 
nated the Sovereign Grand Council ( Generate Consiglio 
Principe), is composed of sixty members, of whom one 
third are nobles. From this number are selected the 
smaller “ Council of Twelve” (two thirds from the town 
and the rest from the country), who, with the assistance 
of a jurisconsult, decide in questions of the second and 
third instance. The representatives of the state are 
termed captains-regent ( capitani reggenti). They are 
chosen, the one from the party of the nobles, the other 
from the bourgeoisie. They each hold office only for 
six months. The army, or rather the militia of the re- 
public, numbers 1189 men. — Chambers, Cgclop. s. v. 

Marinus, a martyr of the second half of the 3d cen- 
tury, is mentioned by Eusebius in his Hist. Feel, vii, 15. 
According to this authority, Marinus was of a high fam- 
ily, served in the army, and was about to be appointed 
centurion by Gallienus (2GG-2G8) when he was de- 
nounced as a Christian by one of his fellow-soldiers. 
Brought before judge Achicus, he acknowledged his 
Christian faith, and was given three hours to recant. 
During this respite he was taken to church by bishop 
Theoteknos, who, presenting him a sword with one hand 
and the Gospel with the other, bade him choose be- 
tween them. Marinus joyfully chose the latter, return- 
ed to the judge, to whom lie declared his choice, and 
was at once executed. A Roman senator, Asterius, who 
was a witness of the execution, carried away the body 
upon his own shoulders, laid him out in tine clothes, and 
buried him (see Acta Sand. ap. Holland, t. 1, 3d of 
March). See also Martin II and III. 

Another St. Marinus is commemorated on the 4th of 
September. lie was a native of Dalmatia, and worked 
on the bridge of Rimini, when his piety attracted the 
notice of bishop Gaudentius of Brescia, who persuaded 
him to enter the Church, and made him deacon. Ma- 
rinus retired on the mountain of Titauo, where he erect- 
ed a hermitage, and died towards the close of the 4th 
century. According to the legend, the miracles wrought 
at his tomb attracted a number of pilgrims to the place, 
who settled there, and this gave rise to his saint ship.- — 
Herzog, Ileal- Eneyldop. ix, 108; Pierer, Universal- Lexi- 
con, x, 893 ; Hoefer, Xouv. Biog. Generate, xxxiii,7G9. 

Mariolatry (Gr. Mapia, Ma?y, and Xarptia, ado- 
ration) is the technical term given by the Protestant 
world to the worship which Romanists render to the 
Virgin Mary. Romanists themselves term this worship 
Ilyperdulia (q. v.), to distinguish it from the worship 


MARIOLATItY 


748 


MARIOLATRY 


paid to God, which they terra Latvia (q. v.), and adora- 
tion paid to saints, Dulia (q. v.). In our articles IIy- 
pebdcua, Immaculate Conception, and Invocation 
of Saints, we have already pointed out the great diffi- 
culty of bringing distinctions so refined within the com- 
prehension of the common mind, so as to prevent the 
multitude from worshipping the creature instead of the 
Creator. “As mother of the Saviour of the world,” i 
says Dr. Schaff ( Ch . llist. ii, 410), “ the Virgin Mary un- 
questionably holds forever a peculiar position among 
all women and in the history of redemption and, from 
this point of view, he remarks that it is “perfectly nat- 
ural, nay, essential to sound religious feeling, to associate 
with Mary the fairest traits of maidenly and maternal | 
character, and to revere her as the highest model of 
female purity, love, and piety. . . . But, on the other 
hand, it is equally unquestionable that she is nowhere in 
theN.T. excepted from the universal sinfulness and the 
universal need of redemption, hor represented as immac- 
ulately holy, or as in any way an object of divine venera- 
tion.” lloman Catholics, however, have insisted upon 
the adoration , as they term worship in this instance, of 
the mother of Jesus, holding that Mary has been as- 
sumed in the Trinity, so as to make it a Quaternity; 
that “ Mary is the complement of the Trinity” (Pusev, 
Eirenicon , ii, 107), and that the intercession of Mary 
is needed for the salvation of the followers of Jesus 
Christ. We quote the words of Liguori himself : “We 
most readily admit that Jesus Christ is the only Media- 
tor of Justice, and that by his merits he obtains us all 
grace and salvation; but we say that Mary is the Me- 
diatrix of Grace ; and that receiving MI she obtains 
through Jesus Christ, and because she prays and asks 
for it in the name of Jesus Christ, yet all the same, 
whatever graces we receive, they come to us through 
her intercession” ( Glories of Mary, p. 124). There is 
certainly not a word in the Bible, nor in the creeds of 
the Apostolic Church, nor even in the writings of the 
Church fathers of the first five centuries, to warrant any 
Christian in assigning such a position to Mary, the 
mother of Jesus, as the Catholic Church, both Latin 
and Greek, has dared to bestow upon her. One of the 
accepted interpreters of the Church of Home, Liguori, 
in commenting on the exalted position which the Virgin 
31 ary should hold in the estimation of Latin communi- 
cants, says that she is Queen of Mercy (p. 13) ; that she 
is the Mother of all mankind (p. 23); that she offered 
her Son to the Father on Mount Calvary (p. 23) ; that 
she is especially the Mother of repentant sinners (p. 42) ; 
that she is our Life (p. 52) ; that God was reconciled 
with sinners by the humility and purity of Mary (p. 5G) ; 
that she obtains ns perseverance (p. 59); that she ren- 
ders death sweet to her clients (p. 08); that she is our 
Protectress at the hour of death (p. 71); that she is the 
Hope of all (p. 79) ; that she is our only Refuge, Help, 
and Asylum (p. 81) ; that she is the Propitiatory of the 
whole world (p. 81) ; that she is the one City of Kcfuge 
(p. 89); that it is her office to withhold God’s arm from 
chastising sinners until he is pacified (p. 93) ; that she 
is the Comfortress of the world, the Refuge of the un- 
fortunate (p. 100) ; that we shall be heard more quickly 
if we call on the name of Mary than if we call on the 
name of Jesus (p. 10G); that she is our Patroness (p. 
10G) ; that she is Queen of heaven and hell, of all 
saints, and all evil spirits, because she conquered the 
latter bv her virtues, and the devil by her fair humility 
and holy life (p. 1 10) ; that she protects ns from the di- 
vine justice and from the devil (p. 115); that at the 
name of 31 ary every knee bows and hell trembles (p. 
116); that she is the Ladder of paradise, the Gate of 
heaven, the most true 3Iediatrix between God and man 
(p. 121); that her intercession is necessary for salvation 
(p. 122); that she is the 31ediatrix of grace (p.124); 
that in her is all hope of life’ and virtue, all grace of the 
Way and Truth (p. 125); that in her we find eternal 
salvation (p. 125); that no one can enter heaven except 
by her (p. 127); that all graces of the spiritual life are 


transmitted by 3Lary (p. 127); that all gifts, virtues, 
graces are dispensed by her, to whomsoever, when, and 
as she pleases (p. 128) ; that from her the world receives 
every good (p. 128) ; that she is the Helper of the Re- 
demption (p. 133) ; that she and her Son redeemed the 
world (p. 133) ; that she is the Co-operator in our jus- 
tification (p. 133) ; that the way of salvation is open to 
none otherwise than through 31arv (p. 135) ; that God 
says, “ Go to 3Iary,” when we seek for grace from him 
(p. 13G); that the salvation of all depends on the favor 
and protection of 3Iarv (p. 13G) ; that the other saints 
intercede with her (p. 138) ; that she is a tender Advo- 
cate ; that all power is given unto her in heaven and 
earth (p. 145) ; that God obeys the command of 3Iary 
(p. 146); that 3Iarv is omnipotent (p. 14G); that the 
w hole Church is under the dominion of 3Iary (p. 14G); 
that what she w ills is necessarily done (p. 147) ; that 
her prayers have something of a command in them (p. 
151) ; that Jesus Christ is under an obligation to her to 
grant all she asks (p. 152); that she is the singular Ref- 
uge of the lost (p. 15G) ; that she is the Advocate of the 
whole human raee (p. 161) ; that her chief office in the 
world is to reconcile fallen souls with God (p. 1G7) ; that 
she is the great Peace-maker who obtains reconcilia- 
tion, salvation, pardon, and mercy (p. 1G5); that in her 
is established the seat of God’s government (p. 179); 
that she delivers her clients from hell (p.183); that her 
clients will necessarily be saved (p. 184); that she has 
sent back many from hell to earth who have died of 
mortal sins (p. 188) ; that she consoles, relieves, and suc- 
cors her clients in purgatory (p. 195); that she delivers 
her clients from purgatory by applying her merits (p. 
195) ; that she carries away from purgatory all who 
wear the Carmelite scapularv on the Saturday after they 
die, provided they have been chaste and have said her 
office (p. 19G); that she does not suffer those who die 
clothed in the seapulary to go to hell (p. 185) ; that 3Iarv 
leads her servants to heaven (p. 198); that she has the 
key of the gate of paradise (p. 199) ; that she is the 
Way of our salvation (p. 200) ; that it is for the love of 
3Iarv and on account of her merits that God is more 
merciful under the New than under the Old Dispensa- 
tion (p. 214) ; that her powerful intercession sustains the 
world (p. 214) ; that she is the Throne of grace to which 
St. Paul bids us fly (p. 215); that Christ has promised 
that all who invoke the holy name of 31ary with confi- 
dence shall have perfect sorrow for their sins, atonement 
for their crimes, strength to attain perfection, and shall 
reach the glory of paradise (p. 22G), etc. 

We will also cite for the benefit of our readers some 
passages from the writings of Liguori bearing more di- 
rectly on the field of doctrinal theology. 3Iary is not 
only titled by him “ Queen, 3Iother, and Spouse of the 
King : to her belongs dominion and power over all creat- 
ures” (p. 12) ; “ She is Queen of 3Icrcv, as Jesus Christ 
is King of Justice” (p. 13). “ If Jesus is the Father of 

souls. 31ary is also their 3Iother. On two occasions, ac- 
cording to the holy fathers, 31 ary became our spiritual 
3Iother. The first, according to blessed Albert the 
Great, was when she merited to conceive in her virginal 
womb the Son of God. This was revealed by our Lord 
to S. Gertrude, who w T as one day reading the above text, 
and was perplexed, and could not understand how 3Iary, 
being only the 3Iother of Jesus, could be said to have 
brought forth her first-born. God explained it to her, 
saying that Jesus w r as Mary’s first-born according to the 
flesh, but that all mankind were her second-born accord- 
ing to the Spirit The second occasion on which 

3Iarv became our spiritual Mother, and brought us forth 
to the life of grace, was when she offered to the eternal 
Father the life of her beloved Son on 3Iount Calvary 
with such bitter sorrow r and suffering” (p. 23). “Thus 
it is that in every engagement with the infernal powers 
we shall always certainly conquer by having recourse to 
the 3Iother of God, who is also our 3Iother, saying and 
repeating again and again, ‘We fly to thy patronage, O 
holy 3Iother of God ; we fly to thy patronage, O holy 


MARIOLATRY 


749 


MARIOLATRY 


Mother of God !’ Oh, how many victories have not the 
faithful gained over hell by having recourse to Mary 
with this short but most powerful prayer ! Thus it was 
that that great servant of God, sister Mary, the cruci- 
fied, of the Order of 8. Benedict, always overcame the 
devils” (p. 2fi). “ ‘ Since the very tigers,’ says our most 

loving Mother Mary, ‘cannot forget their young, how 
can 1 forget to love you, my children ?’ ” (p. 30). “ Our 
Blessed Lady herself revealed to sister Mary, the eruei- 
fied, that the fire of love with which she was inflamed 
towards God was such that, if the heavens and earth 
were placed in it, they would be instantly consumed; so 
that the ardors of the Seraphim, in comparison with it, 
were but as fresh breezes” (p. 31). “Let ns love her 
like a 8. Francis Solano, who, maddened as it were (but 
with holy madness) with love for Mary, would siug be- 
fore her picture, and accompany himself on a musieal in- 
strument, saying that, like worldly lovers, he serenaded 
his most sweet Queen” (p. 38). “ Let us love her as so 

many of her servants have loved her, and who never 
could do enough to show their love. Father Jerome of 
Texo, of the Society of Jesus, rejoiced in the name of 
slave of Mary ; and, as a mark of servitude, went often 
to visit her in some church dedicated in her honor. On 
reaching the church, he poured out abundant tears of 
tenderness and love for Mary ; then prostrating, he lick- 
ed and rubbed the pavement with his tongue and face, 
kissing it a thousand times, because it was the house of 
his beloved Lady” (p. 38). “ INI arv is the Mother of re- 

pentant sinners” (p. 42). “ When Mary sees a sinner at 
her feet imploring her mercy, she does not consider the 
crimes with which he is loaded, but the intention with 
which he comes; and if this is good, even should he 
have committed all possible sins, the most loving Moth- 
er embraces him, and does not disdain to heal the 
wounds of his soul” (p. 45). “‘My God,’ she says, ‘1 
had two sons — Jesus and man ; man took the life of my 
Jesus on the cross, and now thy justice would condemn 
the guilty one. 0 Lord! my Jesus is already dead; 
have pity on me; and if I have lost the one, do not 
make me lose the other also !’ And most certainly God 
will not condemn those sinners who have recourse to 
ST ary, and for whom she prays, since he himself com- 
mended them to her as her children” (p. 47). These 
passages are taken almost at random from Liguori’s 
Glories of M ary , chapter i, which is a paraphrase of the 
words llail , holy Queen , Mother of Mercy ! Yet these 
claims are moderate compared with those set up in the 
fifth chapter, entitled, Of the Necessity of the Interces- 
sion of Mary for our Salvation . “S. Lawrence Jus- 

tinian asks, ‘ How can she be otherwise than full of 
grace who has been made the Ladder to paradise , the 
Gate of heaven, the most true Mediatrix betiveen God 
and man V ” (p. 121). “ That which we intend to prove 
here is that the intercession of Mary is now necessary to 
salvation ; we say necessary — not absolutely, but moral- 
ly. This necessity proceeds from the will itself of God 
that all graces that he dispenses should pass by the 
hands of 31 ary, according to the opinion of 8. Bernard, 
and which we may now with safety call the general 
opinion of theologians and learned men. The author of 
The Iteiyn of Mary positively asserts that sueh is the 
case. Il is maintained by Vega, Mendoza, Paeciuchelli, 
Segnori, Loire, Crasset, and by innumerable other learn- 
ed authors” (p. 122). 

Now what have we in holy Scripture to warrant such 
a position as is here taken by Liguori? Comparison, 
as distinct, from contrast, requires the existence of some 
similitude, but take any passage in which Mary is men- 
tioned, from the salutation down to the period after the 
ascension, and there is nothing in any way similar. It 
only remains, therefore, to contrast instead of comparing. 
But our readers are so well acquainted with holy Writ 
that we remit the task to them, only begging them 
to remember four things: 1. That Mary is represented 
as she is, and not otherwise in the Gospels ; 2. That she 
is not mentioned at all in the Acts after the first chap- 


ter, or in the Epistles, although St. Paul has entered so 
minutely into the economy of the Christian scheme of 
salvation ; 3. That all that prophet and apostle has said 
of our Lord is by Romanists transferred to Mary; 4. That 
all those passages which speak of one Mediator between 
God and man not only ignore, but exclude the modern 
doctrine, pronounced by Dr. Schaff “one of the principal 
points of separation between Grneeo-Roman Catholicism 
and evangelical Protestantism” ( Ch . Ilist . ii, 411). 

Lest the charge should be brought to our door that 
we have attributed to the Church of Rome the doctrines 
held by only a part of her communicants, or even only 
one of her priests, we continue our quotations from some 
of her most eminent writers, affording ample proof of 
the manner in which the Roman Catholic is taught to 
look upon the Virgin : “ O thou, our Governor and most 
benignant Lady, in right of being his Mother, command 
your most beloved Son, our Lord Jesus Christ, that he 
deign to raise our minds from longing after earthly 
things to the contemplation of heavenly things” (from 
the Crown of the Blessed Virgin, Psalter of Bonaven- 
tura). “ We praise thee, Mother of God; we acknowl- 
edge thee to be a virgin. All the earth doth worship 
thee, the Spouse of the eternal Father. All the angels 
and archangels, all thrones and powers, do faithfully 
serve thee. To thee all angels cry aloud, with a neveT- 
eeasing voice, Holy, holy, holy, Mary, Mother of God. 
. . . The whole court of heaven doth honor thee as 
queen. The holy Church throughout all the world doth 
invoke and praise thee, the Mother of divine Majesty. 
. . . Thou sit test with thy Son on the right hand of the 
Father. ... In thee, sweet 31 ary, is our hope; defend 
us forever more. Praise beeometh thee ; empire beeom- 
etli thee; virtue and glory be unto thee forever and 
ever” (from a Parody on the Te Deum , by the same 
writer). “Whosoever will be saved, before all things 
it is necessary that he hold the right faith concerning 
31ary ; which faith, exeept one do keep whole and un- 
defiled, without doubt he shall perish everlastingly. . . . 
He (Jesus Christ) sent the Holy Spirit upon his disci- 
ples, and upon his 3Iother, and at last took her up into 
heaven, where she sitteth on the right hand of her Son, 
and never eeaseth to make intercession with him for us. 
This is the faith concerning the Virgin 31ary, which, 
except every one do believe faithfully and firmly, he 
cannot be saved” (from a Parody on the A thanasian 
Creed, by the same writer). “During the pontificate 
of Gregory the Great, the people of Rome experienced 
in a most striking manner the protection of the Blessed 
Virgin. A frightful pestilence raged in the city to sueh 
an extent that thousands were carried off, and so sud- 
denly that they had no time to make the least prepara- 
tion. It could not be arrested by the vows and prayers 
which the holy pope caused to be offered in all quar- 
ters, until he resolved on having recourse to the 31other 
of God. Having commanded the clergy and people to 
go in procession to the church of our Lady, called St. 
3Iary Major, carrying the picture of the Holy Virgin, 
painted by St. Luke, the miraculous effects of her inter- 
cession were soon experienced: in every street as they 
passed the plague ceased, and before the end of the pro- 
cession an angel in human form was seen on the 'Lower 
of Adrian, named ever since the Castle of St.Arigelo, 
sheathing a bloody sabre. At the same moment the 
angels were heard singing the anthem, ‘ Regina Cadi,’ 
‘Triumph, O Queen,’ Hallelujah. The holy pope add- 
ed, ‘ Ora pro nobis Deum,’ ‘ Pray for us,’ etc. The Church 
has since used this anthem to salute the Blessed Virgin 
in Easter time” (from Alplionsus Liguori’s The Glories 
of Mary). Gabriel Biel, Super Canonem M issue, says 
“that our heavenly Father gave the half of his king- 
dom to the most Blessed Virgin, Queen of heaven ; 
which is signified in the case of Esther, to whom Ahas- 
nerus promised the half of his kingdom. So that our 
heavenly Father, who possessed justice and mercy, re- 
tained the former, and conceded to the Virgin 31ary the 
exercise of the latter.” Antoninus, archbishop of Flor- 


MARIOLATRY 


MARIOLATRY 


^50 


encc, goes further yet than Gabriel Biel. We hesitate 
to record the profane blasphemies which are found in 
the writings of various popes, prelates, and divines on 
this subject. Stories of the Middle Ages, many ludi- 
crous, many trivial, one or two sublime, are all penetrated 
with this single thought, that from Mary, and Mary 
alone, could heart worship, and repentance, and prayer, 
in the very second of death, in the very act of sin, with- 
out the Eueharist, without the priest, at sea, in the des- 
ert, in the very home of vice, obtain instant and full re- 
mission; but, with Elliott ( Delineation of Romanism, p. 
754), “ we refuse even to name the vulgar preaching and 
rude discourses of friars and priests who induct the 
multitude into this worship, as being too indelicate for 
the ears of even an intelligent Romanist.” The follow'- 
ing we take from a Prayer of St. Bernard: “ Remember, 
O most Holy Virgin Mary, that no one ever had recourse 
to your protection, implored your help, or sought your 
mediation without obtaining relief. Confiding, there- 
fore, in your goodness, behold me, a penitent sinner, sigh- 
ing out my sins before you, beseeching you to adopt me 
for your son, and to take upon yon the care of my eter- 
nal salvation. Despise not, O Mother of Jesus, the pe- 
tition of your humble client, but hear and grant my 
prayer.” “ Prayer. — O God of goodness, who hast filled 
the holy and immaculate heart of Mary with the same 
sentiments of mercy and tenderness for us with which 
the heart of Jesus Christ, t hy Son and her Son, w r as al- 
ways overflowing; grant that all who honor this vir- 
ginal heart may preserve until death a perfect conform- 
ity of sentiments and inclinations with the sacred heart 
of Jesus Christ, who, with thee and the Holy Ghost, 
lives and reigns one God, forever and ever. Amen.” 
“Aspiration. — O Mary! Thou art light in our doubts, 
consolation in our sorrows, and protection in our dan- 
gers! After thy Son, thou art the certain hope of faith- 
ful souls! Hail, hope of the desponding and refuge of 
the destitute, to whom thy Son has given such power 
that whatever thou wiliest is immediately done !” From 
the Breviary : “O Holy Mary, succor the miserable, help 
the faint-hearted, comfort the alllicted, pray for the peo- 
ple, intercede for the clergy, make supplication for the 
devout female sex; let all be sensible of thy help who 
celebrate thy holy commemoration.” . . . “ Grant, we 
beseech thee, O Lord God, that we, thy servants, may 
enjoy perpetual health of mind and body, and, by the 
glorious intercession of Blessed Mary, ever virgin, may 
be delivered from present sorrow’s, and come to eternal 
joy, through our Lord Jesus Christ.” The Litany of 
the Sacred Heart of Mary deserves to be added: 


‘ Lord have mercy on us ! 

.Son of God, have mercy on us ! 

Holy Ghost, have mercy on us ! 

Jesus Christ, hear us ! 

Jesus Christ, graciously hear us ! 

God, the Father of heaven, have mercy on ns I 
God, the Son, Redeemer of the world, have mercy on ns ! 
God, the Holy Ghost, have mercy on ns ! 

Iloly Trinity, one God, have mercy on us ! 

Heart of Mary, conceived without the stain of sin ! ” 
Heart of Mary, full of grace ! 

Heart of Mary, sanctuary of the Trinity ! 

Heart of Mary, tabernacle of the incarnate Word ! 

Heart of Mary, after God’s ow n heart ! 

Heart of Mary, illustrious throne of glory ! 

Heart of Mary, perfect holocaust of divine love J 
Heart of Mary, abyss of humility ! 

Heart of Mary, attached to the cross ! 

Heart of Mary, seat of mercy ! 

Heart of Mary, consolation of the afflicted ! 

Heart of Mary, refuge of sinners ! 

Heart of Marv, advocate of the Church, and mother 
of all faithful ! 

Heart of Mary, after Jesus, the most assured hope 
of the agonizing ! 

Heart of Mary, queen of angels and of the saints! 

Lamb of God, who takest aw'ay the sins of the world, 


spare us ! 

Lamb of God, who takest away the sius of the world, 
hear ns, O Lord ! 

Lamb of God, who takest aw'ay the sins of the world, 
have mercy on us, O Lord ! 

O most sacred and amiable heart of Mary, Mother of 
God, pray for ns ! That our hearts may be inflamed 
with divine love.” 


The following is an extract from the encyclical letter 
addressed by Gregory XY1 to all patriarchs, primates, 
archbishops, and bishops, bearing date Aug. 15, 1832, 
affording ample evidence that the same doctrine w r as 
approved by the highest authorities of the Romish 
Church even prior to the promulgation of the dogma of 
immaculate conception (q. v.) : “Having at length taken 
possession of our see in the Lateral) Basilica, according 
to the custom and institution of our predecessors, we turn 
to you without delay, venerable brethren ; and, in testi- 
mony of our feelings towards you, w'e select for the date 
of our letter this most joyful day, on which w'e celebrate 
the solemn festival of the most Blessed Virgin’s trium- 
phant assumption into heaven ; that she, who has been 
through ever)" great calamity our patroness and pro- 
tectress, may watch over ns writing to you, and lead 
our mind by her heavenly influence to those counsels 
which may prove most salutary to Christ’s flock. . , . 
But, that all may have a successful and happy issue, let 
us raise our eyes to the most Blessed Virgin Mary, who 
alone destroys heresies, who is our greatest hope, yea, 
the entire ground of our hope.” (Comp, here Kitto, 
Journal Sacred Lit. ix, 25; xv, 211; English Review , 
x, 350 sq. ; Christ. Remembrancer , 1855 [Oet.], p. 417 sq. ; 
especially p. 443 and 449.) In view of such a document 
emanating from the head of the Church, what account 
can w T e make of the declaration of the Romish vicars 
apostolic in Great Britain that “Catholics do solicit the 
intercession of the angels and saints reigning with 
Christ in heaven; but in this, when done according to 
the principles and spirit of the Catholic Church, there 
is nothing of superstition, nothing which is not consist- 
ent with true piety. For the Catholic Church teaches 
her children not to pray to the saints as to the authors 
or givers of divine grace, but only to solicit the saints 
in heaven to pray for them in the same sense as St. 
Paul desired the faithful on earth to pray for him;” 
except to consider it as a document w'ell calculated for 
a Protestant latitude, but liable to be looked upon in 
Rome as semi-heretical? “What ideas also are w'e to 
entertain of the candor or veracity of those Romanists 
who cease not, after Bossuet and others, to affirm that 
‘ they only pray to saints to intercede for them?’ Here 
is the head of their Church performing a solemn act of 
worship to the deified Mary, on a day dedicated to her 
presumed assumption, invoking her, as his patroness 
and protectress, in a time of great calamity, entreating 
her to aid him by her heavenly influence to that which 
would be salutary for the Church. Is this only to pray 
to her to undertake for us? The leader in this act of 
devotion is the supreme earthly oracle ; the visible, liv- 
ing, speaking guide of the Church. If this be not idol- 
atry, then idolatry exists only in name” (Elliott, p. 754). 
Nor do avg find in the present pontiff less devotion to the 
Virgin, if we may base our knowledge on the official 
documents issued in his name. In the decree of Dec. 8, 
1851, Pius IX urges all Catholics, colere, invocare , exo- 
rare beatissimam Dei genitricem. translated as follows by 
the Tablet (Jan. 27): “ Let all the children of the Cath- 
olic Church most dear to us hear these words; and, 
w ith a most ardent zeal of piety and love, proceed to 
worship , invoke , and pray to the most Blessed Virgin 
Mary, Mother of God, conceived without original sin” 
—the head of the Roman Catholic Church urging on 
his subjects a greater zeal and ardor in the worship of 
Mary than that which St. Alfonso had displayed. In 
the same decree he states that “the true object of this 
devotion” is Mary’s “conception.” Ilow r that act can 
be an object of devotion, it is difficult intelligently 
to imagine. But such is Mariolatry. Not only do 
wc now' find the adoration of the Mother of God permit- 
ted, but actually commanded. “The devout Roman 
Catholic,” says Cramp (p. 400) justly, “pays Mary the 
most extravagant honor and veneration. The language 
adopted in addressing the ‘Queen of heaven’ cannot be 
acquitted of the charge of blasphemy, since prayers are 
offered directly to her as if to a divine being, and bless- 


MARIOLATRY 


751 


MARIOLATRY 


ings are supplicated as from one who is able to bestow 
them. In all devotions she has a share. The Ave Ma- 
ria accompanies the Pater Nostci\ 1 Evening, morning, 
and at noon,’ said the Psalmist, ‘will I pray unto thee, 
and cry aloud;’ the pious Roman Catholic transfers 
these services to the Virgin. In tender childhood he is 
taught to cherish for her the profoumlest reverence and 
the highest affection ; throughout life she is the object 
of his daily regard, and five solemn festivals, annually 
observed to her honor, call forth his ardent love and 
zeal, and in the hour of death he is taught to place reli- 
ance on her mercy. To the ignorant devotee she is 
more than Christ, than God; he believes that she can 
command her Son, that to her intercession nothing can 
be denied, and that to her power all things are possible.” 
But if the Latin Church be adjudged guilty of Mariola- 
try, it must not be forgotten that the same sentence of 
condemnation should fall still more heavily on the 
Greek Church ; for “ it cannot be denied,” says Pusey 
{Eirenicon, ii, 425), “that the orthodox Greek Church 
does even surpass the Church of Rome in exaltation of 
the Blessed Virgin in their devotions.” 

Mariolatry likewise appears in the favorite prayer to 
Mary, the angelic greeting, or the Ave Maria, which 
in the Catholic devotions runs parallel with the Pater 
Noster, and of which we had occasion to speak above. 
It takes its name from the initial words of the saluta- 
tion of Gabriel to the Holy Virgin at the annunciation 
of the birth of Christ. It consists of three parts: (1) 
The salutation of the angel (Luke i, 28) : A ve Maria, 
gratia plena, Dominus tecum! (2) The words of Eliza- 
beth (Luke i, 42) : Benedicta tu in muliei'ibus , et benedic - 
tus fructus vent r is tui, Jesus. (3) The later unscriptural 
addition, which contains the prayer proper, and is offen- 
sive to the Protestant and all sound Christian feeling: 
Sancta Maria, mater Dei, ora pro nobis peccatoribus, 
nunc et in bora mortis. Amen. (For the English, etc., 
see Ave Maria.) “Formerly this third part, which 
gave the formula the character of a prayer, was traced 
back to the anti-Nestorian Council of Ephesus in 431, 
which sanctioned the expression mater Dei, or Dei gen- 
itri.r (StoroK ot;) ; but Roman archeologists (e. g. Mast, 
in Wetzer und Welte [Rom. Cathol.], Kirchen-Lexikon, 
i, 563) now concede that it is a much later addition, 
made in the beginning of the 16th century (1508), and 
that the closing words, nunc et in hora mortis, were add- I 
ed even after that time by the Franciscans. But even 
the first two parts did not come into general use as a 
standing formula of prayer until the 13th century. From 
that date the Ave Maria stands in the Roman Church 
upon a level with the Lord’s Prayer and the Apostles’ 
Creed, ami with them forms the basis of the rosary” 
(Schaff, Ch. Ilist. ii, 424, 425). 

'fhe chief festivals of the Virgin, common to the 
Western and Eastern churches, celebrating the most im- 
portant facts and fictions of her life, and in some degree 
running parallel with the festivals of the birth, resur- 
rection, and ascension of Christ, are the Conception (q. 
v.), the Xativitg (q. v.), the Purification (q. v.), the 
Annunciation (q. v.), the Visitation (q. v.), and the As- 
sumption (q. v.). All these festivals are observed also in 
the English Church, but from a quite different stand- 
point, of course. The Roman Church has, besides these, 
several special festivals, with appropriate offices — all, 
however, of minor solemnity. See Mary, the Virgin. 

Origin of Mariolatry. — We have detailed somewhat 
at length the views held by the Greco-Roman theolo- 
gians on the adoration they consider due to the Virgin 
Mary to afford a fair insight into Mariolatry as now 
practiced. It remains, however, to examine how the 
veneration of Mary degenerated into the worship of 
Mary, a worship which itself “was originally only a re- 
flection of the worship of Christ . . . designed to con- 
tribute to the glorifying of Christ” (Schaff, ii, 410). All 
unbiassed historians agree in regarding the worship of 
Mary as an echo of ancient heathenism. Polytheism 
was so deeply rooted among the non-Israelites of the 


days of Christ that it reproduced itself even among the 
followers of Jesus, though it is true it appeared clothed 
in a Christian dress. “The popular religious want,” 
says Dr. Seliaff, “ had accustomed itself even to female 
deities, and very naturally betook itself first of all to 
Mary, the highly favored and blessed mother of the di- 
vine-human Redeemer, as the worthiest object of adora- 
tion.” But, though it is apparent that remnants of an- 
cient heathenism thus laid hold even on the newly-found 
doctrines, it is quite certain also that during the first 
ages the invocation of the Virgin and of saints must 
have held a subordinate place in Christian worship, for 
there is not a word about it in the writings of the fathers 
of the first five centuries. “ We may scan each page 
that they have left us, and we shall find nothing of the 
kind. There is nothing of the sort in the supposed 
works of Hermas and Barnabas, nor in the real works 
of Clement, Ignatius, and Polycarp ; that is, the doctrine 
is not to be found in the 1st century. There is nothing 
of the sort in Justin Martyr, Tatian, Athenagoras, The- 
ophilus, Clement of Alexandria, Tertullian ; that is, in 
the 2d century. There is nothing of the sort in Origen, 
Gregory Thaumaturgus, Cyprian, Methodius, Lactan- 
tius ; that is, in the 3d century. There is nothing of the 
sort in Eusebius, Athanasius, Cyril of Jerusalem, Hilary, 
Macarius, Epiphanius, Basil, Gregory Nazianzen, Ephrem 
Syrus, Gregory of Nyssa, Ambrose; that is, in the 4th 
century. There is nothing of the sort in Chrysostom, 
Augustine, Jerome, Basil of Seleucia, Orosius, Sedulius, 
Isidore, Theodoret, Prosper, Vincentius Lirinensis, Cyril 
of Alexandria, popes Leo, Hilarus, Simplicius, Felix, 
Gelasius, Anastasius, Symmachus; that is, in the 5th 
century.” Nor is there the least trace of Mariolatry 
among the remains of the Catacombs. Says a writer in 
the Lond. Qn. Iter. July, 18G4, p. 85: “As regards the 
sacred person of the Virgin, she takes that place only in 
the art of the Catacombs which the purity of earlier 
Christianity would lead us to predicate. She is seen 
there solely in a scriptural and historical sense — in the 
subject of the Adoration of the Wise Men who found 
‘ the young child and his mother.’ And this even takes 
its place among the later productions of elassic-Cbristian 
art; while the subject of the Nativity, which occurs on 
two sarcophagi, evidently belongs to the last decline of 
that period. With these two exceptions, no trace of a 
representation of the Virgin can be found in the mural 
or sculptural art of the Catacombs.” We cannot do bet- 
ter than sum up this portion of our subject in the words 
of the Rev. E. Tyler, to whose conscientious labors every 
student of Christian antiquities is so much indebted : 
“We have examined to the utmost of our ability and 
means the remains cf Christian antiquity. Especially 
have we searched into the writings of those whose works 
(A.D. 492) received the approbation of the pope and his 
council at Rome; we have also diligently sought for ev- 
idence in the records of the early councils; and we find 
all the genuine and unsuspected works of Christian 
writers — not for a few years, or in a portion of Christen- 
dom, but to the end of the first five hundred years and 
more, and in every country in the Eastern and the West- 
ern empire, in Europe, in Africa, and in Asia— testifying 
as with one voice that the writers and their contem- 
poraries knew of no belief in the present power of the 
Virgin, and her influence with God ; no practice, in pub- 
lic or private, of prayer to God through her mediation, 
or of invoking her for her good offices of intercession, 
and advocacy, and patronage ; no offering of thanks and 
praise made to her; no ascription of divine honor and 
glory to her name. On the contrary, all the writers 
through those ages testify that to the early Christians 
God was the only object of prayer, and Christ the only 
heavenly Mediator and Intercessor in whom they put 
their trust” (p. 290). There is not a shadow of doubt 
that the origin of the worship of Mary is to be traced to 
the apocryphal legends of her birth and of her death, 
which, in the course of time, decorated the life of Mary 
with fantastic fables and wonders of every kind, and 


MARIOLATRY 


752 


MARIOLATRY 


thus furnished a pseudo-historical foundation for an un- i 
scriptural Mariology and Mariolatry (compare Janus, 
Pope and Council , p. 34 sq.). It is in these productions 
of the Gnostics (q. v.) that we find the germ of what | 
afterwards expanded into its present portentous propor- 
tions. Some of the legends of her birth are as early as 
the 2d or 3d century. But to the honor of the Chris- 
tians of that day be it remembered that they unani- 
mously and tirmly rejected these legends as fabulous and 
heretical. Witness the conduct of the Church towards 
the Collyridians (q. v.), and the excesses in the opposite 
direction it gave rise to by the formation of a sect 
known as the Antidicomarianites (q. v.). “The whole 
thing,” says Epiphanius, when commenting upon the un- 
warranted practices of the Collyridians, “ is foolish and 
strange, and is a device and deceit of the devil. Let j 
Mary be in honor. Let the Lord be worshipped. Let ; 
no one worship Mary” {Iheret. lxxxix, in Opp. p. 10GG, : 
Paris, 1GG2). 

Indeed, down to the time of the Nestorian controver- 
sy of A.l). 430, the cultus of the Blessed Virgin, it would 
appear, was wholly external to the Church, and was re- 
garded as heretical. It was this controversy that first 
produced a great change of sentiment in men’s minds. 
Nestorius had maintained, or at least it was the ten- 
dency of Nestorianism to maintain, not only that our 
Lord had two natures, the divine and the human (which 
was right), but also that he was two persons, in such 
sort that the child born of Mary was not divine, but 
merely an ordinary human being, until the divinity 
subsequently united itself to him. This was condemned 
by the Council of Ephesus in the year 431 ; and the title 
OeoTnicoCj loosely translated “Mother of God,” was 
sanctioned. The object of the council and of the Anti- 
Nestorians was in no sense to add honor to the Mother, 
but to maintain the true doctrine with respect to the 
Son. Nevertheless the result was to magnify the Moth- 
er, and, after a time, at the expense of the Son. For 
now the title 0foro/coe became a shibboleth, and in art 
the representation of the Madonna and Child became the 
expression of orthodox belief. Very soon the purpose 
for which the title and the picture were first sanctioned 
became forgotten, and the veneration of Mary began to 
spread within the Church, as it had previously existed 
external to it. The legends, too, were no longer treated 
as apocryphal. Neither were the Gnostics any longer 
the objects of dread. Nestorians, and afterwards Icon- 
oclasts, in turn became the objects of hatred. The old 
fables were winked at, and thus they universally be- 
came the mythology of Christianity among the south- 
ern nations of Europe, while many of the dogmas which 
they are grounded upon have, as a natural consequence, 
crept into the faith. “ Thenceforth the Dtonkoc was a 
test of orthodox Christology, and the rejection of it j 
amounted to the beginning or the end of all heresy. 
The overthrow of Nestorianism was at the same time 
the victory of Mary-worship. With the honor of the 
Son, the honor also of the Mother was secured. The 
opponents of Nestorius, especially Proclus, his succes- 
sor in Constantinople (f 447), and Cyril of Alexandria 
(f 444), could scarcely find predicates enough to express 
the transcendent glory of the Mother of God. She was 
the crown of virginity, the indestructible temple of God, 
the dwelling-place of the Ilolv Trinity, the paradise of 
the second Adam, the bridge from God to man, the loom 
of the incarnation, the sceptre of orthodoxy; through 
her the Trinity is glorified and adored, the devil and 
daemons put to flight, the nations converted, and the 
fallen creature raised to heaven. The people were all 
on the side of the Ephesian decision, and gave vent to 
their joy in boundless enthusiasm, amid bonfires, pro- 
cessions, and illuminations” (SchaiT, ii, 42G). “Yet it 
is not exactly the fact that the giving of this title 
(Theotokos) was the cause of the cultus, for some of 
the fathers before that time had employed the word to 
express the doctrine of the incarnation, as the two 
Gregorys did; it was the Nestorian heretics who really 


drove the Catholic mind to paying her the tribute of 
devotion; and even then it seems as if the cultus of 
that time was far more in honor of the Son than of the 
Mother, more a mode of testifying the belief in the ver- 
ity of the true doctrine of the incarnation, denied by 
the heretics, than of giving her an undue worship. 
When she was addressed as the ‘Mother of God,’ when 
she was represented as the Mother with her infant Son, 
she appeared, it is true, as the prominent figure; but it 
was to express clearly the Catholic doctrine of the in® 
carnation — the two natures in the one person of Christ. 
We can see how easily the mind of the worshipper 
would penetrate further, and, from looking at her mere- 
ly as the Theotokos, would see in the Mother of God 
one possessed of a mother’s influence and power” ( Chris- 
tian Remembrancer , 18G8, July, p. 13G, 137). 

From this time the worship of Mary grew apace; it 
agreed well with many natural aspirations of the heart. 
To paint the mother of the Saviour an ideal woman, 
with all the grace and tenderness of womanhood, and 
yet with none of its weaknesses, and then to fall down 
and worship that which the imagination had set up, was 
what might easily happen, and did happen. Evidence 
was not asked for. Perfection was becoming the mother 
of the Lord, therefore she was perfect. Adoration “was 
befitting” on the part of Christians, therefore they gave 
it. Any tales attributed to antiquity were received as 
genuine, any revelations supposed to be made to favored 
saints were accepted as true; and the Madonna reigned 
as queen in heaven, in earth, in purgatory, and over 
hell. The mother of the Saviour soon became the 
Mother of Salvation, as John of Damascus calls her (//o- 
miL in A nnun.'), “ the common salvation of all in ex- 
tremity” ()) irdvTwv bpov tuiv TCipdnov r//C 7 VC xot \n) 
Giorijpici). “The alone Mother of God, who art to be 
worshipped (?) 7rpoaKvnjTt )) forever.” Nestorianism 
lived on, and lives still, when other earlier heresies on 
the nature of Christ — like Arianism — have died; nay, 
it was once a great ecclesiastical power. Catholics 
showed their orthodoxy by honoring the Mother of 
God, their abhorrence of heresy by rendering her wor- 
ship. Thus arose the story of her assumption, and the 
festival (Aug. 15) in honor of that supposed event. She 
then became the Mater Coronaia, endued with power 
both in heaven and earth. Language was addressed to 
her such as belonged only to God; e. g. Peter Damian, 
in a sermon (/« Xativ. B. V. J/.), speaks thus; “Et data 
est tibi omnis potestas in coelo et in terra: nil tibi im- 
possibile, cui possibile est desperatos in spem beatitudi- 
nis relcvarc. Quomodo enim ilia potestas tiue potential 
poterit obviare, qua? de carne tua carnis suscepit origi- 
nem? Accedis enim ante illud aureum humanae recon- 
eiliationis altare, non solum regnans sed imperans, dom- 
ina non ancilla.” Under such teaching as this we need 
not wonder at the extent to which her cultus went. 
“ From that time,” says Dr. Schatf, “ numerous churches 
and altars were dedicated to the holy Mother of God. 
the perpetual Virgin; among them also the church at 
Ephesus in which the anti-Nestorian Council of 431 
had sat. Justinian I, in a law, implored her interces- 
sion with God for the restoration of the Homan empire, 
and on the dedication of the costly altar of the church 
of St. Sophia he expected all blessings for church and 
empire from her powerful prayers. 1 1 is general, Narses, 
like the knights in the Middle Age, was unwilling to go 
into battle till he had secured her protection. Pope 
Boniface IV, in G08, turned the Pantheon in Lome into 
a temple of Mary ad martyres; the pagan Olympus into 
a Christian heaven of gods. Subsequently even her 
images (made after an original pretending to have come 
from Luke) were divinely worshipped, and, in the pro- 
lific legends of the superstitious Middle Age. performed 
countless miracles, before some of which the miracles of 
the Gospel history grow dim. She became almost co- 
ordinate with Christ, a joint redeemer, invested with 
most of his own attributes and acts of grace. The pop® 
iflar belief ascribed to her, as to Christ, a sinless concept 


MARIOLATRY 


753 


MARIOLATRY 


tion, a sinless birth, resurrection and ascension to heav- 
en, and a participation of all power in heaven and earth. 
She became the centre of devotion, cultus, and art, and 
the popular symbol of power, of glory, and of the final 
victory of Catholicism over all heresies” (ii, 424, 425). 
In the Gth century the practice became general within 
the Church, both in the East and in the West, and the 
writers, commencing with the post-Nicene period, which 
had brought in this innovation with many others, down 
to the 16th century, arc now found to relate the untold 
privileges of the Virgin, and with an enthusiasm con- 
stantly growing until checked by the opposition of the 
Reformers, we are told of the efficacy of Mary as a me- 
diator with her Son. This devotional enthusiasm was 
carried to its greatest height by St. Bernard (q. v.), 
and still more so by Bonaventura (cited above), who, 
Dr. Wiseman says, was one of the saints and luminaries 
of the Roman Catholic Church, and every Roman Cath- 
olic prays that he may be enlightened by his teaching 
and benefited by his prayers. It is Bonaventura who 
gave the following version of the 51st Psalm: ‘‘Have 
pity upon me, O great Queen, who art called the Mother 
of Mercy; and, according to the tenderness of that 
mercy, purify me from my iniquities.” And so it runs 
throughout. The 149th Psalm is — “Sing a new song 
in honor of our Queen. Let the just publish her praises 
in their assemblies. Let the heavens rejoice in her 
glory; let the isles of the sea and all the earth rejoice 
therein. Let water and fire, cold and heat, brightness 
and light, praise her. Let the mouth of the just glorify 
her; let her praises resound in the triumphant company 
of the saints. City of God, place thy joy in blessing 
her, and let songs of praise continually be sung to her 
by thy illustrious and glorious inhabitants.” 

Promotion of Mariolatry by reliyious A rt. — Ever 
since the condemnation of Nestorius the popular doc- 
trine had found its ablest support in art. The repre- 
sentation of that beautiful group, since popularly known 
as the Madonna and Child, became the expression of the 
orthodox faith. “Every one who wished to prove his 
hatred of the arch-heretic exhibited the image of the 
maternal Virgin holding in her arms the infant God- 
head, either in his house as a picture, or embroidered on 
his garments, or on his furniture, or his personal orna- 
ments — in short, wherever it could be introduced” (Mrs. 
Jameson, Legends of the Madonna , p. xxi). With the 
extension and popularity of the worship of the Virgin, 
the multiplication of her image, in every form and ma- 
terial, naturally enough spread throughout Christendom, 
until suddenly checked by the iconoclastic movements 
of the 8th century [see Icoxoclasm], and, descending 
the Middle Ages, we find Christian art generally at its 
lowest ebb in the 10th and lltli centuries. The pil- 
grimages to the Holy Land and the Crusades mark the 
renaissance, but it was not until the 13th century that 
Mariolatry received more aid from religions art. Then 
the popular enthusiasm was kindled anew by the exer- 
tions of Bonaventura, and by the formation of many 
chivalric brotherhoods that vowed her especial sendee 
(as the Sere it i, who were called in France les esclaees de 
Marie'), and by the action of the great religious com- 
munities, at this time comprehending all the enthusi- 
asm, learning, and influence of the Church. These had 
placed themselves solemnly and especially under the 
protection of the Virgin. “ The Cistercians wore white 
in honor of her purity; the Servi wore black in respect 
to her sorrows; the Franciscans had enrolled themselves 
as champions of the immaculate conception; and the 
Dominicans introduced the Rosary. All these richly- 
endowed communities vied with each other in multiply- 
ing churches, chapels, and pictures in honor of their 
patroness, and expressive of her several attributes. The 
devout painter, kneeling before his easel, addressed him- 
self to the task of portraying these heavenly lineaments, 
which had visited him perhaps in dreams. Many of 
the professed monks and friars became themselves ac- 
complished artists” (Mrs. Jameson). Poetry also came 
V. — B n ii 


to the altar of sacrilege* and made her offering in the 
person of the immortal Dante, who, “ through the com- 
munion of mind, not less than through his writings, in- 
fused into religious art that mingled theology, poetry, 
and mysticism which ruled in the Giottesque school 
during the following century, and went hand in hand 
with the development of the power and practice of imi- 
tation. . . . Ilis ideas respecting the Virgin Mary were 
precisely those to which the writings of St. Bernard, St. 
Bonaventura, and St, Thomas Aquinas had already lent 
all the persuasive power of eloquence, and the Church 
all the weight of her authority” (Mrs. Jameson), lie 
hastened to render these doctrines into poetry, and in 
the Paradiso Mary figures as the Mystic Rose (Rosa 
mystica) and Queen of heaven, with the attendant an- 
gels, circle within circle, floating round her in adoration, 
and singing the Regina Cceli, and saints and patriarchs 
stretching forth their hands towards her. “ Thus,” says 
Mrs. Jameson (p. xxx), “the impulses given . . . con- 
tinued in progressive development . . . the spiritual 
sometimes in advance of the material influences; the 
moral idea emanating, as it were ,from the soul, and the 
influences of external nature flowing into it ; the com- 
prehensive power of fancy using more and more the ap- 
prehensive power of imitation, and both working to- 
gether till their ‘blended might’ achieved its full frui- 
tion in the works of Raphael” (q.v.). The Hussite war, 
and the iconoclastic spirit of the Bohemians, rather 
strengthened the Churchmen than otherwise, and con- 
tributed to the growth of the impulse to worship Mary. 
But strange fancies were now as freely interpolated in 
the productions of the artist, which, though themselves 
but “the reflex influence of that interpolation of new 
doctrines which had been going on in the Church for so 
many centuries” (Hill, Engl. Monasticism, p. 320), never- 
theless received the disapproval of pious Catholics of 
that age, who “ cried out ‘ tcmcrarium, scandalosum, et 
pcrieulosum,’ when they saw the most solemn spectacle 
in the world’s history made the sport of wanton imag- 
inations . . . the sorrow of the cross made to rest more 
heavily upon the mother of Christ than upon him” 
(Hill). The Council of Trent felt itself forced to de- 
nounce the impropriety of certain pictures, and it was 
generally acknowledged that paganized and degenerate 
influences had overruled spiritual art, that the latter 
was indeed no more, that “it was dead; it could never 
be revived without a return to those modes of thought 
and belief which had at first inspired it” (Mrs. Jameson). 

Just at this time “theological art,” as Mrs. Jameson 
calls it, came to the rescue of Mariolatry. It is true the 
Reformation at the opening of the 16th century had 
dealt a severe blow at all the various institutions of Ro- 
manism savoring of idolatry and superstition, but this 
was only an additional reason why the Church of St. Pe- 
ter should seek to fortify herself the more strongly in the 
fortress so severely assailed by the enemy. Mariolatry 
had served her purpose ably, and just now, if ever, need- 
ed re-enforcing. Deprived of the aid of “ religions art,” 
the poets and artists no longer wrought up to a wild 
pitch of enthusiasm to inspire the spirit of worship of 
the Virgin, the infallible guide of the Church himself 
came to the rescue, and supplied by “ theological art” 
what was needed. In 1571 the battle of Lepanto was 
fought. In it the combined fleets of Christendom, led 
by Don Juan of Austria, were arrayed against the Turks, 
and achieved a memorable victory over the devout ad- 
herents of the prophet of Mecca. Pope Pius V quickly 
availed himself of this opportunity to attribute the vic- 
tory “ to the special interposition of the Blessed Virgin.” 
From a very early period in Mariolatry we find festivals 
instituted in honor of the “ Blessed Virgin,” but now a 
new festival, that of the Rosary, was added to those al- 
ready observed, a new invocation added to her litany, un- 
der the title of A nxiliam ChHstianorum, and, more than 
all, many sanctuaries were declared to be especially sa- 
cred to her worship, and thus a prominence was given to 
her devotion which found its full expression only in our 


MARIOLATRY 


MARIS 


754 


own day. on Dee. 8, 1854, when this dogma, conceived in 
the silence of the cell by the brain of infatuated monks, 
was canonized by a helpless pontiff, and the doctrine es- 
tablished “ that not only did the Virgin Mary immacu- 
lately conceive her son Jesus Christ (as Protestants 
hold), but was as immaculately conceived herself” (Hill, 
p. 314 ; comp. Kranth, Conservative Reformation , p. 381 
scp). Well, indeed, may it be said that “ the contro- 
versy with Rome threatens more and more to resolve it- 
self into the question whether the creed of Christendom 
is to be based upon the life of Jesus or the life of Mary, 
upon the canonical or the apocryphal Gospels” (Plump- 
tre, Christ and Christendom [Hoyle Lect. 186G], p.342). 
Need we wonder, then, that Bishop Bull waxes warm 
when this abomination presents itself for his comments, 
and is made to speak in the following severe strain: 
“We abominate the impious imposture of those who 
have translated the most humble and holy Virgin into 
an idol of pride and vanity, and represented her as a 
vainglorious and aspiring creature; like Lucifer (1 trem- 
ble at the comparison), thirsting after divine worship 
and honor, and seeking out superstitions men and wom- 
en, whom she may oblige to her more special service, 
and make them her perpetual votaries. For what great- 
er affront than this could they have offered to her hu- 
mility and sanctity? How fulsome, yea, how perfectly 
loathsome to us are the tales of those that have had 
the assurance to tell us of the amorous addresses of the 
Blessed Virgin to certain persons, her devout worship- 
pers, choosing them for her husbands, bestowing her 
kisses liberally on them, giving them her breasts to 
suck, and presenting them with bracelets and rings of 
her hair as love-tokens ! The fables of the Jewish Tal- 
mudists, yea, of Mohammed, may seem grave, serious, 
and sober histories, compared to these and other such 
impudent fictions. Insomuch that wise men have 
thought that the authors of these romances in religion 
were no better than the tools and instruments of Satan, 
used by him to expose the Christian religion, and ren- 
der it ridiculous, and thus introduce atheism. And, in- 
deed, we are sure that the wits of Italy, -where these 
abominable deceits have been and are chiefly counte- 
nanced, were the first broachers and patrons of infidelity 
and atheism in Europe, since the time that Christianity 
obtained in it.” “ We honor the Virgin Mary,” says 
Mr. Ernlell Tyler ( Worship, p. 391), one of the latest and 
most critical students of early Church history and Chris- 
tian antiquities, “we love her memory, we woidd, by 
God’s grace, follow her example in faith and humility, 
meekness and obedience ; we bless God for the wonderful 
work of salvation, in effecting which she was a chosen 
vessel ; we call her a blessed saint and a holy Virgin ; 
we cannot doubt of her eternal happiness through the 
merits of him who was ‘God of the substance of his Fa- 
ther before the world, and man of the substance of his 
mother born in the world.’ But we cannot address re- 
ligious phrases to her; we cannot trust in her merits, or 
intercession, or advocacy, for our acceptance with God ; 
we cannot invoke her for any blessing, temporal or spir- 
itual ; we cannot pray to God through her intercession, 
or for it. This in us would be sin. We pray to God 
alone; we offer religious praise, our spiritual sacrifices, 
to God alone; we trust in God alone; we need no other 
mediator, we apply to no other mediator, intercessor, or 
advocate, in the unseen world, but Jesus Christ alone, 
the Son of God and the Son of man. In this faith we 
implore God alone, for the sake only of his Son, to keep 
us steadfast unto death ; and, in the full assurance of the 
belief that this faith is founded on the apostles and 
prophets, Jesus Christ himself being the chief corner- 
stone, we will endeavor, by the blessing of the Eternal 
Shepherd and Hi shop of souls, to preserve the same 
faith, as our Church now professes it, whole and unde- 
tiled, and to deliver it down, without spot or stain of su- 
perstition, to our children’s children, as their best inher- 
itance forever,” 

Literature. — Bonaventura, Opera, vol. i, part ii, p.4GG- 


473 (Mogunt. 1609, folio) ; Canisius {R. C.), De, Maria 
Yirginelibriquinque (Ingolst. 1577); Lambertini (R.C.), 
Comment, duee de J.Christi,mat?'isque ejus festis (Petav. 
1751); Perrone (R.C.),DeImmaculata B. V. Mai'iie con- 
cejitu (Rom. 1848) (in defence of the new papal dogma 
of the sinless conception of Mary); The Glories of Mary, 
Mother of God; transl.from the Italian of blessed Alplion- 
sus Liguori, and carefully revised by a Catholic priest 
(John Coyne, Dublin, 1833); Horne, M ariolatry, or Facts 
and Evidences, etc. (Loud. 1841) ; Townsend, Travels in 
Spain; Abstract of the Douay Catechism, p. 7G; The 
Garden of the Sold; Jowett, Christian Researches in the 
Mediterranean; Roman Catholic Missal for the Use of 
the Laity; Gilly, Tour in Piedmont; Graham, Three 
Months' Residence in the A fountains East of Rome ; Lai- 
ty's Directory, 1833; Greg.P. XV J Epist. Ency. 18 Ka- 
lcnd. Sept. 1832; S. Antonini Summas Theol. pars iv, tit. 
xv, p. 911-1270; Farrar, Eccles. Diet.; Elliott, Delinea- 
tion of Romanism, bk. iv, p.754 sq.; Hook, Church Diet.; 
Cramp, Text-Book of Popery, p. 400 sq. ; Schaff, Ch. Hist. 
ii, 409 sq. ; Mrs. Jameson, Legends of the Madonna, espe- 
cially the Introduction; Tyler, Worship of the Blessed 
I ’ irgin Mary (Loud. 1844) ; Mozlev, Moral and Devo- 
tional Theol. Ch. of Rome (Lond. 1857); Lord Lindsay, 
Christian Art (London, 1847), vol. i; Miss Twining, 
Symbols of Early Christian Art; F. W. Genthe, Die 
Jungfrau Maria, ihre Evangel ien u.ihi'e Wunder (Halle, 
1852); Bible and Missal, p. 1,35; Christian Remem- 
brancer, J uly, 1 852, p. 200 ; 1854; Oct. 1855, art. vi; July, 
18G8, art. vii ; Contemp. Rev. Nov. 18G8, p. 454; Brit, and 
For. Ev. Rev. Oct. 18G6, p. 729. Comp, also the elabo- 
rate article Maria, Mutter des Ilerrn , by Steitz, in Her- 
zog’s Real-Encyklop. ix, 74 sq. ; and the article Maria, 
die heil. Jungfrau, by Reithmavr (R. C.), in Wetzer nnd 
Welte, Kirch.-Lex. vi, 835 sq.; also the Eirenicon contro- 
versy between Pusey and Newman (I8GG). (J. II. W.) 

Marion, Erie, a prophet of the Cevennes, was bom 
in 1G78 at Barre. Being destined for the bar by his 
family, be studied for that profession till October, 1701, 
when he became possessed with the religions fanaticism 
of the Camisards, and returned to his native country in 
order to take part in the movement already began 
there. He shortly after announced himself a prophet, 
lie joined a troop of Camisards and became their leader, 
but soon capitulated to marshal Villars (Nov. 1704), and 
was expelled from the kingdom. After a brief stay in 
Geneva and Lausanne, he yielded to the solicitations of 
Flottard, and returned to France with more Camisards. 
Not succeeding in the enterprise which he meditated, 
he obtained a new capitulation, and returned to Geneva 
in August, 1705. The following year he went to Eng- 
land. A great number of refugees hastened part way to 
meet him. The sensation which they produced was 
profound, and their feigned inspiration was the cause of 
a lively controversy. See French Prophets. Marion 
having publicly denounced both episcopacy and royal- 
ty, the government obliged him to leave England. He 
then went to Germany, where he found a few adherents. 
Ilis works are Arertissements prophetiques d'Elie Mari- 
on, on discours prononces par sa bouche, sous V inspira- 
tion tin Saint- Esprit et fdelement regus dans le temps 
qu'il parlait (Lond. 1707, 8vo) :—Cri d'A larme, on aver- 
tissement aux nations qui soi'tent de Babyhme (London, 
1712, 8vo) : — Quand vous aurez saccage, vous serez sac- 
cages (Lond. 1714, 8vo) Plan de la justice de Dieu sur 
la terre dans ces demurs jours (Lond. 1714, Svo). Let- 
ters signed by Allot, Marion, Fatio and Pourtales, trans- 
lated into Latin, were published by Fatio (1714, Svo). 
See Iloefer, A our. Biog. Gener. vol. xxxiii, 791. 

Maris, a name of frequent occurrence among the 
Orientals, and especially in Syria and Persia. 1. The 
later Nestorians circulated a legend concerning a person 
of this name, whom they claimed to have been one of 
the seventy-two disciples of Christ, a disciple of Thad- 
d.Tus, colaborer with Thomas, and founder and first bish- 
op of the Church at Seleucia-Ctesiphon. This legend is 


MARISA 


755 


MARK 


connected with that of Abgarus (q. v.), and deserves no 
credit. The Chaldfcan Christians class him with their 
principal saints as the Apostle of Mesopotamia, and as- 
cribe to him the composition of their liturgy in part. 2. 
A second Maris, better known in the West, is noted sole- 
ly because to him is addressed the letter of Ibas, presi- 
dent of the theological school at Edessa, which is pre- 
served in Mansi (t. ix, col. 298-300), among the acts of 
the fifth oecumenical council held at Constantinople in 
553, and which the Nestorians afterwards regarded as a 
kind of confession of faith. 3. Another Maris was sur- 
named Bar-Tobi. He became patriarch of the Persian 
Nestorians in 987, and is remarkable as the first patri- 
arch who derived his authority from the caliphs. 4. A 
fourth of this name, distinguished by the name of Solo- 
mon's son , lived in the 12th century, and wrote a history 
in Arabic of the Nestorian patriarchs, of which Asse- 
mani ( Bibliotheca Orient, iii, 554 sq., 581 sq.) furnishes 
an epitome. 5. Finally, Theodoret (q. v.) narrates an 
anecdote of still another Maris, which is noteworthy 
chiefly because of the light which it throws on the views 
of that- bishop, and of the use which Romanists have 
made of it. Maris was a hermit, who had long desired 
to see “ the most sacred, mysterious sacrifice” offered, 
and Theodoret joy^fully complied with his wish. The 
sacred vessels were taken to his retreat, the hands of 
the deacons served as an altar, “and thus,” says the 
bishop, “ 1 offered the mysterious, divine, and saving 
sacrifice” in his presence. Romish writers find in these 
words of the distinguished father and historian of the 
5th century an argument in favor of the Mass. See 
Theodoret, Reliyiosa historia , c. 2; Wetzer und Welte, 
Kirchen-Lex. xii, 7G9. See also Nestorius. (G.M.) 

Mar'isa (Mapiera), the Graecized form (2 Macc. xii, 
35) of Maueshah (q. v.). 

Marius Aventicus, a Swiss prelate, was born of 
a noble French family of Autun, near the middle of the 
6th century. From childhood he was destined for the 
Church, and his literary remains furnish evidence that 
he received a careful training. He was made bishop of 
Aventicum, now Avenches, in the canton Waadt, in 573, 
or, as some state, in 580. The times were tumultuous, 
the population depleted, the country impoverished. In 
these circumstances he distinguished himself by a praise- 
worthy frugality, and a devotion to agricultural pur- 
suits that furnished the means for a lavish liberality. 
He was bounteous to the poor, and generous to the 
Church. In honor of Mary Srordfcoc;, he rebuilt the 
town of Payerne (Paterniacum) on his own lands, and 
dedicated its church to her; he also donated to this 
church many of his adjoining lands, on condition, how- 
ever, that the chapter of Lausanne should derive its 
tithes from Payerne and two neighboring towns. In 
the specific work of the episcopal office he was tireless — 
a model ecclesiastic for the times. Serving his God 
with reverence and in humility, he was ail impartial 
judge, a protector of the oppressed, and a devoted shep- 
herd to his fiock. Towards the close of his life he 
translated his see to Lausanne, which from that time 
gave its name to the diocese. The only additional fact 
connected with his life that has come to our knowledge 
is that he was present at the Synod of Macon in 585, 
which was convened by Guntram, a son of Chlotar, to 
attempt the purification of the Church in his dominions 
by executing justice on unworthy members of the cler- 
gy. Marius is supposed to have died in 593, and was 
commemorated at first on the 31st of December, but 
now on the 4th of February. His Annals , a continua- 
tion of the work of Prosper Aquit., are the only writings 
of his that have reached our time which may justly be 
ascribed to him. They were published at Paris, in the 
collections of Du Chesne and Dom Bouquet; at Venice, 
in the Bibliotheca refer. patnnn ; and, the best manual, 
by Ilicklv, in the Me moires et documens publics par la 
societe d'histoire de la Suisse Romande , tom. xiii. See 
Zurlauben, Memoire sur Marius, in the Mem. de VA cad. 


roy. des inscript. (Paris, 1770) ; Herzog, Real-EncyJclop, 
ix, 108 sq. ; Wetzer und Welte, Kirchen-Lexikon, vi, 891. 
(G.M.) 

Marius Mercator, a layman in the Church of 
the 4th century, nourished at Constantinople after 421. 
Dr. Murdock, the editor of Mosheim, says that Marius 
Mercator “ was undoubtedly a layman, a friend and ad- 
mirer of Augustine, and an active defender of his doc- 
trines from A.D. 418 to the year 451.” Dr. Schaff ( Ch . 
Hist. vol. iii), however, speaks of Marius Mercator first 
as a layman (p. 71G), and later (p.784) mentions him as 
a learned Latin monk in Constantinople (A.D. 428—151). 
Marius Mercator was, so supposes his biographer Baluze 
(Priefat. in Mercat. p. 7), an African by birth, who went 
to Rome about 417, when Julius and the other Pelagian 
chiefs were disputing in the Eternal City, and then and 
there produced a work against the Pelagian heresy, 
which is probably the Hypognosticon , printed in the 
Appendix of vol. x of the works of St. Augustine (comp. 
Ceillier, Hist, des A ut. Sac . viii, 498 sq.). Ceillier gives 
us 421 (p. 501) as the date of Marius Mercator’s arrival 
at Constantinople, and as the date of Ins decease 449 
(p. 507) ; and says, “ On ne voit pas qu’il ait ete em- 
ploye dans le ministere ecclesiastique, et il ne prend 
d'autre qualite dans ses ecrits que celle de serviteur de 
Je'sus-Christ.” Marius Mercator’s works as collected 
are almost wholly translations from the Greek fathers, 
particularly Nestorius, Theodosius of Mopsuestia, Cyril 
of Alexandria, Proclus, Theodoret, etc., accompanied with 
prefaces and notes or strictures by the translator. Him- 
self one of the most bitter opponents of Pelagianism (q. 
v.), his writings are all designed to confute either the 
Pelagian or Nestorian errors. They were edited, with 
notes, by Joh. Gamier (Paris, 1G73, folio), and still bet- 
ter by iStephen Baluze (Opera, Stephanus Baluzius ad 
tidem veterum codicum MSS. emendavit, et nods illus- 
travit, Paris, 1G84, 8vo). (J. II. W.) 

Mark (M dp/cor, from the frequent Latin surname 
Marcus, as the word is Anglicized only in Col. iv, 10 ; 
Philem. 24; 1 Pet. v. 13), the evangelist, is probably 
the same as “John whose surname was Mark” (Acts xii. 
12, 25). Grotius indeed maintains the contrary, on the 
ground that the earliest historical writers nowhere call 
the evangelist by the name of John, and that they al- 
ways describe him as the companion of Peter and not 
of Paul. But John was the Jewish name, and Mark, a 
name of frequent use among the Romans, was. adopted 
afterwards, and gradually superseded the other. The 
places in the N. T. enable us to trace the process. The 
John Mark of Acts xii, 12, 25, and the John of Acts xiii, 
5, 13, becomes Mark only in Acts xv, 39 ; Col. iv, 10 ; 2 
Tim. iv, 11 ; Philem. 24. The change of John to Mark 
is analogous to that of Saul to Paul ; and we cannot 
doubt that the disuse of the Jewish name in favor of 
the other is intentional, and has reference to the putting 
away of his former life, and entrance upon a new minis- 
try. No inconsistency arises from the accounts of his 
ministering to two apostles. The desertion of Paul 
(Acts xiii, 13) may have been prompted partly by a 
wish to rejoin Peter and the apostles engaged in preach- 
ing in Palestine (Benson ; see Kuinol’s note), and partly 
from a disinclination to a perilous and doubtful journey. 
There is nothing strange in the character of a warm 
impulsive young man, drawn almost equally towards 
the two great teachers of the faith, Paul and Peter. 
Had mere cowardice been the cause of his withdrawal, 
Barnabas would not so soon after have chosen him for 
another journey, nor would he have accepted the choice. 

John Mark was the son of a certain Mary, who dwelt 
at Jerusalem, and was therefore probably born in that 
city (Acts xii, 12). lie was of Jewish parentage (Col. 
iv, 10). He was the cousin (avexf/iog:) of Barnabas (Col. 
iv, 10). It was to Mary’s house, as to a familiar haunt, 
that Peter came after his deliverance from prison (Acts 
xii. 12), and there found “ many gathered together pray- 
ing;” and probably John Mark was converted by Peter 


MARK 


756 


MARK, GOSPEL OF 


from meeting him in his mother’s house, for he speaks 
of “ Marcus my son” (1 Pet. v, 13). This term has been 
taken as implying the natural relation by Bengel, Nean- 
der, Credner, Hottinger, Tholuck, Stanley (*S 'erm. on the 
A post. Age, p. 95), but this is contrary to the view of the 
earlier writers (Origen, ap. Eusebius, 11. E., vi, 25 ; Eu- 
sebius, 11. E. ii, 15 ; Jerome, De Yir. 111. c. 8). The the- 
ory that he was one of the seventy disciples is without 
any warrant. Another theory, that an event of the 
night of our Lord’s betrayal (A.D. 29), related by Mark 
alone, is one that befell himself (Olshausen, Lange), must 
not be so promptly dismissed. “There followed him a 
certain young man, having a linen cloth cast about his 
naked body; and the young men laid hold on him: and 
he left the linen cloth, and tied from them naked” (Mark 
xiv, 51, 52). The detail of facts is remarkably minute ; 
the name only is wanting. The most probable view is 
that Mark suppressed his own name, while telling a 
story which he had the best means of knowing. Awa- 
kened out of sleep, or just preparing for it, in some 
house in the valley of Kedron, he comes out to see the 
seizure of the betrayed Teacher, known to him and in 
some degree beloved already. He is so deeply interest- 
ed in his fate that he follows him even in his thin linen 
robe. Ilis demeanor is such that some of the crowd are 
about to arrest him ; then, “ fear overcoming shame” 
( Bengel), he leaves his garment in their hands and flees. 
We can only say that if the name of Mark is supplied, 
the narrative receives its most probable explanation. 
John (i, 40; xix, 2G) introduces himself in this unob- 
trusive way, and perhaps Luke the same (xxiv, 18). 
Mary the mother of Mark seems to have been a person 
of some means and influence, and her house a rally ing- 
point for Christians in those dangerous days (Acts xii, 
12). A.D. 44. Her son, already an inquirer, would soon 
become more. Anxious to work for Christ, he went 
with Paul and Barnabas as their “minister” (virtiptTtiQ) 
on their first journey ; but at Perga, as we have seen 
above, turned back (Acts xii, 25 ; xiii, 13). On the sec- 
ond journey Paid would not accept him again as a com- 
panion, but Barnabas his kinsman was more indulgent ; 
and thus he became the cause of the memorable “sharp 
contention” between them (Acts xv, 36-40). Whatever 
was the cause of Mark’s vacillation, it did not separate 
him forever from Paul, for we find him by the side of 
that apostle in his first imprisonment at Rome (Col. iv, 
10 ; Philem. 24). A.I). 56. In the former place a pos- 

sible journey of Mark to Asia is spoken of. Somewhat 
later he is with Peter at Babylon (1 Pet. v, 13). Some 
consider Babylon to be a name here given to Rome in a 
mystical sense — surely without reason, since the date of 
a letter is not the place to look for a figure of speech. 
Of the causes of this visit to Babylon there is no evi- 
dence. It may be conjectured that he made the jour- 
ney to Asia Minor (Col. iv, 10), and thence went on to 
join Peter at Babylon. On his return to Asia he seems 
to have been with Timothy at Ephesus when Paul 
wrote to him during his second imprisonment, and Paul 
was anxious for his return to Rome (2 Tim. iv, 11). 
A.D. 61. 

When we desert Scripture we find the facts doubtful, 
and even inconsistent. If Papins be trusted (quoted in 
Eusebius, II. E. iii, 39), Mark never was a disciple of 
our Lord, which he probably infers from 1 Pet. v, 13. 
Epiphanius, on the other hand, willing to do honor to 
the evangelist, adopts the tradition that he was one of 
the seventy-two disciples who turned back from our 
Lord at the hard saying in John vi ( Cont . Uep.r. li, 6, p. 
457, Dindorfs recent edition). The same had been 
said of Luke. Nothing can be decided on this point. 
The relation of Mark to Peter is of great importance for 
our view of his Gospel. Ancient writers with one con- 
sent make the evangelist, the interpreter (tppjpavn)^) 
of the apostle Peter (Papias in Eusebius, II. E. iii, 39; 
lrenams, liar, iii, 1; iii, 10, C; Tertullian, c. Marc, iv, 
5; Jerome, ad lledib. vol. ix, etc.). Some explain this 
word to mean that the office of Mark was to translate 


into the Greek tongue the Aramaic discourses of the 
apostle (Eichhorn, Bertholdt, etc.); while others adopt 
the more probable view that Mark wrote a Gospel which 
conformed more exactly than the others to Peter’s 
preaching, and thus “interpreted” it to the Church at 
large (Yalesius, Alford, Lange, Eritzsche, Meyer, etc.). 
The passage from Eusebius favors the latter view; it is 
a quotation from Papias. “This also [John] the elder 
said: Mark, being the interpreter of Peter, wrote down 
exactly whatever things he remembered, but yet not in 
the order in which Christ either spoke or did them ; for 
he was neither a hearer nor a follower of the Lords, but 
he was afterwards, as I [Papias] said, a follower of Pe- 
ter!' The words in italics refer to the word interpreter 
above, and the passage describes a disciple writing down 
what liis master preached, and not an interpreter orally 
translating his words. See Mark, GosrEL of. The 
report that Mark was the companion of Peter at Pome 
is no doubt of great antiquity. Clement of Alexandria 
is quoted by Eusebius as giving it for “ a tradition which 
he had received of the elders from the first” {Trapaeoaiv 
rd tv aviica&ev 7rpto(3vTep(ov, Eusebius, If. E. vi, 14; 
Clem. Alex. Ilyp. p. 6). But the force of this is invali- 
dated by the suspicion that it rests on a misunderstand- 
ing of 1 Pet. v, 13, Babylon being wrongly taken for a 
typical name of Rome (Eusebius. II. E. ii, 15; Jerome, 
DeYir. ill . c. 8). Sent on a mission to Egypt by Peter 
(Epiphanius, liar, li, 6, p. 457, Dindorf ; Eusebius, If. E. 
ii, 16), Mark there founded the Church of Alexandria 
(Jerome, De Vir. ill. c. 8), and preached in various places 
(Nicephorus, If. E. ii, 43), then returned to Alexandria, 
of which Church he was bishop, and suffered a martyr's 
death (Nicephorus, ibid, and Jerome, De Yir. ill. c. 8) in 
the eighth year of Nero. According to the legend, his 
remains were obtained from Alexandria by the Vene- 
tians through a pious stratagem, and conveyed to their 
city, A.D. 827. Venice was thenceforward solemnly 
placed under his protection, and the lion, wliieh medi- 
| aival theology had selected from the apocalyptic beasts 
as his emblem, became the standard of the republic. 
The place of the deposition of his body having been 
lost, a miracle was subsequently wrought for its discov- 
ery, A.D. 1094, which figures in many famous works of 
art. Where his remains now lie is, according to the 
Roman Catholic Eustacius, “acknowledged to be an un- 
divulged secret ; or, perhaps, in less cautious language, 
to be utterly unknown.” — Smith; Kitto. 

MARK, Gospel of, the second of the evangelical 
narratives in the N. T. In treating it we shall largely 
avail ourselves of the articles in the Dictionaries of 
Kitto and Smith. 

1. Authorship). — The voice of the Church with one 
consent assigns our second Gospel to Mark, the “son” 
(1 Pet. v, 17) and “interpreter” (Papias, ap. Eusebius, 
11. E. iii, 39) of Peter. The existence of this ascrip- 
tion is the best evidence of its truth. Had not Mark 
been its author, no sufficient reason can be given for its 
having borne the name of one so undistinguished in the 
history of the Church. His identity with the “John 
Mark” of the Acts and Epistles has usually been taken 
for granted, nor (see last article) is there any sufficient 
ground for calling it in question. It must, however, be 
acknowledged that there is no early testimony for the 
fact — as there is none against it — winch appears first in 
the preface to the Commentary on the evangelist usually 
attributed to Victor of Antioch, cir. A.D. 407 (Cramer, 
Catena, i, 263), and in a note of Ammonias {ibid, ii, iv), 
where it is mentioned with some expression of doubt 
ra\a ovtuq tcTTiv M dpicog b tvayyeXion’iQ . . . m^avog 

6 A6yo£ (Westcott, Jut rod . p. 212). An argument in 
favor of their identity has been drawn with much acute- 
ness by Tregelles (. lonrn . of Philol. 1855, p. 224 ; Horne’s 
fntrod. to X. T. p. 433) from the singular epithet “stump- 
fingered,” KoXofioddKTi'XoQ, applied to the evangelist in 
the Philosophumcna, vii, 30, as illustrated by the words 
of the Latin preface found in some MSS. “at least nearly 
coeval with Jerome,” “ amputasse sibi post fidem polli- 


MARK, GOSPEL OF 757 MARK, GOSPEL OF 


cem dieitur ut sacerdotio reprobus haberetur as if, by 
his desertion of the apostles (Acts xiii, 13), he had be- 
come figuratively a “pollice truncus” — a poltroon. 

II. Source of this Gospel . — The tradition of the early 
Church asserts that Mark wTote his Gospel under the' 
special influence and direction of the apostle Peter. The 
words of John the presbyter, as quoted by Papias (Eu- 
sebius, II. E. iii, 39), are explicit on this point : “ This, 
then, was the statement of the elder; Mark, having be- 
come Peter’s interpreter (ipfn}vevTfjc') i wrote accurately 
all that he remembered (ifivijfj.6vev(je ) ; but he did not 
record the words and deeds of Christ in order (ov pkv 
rot rd£« 7« V7TQ too Xpiarov // A sx^tvra ij 7rpay3’fcv- 
ra), for he was neither a hearer nor a follower of our 
Lord, but afterwards, as I said, became a follower of Pe-' 
ter, who used to adapt his instruction to meet the re- 
quirements of his hearers, but not as making a connected 
arrangement of our Lord’s discourses (dAA' ovx tjcnrep 
Gvvra^tv Tutv KvpiaKdiv TroiovptvoQ A oyiov)', so Mark 
committed no error in writing down particulars as he 
remembered them (evict ypdipaQ ujq dirt /ivppov ever tv), 
for he made one thing his object — to omit nothing of 
what lie heard, and to make no erroneous statement in 
them.” The value of this statement, from its almost 
apostolic date, is great, though too much stress has been 
laid upon some of its expressions by Scbleiermacher 
and others, to discredit the genuineness of the existing 
Gospel of Mark. In addition to Peter’s teaching hav- 
ing been the basis of the Gospel, we learn from it three 
facts of the greatest importance for the right compre- 
hension of the origin of the Gospels : “ The historic char- 
acter of the oral Gospel, the special purpose with which 
it was framed, and the fragmentariness of its contents” 
(Westcott, Ini rod. p. 18G), The testimony of later writ- 
ers is equally definite, though probably to a certain ex- 
tent derived from that of Papias. Justin quotes from 
the present Gospel under the title rd (nropvijpovtvpaTa 
Hirpov. Irenteus (II. E. iii, 1) asserts that Mark “de- 
livered in writing the things preached by Peter;” and 
Origen (ibid, vi, 25) that he “ composed it as Peter di- 
rected him” (w£ TLirpOQ viprjyriaaro avny tt ou)<JctVTa). 
Clement of Alexandria enters more into detail, and, ac- 
cording to Eusebius’s report of his words (II. E. vi, 14 ; 
ii, 15), contradicts himself. He ascribes the origin of 
the Gospel to the importunity of Peter’s hearers in Rome, 
who were anxious to retain a lasting record of his preach- 
ing from the pen of his ippqvtvrijQ, which, when com- 
pleted, the apostle viewed with approbation, sanctioning 
it with his authority, and commanding that it should 
he read in the churches; while elsewhere we have the 
inconsistent statement that when Peter knew what had 
been done “ he neither forbade nor encouraged it.” Ter- 
tullian’s testimony is to the same effect : “Marcus quod 
edidit evangelium Petri aflirmatur” {A civ. Marc.x i, 5); 
as is that of Eusebius (II. E. iii, 5) and Jerome ( De Vir. 
ill. c. 8; ad Hedib. c. 2), who in the last passage writes, 
“Cujus (Marci) evangelium Petro narrante et illo scri- 
bente compositum est.” Epiphanius says that, imme- 
diately after Matthew, the task of writing a Gospel 
was laid on Mark, “ the follower of Peter at Rome” 
(liter, li). 

Such, so early and so uniform, is the tradition which 
connects, in the closest manner, Mark’s Gospel with the 
apostle Peter. To estimate its value we must inquire 
how far it is consistent with facts; and here it must be 
candidly acknowledged that the Gospel itself supplies 
very little to an unbiassed reader to confirm the tradi- 
tion, The narrative keeps more completely to the com- 
mon cycle of the Synoptic record, and even to its lan- 
guage, than is consistent with the individual recollec- 
tions of one of the chief actors in the history; while the 
differences of detail, though most real and important, 
are of too minute and refined a character to allow us to 
entertain the belief that Peter was in any way directly 
engaged in its composition. Any record derived im- 
mediately from Peter could hardly fail to have given us 
far more original matter than the slender additions made 


by Mark to the common stock of the Synoptical Gospels. 
It is certainly true that there are a few unimportant 
passages where Peter is specially mentioned by Mark, 
and is omitted by one or both of the others (i, 36 ; v, 37 ; 
xi, 20 ; xiii, 3 ; xvi, 7) ; but, on the other hand, there 
are still more numerous and more prominent instances 
which would almost show that Mark was less intimately 
acquainted with Peters life than they. He omits his 
name when given by Matthew (xv, 15 ; comp. Mark vii, 
17); passes over his walking on the sea (Matt, xiv, 28- 
31 ; comp. Mark vi, 50-51), and the miracle of the trib- 
ute-money (Matt, xvii, 24-27 ; comp. Mark ix, 33), as 
well as the blessing pronounced on him by our Lord, 
and his designation as the rock on which the Church 
should be built (Matt, xvi, 17-19; comp. Mark viii, 29, 
30). Although Peter was one of the two disciples sent 
to make ready the Passover (Luke xxii, 8), his name is 
not given by Mark (xiv, 13). We do not find in Mark 
the remarkable words, “I have prayed for thee,” etc. 
(Luke xxii, 31, 32). The notice of his repentance also, 
tTTifiaXwv ticXait (xiv, 72), is tame when contrasted 
with the fc£fA3wn t%io hcXavatv 7 rucpCjg of Matthew and 
Luke. Advocates are never at a loss for plausible rea- 
sons to support their preconceived views, and it has 
been the habit from very early times (Eusebius, Chry- 
sostom) to attribute these omissions to the modesty of 
Peter, who was unwilling to record that which might 
specially tend to his own honor — an explanation unsat- 
isfactory in itself, and which cannot be applied with any 
consistency. Indeed, we can hardly have a more strik- 
ing proof of the readiness with which men see what 
they wish to see, and make the most stubborn facts 
bend to their own foregone conclusions, than that a 
Gospel, in which no unbiassed reader would have dis- 
covered any special connection with Peter, should have 
yielded so many fancied proofs of Petrine origin. 

Rut while we are unable to admit any considerable 
direct influence of Peter in the composition of the Gos- 
pel, it is by no means improbable that his oral commu- 
nications may have indirectly influenced it, and that it 
is to him the minuteness of its details and the graphic 
coloring which specially distinguish it are due. While 
there is hardly any part of its narrative that is not com- 
mon to it and some other Gospel, in the manner of the 
narrative there is often a marked character, which puts 
aside at once the supposition that we have here a mere 
epitome of Matthew and Luke. The picture of the 
same events is far more vivid; touches are introduced 
such as could only be noted by a vigilant eye-witness, 
and such as make us almost eye-witnesses of the Re- 
deemer’s doings. The most remarkable case of this is 
the account of the dremoniac in the country of the Gad- 
arenes, where the following words are peculiar to Mark : 
“And no man could bind him, no, not with chains; be- 
cause that he had often been bound with fetters and 
chains, and the chains had been plucked asunder by 
him, and the fetters broken in pieces; neither could any 
man tame him. And always night and day he was in 
the mountains crying and cutting himself with stones. 
Rut when he saw Jesus afar off, he ran,” etc. Here we 
are indebted for the picture of the fierce and hopeless 
wanderer to the evangelist whose work is the briefest, 
and whose style is the least perfect. He sometimes 
adds to the account of the others a notice of our Lord’s 
look (iii, 34; viii, 33; x,21; x,23); he dwells on human 
feelings and the tokens of them ; on our Lord’s pity for 
the leper, and his strict charge not to publish the mira- 
cle (i, 41, 44) ; he “loved” the rich young man for his 
answers (x, 21); he “looked round” with anger when 
another occasion called it out (iii, 5); he groaned in 
spirit (vii, 34; viii, 12). All these are peculiar to Mark, 
and they would be explained most readily by the the- 
ory that one of the disciples most near to Jesus had sup- 
plied them. To this must be added that while Mark 
goes over the same ground for the most part as the oth- 
er evangelists, and especially Matthew', there are many 
facts thrown in which prove that w r e are listening to an 


MARK, GOSPEL OF 1i 

independent, witness. Thus the humble origin of Peter 
is made known through him (i, 1G-20), anil his connec- 
tion with Capernaum (i, 20) ; he tells us that Levi was 
‘•the son of Alplueus” (ii, 14), that Peter was the name 
given by our Lord to Simon (iii, 1G), and Boanerges a 
surname added by him to the names of two others (iii, 
17); he assumes the existence of another body of disci- 
ples wider than the twelve (iii, 82; iv, 10, 3G; viii, 34; 
xiv, 51, 52) ; we owe to him the name of Jairus (v, 22), 
the word ‘‘carpenter” applied to our Lord (vi, 3), the 
nation of the “ Syro-Phocnieian” woman (vii,2G) ; he sub- 
stitutes Dalmanutha for the “Magdala” of Matthew (viii, 
10) ; he names Bartimseus (x, 46) ; he alone mentions 
that our Lord would not suffer any man to carry any 
vessel through the Temple (xi, 16); and that Simon of 
Cvrene was the father of Alexander and Rufus (xv, 21). 
Thus in this Gospel the richness in subtle and pictu- 
resque touches, by which the writer sets, as it were, the 
scene he is describing before us in all its outward feat- 
ures, with the very look and demeanor of the actors, be- 
token the report of an eye-witness; and with the testi- 
mony of the early Church before us, which can hardly 
be set aside, we are warranted in the conclusion that 
this eye-witness was Peter. Not that the narrative, as 
we have it, was his; but that when Mark, under the 
Iloly Spirit’s guidance, after separation from his master, 
undertook the task of setting forth that cycle of Gospel 
teaching to which — from grounds never yet, nor perhaps 
ever to be satisfactorily explained — the Synoptists chief- 
ly coniine themselves, he was enabled to introduce into 
it many pictorial details which he had derived from his 
master, and which had been impressed on his memory 
by frequent repetition. 

III. Relation to Matthew and Luke . — The question of 
priority of composition among the Synoptic Gospels has 
long been the subjeet of vehement controversy, and to 
judge by the diversity of tlie views entertained, and the 
confidence each appears to feel of the correctness of his 
own, it would seem to be as far as ever from being set- 
tled. (For monographs under this head, sec Volbeding, 
Index, p. 3; Danz, Worterbuch, s. v. Marcus.) 

The position of Mark in relation to the other two has, 
in particular, given rise to the widest differences of 
opinion. The independence of his record was main- 
tained up to the time of Augustine, but since his day 
three theories have been entertained, (a.) That father 
conceived the view, which, however, he does not em- 
ploy with much consistency, that Mark was merely “tan- 
quam pedissequus et breviator” of Matthew" (Re Covsens. 
Ei\ i, 4); and from his day it has been held by many 
that Mark deliberately set himself to make an abridg- 
ment of one or both the other Synoptists. Griesbaeh 
expressed this opinion most decidedly in his Commen- 
tatio r/uo Marci Erangelium totinn a M at thee i et Luca 1 
comment ariis decerptwn esse monstratur (Jena, 1789-00; 
also in Yelthuysen, Comment, i, 860 sq.) ; and it has been 
stated in a more or less modified form by Rani us, 
Sehleiormacher, Thiele, De Wette, Delitzseh, Fritzsche, 
and Block, the last two named adding John’s Gospel to 
the materials before him. Nor can it be denied that at 
first sight this view is not devoid of plausibility, espe- 
cially as regards Matthew*. We find the same events 
recorded, and apparently in the same way, and very of- 
ten in the same words. Mark’s is the shorter work, and 
t hat principally, as it would seem, by the omission of 
the discourses and parables, which are a leading feature 
in the others. There are in Mark only about three 
events which Matthew does not narrate (31 ark i, 23; 
viii, 22 ; xii, 41), and thus the matter of the two may be 
regarded as almost the same. But the form in 31 ark is. 
as we have seen, much briefer, and the omissions are 
many and important. The explanation is that 31ark 
had the work of 3Iattbew before him, and only con- 
densed it. But many would make' 3Iark a compiler 
from both the others (Griesbaeh, De Wette, etc.), argu- 
ing from passages where there is a curious resemblance 
to both (see De Wette, Uandbuch, § 04 a). Yet, though 


s MARK, GOSPEL OF 

this opinion of the dependence, more or less complete, 
of 31 ark upon the other Gospels, was for a long time re- 
garded almost as an established fact, no very searching 
investigation is needed to show its baselessness. In- 
stead of 31ark’s narrative being an abridgment of that 
of 3Iatthew or of Luke, it is often much fuller. Partic- 
ulars are introduced which an abridger aiming at con- 
densation would have been certain to prune away if he 
had found them in his authority; while the freshness 
and graphic power of the history, the life-like touches 
which almost put us on the stage with the actors, and 
his superior accuracy as regards persons, words, times, 
and places, prove the originality and independence of 
his work. ( b .) Of late, therefore, opinion has been tend- 
ing as violently in the opposite direction, and the pre- 
vailing view among modern critics is that in 3Iark we 
have the primitive Gospel, “ Urevangelium” from which 
both those of 3Iatthew anil Luke were derived. This is 
held by Weisse, 3Yilke, Ewald, Lachmann,Hitzig, Renss, 
Ritsehel, Thiersch, 3Ieyer, etc., and has lately been main- 
tained with considerable ingenuity in 3Ir.Kenrick’s7?2&- 
lieal Essays, (c.) Hilgenfeld again adopts an interme- 
diate view', and considers 3Iark to have held a middle 
position both as regards form and internal character; 
himself deriving Ins Gospel from Matthew, and in his 
turn supplying materials for that of Luke ; while doe- 
trinallv lie is considered to hold the mean between the 
Judaic Gospel of the first, and the universal Gospel of 
tlie third evangelist. 

31 any formidable difficulties beset each of these theo- 
ries, and their credit severally is impaired by the fact 
that the very same data which are urged by one writer 
as proofs of the priority of 3Iark, are used by another as 
irrefragable evidence of its later date. We even find 
critics, like Baur, bold enough to attribute the vivid de- 
tails, which are justly viewed as evidences of the inde- 
pendence and originality of his record, to the fancy of 
the evangelist ; thus importing the art of the modern 
novelist into times and works to the spirit of which it is 
entirely alien. 

So much, however, we may safely grant, while main- 
taining the substantial independence of each of the Sy- 
noptical Gospels — that 3Iark exhibits the oral tradition 
of the official life of our Lord in its earliest extant from, 
and furnishes the most direct representation of the com- 
mon basis on which they all rest. “ In essence, if not in 
composition.” says 3Ir. Weseott. Introd. p. 190 (the two 
not being necessarily identical, the earlier tradition be- 
ing perhaps possibly the latest committed to writing), 
“it is the oldest.” The intermediate theory has also so 
much of truth in it, that 3rark docs actually occupy the 
central position in regard to diction; frequently, as it 
were, combining the language of the other two (i, 32; 
comp. 31att. viii, 16; Luke iv,40: i, 42 ; eomp.3Iatt.viii, 
3 : Luke v, 13 : ii, 13-18 ; comp. 31att. ix, 9-14; Luke v, 
27-33: iv, 30-32; comp. Matt, xiii, 31-33; Luke xiii, 18- 
21), as indeed would naturally be the case if we consid- 
er that his Gospel most closely represents the original 
from which all w'ere developed. In conclusion we may 
say, that a careful comparison of the three Gospels can 
hardly fail to convince tlie unprejudiced reader that, 
while 3Iark adds hardly anything to the general narra- 
tive, we have in his Gospel, in the words of 3Icycr (Com- 
went.), “a fresher stream from the apostolic fountain,” 
without which we should have wanted many important 
elements for a true conception of onr blessed Lord’s na- 
ture and work. 

If now we proceed to a detailed comparison of the 
matter contained in the Gospels, we shall find that, while 
the history of the conception, and birth, and childhood 
of our Lord and his forerunner have no parallel in 3Iark, 
afterwards the main course of the narrative (Luke ix, 
51-xviii, 14, being of course excepted) is on the whole 
coincident ; and that the difference is mainly due to the 
absence of the parables and discourses, which were for- 
eign to his purpose of setting forth the active ministry 
of Christ. Of our Lord’s parables he only gives us four: 


MARK. GOSPEL OF 759 MARK, GOSPEL OF 


“ the sower,” “ the mustard seed,” and “ the wicked hus- 
bandmen” — common also to Matthew and Luke : and 
one, “ the seed growing secretly,” iv, 26-20 (unless, in- 
deed, it be an abbreviated and independent form of the 
“tares”), peculiar to himself. Of the discourses, lie en- 
tirely omits the sermon on the mount, the denunciations 
against the Scribes aud Pharisees, and almost entirely 
the instructions to the twelve ; while of the other short- 
er discourses he only gives that on fasting (ii, 19-22), 
the Sabbath (ii, 25-28), the casting out devils by Beel- 
zebub (iii, 23-29), on eating with umvashen hands, and 
corban (vii, 6-23), and divorce (x, 5-9). That on “ the 
last things” (chap, xiii) is the only one reported at any 
length. On the other hand, his object being to develop 
our Lord’s Messianic character in deeds rather than 
words, he records the greater part of the miracles given 
by the Synoptists. Of the twenty-seven narrated by 
them, eighteen are found in Mark, twelve being common 
to all three; three — the Syro-Phoenician’s daughter, the 
feeding of the four thousand, and the cursing of the fig- 
tree — common to him and Matthew; one — the damio- 
niac in the synagogue — to him and Luke ; and two — the 
deaf stammerer (vii, 31-37), and the blind man at Beth- 
saida (viii, 22-26) (supplying remarkable points of cor- 
respondence, in the withdrawal of the object of the cure 
from the crowd, the use of external signs, and the grad- 
ual process of restoration) — peculiar to himself. Of the 
nine omitted by him, only three are found in Matthew, 
of which the centurion’s servant is given also by Luke. 
The others are found in Luke alone. If we suppose 
that Mark had the Gospels of Matthew and Luke before 
him, it is difficult to assign any tolerably satisfactory 
reason for his omission of these miracles, especially that 
of the centurion’s servant, so kindred to the object of his 
work. On the contrary hypothesis, that they copied 
from him, how can we account for their omitting the 
two remarkable miracles mentioned above? 

The arrangement of the narrative, especially of our 
Lord’s earlier Galiliean ministry, agrees- with Luke in 
opposition to that of Matthew, which appears rather to 
have been according to similarity of subject than order 
of time. 

According to Norton {Genuineness of Gospels ), there 
are not more than twenty-four verses in Mark to which 
parallels, more or less exact, do not exist in the other 
Synoptists. The same painstaking investigator informs 
us that, while the general coincidences between Mark 
and one of the other two amount to thirteen fourteenths 
of the whole Gospel, the verbal coincidences are one 
sixth, and of these four fifths in Mark occur in the re- 
cital of the words of our Lord and others; and only one 
fifth in the narrative portion, which, roughly speaking, 
forms one half of his Gospel. 

Additions peculiar to Mark are, “the Sabbath made 
for man” (ii, 27) ; our Lord’s friends seeking to lay hold 
on him (iii, 21) ; many particulars in the miracles of the 
Gadarene diemoniac (v, 1-20); Jairus’s daughter, and 
the woman with issue of blood (v, 22-43) ; the stilling 
of the tempest (iv, 35-41), and the lunatic child (ix, 
14-29); the salting with tire (ix, 49); that “the com- 
mon people heard him gladly” (xii, 37); the command 
to watch (xiii, 33-37); the young man with the linen 
cloth about his body (xiv, 51); the want of agreement 
between the testimony of the false witnesses (xiv, 59) ; 
Pilate’s investigation of the reality of Christ’s death 
(xv, 44), and the difficulty felt by the women as to the 
rolling away the stone (xvi, 3, 4). Mark has also pre- 
served several words and phrases, and entire sayings of 
our Lord, which merit close attention (i, 15; iv, 13; vi, 
31, 34; vii, 8; viii, 38; ix, 12, 39; x, 21, 24, 30; xi, 17 ; 
xiii, 32; xiv, 18-37 ; xvi, 7 [15-18]). 

The hypothesis which best meets all these facts is, 
that while the matter common to all three evangelists, 
or to two of them, is derived from the oral teaching of 
the apostles, which they had purposely reduced to a 
common form, our evangelist writes as an independent 
witness to the truth, and not as a compiler; and the 


tradition that the Gospel was written under the sanc- 
tion of Peter, and its matter in some degree derived 
from him, is made probable by the evident traces of an 
eye-witness in many of the narratives. The omission 
and abridgment of our Lord’s discourses, and the sparing 
use of O.-T. quotations, might be accounted for by the 
special destination of the Gospel, if we had surer data 
for ascertaining it ; since it was for Gentiles, with whom 
illustrations from the O. T. would have less weight, and 
the purpose of the writer was to present a clear and 
v ivid picture of the acts of onr Lord’s human life, rather 
than a full record of his divine doctrine. We may 
thankfully own that, with little that is in substance pe- 
culiar to himself, the evangelist does occupy for us a 
distinct position, and supply a definite want, in virtue 
of these traits. 

IV. Characteristics. — Though this Gospel has little 
historical matter which is not shared with some other, 
it would be a great error to suppose that the voice of 
Mark could have been silenced without injury to the 
divine harmony. The minute painting of the scenes in 
which the Lord took part, the fresh anti lively mode of 
the narration, the very absence of the precious discourses 
of Jesus, which, interposed between his deeds, would 
have delayed the action, all give to this Gospel a char- 
acter of its own. It is the history of the war of Jesus 
against sin and evil in the world during the time that 
he dwelt as a Man among men. Our Lord is presented 
to us, not as in Matthew, as the Messiah, the Son of 
David and Abraham, the theocratic King of the chosen 
people ; nor, as in Luke, as the universal Saviour of 
our fallen humanity; but as the incarnate and wonder- 
working Son of God, for whose emblem the early Church 
justly selected “the lion of the tribe of Judah.” His 
record is emphatically “the Gospel of Jesus Christ, the 
Son of God” (Mark i, 1), living and working among 
men, and developing his mission more in acts than by 
words. The limits of his narrative and its general char- 
acter can hardly be better stated than in the words of 
his apostolic teacher, Acts x, 36-42. Commencing with 
the Baptist preaching in the wilderness, and announcing 
the “Mightier One” who was at hand, he tells us how, 
at his baptism, “God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with 
the Holy Ghost and with power,” and declared him to 
be his “beloved Son :” gathering up the temptation into 
the pregnant fact, “He was with the wild beasts;” thus 
setting the Son of God before ns as the Lord of nature, 
in whom the original grant to man of dominion over the 
lower creation was fulfilled (Maurice, Unity of the N. T. 
p. 226 ; Bengel, ad loc. ; Wilberforce, Doctrine of Incar- 
nation , p. 89, 90). As we advance, we find him detail- 
ing every exercise of our Lord’s power over man and 
nature distinctly and minutely — not merely chronicling 
the incidents, as is Matthew’s way, but surrounding 
them with all the circumstances that made them im- 
pressive to the bystanders, and making us feel how deep 
that impression was; how great the awe and wonder 
with which his mighty works and preaching were re- 
garded, not only bv the crowd (i, 22, 27 ; ii, 12; vi, 2), 
but by the disciples themselves (iv, 41 ; vi, 51 ; x, 24, 
26, 32) ; how the crowds thronged and pressed upon 
him (iii, 10; v, 21, 31 ; vi, 33; viii, 1), so that there was 
scarce room to stand or sit (ii, 2; iii, 32; iv, 1), or leis- 
ure even to eat (iii, 20; vi, 31); how his fame spread 
the more he sought to conceal it (i, 45 ; iii, 7 ; v, 20 ; vii, 
36, 37) ; and how, in consequence, the people crowded 
about him, bringing their sick (i, 32-34; iii, 10); and 
“whithersoever he entered into villages, or cities, or 
country, they laid the sick in the streets, and besought 
that they might touch if it were but the border of his 
garment : and as many as touched were made perfectly 
whole” (vi, 56); how the unclean spirits, seeing him, at 
once fell down before him and acknowledged his power, 
crying, “Thou art the Son of God” (i, 23-26; iii, 11); 
how, again, in Peter’s words, “He went about doing 
good, and healing all that were oppressed of the devil, 
for God was with him.” 


MARK, GOSPEL OF TOO MARK, GOSPEL OF 


But while the element of divine power is that which 
specially arrests our attention in reading his Gospel, 
there is none in which the human personality is more 
conspicuous. The single word 6 tiktiov (vi, 3) throws 
a flood of light on our Lord’s early life as man in his 
native village. The limitation of his knowledge is ex- 
pressly stated (xiii, 32, ovci b Vine); and we continu- 
ally meet with mention of human emotions — anger (iii, 
5-, viii, 12. 33; x, 14), wonder (vi. 6), pity (vi, 34), love 
(x, 21), grief (vii, 34; viii, 12); and human infirmities 
— sleep (iv, 38), desire for repose (vi, 31), hunger (xi, 
12 ). 

In Mark we have no attempt to draw up a continuous 
narrative. His Gospel is a rapid succession of vivid 
pictures loosely strung together (usually by icai, /cat 
TTuXtv, or ei/Sfwg), without much attempt to bind them 
into a whole, or give the events in their natural se- 
quence. This pictorial power is that which specially 
characterizes this evangelist; so that, as has been well 
said, “ if any one desires to know an evangelical fact, 
not only in its main features and grand results, but also 
in its most minute and, so to speak, more graphic delin- 
eation, he must betake himself to Mark” (Da Costa, Four 
Witnesses , p. 88). This power is especially apparent in 
all that concerns our Lord himself. Nowhere else are 
we permitted so clearly to behold his very gesture and 
look ; see his very position ; to read his feelings and to 
hear his very words. It is Mark who reveals to us the 
comprehensive gaze of Christ (7rtpt(3Xt\papti'oe, iii, 5, 
34; v, 32; x, 23; xi, 11); his loving embrace of the 
children brought to him (ivay/caXtadpivoc, ix, 3G; x, 
16); his preceding his disciples, while they follow in 
awe and amazement (x, 32). We see him taking his 
seat to address his disciples (/cadtcrag, ix,34), and turn- 
ing round in holy anger to rebuke Peter {iTrtarpatpttg, 
viii, 33) ; we hear the sighs which burst from his bosom 
vii, 34; viii, 12), and listen to his very accents (“Tali- 
tha cumi,” v, 41; “Ephpliatha,” vii, 34; ‘“Abba,” xiv, 
36). At one time we have an event portrayed with a 
freshness and pictorial power which places the whole 
scene before us with its minute accessories — the para- 
lytic (ii, 1-12), the storm (iv, 36-41), the daemoniac (v, 
1-20), Herod’s feast (vi, 21-29), the feeding of the 5000 
(vi, 30-45), the lunatic child (ix, 14-29), the young 
ruler (x, 17, 22), Bartimaeus (x, 46-52), etc. At another, 
details are brought out by the addition of a single word 
(i cvipac , i, 7 ; <j\i^opevovg, i, 10; G7r\ayxvi<J$ug, i, 41; 
rolg f£w, iv, 11; TrpootoppiaSi]aav, vi, 53; ’iatoStv, 
f£u>3fr, vii, 21, 23; /cpdgag, oTrapd^ag, ix, 26; crv- 
yvdaag, x, 22; ovrrpt\paaa, xiv, 3; tp(3Xt\paoa, xiv, 
67), or bv the substitution of a more precise and graphic 
word for one less distinctive (ticftaWu, i, 12; l^ioraa^at, 
ii, 12; ytptZtodat, iv, 37 ; itiiparSrj, v, 29; cnrora^a- 
ptvog, vi, 46; «3frftrf, vii, 9; t/cdapfitlcrSai, xiv, 33). 
It is to Mark also that we are indebted for the record of 
minute particulars of persons, places, times, and num- 
ber, which stamp on his narrative an impress of authen- 
ticity. 

(1.) Persons . — i, 20; ii, 14; iii, 5, 17, 32, 34; iv, 11 ; 
v, 32, 37, 40; vi, 40, 48; vii, 1, 25, 26; viii, 10, 27 ; ix, 

15, 36; x, 16, 23, 35, 46; xi, 21, 27; xiii, 1, 3; xiv, 20, 
37, 65; xv. 7, 21, 40, 47 ; xvi, 7. 

(2.) Places. — i, 28; iv, 1, 38; v, 11, 20, 21 ; vi, 55; vii, 
17, 31 ; viii, 10, 27 ; ix, 30; xi, 4; xii, 41; xiv, 66; xv, 

16, 39; xvi, 5. 

(3.) Time. — i, 32, 35; ii, 1,26; iv,35; v, 2, 18, 21 ; vi, 
2; xi. 11, 19, 20; xiv, 1, 12, 17, 30, 68, 72; xv, 1, 25, 33, 
34, 42; xvi, 1, 2. 

(4.) Number.— v, 13, 42; vi, 7; viii, 24; xiv, 30, 72. 

Other smaller variations are continually occurring. 
Here a single word, there a short parenthesis, some- 
times an apparently trivial accession — which impart a 
striking air of life to the record; e. g. Zebedee left with 
the hired servants (i, 20) ; our Lord praying (i, 35); the 
paralytic borne of four (ii, 3); the command that a ship 
should wait on him (iii, 9) ; “thy sisters” (iii, 32) ; our 
Lord taken “even as he was m the ship” (iv, 36); 


“other little ships with them” (ibid.); Jairus’s daugh- 
ter “walked” (v, 42); “divers came from far” (viii, 3); 
only “one loaf” in the ship (viii, 14); “so as no fuller 
on earth can white” (ix, 2); the danger of trusting in 
riches (x, 24) ; “with persecutions” (x, 30); “no vessel 
suffered to be carried through the Temple” (xi, 16); 
“a house of prayer for all nations” (xi, 17) ; “she hath 
done what she could” (xiv, 8) ; Barabbas, one of a party 
of insurrectionists all guilty of bloodshed (xv, 7). 

We cannot conclude our remarks on this head better 
than in the words of Mr. Westcott (Introd. p.348) — that 
“if all other arguments against the mythic origin of the 
evangelic narratives were wanting, this vivid and sim- 
ple record, stamped with the most distinct impress of 
independence and originality, would be sufficient to re- 
fute a theory subversive of all faith in history.” 

V. Style and Diction . — The stjde of Mark may be 
characterized as vigorous and abrupt. Ilis terms of 
connection and transition are terse and lively; he is 
fond of employing the direct for the indirect (iv, 39; v, 
8, 9, 12; vi, 23, 31, 37 ; ix, 25, 33; xii, 6), the present 
for the past (i, 25, 40, 44; ii, 3, 4, 5; iii, 4, 5, 13, 20, 31, 
34; iv, 37, etc.), and the substantive instead of the pro- 
noun; he employs the cognate accusative (iii, 28; vii, 
13; xiii, 19; iv, 41 ; v, 42), accumulates negatives (ov- 
Keri oi>8tig,x ii, 12; ix, 8; xii, 34; xv, 5; oiictri ov pi), 
xiv, 25; pijKtrt pyjUttg, xi, 14), and for sake of emphasis 
repeats what he has said in other words, or appends the 
opposite (i, 22, 45; ii, 27 ; iii, 26, 27, 29; iv. 17, 33, 34), 
and piles up synonymes (iv, 6, 8, 39 ; v, 12, 23 ; viii, 15; 
xiii, 33; xiv, G8), combining this forcible style with a 
conciseness and economy of expression consistent with 
the elaboration of every detail. 

Mark’s diction is nearer to that of Matthew than to 
that of Luke. It is more Hebraistic than the latter, 
though rather in general coloring than in special phrases. 
According to Davidson ( Introd . i, 154), there are forty- 
live words peculiar to him and Matthew, and only eigh- 
teen common to him and Luke. Aramaic words, espe- 
cially those used by our Lord, are introduced, but ex- 
plained for Gentile readers (iii, 17, 22 ; v, 41 ; vii, 1 1 , 34 ; 
ix, 43; x, 46; xiv, 36; xv, 22, 34). Latinisms are more 
frequent than in the other Gospels: Kivrvpitov, xv, 39, 
44, 45; <77 TtKovXurtop, vi, 27; to ticavov Tzoiijaat, xv, 
15; vii, 4, 8, are peculiar to him. Others — 

Iifvapiov, Ki'ii’aog, \ tyttov, TTpaiTtoptor, (fipaytXXctn, 
KoUpcivrijg — lie has in common with the rest of the 
evangelists. He is fond of diminutives — SvyuTptor, 
copdotov, Rvvdpta , tordptov — but they are not peculiar 
to him. lie employs unusual words and phrases (e. g. 
dXaXd^ttv, tTTiovvTpixtty, KtopoiroXig , pty tor arte, vdp- 
bog TitoTiK.i \ , voviax&g, 7raici6£rtv y ttA otdptor, Trpopt- 
ptpvciv , rpvpaXta, vi ToXifrior, crotfidg, rrpvpvtZvptvog 
otrog ; <rm'BXt/3{tr, IvuXtlv). Of other noticeable 
words and expressions we may remark, aKaSciprov 
nvnpa, eleven times, Matthew six, Luke three; ijp- 
£aro Xiyuv, Kpd%(ty, twenty-five times; ittartiXaro, 
and -OTtXXtTo, five times, Matthew once; compounds 
of TzoptvtoSai: e.g. tioTrop ., eight times. Matthew once, 
Luke four; iiarup., eleven times, Matthew six, Luke 
three; Tvaparrop., four times, Matthew once; TTpoonop. 
The verb tntptordio occurs twenty-five times, to eight 
times in Matthew and eighteen in Luke ; tvayykXtov , 
eight times, Matthew four, but the verb not once; ee- 
Snog, forty times. Matthew fifteen, Luke eight. Other 
favorite words are, Kijpvooiiv, fourteen, Matthew nine, 
Luke nine; paKpcStv, five, Matthew two, Luke four; 
oi’Ktrt and pij/cirt, ten, Matthew three, Luke four; nipt- 
fiXtTrto, six times, Luke once; Triorevti), fourteen. Mat- 
thew eleven, Luke nine; 7rptoi, six times, Matthew 
twice, John once; tpipto, thirteen, Matthew four, Luke 
four times. Of words only found in Mark, as compared 
with Matthew and Luke, we may mention — dpdpnjpa , 
uva^epari^tu, iKd-iva, tvicatpog and -pioc, f vcrxi'iptov, 
i/cetog, $ap/3ticr3‘at, Svpiopog, Krtcnc, KvXtopat, poyiXd- 
Xoc, pop<pi), TrapafidXXetv, TrapacixicSat, Tvapbpotoe , 
7 rpoGrptx<*>, avpiruGia , ovcraotaoTijg , ariXfittv, mcu>- 


MARK, GOSPEL OF 761 MARK, GOSPEL OF 


X*/£. Words not found at all, or found less frequently 
in Mark, are — dyaSog , only twice, in the same context 
(x, 17, 18), Matthew sixteen, Luke fifteen times; vopog, 
ttcuq , crro/m, uxnrep, dvotyio, a£iog, KtXtino, ptptpvitu j, 
fiaicdptog , xaAew, only three times, to Matthew 

twenty-six, Luke forty-two ; Tripiut), only once ; Xpi- 
c rrug, seven, Matthew sixteen, Luke thirteen. Publicans 
are only mentioned twice, Samaria and its inhabitants 
not once. 

VI. Persons for whom the Gospel was written. — A dis- 
passionate review of the Gospel confirms the traditional 
statement that it was intended primarily for Gentiles, 
and among these the use of Latinisms, and the concise 
abrupt character “ suitable for the vigorous intelligence 
of a Roman audience” (Westcott, Int rod. p. 848), seem 
to point out those for whom it was specially meant. In 
consistency with this view, words which would not be 
understood by Gentile readers are interpreted : Boan- 
erges (iii, 17) ; Talitha cumi (v, 40) ; Corban (vii, 11) ; 
Bart imams (x, 46) ; Abba (xiv, 3G) ; Eloi lama sabach- 
thani (xv, 34) ; two mites “ make a farthing” (xii, 42) ; 
Gehenna is “ unquenchable fire” (ix, 43). Jewish usages, 
and other matters with which none but Jews could be 
expected to be familiar, are explained, e. g. the washing 
before meals (vii, 3, 4) ; in the days of unleavened bread 
the Passover was killed (xiv. 1 2) ; at the Passover the 
season of figs had not come (xi, 13) ; the preparation is 
“ the day before the Sabbath” (xv, 4*2) ; the Mount of 
Olives is “ over against the Temple” (xiii, 3) ; Jordan is 
a “ river” (Mark i, 5; Matt, iii, G) ; the Pharisees, etc., 
“used to fast” (Mark ii, 18; Matt, ix, 14); the Saddu- 
cees’ worst tenet is mentioned (Mark xii, 18) ; and ex- 
planations are given which Jews would not need (Mark 
xv, 6, 1G). All reference to the law of Moses is omitted, 
and even the word vopog does not occur ; the Sabbath 
was appointed for the good of man (ii, 27) ; and in the 
quotation from Isaiah (lvi, 7) he adds “of all nations.” 
The genealogy of our Lord is likewise omitted. Other 
matters interesting chiefly to the Jews are similarly 
passed over, such as the reflections on the request of the 
Scribes and Pharisees for a sign (Matt, xii, 38-45) ; the 
parable of the king’s son (Matt, xxii, 1-14) ; and the 
awfid denunciation of the Scribes and Pharisees (Matt, 
xxiii). Matter that might offend is omitted, as Matt, 
x, 5, G ; vi, 7, 8. Passages, not always peculiar to Mark, 
abound in his Gospel, in which the antagonism between 
the pharisaic legal spirit and the Gospel come out 
strongly (i, 22 ; ii, 19, 22 ; x, 5; viii, 15), which hold out 
hopes to the heathen of admission to the kingdom of 
heaven even without the Jews (xii, 9), and which put 
ritual forms below the worship of the heart (ii, 18; iii, 
1-5 ; vii, 5-23). Whilst he omits the invective against 
the Pharisees, he indicates by a touch of his own how 
Jesus condemned them “ with anger” (iii, 5). Mark 
alone makes the Scribe admit that love is better than 
sacrifices (xii, 33). In conclusion, the absence of all 
quotations from the O. T. made on his own authority, 
with the exception of those in the opening verses from 
Mai. iii, 1 ; Isa. xl, 3 (xv, 28 being rejected as interpo- 
lated), points the same way. The only citations he in- 
troduces are those made by our Lord, or by those ad- 
dressing him. 

VII. Citations from Scripture. — The following are the 
only direct citations : 


Mai. iii, 1 i, 2. 

Isa. xl, 3 i, 3. 

Isa. vi, 9, 11 iv, 12. 

Isa. xxix, 13 vii, G. 

Exod. xx, 12 ; xxi, 

17 vii, 10. 

(«) Isa. lxvi, 24 ix, 44, 4G, 

48. 

Gen. i, 27 x, 6. 

Geu. ii, 24 x, 7, 8. 

Exod. xx, 12-15. ..x, 19. 
Psa. cxviii, 25, 2G. . xi, 9. 


(6) Isa. lvi, 7 ; Jer. 

vii, 11 xi, 17. 

Psa. cxviii, 22, 23. .xii, 10, 11. 

Dent, xxv, 5 xii, 19. 

Exod. iii, 6 xii, 20. 

Deut. vi, 4 xii, 29, 30. 

Lev. xix, IS xii, 31. 

Psa. ex, l xii, 36. 

Dan. ix, 27 ; xii, 11. .xiii, 14. 

Zech. xiii, 7 xiv, 27. 

Isa. liii, 12 (?) xv, 2S. 

Psa. xxii, 1 xv, 34. 


Of these, (a) is the only one peculiar to Mark. In ( h ) 
we have the addition of a few words to the Synoptical 


quotation. We have also references to the O.T. in the 
following passages : 

Lev. xiv, 2 i, 44. lisa, xiii, 10 xiii, 24. 

1 Sam. xxi, 0 ii, 25. Dan. vii, 13 xiv, G2. 

Deut. xxiv, 1 x, 4. I 

VIII. Time and Place of Composition. — On these 
points the Gospel itself affords no information, except 
that we may certainly affirm, against Baur, Ililgenfeld, 
Weisse, etc., that it was composed before the fall of Je- 
rusalem, since otherwise so remarkable a fidfilment of 
our Lord’s predictions could not but have been noticed. 
Ecclesiastical tradition is, as usual, vacillatory and un- 
trustworthy. Clement, as quoted by Eusebius ( ut sup.), 
places the composition of the Gospel in the lifetime of 
Peter; while Irenrcus, with much greater probability, 
asserts that it was not written till after the decease (££- 
oJof, not “ departure from Rome,” Mill, Grabe, Ebrard) 
of Peter and Paul. Later authorities are, as ever, much 
more definite. Theopliylact and Eutlivm. Zigab., with 
the Chron. Pasch., Georg. Synced., and Hesychius, place 
it ten years after the Ascension, i. e. A.I>. 40; Eusebius, 
in his Chronicon , A.D. 43, when Peter, Paul, and Philo 
were together in Rome. It is not likely that it dates 
before the reference to Mark in the Epistle to the Colos- 
sians (iv, 10), where he is only introduced as a relative 
of Barnabas, as if this were his greatest distinction ; 
and this Epistle was written about A.D. 57. If, after 
coming to Asia Minor on Paul’s sending, he went on 
and joined Teter at Babylon, he may have then ac- 
quired, or rather completed that knowledge of Peter’s 
preaching, which tradition teaches us to look for in the 
Gospel, and of which there is so much internal evidence; 
and soon after this the Gospel may have been composed. 
We may probably date it between Peter’s martyrdom, 
cir. A.D. Go, and the destruction of Jerusalem, A.D. 70. 

As to the place, the uniform testimony of early writ- 
ers (Clement, Eusebius, Jerome, Epiphanins, etc.) is 
that the Gospel was written and published in Rome. In 
this view most modern writers of weight agree. Chry- 
sostom asserts that it was published in Alexandria, but 
his statement is not confirmed — as, if true, it must cer- 
tainly have been — by any Alexandrine writer. Some 
(Eichhorn, R. Simon) maintain a combination of the 
Roman and Alexandrine view under the theory of a 
double publication, first in one city and then in the oth- 
er. Storr is alone in his view that it was first made 
public at Antioch. 

IX. Language. — There can be no reason for question- 
ing that the Gospel was composed in Greek. To sup- 
pose that it was written in Latin — as is stated in the 
subscription to the Peshito, and some early Greek MSS., 
lypcKpr] Viopaiart iv P iopy — because it was intended 
for the use of Roman Christians, implies complete igno- 
rance of the Roman Church of that age, which in lan- 
guage, organization, and ritual was entirely Greek, main- 
taining its character in common with most of the 
churches of the West as “a Greek religious colony” 
(Milman, Lat. Christ, i, 27). The attempt made by Ba- 
ronins, Bellarmine, etc., to strengthen the authority of 
the Vulgate by this means was therefore, as one of their 
own Church, Ii. Simon, has shown, entirely futile; and 
the pretended Latin autograph, said to be preserved in 
the library of St. Mark’s at Venice, turned out to be 
part of an ancient Latin codex of the four Gospels, now 
known as Codex Forojuliensis. 

X. Contents. — The Gospel of Mark may be divided 
into three parts : 

(1.) The occurrences previous to the commencement 
of the public ministry of our Lord, including the preach- 
ing and baptism of John, our Lord’s baptism and temp- 
tation (i, 1-13). 

(2.) Our Lord’s ministry in Galilee, including that in 
Eastern Galilee (i, 14-vii, 23) ; that in Northern Galilee 
(vii, 24-ix, 37) ; that in Peroea, and the joumeyings to- 
wards Jerusalem (ix, 38-x, 52). 

(3.) His triumphant entry, passion, death, resurrec- 
tion, and ascension (xi, I-xvi, 8 [20]). 


7G2 


MARK 


MARK. GOSPEL OF 


XI. Genuineness and Integrity . — The genuineness of 
Clark’s Gospel was never doubted before Sclileiermacher, 
wlio, struck by an apparent discrepancy between the 
orderly narrative we now possess and the description of 
Papins {lit. sup.), broached the view followed by Cred- 
ner, Ewald, and others, that the Gospel in its present 
form is not the work of Mark the companion of Peter. 
This led to the notion, which has met with much ac- 
ceptance among German critics (Baur, Hilgenfekl, Kost- 
Iin, etc.), of an original, praecanonical Mark, “ the Gospel 
of Peter,” probably written in Aramaic, which, with 
other oral and documentary sources, formed the basis on 
which some unknown later writers formed the existing 
Gospel. But even if, on other grounds, this view were 
probable, all historical testimony is against it ; and we 
should have to account for the entire disappearance of 
an original document of so much importance without 
leaving a trace of its existence, and the silent substitu- 
tion of a later work for it, and its acceptance by the 
whole Church. If ordinary historical testimony is to 
have any weight, we can have no doubt that the Gospel 
we now have, and which has always borne his name, 
was that originally composed by Mark. We can have 
no reason to think that either John the presbyter or Pa- 
pias were infallible ; and if the ordinary interpretation 
of ov rd&i was correct, and the description of the Gos- 
pel given by Papias was really at variance with its pres- 
ent form, it would be at least equally probable that 
their judgment was erroneous and their view mistaken. 
There can, however, be little doubt that the meaning 
of ov rciZei has been strained and distorted, and that 
the words do really describe not M ark’s alone, but all 
three Synoptic Gospels as we have them ; not, that is, 
“ Lives of Christ” chronologically arranged, but “ a sum- 
man’- of representative facts” given according to a moral 
and not a historic sequence, following a higher order 
than that of mere time. 

As regards the integrity of the Gospel, Ewald, Reuss, 
and others have called in question the genuineness of 
the opening verses (i, 1-13). But the external evidence 
for them is as great as that for the authenticity of any 
part of the Gospels. Internal evidence is too subtle a 
thing, and varies too much with the subjectivity of the 
writer, for us to rely on it exclusively. 

The case is different with the closing portion (xvi, 
0-20), where the evidence, both external and internal, is 
somewhat strong against its having formed a part of 
Mark’s original Gospel, which is thought to have broken 
oil abruptly with the words eipofSovvTo yap (for various 
theories to account for this, the death of Peter, that of 
Mark, sudden persecution, tlight, the loss of the last leaf, 
etc., see Hug, Meyer, Schott). No less than twenty-one 
words and expressions occur in it, some of them repeat- 
edly, which are never elsewhere used by Mark. This 
alone, when we remember the peculiarities of diction in 
the pastoral epistles, as compared with Paul’s other writ- 
ings, would not be sufficient to prove that it was not 
written by the same author; though when taken in con- 
nection with the external evidence, it would seem to 
show that it was not composed at the same time. On 
this ground, therefore, we must conclude that if not the 
work of another hand, it was written at a later period 
than the rest of the Gospel. The external evidence, 
though somewhat inconsistent, points, though less de- 
cidedly, the same way. While it is found in all codices 
of weight, including A, C, I), and all versions, and is re- 
peatedly quoted, without question, by early writers from 
the time of Irenaeus ( llcer . iii, 10,0), and appears in the 
very ancient. Syriac recension published bv Cureton, it 
is absent from the Vatican and Sinaitic MSS. (in the 
former of which, after the subscription, the greater part 
of the column and the whole of the next are left vacant, 
a phenomenon nowhere else found in the X.-T. portion of 
that codex), while in several MSS. that contain it, it is 
noted that it is wanting in others, and those the most 
accurate copies. Jerome (ad lied ib. iv, 172) speaks of it 
as being found in but few copies of the Gospels, and de- 


ficient in almost all the Greek MSS. Eusebius (ad Ma- 
rin. qurest. I) states that it is wanting “in nearly all the 
more accurate copies,” while the canons that bear his 
name and the Ammonian sections do not go beyond v, 
8. Of later critics, Olshausen and De Wette pronounce 
for its genuineness. The note of the latter may be con- 
sulted, as well as those of Alford and Meyer, who take 
the other side, for a full statement of the evidence for 
and against. See also Burgon, The last twelve Yei’ses of 
Mark vindicated (Lond. 1871). 

XII. Cunonicity. — The citation of v, 19 as Scripture by 
Irensetts appears sufficient to establish this point. With 
regard to other passages of Mark’s Gospel, as it presents 
so few facts peculiar to himself, we cannot be surprised 
that there are but few references to it in the early fa- 
thers. The Muratorian canon, however (cir. A.D. 170), 
commences with words which evidently refer to it. It 
is mentioned by Papias. Justin Martyr refers to it for 
the name Boanerges (Tryph. 106), as the “Memoirs of 
Peter.” Irenseus, as we have seen above, quotes from 
it, and in the 19th Clementine Homily (ed. Dnsseldorf, 
1853) a peculiar phrase of Mark (iv, 34) is repeated ver- 
bally. The fact also recorded by Irenasus (liar, iii, II, 
7), that the Docetic heretics preferred the Gospel of 
Mark to the others, affords an early proof of its accept- 
ance in the Church. 

XIII. Commentaries. — The following are the special 
exegetical helps on the entire Gospel of Mark ; to a few 
of the most important we prefix an asterisk: Victor of 
Antioch, In Marcum (Gr. ed. Matthlii ; also in the Bill. 
Max. Pair. iv, 370); .Jerome, Expositio (in Opp. [Xi/ju- 
_pos.], xi, 758); also Commentarius (ibid. xi,783); Fos- 
sinus,CWen« Gr.Patrum (Bom. 1G73, fob); Bede, Expo- 
sitio (in Opp. v, 92 ; Works, x, 1); Aquinas, Catena (in 
Opp. iv; also in vol. ii of Engl, transl.) ; Albertus Mag- 
nus, Commentarius (in Opp. ix) ; Gerson, Lectiones (in 
Opp. iv, 203) ; Zwingle, A imotationes (in Opp. iv, 141); 
Brent i us, Ilomilice (in Opp. v) ; Mvconius, Commentarius 
(Basil. 1538, 8vo) ; Ilegendorphinus, Adnotationes (Hag. 
152G, 153G, 8vo) ; Sarcer, Scholia (Basil. 1539, 1540, 8vo) ; 
Ballinger, Comment aria (Tigur. 1545, fob); Hofmeister, 
Commentarius [includ. Matt, and Luke] (Lovan. 15G2, 
fob; Par. 15G3; Colon. 1572, 8 vo); Dameus, Quastiones 
(Genev. 1594. Svo); Gualther, Ilomilice (Heidelb. 1C08, 
fob) ; Winckelmann, Commentarius (Francof. lG12,8vo) ; 
Del Pas, Comment aria (Bom. 1G23, fob) ; Novarinus, Ex- 
pensio (Lugd. 1642, fob); Fetter, Commentary (London, 
1662,2 vols. fob); Ilartsocker. A antekeningen (Amsterd. 
1671, 4to); Dc Veiel, Explicatio [includ. Matt.] (Lend. 
1688, 8vo); Dorche, Commentarius (Kilon. 1690, 4to) ; 
II cupel, Xotie (Argent. 1716, 8vo); Klemm, Exereitia 
(Tithing. 1728, 4to); *Elsner, Commentarius (Traj.1773, 
4to); Cunningham, Thoughts (Lond. 1825, 12mo) ; Hinds, 
Manual (Lond. 1829, Svo) ; Bland, Annotations (Lond. 
1830, 8vo); *Fritzsche, Commentarii (Lips. 1830, Svo); 
Ford, Illustrations (Lond. 1849, 1864, Svo); Hilgenfekl, 
D. Marcus - evangelium (Dalle, 1850, Svo) ; Camming, 
Readings (Lond. 1853, 8vo) ; * Alexander, Explanation 
(X. Y. 1858, 1 2mo) ; Klostermann, I). Markus-erangelium 
(Gotting. 1867, Svo); Goodwin, A 'otes (Lond. 1869, Svo). 
See Gospels. 

Mark ox the Person (in this sense “IP, tav, Ezek. 
ix. 4, 6; \dpaypa. Rev. xiii sq.), a brand or other char- 
acter fixed upon the forehead (q. v.), hand, etc., usually 
of slaves, for the purpose of identifying them. See 
Slave. 

In the case of Cain (Gen. iv, 15), a special token 
(“IX, sign, as elsewhere rendered) was assigned him in 
assurance of safety. See Cain. 

Mark (Mark'), Georg Joachim, a German theolo- 
gian, was born at Schwerin March 1, 1726; was educated 
at the University of Kiel; in 1745 entered the minis- 
try; and in 1747 was appointed a member of the philo- 
sophical faculty of his alma mater. In 1752 he accepted 
a call as librarian to the prince Louis of Mecklenburg- 
Schwerin; in 1758, as professor ordinary of divinity to 


MARKET 


763 


MARLATT 


the University of Kiel; in 17GG he was honored with 
the degree of doctor of divinity, lie died March 5, 1774. 
Gifted with a qnick perception and a good memory, 
Mark acquired great learning, particularly in theology 
and philosophy. By his indefatigable diligence as an au- 
thor he kept the press almost constantly busy. Of his 
works the following have special interest for us: Medi- 
tat tones de Sapientia sanctissima rite colenda (Kiel, 17G2, 
4to) : — Prinunlime juris divini evangelici (ibid. 1763, 
4to): — Diss. de divina vocatione hominum miserorum ud 
jidem et salutem (ibid. 17G7, 4to) : — Causa Dei et sub 
ipso imperantium contra theologiam Jesuitarum (ibid. 
l7G7,4to). — During, Gelehrte Theol. Deutschlands, s. v. 

Market (D“i2)0,maara &')> a mercantile term, found 
only in Ezek. xxvii (rendered “ merchandise,” except in 
ver. 13, 17, 19,25), in several senses: (a) properly bar- 
ter , and so trade, tralKc (ver. 9, 27) ; (5) place of barter, 
mart (ver. 12, 13, 17, 19) ; (c) gain, wealth, acquired by 
traffic (ver. 27, 34; plur. ver. 33, perh. precious wares) , 
like “lllD, “merchandise,” and “fair,” “ware.” 

In the N. Test, the word agora (dyopa), thus rendered 
(“ market-place” in Matt, xx, 3 ; Mark xii, 38 ; Luke vii, 
32 ; Acts xvi, 19), denotes generally any place of public 
resort in towns and cities where the people came to- 
gether ; and hence more specially it signifies (ti) a pub- 
lic place, a broad street, etc. (Matt, xi, 1G ; xx, 3 ; xxiii, 
7 ; Mark vi, 5G ; xii, 38 ; Luke vii, 32 ; xi, 43 ; xx, 4G) ; 
( b ) a forum or market-place, where goods were exposed 
for sale, and assemblies or public trials held (Acts xvi, 
19; xvii, 17). In Mark vii, 4 it is doubtful whether 
ciyopct denotes the market itself, or is put for that which 
is brought from the market ; but the known customs of 
the Jews suggest a preference of the former significa- 
tion. From this is derived the term agorceus ( dyopai - 
oe), properly signifying the things belonging to, or per- 
sons frequenting the agora ; improperly rendered “ in 
law” in Acts xix, 38, where it is applied to the days on 
which public trials were held in the forum ; ami in ch. 
xvii, 5 (where it is rendered “baser sort”) it denotes 
idlers, or persons lounging about in the markets and 
other places of public resort. There is a peculiar force 
in this application of the word, when we recollect that 
the market-places or bazaars of the East were, and are 
at this day, the constant resort of unoccupied people, the 
idle, and the newsmongers. 

In very early periods markets were held at or near 
the gates of cities, sometimes within and sometimes 
without the Avails. Here commodities were exposed for 
sale, either in the open air or in tents (2 Kings vii, 18). 
It is still not unusual in the East for the wholesale mar- 
ket for country produce and cattle to be held (lor a short 
time in the early part of the morning) at the gates of 
towns ; but manufactured goods and various sorts of 
fruits are retailed in the bazaars within the towns. In 
the time of our Saviour, as we learn from Josephus, the 
markets were inclosed in the same manner as the mod- 
ern Eastern bazaars, which are shut at night, and con- 
tain trailers’ shops disposed in rows or streets; and in 
large towns the dealers in particular commodities are 
confined to certain streets. That this was also the case 
in the time of the prophet Jeremiah, we may infer from 
his expression, “ the bakers’ street” (xxxvii, 21). That 
a close connection existed between those of the same 
craft, we learn incidentally from Nell. iii, 32. In re- 
building Jerusalem after the exile, “the goldsmiths and 
the merchants” acted together in repairing the walls. 
Josephus calls the valley between Mounts Zion and Mo- 
riah the Tyrupceon (n>po 7 rouov), i. e. the valley “of the 
cheesemakers.” In like manner there is mentioned the 
valley of Charashim, or “the craftsmen” (L Chron. iv, 
14 ; Neh. xi, 35). Josephus also mentions a street of 
the meat-dealers. The streets of Eastern cities are gen- 
erally distinguished from each other, not by the sepa- 
rate names which they bear, but by the sort of traffic or 
business carried on in them. Thus at Cairo and other 
large Orieutal cities we hear of the market of the butch- 


ers, of the fruiGdealers, the copper-ware sellers, the jew- 
ellers, and so on ; each consisting of a row of shops on 
each side of the street devoted to that particular kind 
of trade (Hackett, Jllustra. of /Script, p. 61). See Bar- 
gain; Bazaar; Commerce; Merchant. 

Marklin, Joiiann Friedrich, a German theolo- 
gian, was born at Beiehenbach, in Wurtemberg, Feb. 6, 
1732 ; was educated at the University of Tubingen ; in 
1755 became archdeacon at Waiblingen ; in 1760 lec- 
tured at his alma mater; in 17G7, archdeacon ; in 1786 
was raised to the dignity of professor of divinity, the de- 
partment of exegesis of the Old Test, and Oriental lit- 
erature falling to him. In 1797 he was made general 
superintendent of the churches of Wiirtemberg, and died 
May 13, 1804. He was a distinguished interpreter of 
the O.-T. Scriptures. Of his productions we only men- 
tion Diss. inaug . de Semitone Dei ad Job. 28, 29 ejusque 
Scopo (Tubingte, 1754, 4to) : — Diss. de religione, imprimis 
Christiana, magno in ojficiis, etc. (ibid. 178G, 4to). — Do- 
ring, Gelehrte Theol. Deutschlands, s. v. 

Marks, Richard T., a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in Louisville, Ga., Sept. 24, 1809. lie was educa- 
ted a printer. In 1827 he removed to Columbus, Ga., 
and united with Sir. Larmar in establishing the Colum- 
bus Inquirer , the first paper started in the western part 
of Georgia. Soon after, feeling called to the ministry, 
he commenced the study of theology under Thomas 
Goulding, D.D. ; was licensed in 1837, and ordained in 
1839. He labored as a minister mostly in missionary 
fields, or where the destitution was so great that unre- 
quited labor had to be given. He preached in the fol- 
lowing places, all in Georgia : Muscogee, Greenville, 
West Point, Hamilton, Columbus, Emmaus, Americas, 
Mount Tabor, Ephesus, and White Sulphur Springs. He 
died Dec. 6, 18G7. Mr. Marks was a ready writer, an 
excellent preacher, and an editor of great power and in- 
tluence. See Wilson, Presb. Hist. A hnanac , 1 868, p. 342. 

Mark’s, St., Day, the 25th of April, observed at 
least since the Gth century, in commemoration of St. 
Mark, the evangelist. It is celebrated in most parishes 
of the Romish Church by a solemn, supplicatory pro- 
cession, mentioned as early as pope Gregory the Great. 
Walafrid Strabo states (De reb . eccl. c. 8) that it was 
instituted by that pope at the commencement of his 
pontificate, with a view to supplicate God for deliver- 
ance from a pestilence which was devastating Rome; 
and it is certain that Gregory held a procession in A.D. 
590, in order to avert the pestilence. But the two cere- 
monies are clearly not identical. The latter was held 
in August, and continued during three days; and while, 
in the procession of St. Mark, the faithful issued from 
seven separate churches, in this they all proceeded from 
a single sanctuary. In churches of which St. Mark is 
the patron, a mass is celebrated in connection with the 
procession, in which the color used is blue, indicative of 
the penitential feeling which predominates in the cere- 
mony. An occasional removal of the festival to anoth- 
er day does not set aside the procession, which is always 
held on the 25th of April, unless Easter Sunday falls 
on that date. — Wetzer and Welte, Kirchen-Lex. vi, 832. 

Mark’s, St., Liturgy. See Liturgy. 

Marlatt, Archibald G., a noted educator and min- 
ister of the Methodist Episcopal Church, was born in 
Warren County, N. J., in 1829, and educated at Dickin- 
son College (class of 1850) ; was junior preacher on 
Carlisle Circuit in 1851 : was the following year ap- 
pointed to Lock Ilaven Circuit, where a bronchial affec- 
tion developed itself, which compelled him to locate in 
1854. In this same year he was appointed professor of 
a high literary institution in Washington City, where 
he remained until 1856, when he accepted the presi- 
dency of the newlv-founded Irving Female College, and 
to this institution he devoted his energy and talents 
until Jan. 2, 18G5, when he “ fell asleep in Jesus.” “ The 
personal character of our brother may be included in 
the comprehensive title ‘a Christian gentleman,’ the 


MARL AY 


764 


MARLORATUS 


highest style and type of manhood. As a gentleman, 
a scholar, and a minister of truth, his was a noble can- 
dor. ... In everything that bore upon truth or pu- 
rity he was a decided man. Of his mental power and 
literary culture it may be safely said that he possessed 
a clear intellectual perception; rapid insight, coupled 
with careful analysis and broad power of generalizing; 
a vivid sensibility of nature, a keen discrimination of 
character, a large acquaintance with ancient and mod- 
ern belles-lettres ; and from the college under his presi- 
dency have been sent forth those that shall shine 
brightly in the literary world.” — Conf. Minutes , 18G5, p. 
12 . 

Marlay, Michael, D.D., a noted Methodist minis- 
ter, was born, of Iloman Catholic parentage, in Berkeley 
County, Ya., June 21, 1797. In the year 1818 he mi- 
grated to the State of Ohio, and settled near Dayton. 
In 1821 he united with the Methodist Episcopal Church, 
and was soon after appointed a class-leader. The 
Church, recognising his gifts and graces, speedily li- 
censed him as an exhorter, and afterwards as a local 
preacher. In the fall of 1831 lie was received on trial 
as a travelling preacher by the Ohio Conference. He 
quickly rose to a commanding position in the ministry, 
and was widely known as a sound theologian, an able 
preacher, and a skilful administrator of discipline. So 
great was his reputation as an executive officer, that 
more than half of his ministry of thirty-five years was 
spent in the office of presiding elder. lie was twice an 
active and influential member of the General Confer- 
ence, by which body he was appointed, in 1852, one of 
the commissioners of the Methodist Episcopal Church 
to manage the suit in the then pending trial for the 
property of the Western Book Concern. In 18G0 he re- 
ceived the degree of D.D. from the Indiana State Uni- 
versity. lie died of cholera, while in attendance upon 
the session of the Cincinnati Conference, at Ripley, 
Ohio, Sept. 2, I860. The late bishop Thomson thus 
spoke of Dr. Marlay shortly after his decease ( Christian 
Advocate, N. Y., vol. xli, No. 43) : “ His strong frame of 
medium size, fine proportion, and high health, admira- 
bly fitted him for itinerant labors; his benignant coun- 
tenance, amiable spirit, and gentle manners rendered 
him a welcome guest wherever he went. Ilis fine head 
indicated great intellectual power; his habits of study 
seemed to render certain his constant improvement, 
while his clear call to the ministry insured his unwa- 
vering devotion to its duties. ... In Biblical science, as 
well as in theoretical, practical, and experimental divin- 
ity, he was a master. . . . lie was a great man in pri- 
vate as well as in public life ; and one of the strongest 
proofs of his high moral worth is the fact that, of a large 
family which he leaves behind him, ever}" one is an or- 
nament to society. . . . He expired in the arms of his 
brethren, and they buried him, feeling that they could 
lay in the tomb no man to whom the Methodist Church 
in Ohio has been more indebted.” See also Ladies ’ Re- 
pository, 18G6, Jan.; Coif Minutes, 18GG, p. 2G2. (J. 

F. 31.) 

Marlorat(us), Augustine, a French Protestant 
theologian, was born at Bar-le-Duc in 150G. At an early 
age he was put in an Augustine convent, and took the 
vows in 1524. lie soon acquired great reputation as a 
preacher. Having been appointed prior of a convent 
of his order at Bourges, he commenced to entertain Prot- 
estant views, as is evinced in the sermons he deliv- 
ered after 1533 at Bourges, Poitiers, and Angers. He 
was designated to preach during the Lenten season at 
Rouen, when he openly separated from the Church. 
Pursued as a heretic, he sought refuge at Geneva, where 
he lived for a time by correcting proofs for the printers. 
He then went to Lausanne, to perfect his knowledge of 
theology. In 1549 he was appointed pastor at Crissier, 
and afterwards at Vevay. The consistory of Geneva 
sent him in 1559 to Paris, and in the beginning of the 
year following he was called to take charge of the Re- 
formed Church at Ilouen. Ilis talents and his personal 


qualities now had a fair opportunity for display, and 
soon gained him great influence in that city, and brought 
many converts to the Church. In 15G1 he went to the 
Colloquy of Poissy, where, next to Theodore de Beza, he 
stood at the head of the Protestants, and on the 15th 
of May he presided over the provincial synod assembled 
at Dieppe. The opposition of the government towards 
all expression of religious opinion adverse to Roman 
Catholicism, and more particularly the bloody deeds of 
Vassy on March 1, 15G2, had greatly exasperated the 
Protestants [see Huguenots] ; and the latter, feeling 
that there was only one alternative for them, either to 
fight for their conscience sake or abjure their honest 
convictions, took to arms all over France. The opening 
scene had been made at Paris. At Rouen the Protes- 
tants were in the majority (if we may follow Beza; ac- 
cording to Floquet [Rom. Cath.], however, they only 
constituted one fifth of the population), and, anxious to 
secure the city for the armies of Conde, made them- 
selves masters of the place by stealth in the night of 
April 15 to 1G. An independent government was es- 
tablished, and unbounded religious toleration exercised 
towards non-Protestants. The masses, however, in the 
hour of excitement behaved madly. A spirit of icono- 
clasm took hold upon them, and within twenty-four 
hours they destroyed some of the most valuable works 
of art in fifty churches. For this and other outrages the 
Protestant leaders, of whom Marloratus was one, were 
not responsible either directly or indirectly. Yet, when 
the Roman Catholics succeeded in retaking the city, he 
was one of the first accused, and, though he had done no 
more than simply battle for the grant of religious free- 
dom, he was arrested Oct. 2G, 15G2, brought before the 
bar of the Parliament, which had re-entered Rouen with 
the Roman Catholic forces, and condemned, as a traitor 
and heretic, to be drawn on a hurdle through the streets 
of the town, and then hung in front of his own church. 
After the execution, which took place Nov. 1,1503, his 
head was severed from the trunk, and exposed on the 
bridge of the town. The Huguenots revenged this out- 
rage by the execution of two leading Romanists in their 
hands. The widow and five children of Marloratus fled 
to England, where they were for a long time maintained 
by the French Protestants. 

As a writer 31arloratus figures very prominently also. 
Ilis exegetical works are numerous and valued, because 
of the accuracy and scholarship which they evince in 
the author. “ They may be best described as painstak- 
ing and not injudicious selections of the interpretations 
of other writings” (Kitto). Ilis earliest production is 
Remonstrances a la reyne mere par ceux qui sont perse- 
cutes pour la parole de JJieu (1561, 12mo; 2d ed. 1561, 
8vo) ; but one of his most important productions is his 
Xovi Testament i catholica expositio , etc. (Geneva, 1561, 
fol. ; 2d cd. 1G05, fol.). This is a valuable work, contain- 
ing Erasmus’s Latin version of the N. T., with the expo- 
sitions of the fathers of the Church, and of Bucer, Calvin, 
Erasmus, 3Iuseulus, 3Ielancthon, Sarcerius, Brentius, 
Bullinger, Zwingli us, Titus Theodorus, etc. Ilis object 
seems to have been to prove to Romanists the identity 
of the Protestant and the Apostolic Church, and the es- 
sential oneness of the two Protestant parties. He him- 
self leaned towards Calvinism. Parts of it were trans- 
lated into English, and published under the following 
titles: A Catholike and Ecclesiastical Exposition of the 
holy Cospell after S. Mathewe. Translated out of Latine 
into EnyKshe by Thomas Tymme , Mynister (Lond. 1570, 
fol.) ; A Catholike and Ecclesiastical Exposition upon the 
Apocafyps of S. John the A postle. Translated (black 
letter, Loud. 1574, 4to). Translations have also been 
published of his Exposition of St. Mark (1583, 4to) ; St. 
John (1574, 4to) ; St. Jude (1584, 4to), etc. He also 
wrote Genesis, cum catholica Expositione , etc. (Geneva, 
1562, fol., often reprinted) ; In CL Psalmos et aliorum S. 
S. Rrophetarum Expositio ecclesiastica , etc., Item Cantica 
sacra ex divinis Bibliorum locis cum simili expositione 
(Geneva, 15G2, foL, often reprinted ; and in English un- 


MARMONTEL 


VG5 


MARNIX 


der the title Prayers in the Psalms, Lond. 1571, lGrao); 
etc. See Haag, La France Protestante; Chevrier, Mem. 
pour servir a Vhistoire des homines illustres de la Lor- 
raine ; Notice sur Aug. Marlorat, in the Bulletin de la 
Societe de Vllist. du Protestant isme Frangais , G me annee, 
p. 109 ; Augustin Marlorat , sa vie et sa mort (Caen, 1862, 
8vo) ; Floquet’s Beza, IFistoire Ecclesiastique , i passim, 
and especially ii, CIO sq.; Schott, in Herzog, Real-Ency- 
Idop. xx, 92-96; Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Generale , xxxiii, 
858; Darling, Cyclopaedia Bibliographicu, ii, 1965; Mid- 
dleton, Ev. Biog. ii, 82. (J. II. W.) 

Marmontel, Jean Francois, a celebrated French 
critic, and a leader in the French school of infidelity 
-which flourished under the guidance of Diderot, Holbach, 
and Voltaire, was born at Bort, in Limousin, in 1723, of 
humble parentage. He was educated at the Jesuits’ 
college at Mauriac, but, not inclining towards asceti- 
cism, went to Paris finally (1746), and there became in- 
timate with the great freethinkers of the 18th century. 
Marmontel wielded an able pen, and largely devoted 
himself to authorship, producing both original works 
and translations of valuable English writers. By inter- 
cession of Madame Pompadour, he secured a secretary- 
ship at Versailles in 1753. Later he became editor of 
the Mercure , for which he wrote, in part, his celebrated 
Contes Moraux , afterwards published in book form 
(Paris, 1761,2 vols.). These Moral Tales were received 
with extraordinary favor, and were translated into most 
of the languages of Europe. Though written with great 
elegance and animation, their morality is rather ques- 
tionable, and, appearing at a time when literature was 
unusually weighed down by freethinkers and atheists, 
the French clergy declaimed against the Contes Moraux. 
The opposition of the clergy became more decided against 
Marmontel in 1767, when he published his Belisaire , a 
political romance. A chapter of it treats on toleration. 
This part of the work was specially objected to by the 
doctors of the Sorbonne “ as heretical and blasphemous,” 
and quickly the cry resounded through the pulpits of 
the capital, and thence into those of the inland towns, 
until the excitement became general. Belisaire was 
condemned by the archbishop of Paris. Voltaire could 
hardly say enough in its praise, and the empress Cath- 
arine II honored it by a special order for its immediate 
translation into Russian. Marmontel himself came off 
victor in this contest with the Sorbonne and the clergy, 
and gained the honorable appointment of historiogra- 
pher of France. To the Encyclopedic (s. v.) he contrib- 
uted “Elements de Litterature” (1787, 6 vols. 8vo); he 
had charge, moreover, of its departments of poetry and 
general literature. During the Revolution he retired 
to the country, and died at the village of Abloville, 
near Evreux, December 31, 1799. An edition of 
his (Euvres Completes was published by himself in 17 
vols. ; another in 18 vols. (Paris, 1818) ; a third in 7 vols. 
(Paris, 1819-20). See Saint-Surin, Notice sur Marmon- 
tel (1824); Sainte-Beuve, Causeries du Lundi, vol. iv; 
Morellet, Eloge de Marmontel (1805); Villenave, Notice 
sur les On wages de Marmontel (1820) ; Edinb. Rev. 1806 
(Jan.) ; Schlosser, Gesch. d. 18' e ” u. 19' e * Jahrhunderts, ii, 
2. § 1 ; Thomas, Diet, of Biog. and My (hoi. s. v.; Hoefer, 
Nouv. Biog. Gene rale , s. v. (J. H. W.) 

Mar'moth (NappmSi), a less correct form (1 Esdr. 
viii, 62) of the lleb. name Meuemoth (1 Ezra viii, 33). 

Marne, Jean-Baptiste de, a Flemish ecclesiastic 
and historian, was born at Douai in 1699. He entered 
the Society of Jesus in 1619; was appointed minister to 
Namur, after having taught belles-lettres and theology 
in many cities, and filling different missions. After- 
wards he was called to Liege, and became confessor to 
John-Theodore of Bavaria, and synodal examiner of the 
diocese. Ten years later he retired to Liege. He died 
Oct. 9, 1756. Marne wrote Martyr du secret de la con- 
fession , ou la Vie de Saint Jean Nepourneine (Paris, 
1741, 12mo; Avignon, 1820, 18mo). See Iloefer, Nouv, 
Biog. Generale , xxxiii, 907. 


Marnix, Philippe van, de Ste. Aldegonde, oc- 
cupies a distinguished place in the history of the Neth- 
erlands during the Reformation period. He was born 
at Brussels in 1538, of parents thoroughly identified with 
the interests of their country, and was carefully edu- 
cated at home, and later at Geneva under Calvin and 
Beza. After returning to his home in 1560, he spent 
six years in retirement, but became known, notwith- 
standing his seclusion, as a careful observer of events, 
and respected as a patriot and a man of honor. His de- 
votion to the cause of the Reformation, whose influence 
he steadily endeavored to extend, could not remain con- 
cealed; nor could his learning, his keen understanding, 
and his power as a writer escape recognition. He was 
soon in intimate relations with the leaders of the na- 
tion, and the rapid progress of events forced him into 
prominence. He is universally held to be the author 
of the so-called compromise (about 1565-66) by which 
the nobles and others pledged themselves to resist, by 
all lawful means, the introduction of the Inquisition. 
The league soon attained such proportions that it dared 
to present (April 5, 1566) a petition to the regent for 
the suppression of the institution. Soon after, when 
Protestant field -preaching was introduced, he placed 
himself at the head of the movement, and insisted that 
the Protestants should be permitted to worship in Ant- 
werp itself. On the 19th of August an iconoclastic mob 
destroyed the many works of art that adorned the 
churches, etc., of Antwerp, and the regent, in alarm, per- 
mitted Protestant worship in specified places ; and un- 
der this sanction the first synod of the Walloon church- 
es assembled in Antwerp Oct. 26, 1566. Marnix pre- 
sided, and by his influence contributed to the adoption 
of the reformed confession, by which event the Calvin- 
ists acquired a pre-eminence that still continues. The 
government now adopted more energetic measures to re- 
strain the Protestants, by placing garrisons in important 
towns, and even besieging such as refused to admit 
them. This was the case at Valenciennes ; and Marnix, 
while seeking to aid the beleaguered city, was defeated, 
his brother killed, himself banished, and his property 
confiscated. During his exile he was influential in con- 
verting William of Orange and Nassau to the Protes- 
tant faith, and formed a connection with him that was 
only dissolved by death. In the mean time, however, 
Marnix had entered the service of the Palatine Freder- 
ick III, and fixed his residence at Heidelberg, where he 
was largely engaged in theological investigations ; but, 
with the consent of the elector, he was often employed 
in the affairs of his own country, under the direction of 
the prince of Orange, being present at the defeat of 
Louis of Nassau at Jemmingen in July, 1568, etc. lie 
attended the synod of the exiled clergy at Wesel in 
November, 1568, and his influence is seen in the consti- 
tution of the Church then adopted. A second impor- 
tant synod was held at Emden, Oct. 4 to 14, 1571, at 
which Marnix was also present, and which selected him 
to write a history of recent events in the Netherlands ; 
but the needs of his country prevented the execution 
of this task. In July, 1572, he was sent by the prince 
of Orange to confer with the delegates of Holland, who 
were assembled at Dort, and succeeded in inducing them 
to pledge their readiness to make every sacrifice to throw 
off the Spanish yoke. Thenceforward his activity was 
incessant. He w’as taken prisoner by the Spaniards in 
November, 1573, but his life was spared, as the prince of 
Orange had threatened to retaliate, and Requesens, suc- 
cessor to the duke of Alba, employed him in an attempt 
to negotiate a peace, which was defeated by the sagac- 
ity of Orange. A similar office, undertaken after his ex- 
change on the order of the prince of Orange, likewise 
failed, as did his mission to induce queen Elizabeth of 
England to accept the sovereignty of the Netherlands. 
He assisted in the negotiations that resulted in the 
“Pacification of Ghent” in November, 1576, and in the 
formation of the second union between the provinces at 
Brussels in December, 1577. In May, 1578, he repre- 


MARON 


7 GG 


MARONITES 


sented the Netherlands at the Diet of Worms, and pre- 
vailed on the German states to remain neutral in the 
contest with Spain. In the mean time religious intol- 
erance had led to gross outrages among his countrymen, 
and the bitter feeling between the parties threatened 
ruin to the union that had been secured with so much 
effort. An attempt to reconcile these differences, in 
which he was engaged on his return, failed, and several 
of the Roman Catholic provinces withdrew, and placed 
themselves and their religion under Spanish protection. 
An alliance with France was now thought of, and Mar- 
nix exerted his influence successfully to induce the 
states-general to offer the crown to Francis, duke of An- 
jou-Alen$on. This prince reached Antwerp on Feb. 19, 
1572; but an attempt to seize Antwerp and other im- 
portant towns led to his expulsion from the land before 
lie had reigned a year, and both Orange and Marnix 
were suspected of connivance with the French. In con- 
sequence, Marnix retired from public life; but the prog- 
ress of the Spaniards, under the dnke of Parma, induced 
William of Orangp to recall him, and he was appointed 
to the office of first burgomaster of Antwerp, in order 
that he might direct its defence. He entered on its du- 
ties Nov. 15, 1583, and a few days later the siege began. 
It was continued until Aug. 17, 1585, when the city hon- 
orably capitulated. With this event his political career 
was ended, and he retired to his estates, devoting him- 
self mainly to theological studies. In 1590, having been 
appointed by the states-general to translate the Bible 
into Dutch, he removed to Leyden, in order to avail 
himself of its library, and of the assistance of his friends 
Sealiger, Lipsius, Junius, and others. lie only lived, 
however, to complete the book of Genesis. He died 
Dec. 15, 1598. “ lie was,” says Motley, “ a man of most 
rare and versatile genius — scholar, theologian, diploma- 
tist, swordsman, orator, pamphleteer ; he had genius for 
all things, and was eminent in all.” The theological 
works of A T an Marnix were chiefly of a polemical char- 
acter. The principal one, The Bee-hive , is a satire after 
the manner of Von Hutren, and written in the style of 
Rabelais. It was probably intended to promote a rec- 
onciliation between the Romish and the Protestant prov- 
inces of his country. Another able contribution is his 
Tableau des differences de la religion (1609, and often). 
A complete edition of his works, in 8 vols., was publish- 
ed at Brussels, 1857-60, under the title CEuvres de Phil . 
de Marnix de Ste. A Idegonde ; vol. iv contains a brief 
memoir, and a notice bibliographique. His life has 
been frequently written*; among others, Th. Juste has 
treated it in connection with his studies of the Nether- 
lands (1858). Motley’s Rise of the Dutch Republic, and 
/list, of the United Netherlands , vol. i, chap, iii, are valua- 
ble aids to the study of this career. See also Prins,Lc?'m 
ran P. r. Marnix (1782); Dressellniis, F. r. Marnix 
( 1 832) ; I ’roes, F. r. M arnix (1838-40, 2 vols. 8vo) ; Her- 
zog, Real-Eneyklop. xx, 96 sq. ; Edgar Quinet, in the Re- 
vue des deux Mondes, 1854. (G. M.) 

Maron, Joannes, a noted Eastern patriarch, sup- 
posed to be the founder of the Maronitcs, was bom at 
Sirum,near Antioch, in Syria, about the middle of the 7th 
century; studied at Constantinople, and became monk 
and priest in the convent of St. Maron. Elevated to the 
bishopric of Botoys in 676, according to some, by the 
papal legate, he brought, if we may follow Romish au- 
thority, all the Christians of Lebanon within the com- 
munion of the Church of Rome; was then made patri- 
arch of Antioch, and confirmed by pope Honorius; and 
died in 707. See, however, Mauonites. 

Maronites, a community or sect of Christians, 
numbering some 150,000, in Syria, particularly in the 
northern part of Mount Lebanon, and said to be of very 
ancient origin. 

I. History. — Considerable controversy has arisen as to 
the real origin of this most peculiar Christian people ; 
the most probable account represents them as descend- 
ants of a remnant of the Monothelites (q. v.), who, flee- 
ing from the repressive measures of the emperor Anas- 


tasius II, in the early part of the 8th century, settled on 
the slopes of the Lebanon, and gradually yielded their 
distinctive Monothelite views. According to Mosheim 
(Eccles. Hist, i, 457 ; iii, 127), many Monothelites, after 
the Conncil of Constantinople, found a refuge among the 
Mardaites, signifying in Syriac rebels, a people who took 
possession of Lebanon A.D. 676, and made it the asy- 
lum of vagabonds, slaves, and all sorts of rabble; and 
about the conclusion of the 7th century these Monoth- 
elites of- Lebanon were called Maronites, after Maro, 
their first bishop. None, he says, of the ancient writ- 
ers give an} r certain account of the first person who 
converted these mountaineers to Moncthelitism ; it is 
probable, however, from several circumstances, that it 
was John Maro, whose name they have adopted ; and 
that this ecclesiastic received the name of Maro from 
his having lived, in the character of a monk, in the fa- 
mous convent of St. Maro, upon the borders of the Oron- 
tes, before his settlement among the Mardaites of Mount 
Libanus. Gieseler (Eccles. Hist, ii, 419), however, takes 
exception to this identification of the Maronites with 
the Mardaites, and, by authority derived from the writ- 
ings of Anquetil Duperron (Recherches sur les migrations 
des Mar des, in the Mem. de FA cad. des Inscript . i, 1), 
holds that “ the Mardaites or Mards, a warlike nation of 
Armenia, were placed as a garrison on Mount Libanus 
by Constantine Pogonatus, A.D. 676 (Theophanes, p. 
295), and were withdrawn as early as 685 by Justinian 
II (Theophanes, p. 302). Madden (Turkish Empire, 
ii, 154), upon the authority of the learned Benedictine 
St. Maur ( Histoire J fonastique de V Orient, p. 348), holds 
that the Maronites were founded by St. Maro, a patriarch 
of Syrian Christians in the 5th century, and that they 
existed under that name in the 7th century, when the 
Saracens ravaged the country, and were afterwards per- 
secuted as Mardaites (comp, here Churchill, Mount Leb- 
anon, iii, 58). There is certainly much in favor of this 
argument, not the least of which is the fact that, “at the 
commencement of the 7th century, the entire range of 
mountains from Antioch to Jerusalem was in the hands 
of the Syrian Christians, who formed a political power 
under chiefs or emirs, exercising a hereditary gov- 
ernment” (Churchill). But, however great may be the 
darkness surrounding their earliest history, one thing is 
certain, from the testimony of William of Tyre and oth- 
er unexceptionable witnesses, as also from the most au- 
thentic records, namely, that the Maronites retained the 
opinions of the Monothelites until the 12th century, 
when, abandoning and renouncing the doctrine of one 
will in Christ, they were readmitted into the commun- 
ion of the Roman Church. .Jacques de Vi try, bishop 
of Acre in the 12th century, thus speaks of the Maro- 
nites in his Ilistoria II ierosolym it an a , d raw 1 1 up at the re- 
quest of pope Honorius III : “ Men armed with bows and 
arrows, and skilful in battle, inhabit the mountains in 
considerable numbers, in the province of Phoenicia, not 
far from the town of Biblos. They are called Maro- 
nites, from the name of a certain man, their master, Mar- 
on, a heretic, who affirmed that there was in Jesus but 
one will or operation. The Christians of the Lebanon, 
dupes of this diabolical error of Maron, remained sepa- 
rate from the Church nearly five hundred years. At 
last, their hearts being turned, they made profession of 
the Catholic faith in presence of the venerable father 
Amaury, patriarch of Antioch, and adopted the tradi- 
tions of the Roman Church.” The most learned of the 
modern Maronites have left no method unemployed to 
defend their Church against this accusation ; they have 
labored to prove, by a variety of testimonies, that their 
ancestors always persevered in the Catholic faith, and 
in their attachment to the Roman pontiff, without ever 
adopting thc-doctrine of the Monophysites or Monothe- 
lites (compare Churchill, Mount Lebanon, iii, 51). But 
all their efforts are insufficient to prove the truth of 
these assertions, and the testimonies they allege appear 
absolutely fictitious and destitute of authority. 

There can be no doubt that the Maronites were 


MARONITES 


767 


MARONITES 


brought back to the communion of Rome by the influ- j 
ence of the Crusaders. Even in our day the Maronites, 
“warranted, indeed, both by historical and traditional 
records, allude in terms of pride and satisfaction to the 
service done by their ancestors to the armies of the Cru- 
saders, and estimate in round numbers 50,000 of their 
population as having fallen under the standards of the 
Cross” (Churchill). During the early part of the 12th 
century the communications between the Maronite pa- 
triarch and the papal see were of frequent recurrence, 
and thus the way was easily paved for reunion. But 
though the Maronites joined the communion of Rome 
in this very age, it required three c^iturics more be- 
fore the sturdy mountaineers could be brought to ac- 
knowledge Rome’s supremacy in matters of ecclesias- 
tical discipline, and we are afforded a picture of a Chris- 
tian Church existing for three centuries, “ popish in all 
its forms and doctrines, saving the cardinal point of sub- 
mission to the pope.” They had entered the Romish 
communion on the establishment of the Latin kingdom 
of Jerusalem in the 12th century, but they did not en- 
ter into a formal act of union with Rome until the Coun- 
cil of Florence in 1445, and only formally subscribed to 
the decrees of the Council of Trent in 1736. Mosheim 
observes that the subjection of the Maronites to the 
spiritual jurisdiction of the Roman pontiff was agreed 
to with this express condition, that neither the popes 
nor their emissaries should pretend to change or abolish 
anything that related to the ancient rites, moral pre- 
cepts, or religious opinions of this people; so that, in 
reality, there is nothing to be found among the Maro- 
nites that savors of popery, if we except their attachment 
to the Roman pontiff. It is also certain that there are 
Maronites in Syria who still hold the Church of Rome 
in the greatest aversion and abhorrence (Schaff, Church 
Hist . iii, 783) ; nay, what is still more remarkable, great 
numbers of that nation residing in Italy, even under 
the eye of the pontiff, opposed his authority during the 
17th century, and threw the court of Rome into great 
perplexity. One body of these non-conforming Maro- 
nites retired into the valleys of Piedmont, where they 
joined the Waldenses; another, above six hundred in 
number, with a bishop and several ecclesiastics at their 
head, flew into Corsica, and implored the protection of 
the republic of Genoa against the violence of the in- 
quisitors. Their union with Rome gave the Maronites 
the protection of European powers, especially that of 
the devoted Frank; but when the Franks were expelled 
from Syria, in 1300, by Malek Ashraf, the Maronites 
were compelled to defend their independence against 
the Mameluke sovereigns, and the greater part of them 
became mixed up with the Druses, still keeping up, 
however, their connection with Rome. In the 17th cen- 
tury they placed themselves under the direct protec- 
tion of France, Louis XIV and Louis XV granting them 
“Letters of Protection and for some time the French 
consul at Beirut exercised almost regal sway over them, 
the Maronites regarding themselves as “ the French 
of the East.” In the early part of the 18th century 
the Druses called the Mohammedan family of the She- 
habs to govern Lebanon, and in 1713 the Turks made the 
first attempt to bring the inhabitants under the direct 
rule of a pacha. They resisted successfully, defeating 
the Turks in the battle of Aindara; but in 1756 several 
emirs became Maronites, and, incited by the Maronite 
clergy, showed great favor to their new brethren, there- 
by displeasing the Druses, and provoking a feeling of 
ill-will between the Druses and the Maronites, which 
has not yet subsided. The pachas of Acre, since Jez- 
zar, carefully promoted this misunderstanding, for they 
felt that the tribes of Lebanon, fully united under an en- 
terprising chief, would become dangerous to the Porte, 
let there was no feeling of religious animosity between 
the two nations at this early date, and, whenever polit- 
ical troubles broke out, Druse and Maronite sided in- 
discriminately with both parties. Emir Beshir Shehab 
(1789-1840), although in secret a Maronite, was always 


| surrounded by the most important among the Druses, 
and, whenever he needed help, asked it of them rather 
than of the Maronites. Thus the Druses and the Chris- 
tians were living peaceably side by side until 1831, when 
Syria passed under the rule of Mohammed Ali, and he 
commissioned his son, Ibrahim Pacha, to govern the 
province. Carrying out his father’s enlightened views, 
Ibrahim Pacha applied himself to the improvement of 
the condition of his Christian subjects, and, in spite of 
the opposition of the Mohammedans, they were raised 
to civil and military offices. The Syrians, however, ac- 
customed to the indolent Turkish rule, revolted against 
this energetic and active Egyptian management, and it 
was some time before the insurrection was quelled, the 
Druses being the last to submit. They had asked the 
Maronites to join them, and the latter, who had held 
back when there was some chance of success, now rose 
under the most frivolous pretences. In the mean time, 
in 1840, the allied fleet of England, Austria, and Tur- 
key were employed to secure the restoration of Syria 
to Turkey. Turkish agents were busy among the Mar- 
onites, fanning the flame of rebellion; most of these 
wretches were Englishmen. Finally, France not uphold- 
ing Egypt, Syria was returned to Turkish rule. The 
position of the Christians now became worse than ever, 
and their merchants were obliged to invoke the protec- 
tion of the European consuls against the spoliation of 
the Turks. Lord Stratford of Redeliffe interfered in 
their behalf at Constantinople, and quiet was for a while 
restored. The Turkish government wished to appoint 
a Turkish governor over Lebanon, but the English final- 
ly succeeded in obtaining the appointment of emir Be- 
shir Ivassim Shehab, a Christian. The Druses, how- 
ever, took exception to this arrangement, and when sub- 
sequently the Maronite patriarch attempted to confis- 
cate all civil authority for the benefit of the Maronites, 
they became exasperated. Colonel Rose, the English 
consul-general, wrote on that occasion, “ The Maronite 
clergy show a determination to uphold their supremacy 
in the mountains at the risk of a civil war.” And a 
civil war was the result of this obstinacy. The patri- 
arch (for his functions among the Maronites, see below, 
under III. Religious Status. — I. Clergg) at the same 
time, by his mismanagement, excited the jealousies of 
the Turks, and displeased the English, whom the Druses 
hailed as their friends. 

On Sept. 14, 1841, a first affray took place between the 
Druses and the Christians at Deir el-Kamar; it was re- 
pressed by the efforts of colonel Rose. The Druses rose 
again, however, on Oct. 13, 14, and 15, and the entire 
destruction of the town was only prevented by the arri- 
val from Beirut of colonel Rose and Avub Pacha on 
the 16th. But the war had commenced, and the Druses, 
assisted by the Turks, who wilfully and purposely pro- 
moted the hateful strife, soon got the better of the 
Christians, and, had it not been for the interference of 
the English consul, Turkish fanaticism would have ex- 
tinguished every Christian life on and near Mount Leb- 
anon. Quiet was restored, however, only for a sea- 
son. See Druses. On Aug. 30, 1859, an affray took 
place at Bate-mirri, three hours from Beirut, origina- 
ting in a quarrel between a Druse and a Christian boy, 
in which the Druses were defeated; but the next day, 
Sunday, they renewed Ihe fight in greater numbers, and 
were victorious. The Druses now commenced burn- 
ing the Maronite villages; the Turks fearing the power 
of European governments, Kurchid Pacha put an end 
to the disturbance, yet without punishing the offenders. 
The Maronites, perceiving or believing that a secret un- 
derstanding existed between the Druses and the Turks, 
promptly commenced arming. In April, 1860, Kurchid 
Pacha received despatches from Constantinople; soon 
afterwards Seid Bey Jumblatt assembled a Druse divan 
at Muchtara, and great agitation commenced to pervade 
the Druse districts; ChrLtians were murdered either 
singly or in small parties, and a great number of them, 
leaving their villages, fled to the stronger places of 


MARONITES 


MARONITES 


768 


Zachle and Deir el-Kamar. On May 4 some Druses 
broke into the convent of Amik, near Deir el-Kamar, 
and murdered the superior in his bed. The Maronites 
still sought to obtain peace, but found that they would 
be compelled to meet force with force. Three thousand 
men from Zachle attacked the Druse village of Aindara, 
but were beaten by a much smaller force, their arrange- 
ments, and especially their discipline, being much infe- 
rior to that of the Druses. Kurchid Pacha had a Turk- 
ish camp in the immediate vicinity of Beirut, and 
commanding the plain, but he did not interfere now as 
he had done on the former occasion. On the contrary, 
after encouraging the Maronites by promising them his 
protection against the Druses, he gave the signal of 
their massacre on May 30. One hundred Turkish sol- 
diers and the irregular Turkish cavalry joined the Druses 
in cutting down the Maronites. The Druses would 
have pushed on to Beirfit had they not been prevent- 
ed by the Turks. The European consuls now attempted 
to interfere; they were met with fine protestations by 
the Turkish authorities, and nothing was done ro re- 
press the outrages. At the end of May the Druses 
blockaded Deir el-Kamar, and on June 1 it was attacked 
by 4000 of them. The city surrendered the next day. 
The pacha, after entering the city, upbraided the Maro- 
nites as traitors, rebels, etc., because they had thought 
it wise to defend themselves against the Druses. At 
the same time 2000 Druses, commanded by Seleb Bey 
Jumblatt, took Jezin, and murdered the inhabitants. 
Roman Catholic convents shared the same fate as those 
of the Maronites, being sacked, plundered, and burned: 
in that of Meshmusy alone thirty monks had their 
throats cut; the plunder was enormous. Ali Said Bey’s 
district was given up to fire and the sword. Sidon was 
only saved by the timely arrival of captain Maunsell, 
with his English ship the Firefly, on June 8. In the 
Anti-Lebanon, Said Bey’s sister followed her brother’s 
example and instructions, causing the Christians of 
Hasbeya and Rasheva to be inveigled into the serail 
of the former [dace, under promise of their being taken 
safely to Damascus ; they were there murdered in cold 
elood by the Druses, without distinction of age or sex, 
on June 10. The Turkish soldiers crowded into the 
serail to enjoy the sight, and some of them even took 
part in the butchery. On June 14 Zachle was invested 
and taken and on the 19th Deir el-Kamar met with the 
same fate. The entire male population was ruthlessly 
massacred, and the city given a prey to the flames. 
The surviving widows and children fled to the coasts. 
On June 22 a disturbance broke out at Beirut, in which 
even the Europeans were assailed, but it was repressed 
with the aid of general Kmety (Ismail Pacha). The 
purely Maronite districts of Lebanon now became great- 
ly alarmed, the more as Turkish soldiers were quartered 
there under the pretence of protecting them. The Eu- 
ropean consuls advised together, and drew up a remon- 
strance to the Druse chiefs, which a Mr. Graham was 
sent to deliver to them. Said Bey Jumblatt, however, 
when appealed to, declared only his respect for Eng- 
land and his Avillingness to see this struggle end, but 
added that he had no power over it, and that the Druses 
would not obey him. Most of the Druse sheiks con- 
trived to avoid Mr. Graham, and those he did meet gave 
him but evasive answers. Finally, on July 10, the 
Mohammedans of Damascus rose against the Christians, 
of whom there were some 25,000 in the city. The 
Christian quarter was soon a heap of smouldering ruins, 
beneath which numberless corpses were buried. Wom- 
en, married and unmarried, wore wandering through 
the streets, and were seen to erv for assistance, with 
heads uncovered and feet naked, appealing to the mur- 
derers for mercy. Many were sold as slaves for a few 
piastres, or taken away to the desert. The streets were 
crowded with fanatics, who shouted continually, “ Death 
to the Christians! Let us slaughter the Christians! 
Let not one remain!” Every church and convent was 
plundered and afterwards burned. The silver plate, 


jewelry, and gold coin taken from these sanctuaries 
“ were not allowed to be plundered by the rabble, but 
were removed by soldiers,” These are the words of the 
British consul, Mr. Brant. The consulates of France, 
Russia, Austria, Belgium, Holland, and the United 
States were all burned. Those of England and Prussia 
escaped, as they were not situated in the Christian 
quarter, and they became an asylum for as many as 
were able to reach them. Others Avore saved in great 
numbers in the house of Abd-el-Kader, and in the cita- 
del ; but the governor, Ahmed Pacha, v'as an unmoved 
witness of the devastation, or an accomplice in the laAv- 
lcss deeds of t!?e plundering rabble ( Lond . Rev. 1800, 
Oct., p. 100). As has already been stated in the article 
Druses (q. v.), the French and English governments 
w ere obliged to come to the rescue of the Syrian Chris- 
tians, and the Porte Avas forced to inflict punishment 
upon those whom the Turkish officers had made pliant 
tools for the destruction of the Maronites. On Aug. 3 a 
conference of the great poAvers — Britain, Austria, France, 
Prussia, Russia, and Turkey as well — met, but the meet- 
ing Avas closed without accomplishing any real good. 
All that Avas secured Avas the promise that the Sublime 
Porte bad endeavored and would continue to do its duty; 
but w r hat this duty consisted in, it has been hard to de- 
termine to this day. Only a few r w’ceks previously the 
Christian emirs had been comf ellcd by the Turkish pa- 
cha to testify that the conduct of the Turks was irre- 
proachable, when the emirs felt constrained afterwards 
to acknowledge their extorted perjury. In October, 
finally, the international conference of the plenipoten- 
tiaries of European powers convened at Beirut, and 
croAvned their labors successfully, June 9, 18G1, by a spe- 
cial treaty concerning the administration of the Leba- 
non. See Druses, vol. ii, p. 900, col. 2. 

II. Social Position . — The nation may be considered 
as divided into two classes, the common people and the 
sheiks, by whom must be understood the most eminent 
of the inhabitants, w’ho, from the antiquity of their fam- 
ilies and the opulence of their fortunes, are superior to 
the ordinary class. They all live dispersed in the 
mountains, in villages, hamlets, and even detached 
houses, which is never the case in the plains. The 
Avhole nation consists of cultivators. Every man im- 
proves the little domain he possesses, or farms, with his 
own hands. Even the sheiks live in the same manner, 
and are only distinguished from the rest by a bad pe- 
lisse, a horse, and a few slight advantages in food and 
lodging; they all live frugally, without many enjoy- 
ments, but also with few r wants, as they are little ac- 
quainted with the inventions of luxury. In general, 
the nation is poor, but no one wants necessaries; and if 
beggars arc sometimes seen, they come rather from the 
sea-coast than the country itself. Property is as sacred 
among them as in Europe ; nor do avc hear of robberies 
and extortions so frequently committed by the Turks. 
Travellers may journey there, either by night or by 
day, with a security unknown in any other part of the 
empire, and the stranger is received with hospitality, as 
among the Arabs: it must be owned, however, that the 
Maronites are less generous, and rather inclined to the 
vice of parsimony. Conformably to the doctrines of 
Christianity, they have only one wife, whom they fre- 
quently espouse w ithout having seen, and always with- 
out having been much in her company. Contrary to 
the precepts of that same religion, however, they have 
admitted, or retained, the Arab custom of retaliation, 
and the nearest relation of a murdered person is bound 
to avenge him. From a habit founded on distrust, and 
the political state of the country, even' one, whether 
sheik or peasant, w’alks continually armed with a mus- 
ket and poniards. This is, perhaps, an inconvenience; 
but this advantage results from it, that they have no 
novices in the use of arms among them when it is nec- 
essary to employ them against the Turks. As the coun- 
try maintains no regular troops, every man is obliged to 
join the army in time of Avar; and if this militia Avere 


>169 


MARONITES 


MARONITES 

well conducted, it would be superior to many European 
armies. From accounts taken in late years, the number 
of men fit to bear arms amounts to 35,000. 



Maronite Sheik and his Wife. 


III. Religious Status. — Although the Maronites are 
united with Rome, and though they are perhaps the 
most ultramontane people in the world, they neverthe- 
less retain their distinctive national rites and usages. 

1. Clergy. — The most peculiar of all their institutions 
is undoubtedly the clerical. As we have seen above, 
it is supposed that the founder of the Maronites con- 
stituted himself a patriarch, and this position remains 
the highest dignity among them. It is true they admit 
the supremacy of Home, but for the home government 
of the Church the patriarch is the highest authority, 
and in his election, as well as in the selection of all the 
clergy, the Maronite exercises his own private judg- 
ment, independent of the papal power at Rome. Here 
it may not be improper to state that the patriarch is at 
present expected to furnish every tenth year a report of 
the state of his patriarchate. Associated with the pa- 
triarch in the ecclesiastical government of the Maro- 
nites are twelve bishops, but of the latter four are titu- 
lar, or inpartibus. The patriarch himself is chosen by 
the bishops in secret conclave, and by ballot. “The 
debates usually last for many days, and even weeks; at 
last, when the choice is made, the bishops present 
kneel down and kiss the new patriarch’s hands; the 
patriarch immediately writes letters to all the chief no- 
bles of the mountain informing them of his nomination. 
The latter lose no time in assembling to pay him their 
respects and make their obeisance. A pelisse of honor 
shortly afterwards arrives for the patriarch from the 
governor of Lebanon. Fires, and rejoicing, and illu- 
mination extend throughout the whole range of the 
Maronite districts; a petition is now drawn up to be 
sent to the pope, praying him to confirm the choice 
which has just been made, and signed by the principal 
chiefs. It is open, however, to the clergy, or any party, 
to protest against the nomination. . . . The pope, 
however, never fails at once to confirm a selection 
which has the support of the feudal aristocracy and 
principal clergy of Lebanon” (Churchill, iii,78). In true 
puerile affectation and presumptuous inference, the pa- 
triarch of the Maronites, who is styled the Patriarch of 
Antioch, usually takes the name of Peter , intended to 
denote an official descent from the apostle Peter. “ II is 
power,” says Churchill, “ is despotic, and from his deci- 
sion there is no appeal, either in temporal or spiritual 
affairs; even the pope’s legate, who resides constant- 
ly in Lebanon, and is supposed to superintend all the 
ecclesiastical proceedings of the Maronite Church, has 
no influence over the patriarch bevond what may be 
V.— C c c * 


obtained by personal superiority of character. . . . The 
income of the patriarch may amount to about £5000 a 
year, derived principally from lands set apart exclusive- 
ly for the office, lie obtains likewise a sixth of the 
revenue of the bishops.” “ The patriarch of the Maro- 
nites,” says Madden ( Turkish Empire , ii, 160), “formerly 
exercised very extensive power not only of a religious, 
but of a civil kind, for the protection of his people, who 
in those times possessed many important immunities 
and franchises, which, since 1842, have been either ab- 
rogated or assimilated to the privileges enjoyed by the 
Roman Catholic subjects of the Porte. But the Maro- 
nites still, in all great emergencies and dangers at the 
hands of their old and constant enemies the Druses, are 
wont to look for counsel and guidance to their patriarch 
rather than to the emir, their nominal civil protector. 
The patriarch, in the winter, resides ordinarily at Kes- 
ruan, and in the summer at the monastery of Canobin, 
in the valley of Tripoli, supposed to be, on very insuffi- 
cient grounds, where the venerated Maron had fixed his 
abode.” The eight regular bishoprics of the Maronite 
Church are Aleppo, Tripoli, Jebail, Baalbek, Damascus, 
Cyprus, Beirfit, Tyre, and Sidon. The incumbents of 
this, the second office, are, like the patriarch, possessed 
of stated revenues, that enable them to live in com- 
parative affluence. Their election takes place as fol- 
lows : “ When a bishop dies, the patriarch writes to the 
principal people of the village under the jurisdiction of 
the deceased prelate, requesting them to assemble to- 
gether and nominate a priest to the vacant see ; should 
there be a unanimity of voices, the patriarch confirms 
their selection ; if, on the contrary, they caunot agree, 
he desires them to send him the names of three priests, 
and from this list he selects one for the bishopric.” The 
inferior clergy of the Maronites, who have no fixed 
sources of income, subsist on the produce of their mass- 
es, the bounty of their congregations, and, above all, on 
the labor of their hands, i. e. they exercise trades, or cul- 
tivate small plots of ground, and are thus industriously 
employed for the maintenance of their families : it is 
one of the peculiar characteristics of the Eastern clergy 
that they are not strangers to the married state. The 
Maronite priests marry as in the first ages of the Chuwch, 
but their wives must be maidens, and not widows; nor 
can they marry a second time. 

The poverty to which the Maronite clergy is doomed 
is, however, recompensed to them by the great respect 
the people award them. “ Their vanity is incessantly 
flattered; whoever approaches them, whether rich or 
poor, great or small, is anxious to kiss their hands, which 
they fail not to present. ... It is perhaps to the potent 
influence of the clergy that we must attribute the mild 
and simple manners generally prevailing among the 
Maronites, for violent crimes are extremely rare among 
them. Retribution immediately follows every offence, 
however slight, and the clergy are rigorous in prevent- 
ing every appearance of disorder or scandal among the 
members of their flocks. Before a young man can mar- 
ry he must obtain the consent of his pastor and of his 
bishop. If they disapprove of the marriage they pro- 
hibit it, and the Maronite has no remedy. If an un- 
married girl become a mother, her seducer is compelled 
to marry her, whatever be the inequality of their con- 
ditions; if he refuses he is reduced to obedience by 
measures of severity, fasting, imprisonment, and even 
bastinadoing. This influence of the clergy extends to 
every detail of civil and domestic life. The Maronite 
who should appeal from the decision of the clergy to 
the civil authority of the emirs would not be listened to 
by them, and the act would be regarded by the appel- 
lant’s bishop as a transgression to be visited with con- 
dign punishment” (Kelly). The number of Maronite 
priests is said to be 1200, and the number of their 
churches 400. 

2. Monastics.— Of the more than 200 convents scat- 
tered through Lebanon, nearly one half belong to the 
Maronites, and contain from 20,000 to 25,000 inmates, 


MASONITES 


770 


MAROT 


who all wear a distinctive costume, and follow the rule I 
of St. Anthony. They are divided into three different 
congregations : those of St. lsaiali, those of the Alipines, I 
and those of the Libancse or Baladites; besides which 
there arc also a number of nunneries. Their dress, like 
that of all Greek monastics, consists of a black frock- 
coat, reaching to the knees, confined round the waist 
by a leathern girdle, and surmounted by a hood, which 
can be drawn over the head. This attire is called a 
“cacooly.” The temporal affairs of the convents are j 
directed by a superior monk, called Reis el-Aam, a sort 
of accountant-general, who regulates all the disburse- 
ments of his fraternity. “Lest the monks should form 
any particular local attachments, they are removed from 
convent to convent every six months, in a kind of rota- 
tion. They are, in general, exceedingly ignorant, but 
skilftd in such trades as are necessary for their own 
wants and necessities.” “ The monks, by the rules of 
them order, are not allowed to smoke or eat meat. The 
latter, however, is permitted in case of sickness, by the 
order of the physician and the consent of the superior. 
In making long journeys the bishop may give the same 
permission, provided they shall not indulge in it on the 
days in which its use is forbidden by the canons of the 
Church. Much stress is laid on the nunneries being 
built at a distance from the convents; and no nun or 
woman is allowed to enter a convent, nor a monk to 
enter a nunnery, except on occasions of great necessity, 
and with strict limitation. The monks are employed 
in their prayers, and in various occupations of industry ; 
the lay-brothers tilling the lands of the convents, mak- 
ing shoes, weaving, begging, etc. ; and the priests ap- 
plying themselves to study, copying books, and other 
matters befitting the dignity of their office. The nuns 
are taught to read and sew. Both the monks and nuns 
vow the three conditions of a monastic life — namely, 
chastity, poverty, and obedience ; and, taken as a whole, 
both are extremely ignorant and bigoted.” 

IV. Peculiar Religious Usages. — Like the Bohemians 
and the Greek Christians, the Maronites administer the 
sacraments in both kinds, dipping the bread in wine be- 
fore its distribution. “ The host is a small round loaf, 
unleavened, of the thickness of a finger, and about the 
size of a crown-piece. On the top is the impression 
of a seal, which is eaten by the priest, who cuts the re- 
mainder into small pieces, and putting it into the wine 
in the cup, administers to each person with a spoon, 
which serves the whole congregation” (Kelly, Syria 
and the Holy Land , as compiled from Burekhardt, etc., 
p. 92). They also keep up public nightly prayers, 
which are attended by women as well as by men; have 
a peculiar commemoration of the dead in the three 
weeks preceding Lent, and their whole office during 
Lent is of immense length and peculiar to themselves. 
Indeed their ritual and liturgy differ in many respects 
from those of the Latin Church. The mass is recited 
in the Syriac language, with the exception of the Epis- 
tle and Gospel, and some prayers, which are recited in 
Arabic, the only language understood by the people, the 
Syriac being simply used in the services of the Church 
and the. offices of the priests. 

Y. Educational Status. — The Maronite clergy had for- 
merly lands at Rome, the revenues of which were ap- 
propriated to keeping up a seminary for the education 
of young Christians from the Lebanon; and from this 
high school came forth some illustrious Romanists, c. g. 
Gabriel Sionita, Abr. Echollcnsis,the Assemani. etc. The 
resources of this appropriation were confiscated by the 
French during the first revolutionary war. Since then 
the court of Rome has granted them a hospitium at Rome, 
to which they may send several of their youth to receive 
a gratuitous education. It would seem that this insti- 
tution might introduce among them ,thc ideas and arts 
of Europe; but the pupils of this school, limited to an 
education purely monastic, bring home nothing but the 
Italian language, which is of no use, and a stock of the- 
ological learning from which as little advantage can be 


I derived; they accordingly soon assimilate with the rest. 
Nor has a greater change been operated by the three or 
I four missionaries maintained by the French Capuchins 
at Gazir, Tripoli, and Beirut. Their labors consist in 
preaching in their church, in instructing children in the 
Catechism, Tbomas a Kempis, and the Psalms, and in 
teaching them to read and write. Formerly the Jesu- 
its had two missionaries at their house at Antura, but 
the Lazarites have now succeeded them in their mis- 
| sion. The most valuable advantage that has resulted 
from these labors is that the art of writing has become 
more common among the Maronites, and rendered them, 
in that country, what the Copts are in Egypt, that is, 
they are in possession of all the posts of writers, intend- 
ants, and kaiyas among the Turks, and especially of 
those among their neighbors, the Druses. “ But, though 
the ability to read and write be thus general among the 
Maronites, it must not be inferred that they arc a liter- 
ary’' people. Far from it ; the book-learning of all class- 
es, both clergy and laity, can hardly be rated too low. 
There are native printing-presses at work in some of 
the monasteries, but the sheets they issue are all of an 
ecclesiastical kind — chiefly portions of the Scripture or 
mass-books in Syriac, which few even of the clergy un- 
derstand, though they repeat them by rote” (Kellv, p. 
97). 

The American Protestant churches, so ably repre- 
sented by the Rev. W. M. Thomson and others, have 
done already a noble work for Syria. The Maronite, of 
course, has not been forgotten, and his educational dis- 
advantages it has been sought to ameliorate by bring- 
ing the influence of American schools to his very door. 
Tristram ( Land of Israel [Lond. 1865], p. 22), who cites 
the opinion of the noted pacha Daud Oghli, writes the 
following as from the mouth of the illustrious Mus- 
sulman ruler of Mount Lebanon: “He spoke with much 
warmth and interest of the American mission-schools; 
and it was gratifying to hear his independent testimony 
to the importance and solid nature of the work they are 
carrying on, especially among the Maronites, with whom 
he considered they have met with greater success than 
with any any other sect.” 

See Churchill, Mount Lebanon (Lond. 1853, 3 vols. 8vo), 
iii, chap, v-viii; id. Druse and Maronite (Lond. 18G4, 
8vo) ; Kelly, Syria and the Holy Land (compiled from 
Burekhardt and others), chap, viii; Guys, Bey rut ct le 
Liban (Par. 18G0) ; Madden, Turkish Empire , ii, ch. vi ; 
Ritter, Erdkunde, xvii, 744 ; Robinson, Palestine , ii, 572 ; 
Comte de Paris, Dumas et le Liban , p. 75-78 ; Neale, IHst. 
Holy East. Ch. (Introd.), i, 153 sq. ; Cowper, Sects in 
Syria (Lond. I860) ; Schnurrer, De eccl. Spurmit. (Tiib. 
1810 and 1811); Silbernagl, Veifassung u. gegemcar- 
tiger Bestand sdmmtlicher Kirchen des Orients (Lands- 
hut, 1SG5); Ffoulkes, Christendom's Divisions, ii, eh. ix; 
Xew-Englander , 18GI, p. 32; Westminster Review, 18G2 
(July). 

Marot, Clement, a French poet, known in the the- 
ological world for his translation of the Psalms into 
French verse, was born at Chalons hi 1195. At an early 
age he commenced writing poetry, and at the recom- 
mendation of Francis I became a member of the house- 
hold of Margaret, duchess of Aletn^on. lie afterwards 
accompanied Francis I to Italy, and was wounded and 
taken prisoner at the battle of Pavia. On his return to 
France he wrote poetry for Diana of Poitiers, the king’s 
mistress, who showed him favor; but, having presumed 
too much upon his familiarity with her, she discarded 
him, and he was soon after put in prison, through her 
agency as some have believed, in 1525. Margaret pro- 
cured his release and it appears likely that Marot’s 
intercourse with that princess caused him to incline 
towards the- Reformation, although he is not known 
to have openly embraced it. When, in 1533, Ge'rard 
Roussel preached in Paris, after the dismissal of the fa- 
natic Sorbonnist Beda, satirical verses against the Prot- 
estants were posted on the walls; Marot answered in 
the same tone ; and when the persecution broke out, in 


MAROTII 


771 


MARQUESAS ISLES 


the spring of 1534, prohibited books being found in his 
dwelling, Marot was compelled to flee to Bearn, whence 
he afterwards proceeded to Ferrara, the residence of the 
duchess Renata of Este. In 1536 Francis I recalled him 
to his court. It is said that he had recanted, but this 
is not proved. In 1538 lie commenced, with the aid of 
the learned Yatablus, the translation of the Psalms, 
which was very warmly received ; it became the fashion 
at court to sing them, and Charles V himself gave ^la- 
rot a reward of two hundred doubloons. The Sorbonne, 
however, condemned the book, while the pope caused it 
to be reprinted at Home in 1542. Marot, in the mean 
time, was, on account of the condemnation of the Sor- 
bonne, obliged, in 1543, to flee to Geneva, where he was 
well received by Calvin, and invited to continue his 
translation of the Psalms, which was first used in public 
worship at Granson, Switzerland, Dec. 1, 1540. Gene- 
va, however, did not long please Marot, accustomed to 
the gayety of the French court; and, after remaining a 
while at Chambery. he went to Turin, where he died in 
154-1. The first known edition of Marot’s translation 
appeared towards the end of the y car 1541 ; it contained 
thirty psalms, a poetical translation of the Lord’s Prayer, 
etc. A second edition, containing thirty psalms, with the 
music, and the liturgy of Geneva, was published by Cal- 
vin in 1542. The next year another edition appeared, 
containing twenty more psalms, dedicated “to the ladies 
of France,” and accompanied by the well-known preface 
of Calvin ; this, as well as the subsequent editions, con- 
tains the liturgy; the catechism, the reformed confession 
of faith, and prayers were at sundry times added to others. 
The remainder of the Psalms was translated by Beza 
(1550-52), and in 1552 appeared the first complete 
Psalter, with Bcza’s eloquent appeal “ to the Church of 
our Lord.” The popularity of these Psalms was so great 
that, after the Colloquy of Poissv, on Oct. 19, 1561, 
Charles IX gave the Lyons printer, Anton Vincent, the 
privilege of printing them. In the 17th century the 
translation was revised by Conrart, first secretary of the 
French Academy, and the learned Anton Labastide. 
This revision, approved by the Synod of Charenton in 
1679, was admitted in the churches of Geneva, Xeufcha- 
tel, and Ilesse, while the ancient text remained in use 
in the French villages. In 1701 Beausobre and Lenfant, 
at Berlin, undertook a revision, which was much op- 
posed, especially by country congregations. See Lex- 
rant. The modern revision was accepted without dif- 
ficulty. Originally, the Psalms of Marot were sung to 
popular tunes; but when they came to be used in the 
Church it was found necessary to adapt a more solemn 
music to them. William Frank, however, who is consid- 
ered the original composer of the tunes, wrote only a 
few. The Lyons edition of 1561 contains some by Louis 
Bourgeois; those of 1562 and 1565 have some by Claude 
Gondimel, the teacher of Palestrina, in four voices. See 
Anguis, Vie de Marot , prefixed to his (Euvres (1823, 5 
vols. 8vo) ; Jan Suet, Leven en Bedriff von C. Marot 
(1655); Sainte-Beuve, Tableau de la Poesie Frangaise 
au sixieme siecle ; Christian Review, vol. ix; Paleario, 
Life and Times , ii, 92 sq. ; Herzog, Real-Eneyklopadie , ix, 
115 ; Hoefer, Xouv. Ring. Gener. xxxiii, 924. (J. N. P.) 

Ma'roth (Ileb. Maroth ', bitter fountains; 

Sept, ocvvai , Vulg. amar Undines'), a place apparently 
not far from Jerusalem, on the route of the invading 
Assyrian army from Lachish (Mic. i. 12 ; see Henderson, 
Comment . ad loc.). Schwarz ( Palest . p. 107) conjectures 
it was identical with Maaratk (Josh, xv, 59) ; but this 
name is very different in the Hebrew. 

Marouf. See MaivOf. 

Marozia, a lloman lady of noble birth, but of infa- 
mous reputation in the scandalous chronicles of her age, 
daughter of the equally notorious Theodora (q. vA, was 
born near the close of the 9th century. On the dissolu- 
tion of all the moral ties of public and private life which 
the war of factions occasioned in Home in the 10th cen- 
tury, Marozia, by her beauty and her intrigues, con- 


trived to exercise great influence. She was married 
three times, and, according to Luitprand, had skill and 
address enough to procure the deposition and death of 
the pope, John X, and the elevation of her son, the fruit, 
it is alleged, of adulterous intercourse with pope Sergius 
III, to the pontificate, under the name of John XI. 
This testimony of Luitprand, who wrote some time after 
the period, is considered doubtful by Muratori and by 
Dr. Pertz. See, however, our articles John X and John 
XI. In her latter years Marozia suffered the punish- 
ment of her early crimes. She was imprisoned by her 
own son Alberic, and died in prison at Rome in 938. 

Marquesas Isles, frequently applied to the whole 
Mendana Archipelago, refers strictly only to the south- 
ern group of the Mendana Archipelago, in Polynesia, 
the northern group bearing the name of the Washing- 
ton Islands. They are situated in lat. 7° 30'- 10° 30' 
S., long. 138°-140° 20' W., have an area of 500 English 
square miles, and a population of 12,000, and were dis- 
covered by Mendana de Neyra, a Spanish navigator, in 
1596 (the Washington Isles were discovered in 1791 by 
Ingraham, an American). The isles were named after 
the viceroy of Peru, Marquesas de Mendoza. They are 
I of volcanic origin, and are in general covered with moun- 
! tains, rising in some cases to about 3500 feet above the 
I sea-level ; the soil is rich and fertile, and the climate hot, 
but healthy. The coasts are difficult of access, on ac- 
count of the surrounding reefs and the sudden changes 
of the wind. Cocoa-nut, bread-fruit, and papaw trees 
are grown, and bananas, plantains, and sugar-cane are 
cultivated. 

The inhabitants are of the same race as those of the 
I Society and Sandwich islands. They are well propor- 
tioned and handsome, but degraded in their religion and 
in many of their customs. They exhibit some confused 
notion of a divine being, whom they call Etooa; but 
they give the same name to the spirit of a priest, of a 
king, or any of his relations, and generally to all Euro- 
peans, as superior beings. The principal appearance of 
a religious feeling is found in their reverence for any- 
thing pronounced to be “ taboo” or sacred, which a priest 
only can extend to any general object, but which every 
person may effect upon his own property by merely de- 
claring that the spirit of his father, or of some king, or 
of any other person, reposes in the spot or article which 
he wishes to preserve. They have a universal belief in 
charms (which they name t; kaha”) which kill, by im- 
perceptible means and slow degrees, those against whom 
they are directed, and which the priests chiefly are un- 
derstood to be able to render effectual. Some reference 
to a future life appears in their funeral rites. The 
corpse is washed, and laid upon a platform under a piece 
of new cloth ; and, to obtain a safe passage for the de- 
ceased through the lower regions, a great feast is given 
by the family to the priests and the relations. The 
body continues to be rubbed for several months with 
cocoa-nut oil, till it becomes quite hard and incorrupti- 
ble ; and a second feast, exactly twelve months after the 
first, is then given to thank the gods for having granted 
to the deceased a safe arrival to the other world. The 
corpse is then broken in pieces, packed in a box, and 
deposited in the moral or burying-plaee, which no wom- 
an is permitted to approach upon the pain of death. 

On some of the islands there are missionary stations; 
but, although cannibalism has been abolished, the efforts 
of the missionaries have not otherwise met with much 
success. The Gospel was introduced in the Marquesas 
Isles by the ‘‘London Missionary Society” in 1797. The 
first missionary was William Crook, a man of great zeal 
and untiring energy. Though greatly discouraged by 
the ignorance and rudeness of the natives, he pushed the 
good work, and accomplished much, notwithstanding his 
failure to secure converts. In 1825, when three teach- 
ers came to his aid, it was found that the natives had 
destroyed many of their idols, and were improving in 
morals. In 1828 the mission was abandoned: but in 1831 
Mr. Darling, then a missionary to Tahiti, visited the isles, 


MARRIAGE 


MARQUETTE 


and gave the home society such glowing accounts of 
the improvements that had been wrought by their ear- 
lier efforts, that the mission was re-established in 1833 
by Mr. Darling, assisted by Messrs. Rodgerson and Stall- 
worthy, and four natives from Tahiti; but in 1841 the 
work was again abandoned. The Romanists gained a 
footing in 1838; and when in 18*12 the isles were placed 
under French protection, the Roman Catholics secured 
most favorable terms for their missionaries. Their work, 
however, remains thus far without fruit. See Aikman, 
Cyclop, of Christian Missions, p. G8. 

Marquette, Jacques, a celebrated French mission- 
ary and discoverer of the 17th century, was born at 
Laon, in Picardy ; entered the Order of the Jesuits : be- 
came a missionary, and travelled and labored several 
years in Canada and other regions. He was a member 
of the first exploring party to the Mississippi River, and 
wrote a narrative of the expedition (Paris, 1G81). “ He 
writes,” says professor Sparks, “ as a scholar, and as a 
man of careful observation and practical sense. In ev- 
ery point of view, this tract is one of the most interest- 
ing among those that illustrate the early history of 
America.” On his return from the Mississippi he re- 
sumed his missionary labors among theMiamis on Lake 
Michigan, and died there in 1675. — Charlevoix, Ilistoire 
de la Xouvelle France , s. v. ; More'ri, Dietionnaire Ilis - 
tongue, s. v. ; Bacqueville de la Potherie, Hist, de VA mer- 
iqne Septentrionale (Paris, 1872, 4 vols. 12mo); Sparks, 
Amer. Biog. vol. x, 1st series, s. v. ; Hoefer, Xouv. Biog. 
Gene rale , xxxiii, 942. 

Marquez, Juax, a Spanish theologian, was born at 
Madrid in 15G4; studied at the University of Salaman- 
ca ; joined the Augustines of Madrid, and attained to the 
first dignities of his order. He died at Salamanca Feb. 
17, 1G21. He has written El gobernador Christiano , de 
ducido de las vidos de Moysen y Josue, principes del pue- 
blo a Dios (Salamanca, 1G12, 1 G 1 9, 1G34, fol.) :—Los dos 
Estados de la espiritual Gerustdem sobre los Psalmos 
exxv y cxxxvi (Medina, IG03, and Salamanca, 1610, 4to) : 
— Origin de los Padros Ermitaiios de son A gust in, y su 
rerdadera institucion antes del gran concilio Lateranense 
(Salamanca, 1G18, fol.) : — Vida del V. P . F. Alonso de 
Ilorozco (Madrid, 1648, 8vo). He left in manuscript 
some comedies and several theological treatises.— Nich- 
olas Antonio, Bibliotheca Scriptorum Hispanicv , iii, 734 ; 
Hoefer, Xouv. Biog, Generale, vol. xxxiii, s. v. 

Marquis, James E., a Presbyterian minister, was 
born near Cross Creek, Pa., Nov. 20, 1815 ; was educated 
in Jefferson College, Canonsburg, Pa. ; studied divinity 
in the Western Theological Seminary, Alleghany, Pa.; 
was licensed by Washington Presbytery in 1844, and 
ordained by Sidney Presbyter}' in 1848. During the 
first ten years of his ministry he labored successively in 
the churches of Kenton, Mansfield, Shelby, and Ontario, 
Ohio. In 1858 -he removed to Bloomington, 111., and 
commenced to labor as presbyterial missionary for the 
presbyteries of Peoria and Bloomington. In 1859 he 
accepted the united charge of the churches of Salem, 
Brunswick, and Elmwood, which he retained until his 
death, Feb. 22, 1863. Mr. Marquis was noted for his 
faithfulness, devotion, anil purity of life. He was emi- 
nently successful as a pastor ; earnest and instructive as 
a preacher. See Wilson, Presb. Hist, Almanac, 1864, p. 
171. (J.L.S.) 

Marquis, Thomas, a Presbyterian minister, was 
born near Winchester, Va., in 1753. Ilis early life was 
subjected to many deprivations. He received an ordi- 
nary common-school education, prosecuted his classical 
studies, amid painful vicissitudes, at Buffalo and Can- 
onsburg, and in April, 1793, was licensed to preach; 
labored one year as a licentiate, and in 1794 was ordain- 
ed and installed pastor oft he church at Cross Creek, Pa. 
In 1796 he became an active missionary to the Indians, 
travelling down the Alleghany, and the lower waters of 
the Muskingum and Scioto rivers. In 1802 he became 
a member of the executive committee of the Missionary 


Board west of the Alleghany Mountains. The remain- 
ing twenty years of his ministry were filled up with 
multiplied labors and varied but unusual success. He 
died Sept. 27, 1829. Mr. Marquis was a laborious and 
faithful pastor, eminently wise in counsel, and apt in 
introducing and enforcing religious duty. As a preach- 
er he was composed and earnest, extremely logical in 
style, and entirely perspicuous in the expression of 
thought. See Wilson, Presb. Hist. A Imanac , 1864, p. 1 71 ; 
Sprague, A nnals of the A mer. Pulpit, iv, 83-89. (J. L. S.) 

Marracci, an Italian priest, eminent as an Oriental 
scholar, was born at Lucca in 1612, and for years held 
the professorship of Arabic in the College della Sapien- 
za in Rome. He died in 1700. His principal work is 
an excellent edition of the Koran in Arabic, v ith a 
Latin version (1698). “This,” says Hallara, in his In- 
troduction to the Literature of Europe, “is still esteem- 
ed the best.” — Thomas, Diet, of Biog. and Mythol. s. v. 

Marriage. This relation is in a general way rep- 
resented by several Hebrew words, the most distinctive 
of which are several forms of “jrn, chathan', to give in 
marriage; Gr. yctpoc, a wedding. It is very remarka- 
ble, however, as well as significant, that there is no sin- 
gle word in the whole Hebrew Scriptures for the estate 
of marriage, or to express the abstract idea of wedlock, 
matrimony , as the German Ehe does. It is only in the 
post-exilian period, when the laws of marriage had grad- 
ually developed themselves, that we meet with the ab- 
stract and JfiYl —Z,tvyoQ {Jebamoth,\ i, 5; Kid - 

dushin, i, 2) ; the former denoting the legal, and the lat- 
ter the natural side of matrimony. But even then no 
such definition of marriage is to be found in the Hebrew 
writings as we find in the Roman law, “Nuptial sunt 
eonjunetio maris et femime et consortium omnis vita?, 
di vini et hutnani juris eommunieatio” {Dig. lib. xxiii, 
tit. 2, “De ritu nupt.”). In the present article, which 
treats of marriage as found among the Hebrew race, we 
shall freely avail ourselves of those found in the Diction- 
aries of Kitto and Smith. See Wedlock. 

I. Origin , Primitive Relations, and General View of 
the Married State. — 1. The institution of marriage is 
founded on the requirements of man’s nature, and dates 
from the time of his original creation. It may be said 
to have been ordained by God, in as far as man’s nature 
was ordained by him ; hut its formal appointment was 
the work of man, and it has ever been in its essence a 
natural and civil institution, though admitting of the 
infusion of a religious element into it. This view of 
marriage is exhibited in the historical account of its 
origin in the book of Genesis; the peculiar formation of 
man’s nature is assigned to the Creator, who, seeing it 
“ not good for man to be alone,” determined to form an 
“ help meet for him” (ii, 18), and accordingly completed 
the work by the addition of the female to the male (i, 
27). The necessity for this step appears from the words 
used in the declaration of the divine counsel. Man, as 
an intellectual and spiritual being, would not have been 
a worthy representative of the Deity on earth, so long 
as he lived in solitude, or in communion only with be- 
ings either high above him in the scale of creation, as 
angels, or far beneath him, as the beasts of the field. It 
was absolutely necessary, not only for his comfort and 
happiness, but still more for the perfection of the divine 
work, that he should have a “ help meet for him,” or, as 
the words more properly mean, “the exact counterpart 
of himself” (io52 3 “172, Septuag. fio/fibz tear avruv; 
Vulg. adjutorium simile sibi, “a help meet for him”) — a 
being capable of receiving and reflecting his thoughts 
and affections. No sooner was the formation of woman 
effected, than Adam recognised in that act the will of 
the Creator as to man's social condition, and immediate- 
ly enunciated the important statement, to which his 
posterity might refer as the charter of marriage in all 
succeeding ages, “Therefore shall a man leave his fa- 
ther and his mother, and shall cleave unto his wife ; and 


MARRIAGE 


773 


MARRIAGE 


they shall be one flesh” (ii, 24). From these words, 
coupled with the circumstances attendant on the forma- 
tion of the first woman, we may evolve the following 
principles: (1) The unity of man and wife, as implied 
in her being formed out of man, and as expressed in the 
words “ one flesh (2) the indissolubleness of the mar- 
riage bond, except on the strongest grounds (compare 
Matt, xix, 9) ; (3) monogamy, as the original law of 
marriage, resulting from there having been but one 
original couple, as is forcibly expressed in the subse- 
quent reference to this passage by our Lord (“they 
twain,” Matt, xix, 5) and St. Paul (“ tico shall be one 
flesh,” 1 Cor. vi, 16) ; (4) the social equality of man and 
wife, as implied in the terms ish and ishshah , the one 
being the exact correlative of the other, as well as in 
the words “help meet for him;” (5) the subordination 
of the wife to the husband, consequent upon her subse- 
quent formation (1 Cor. xi, 8, 9; 1 Tim. ii, 13) ; and (6) 
the respective duties of man and wife, as implied in the 
words “ help meet for him.” 

2. The introduction of sin into the world modified to 
a certain extent the mutual relations of man and wife. 
As the blame of seduction to sin lay on the latter, the 
condition of subordination was turned into subjection, 
and it was said to her of her husband, “he shall rule 
over thee” (Gen. iii, 16) — a sentence which, regarded as 
a prediction, has been strikingly fulfilled in the position 
assigned to women in Oriental countries; but which, re- 
garded as a rule of life, is fully sustained by the voice 
of nature and by the teaching of Christianity (1 Cor. 
xiv, 34 ; Eph. v, 22, 23 ; 1 Tim. ii, 12). The evil effects 
of the fall were soon apparent in the corrupt usages of 
marriage : the unity of the bond was impaired by po- 
lygamy, which appears to have originated among the 
Cainites (Gen. iv, 19) ; and its purity was deteriorated 
by the promiscuous intermarriage of the “ sons of God” 
with the “ daughters of men,” i. e. of the Sethites with 
the Cainites, in the days preceding the flood (Gen. vi, 2). 

3. For the history of marriage in the later ages, see 
below. One question may properly be considered here, 

i. e. celibacy . Shortly before the Christian a3ra an im- 
portant change took place in the views entertained on 
the question of marriage as affecting the spiritual and 
intellectual parts of man’s nature. Throughout the Old- 
Testament period marriage was regarded as the indis- 
pensable duty of every man, nor was it surmised that 
there existed in it any drawback to the attainment of 
the highest degree of holiness. In the interval that 
elapsed between the Old and New Testament periods, a 
spirit of asceticism had been evolved, probably in an- 
tagonism to the foreign notions with which the Jews 
were brought into close and painful contact. 'The Es- 
senes were the first to propound any doubts as to the 
propriety of marriage; some of them avoided it alto- 
gether, others availed themselves of it under restric- 
tions (Josephus, War, ii, 8, § 2, 13). Similar views were 
adopted by the Therapeutic, and at a later period by the 
Gnostics (Burton’s Lectures, i, 214) ; thence they passed 
into the Christian Church, forming one of the distinc- 
tive tenets of the Encratitcs (Burton, ii, 161), and finally 
developing into the system of Monacliism. The philo- 
sophical tenets on which the prohibition of marriage 
was based arc generally condemned in Col. ii, 16-23, and 
specifically in 1 Tim. iv, 3. The general propriety of 
marriage is enforced on numerous occasions, and absti- 
nence from it is commended only in cases where it was 
rendered expedient by the calls of duty (Matt, xix, 12 ; 
1 Cor. vii, 8, 26). With regard to remarriage after the 
death of one of the parties, the Jews, in common with 
other nations, regarded abstinence from it, particularly 
in the case of a widow, laudable, and a sign of holiness 
(Luke ii, 36, 7 ; Josephus, Ant. xvii, 13, 4; xviii, 6, 6); 
but it is clear, from the example of Josephus (Vit, 76), 
that there was no prohibition even in the case of a 
priest. In the Apostolic Church remarriage was re- 
garded as occasionally undesirable (1 Cor. vii, 40), and 
as an absolute disqualification for holy functions, wheth- 


er in a man or woman (1 Tim. iii, 2, 12 ; v, 9) ; at the 
same time it is recommended in the case of young wid- 
ows (1 Tim. v, 14). 

II. Mode of selecting a Bride, Betrothal, and Marriage- 
price. — 1. Imitating the example of the Father of the 
Universe, who provided the man he made with a wife, 
fathers from the beginning considered it both their duty 
and prerogative to find or select wives for their sons 
(Gen. xxiv, 3; xxxviii, 6). In the absence of the fa- 
ther, the selection devolved upon the mother (Gen. xxi, 
21). Even in cases where the wishes of the son were 
consulted, the proposals were made by the father (Gen. 
xxxiv, 4, 8) ; and the violation of this parental prerog- 
ative on the part of the son was “a grief of mind” to the 
father (Gen. xxvi, 35). The proposals were generally 
made by the parents of the young man, except when 
there was a difference of rank ; in such a case the nego- 
tiations proceeded from the father of the maiden (Exod, 

ii, 21), and when accepted by the parents on both sides, 
sometimes also consulting the opinion of the adult broth- 
ers of the maiden (Gen. xxiv, 51 ; xxxiv, 1 1), the mat- 
ter was considered as settled without requiring the con- 
sent of the bride. The case of Rebekah (Gen. xxiv, 58) 
forms no exception to this general practice, inasmuch as 
the alliance had already been concluded between Elea- 
zar and Laban, and the question put to her afterwards 
was to consult her opinion, not about it, but about the 
time of her departure. Before, however, the marriage- 
contract was finally concluded, a price (*rF2) was stip- 
ulated for, which the young man had to pay to the fa- 
ther of the maiden (Gen. xxxi, 15 ; xxxiv, 12), besides 
giving presents (“jnE) to her relations (Gen. xxiv, 53; 
xxxiv, 12). This marriage -price was regarded as a 
compensation due to the parents for the loss of service 
which they sustained by the departure of their daugh- 
ter, as well as for the trouble and expense which they 
incurred in her education. Hence, if the proffered young 
man had not the requisite compensation, he was obliged 
to make it up in sendee (Gen. xxix, 20; Exod. ii, 21 ; 

iii, 1). Some, indeed, deny that a price had to be paid 
down to the father for parting with his daughter, and 
appeal for support to Gen. xxxi, 15, where, according to 
them, “ the daughters of Laban make it a matter of 
complaint, that their father bargained for the services 
of Jacob in exchange for their hands, just as if they 
were strangers thus showing that the sale of daugh- 
ters was regarded as an unjust act and a matter of dom- 
plaint (Saalschlltz, Das Mosaische JRecht. p. 733). But, 
on a closer inspection of the passage in question, it will 
be seen that Rachel and Leah do not at all complain of 
any indignity heaped on them by being sold just as if 
they were strangers, but, on the contrary, mention the 
sale to corroborate their statement that they are no 
longer their father’s property, have no more any portion 
in his possession, and are now regarded by him as stran- 
gers, since, according to the usual custom, they have 
been duly sold to their husband, and hence agree with 
the latter that it is time for them to depart. Besides, 
the marriage-price is distinctly mentioned in other pas- 
sages of Scripture (Exod. xxii, 15, 16 ; 1 Sam. xviii, 23, 
25; Ruth iv, 10; Hos. iii, 2), and was commonly de- 
manded by the nations of antiquity ; as the Babylonians 
(Herod, i, 1 96) ; Assyrians (/Elian, V. II. iv, 1 ; Strabo, 
xvi,745) ; the ancient Greeks (Odyss.v iii, 318 sq.: Arist. 
Polit. ii, 8; Pausan. iii, 12, 2); the Germans (Tacitus, 
Germ, xviii), and still obtauis in the East to the present 
day. In fact, it could not be otherwise where polygamy 
was practiced. As the number of maidens was under 
such circumstances less than that of wooers, it called 
forth competition, and it was but natural that he who 
offered the highest marriage-price obtained the damsel. 
There was therefore no fixed marriage-price ; it varied 
according to circumstances. We meet with no dowry 
given with the bride by her father during the patri- 
archal age, except a maid-servant (Gen. xxiv, 61 ; xxix, 
24, 29). 


MARRIAGE 


r?4 


MARRIAGE 


2. The Mosaic enactments introduced no changes into 
these usages. The father’s power over the child in 
matters of marriage continued paramount, and he could 
g-ive his children to any one lie pleased without asking 
their consent. Thus Caleb offers his daughter Achsah 
(dosh. xv, 16, 17) as wife to any one who will conquer 
Kirjath-sepher (Judg. i. 12). Saul promises his daugh- 
ter to him who shah kill the Philistine, and barters his 
daughter Miclial for the prepuces of a hundred slain 
Philistines (1 Sam. xvii, 20, 27; xviii, 25-27); and Ib- 
zan takes thirty wives for his thirty sons (Judg. xii, 9). 
The imaginary case of women soliciting husbands (Isa. 
iv, 1) was designed to convey to the mind a picture of 
the ravages of war, by which the greater part of the 
males had fallen. A judicial marriage-price 
n'-'rnn) was now introduced, which was fixed at fifty 
silver shekels (Exod. xii, 16, with Deut. xxii, 29), being 
the highest rate of a servant (Lev. xxvii, 3), so that 
one had to pay as much for a wife as for a bondwoman. 
When the father of the maiden was rich and did not 
irant the marriage-price (*in"0Z j*2n “pX), he expected 
some service by way of compensation for giving away 
his daughter (1 Sam. xviii, 25). As soon as the bar- 
gain was concluded, and the marriage-price paid, or the 
required service rendered, the maiden was regarded as 
betrothed to her wooer, and as sacredly belonging to 
him. In fact, she was legally treated as a married 
woman ; she could not be separated from 

her intended husband without a bill of divorce, and the 
same law was applicable to her as to married people. 
If she was persuaded to criminal conduct between the 
espousals and the bringing her home to her husband’s 
house, both she and her seducer were publicly stoned to 
death; and if she was violated, the culprit suffered cap- 
ital punishment (Deut. xxii, 23-27, with ver. 22; and 
Lev. xx, 10). With such sacrcdness was betrothal re- 
garded, that even if a bondmaid who was bought with 
the intention of ultimately becoming a secondary wife 
(Exod. xxi, 7-1 1), was guilty of unchastity prior to her 
entering into that state, both she and her seducer were 
scourged, while the latter was also obliged to bring a 
sin-offering, and the priest had to pray lor the forgive- 
ness of his sin (Lev. xix, 20-22). Every betrothed 
man was by the Mosaic law exempt from military ser- 
vice (Dent, xx, 7). 

3. In the post-exilian period, as long as the children 
were minors — which in the case of a son was up to thir- 
teen, and a daughter to twelve years of age — the pa- 
rents could betroth them to any one they chose ; but 
when they became of age their consent was required 
(Maimonides, Uilchoth Ishnth. iii. II, 12). Occasionally 
the whole business of selecting the wife was left in the 
hands of a friend, and hence the case might arise which 
is supposed by the Talmudists ( Yebam . 2, § 6, 7), that a 
man might not be aware to which of two sisters he was 
betrothed. So in Egypt at the present day the choice 
of a wife is sometimes intrusted to a professional woman 
styled a khdt'beh; and it is seldom that the bridegroom 
sees the features of his bride before the marriage has 
taken place (Lane, i, 209-211). It not unfrequentlv 
happened, however, that the selection of partners for 
life was made by the young people themselves. For 
this, the ceremonies connected with the celebration of 
the festivals in the Temple afforded an excellent oppor- 
tunity, as may be. gathered from the following remark 
in the Mishna : “It. Simeon ben-damaliel says. There 
were never more joyous festivals in Israel than the 15th 
of Ab and the Day of Atonement. On these the maid- 
ens of Jerusalem used to come out dressed in white gar- 
ments, which they borrowed, in order not to shame 
those ’who had none of their own, and which they had 
immersed [for fear of being polluted J. Thus arrayed, 
these maidens of Jerusalem went out and danced in 
the vineyards, singing, Young man, lift up thine eyes, 
and see whom thou art about to choose; fix not thine 
eye upon beauty, but look rather to a pious family ; for 


gracefulness is deceit, and beauty is vanity, but the 
woman that fears the Lord, she is worthy of praise” 

(. Megilla , iv, 8). Having made his choice, the young 
man or his father informed the maiden’s father of it, 
whereupon the young people were legally betrothed. 
The betrothal was celebrated by a feast made in the 
house of the bride (Jebamoth, 43 a; Taanith , 26 b; Fes- 
saeldm , 49 a; Kiddushin, 45 b), and is called ‘pUJVPp, 
made sacred , for by it the bride was made sacred to her 
bridegroom, and was not to be touched by any one else. 
It is also called < pO"PS<, which may be from = 
UHX, to betroth . For a betrothal to be legal, it has to 
be effected in one of the following three modes: I. By 
money , or money’s worth , which, according to the school 
of Sliammai, must be a denar (IS* 1 ^) =90 grains of pure 
gold, or, according to the school of Ilillel, a perutah 
(»"IU‘H£))=half a grain of pure silver, and which is to 
be given to the maiden, or, if she is a minor, to her fa- 
ther, as betrothal price ('plUIT’p rUE) ; 2. By letter or 
contract (j* 1 O h ."l* 1 S< nu'CJ), which the young man, either 
in person or through a proxy, lias to give to the maiden, 
or to her father when she is a minor; or, 3. By cohabita- 
tion (nx-'S, usus), when the young man and maiden, 
having pronounced the betrothal formula in the presence 
of two witnesses, retire into a separate room. This, how- 
ever, is considered immodest, and the man is scourged 
(. Kiddushin , 12 b). The legal formula to be pronounced 
is, “ Behold, thou art betrothed or sanctified to me (Hill 
nura “o rumpia rx), according to 

the law of Moses and Israel” {Kiddushin, i, 1; iv, 9; 
Tosiftha Kethuboth, iv; Kethuboth, iv, 8; Maimonides, 
Uilchoth Tshuth, iii; Eben Jla-Ezer , xxxii). Though 
betrothment, as we have seen before, was the beginning 
of marriage itself, and, like it, could only be broken off 
by a regular bill of divorcement (U^), yet twelve months 
were generally allowed to intervene between it and act- 
ual marriage (n5in)in the case of a maiden, to prepare 
her outfit, and thirty days in the case of a widow ( Kethu - 
bothy 57 a). The intercourse of the betrothed during 
this period was regulated by the customs of the differ- 
ent towns (Mishna, Kethuboth, v, 2). When this more 
solemn betrothment CptUV^p) was afterwards united 
with the marriage ceremony (ilE“n), engagements 
(■pUTTU) more in our sense of the word took its place. 
Its nature and obligation will best be understood by pe- 
rusing the contents of the contract (U“N2r) which is 
made and signed by the parties, and which is as follows : 
“May he who declares the end from the beginning give 
stability to the words of this contract, and to the cov- 
enant made between these two parties ! namely, between 
A. bachelor, with the consent of his father B, and C, who 
is proxy for his daughter D, spinster. The said A, 
bachelor, engages, under happy auspices, to take the 
afore-mentioned D, spinster, by marriage and betrothal 
(■priT'pl flE^H), according to the law of Moses and 
Israel. These henceforth are not to conceal anything 
from each other appertaining to money or goods, but to 
have equal power over their property. Moreover, B, 
the said father of the bridegroom, is to dress his son in 
goodly apparel before the marriage, and to give the sum 
of . . . in cash ; whilst C, father of the said bride, is to 
give his daughter before the marriage a dowry in cash 
to the amount of . . . as well as jewellery to the amount 
of ... to dress her in goodly apparel corresponding to 
the dowry, to give her an outfit, and the bridegroom the 
Talith (r“>?U),i. e. the fringed wrapper used at prayer 
[see Fringe], and Kittd (^U'p), i. e. the white burial 
garment, in harmony with his position and in propor- 
tion to the dowry. The marriage is to be (D.V.) on 
the ... in the place ... at the expense of the said C, 
the bride’s father, and, if agreed to by both parties, may 
take place within the specified period. Now the two 


MARRIAGE 


775 


MARRIAGE 


parties have pledged themselves to all this, and have 
taken upon themselves by an oath to abide by it, on the 
penalty of the great anathema, and at the peril of for- 
feiting half the dowry; but the forfeit is not to absolve 
from the anathema, nor is the anathema to absolve from 
the forfeit. The said father of the bride also under- 
takes to board at his table the newly-married couple for 
the space of . . . and furnish them with lodgings for the 
space of . . . The surety on the part of the bridegroom 
is E, son of F ; and on the part of the bride, G, son of H. 
The two bridal parties, however, guarantee that these 
sureties shall not suffer thereby. Further, C, the said 
father of the bride, is to give his daughter an assurance 
letter, that, in the event of his death, she is to get half 
the inheritance of a son (1“T '’lin "II3D); whilst the 
bridegroom pledges himself to get his brothers, in the 
event of his dying without issue, to give her a Chalizah 
document [for which see below], without any compensa- 
tion. But if there should lie dispute or delay on the 
subject, which God forbid, the decision is to be left to 
the Jewish congregation. We have taken all this in 
possession from the party and sureties, for the benefit of 
the other parties, so that everything aforementioned 
may be observed, with the usual witness which quali- 
fied us to take care of it. Done this day . . . Every- 
thing must be observed and kept. (Signed) . . .* (Comp. 
Xachlas Shica , 9 b). This contract, which is written 
in Ilabbinic Hebrew, is used by all orthodox Jews to the 
present day. 

III. Marriage Ceremonies. — 1. In the pre-Mosaic pe- 
riod, when the proposals were accepted, and the mar- 
riage-price ("in ^2), as well as the sundry other gifts 
Cjrj), were duly distributed, the bridegroom (]rn) 
could at once remove the bride (HP 2) from her father's 
house to his own house, and this removal of the maiden, 
under the benedictions of her family, but without any 
definite religious ceremony whatever, and cohabitation, 
consummated and expressed marriage (ITi'X np>). 
Thus we are told that Isaac, when meeting Eleazar and 
Rebekah in the field, as soon as he was informed by the 
former of what had transpired, took Rebekah to the tent 
of his departed mother, and this without further cere- 
mony constituted the marriage, and she thereby became 
his wife (JT2N^ lb Mm, Gen. xxiv, 63-G7). Under 
more ordinary circumstances, however, when the bride 
had not at once to quit her parental roof under the pro- 
tection of a friend, as in the case just mentioned, but 
where the marriage took place in the house of the bride’s 
parents, it was celebrated by a feast, to which all the 
friends and neighbors were invited, and which lasted 
seven days (Gen. xxix, 22,27). On the day of the mar- 
riage, the bride was conducted to her future husband 
veiled, or, more properly, in an outdoor wrapper or shawl 
(Cp 22), which nearly enveloped her whole form, so that 
it was impossible to recognise the person, thus account- 
ing for the deception practiced on Jacob (Gen. xxiv, G5 ; 
xxix, 23) and on Judah (Gen. xxxviii, 14). 

2. With regard to age, no restriction is pronounced in 
the Bible. Early marriage is spoken of with approval 
in several passages (Prov. ii, 17 ; v, IS ; Isa. Ixii, 5), and 
in reducing this general statement to the more definite 
one of years, we must take into account the very early 
age at which persons arrive at puberty in Oriental coun- 
tries. In modern Egypt marriage takes place in gen- 
eral before the bride has attained the age of sixteen, 
frequently when she is twelve or thirteen, and occasion- 
ally when she is on\y ten (Lane, i, 208). The Mosaic 
law prescribes no civil or religious forms for the cele- 
bration of marriage. The contract or promise made at 
the payment of the marriage-price, or when the service 
which was required in its stead was rendered, constitu- 
ted the solemn bond which henceforth united the es- 
poused parties, as is evident from the fact pointed out 
in the preceding sections, that a betrothed maiden was 
both called a married woman, and was legally treated 


as such. There can, however, be no doubt that the an- 
cient custom of celebrating the consummation of the 
marriage by a feast, which lasted seven days (Gen. xxix. 
22, 27), must have become pretty general by this time. 
Thus wc are told that when Samson went to Timnath 
to take his wife, he made there a feast, which continued 
for seven days, according to the usage of young men on 
such occasions (Q^nn^n *p *C), that the parents 
of the bride invited thirty young men (idoc too 
voq, Matt, ix, 15) to honor his nuptials, and that to re- 
lieve their entertainment, Samson, in harmony with the 
prevailing custom among the nations of antiquity, pro- 
posed enigmas (Judg. xiv, 10-18). Wc afterwards find 
that the bridal pair were adorned with nuptial crowns 
(Cant, iii, 11; Isa. lxi, 10) made of various materials 
— gold, silver, myrtle, or olive — varying in costliness 
according to the circumstances of the parties (Mish- 
na, Sota , ix, 14 ; Gemara , 49 a and b ; Seldcn, Ux. Ebr. 
ii, 15), and that the bride especially wore gorgeous ap- 
parel, and a peculiar girdle (Psa. xlv, 13, 14; Isa. xlix, 
18; Jer. ii, 12), whence in fact she derived her name 
Kedlah (H^O), which signifies the ornamented, the 
adorned. Thus attired, the bridegroom and bride were 
led in joyous procession through the streets, accompa- 
nied by bands of singers and musicians (Jcr. vii, 34; 
xxv, 10; xxxiii, 11), and saluted by the greetings of 
the maidens of the place, who manifested the liveliest 
interest in the nuptial train (Cant, iii, 11), to the house 
of the bridegroom or that of his father. Here the 
feast was prepared, to which all the friends and the 
neighbors were invited, and at which most probably 
that sacred covenant was concluded which came into 
vogue during the post-Mosaic period (Prov. ii, 17 ; Ezek. 
xvi, 8; Mai. ii, 14). The bride, thickly veiled, was then 
conducted to the ("lin) bridal chamber (Gen. xxix, 23; 
Judg. xv, 11 ; Joel ii, G), where a nuptial couch (H2n) 
was prepared (Psa. xix, 5 ; Joel ii, 1G) in such a manner 
as to afford facility for ascertaining the following morn- 
ing whether she had preserved her maiden purity; for 
in the absence of the signa virginitatis she was stoned 
to death before her father’s house (Dcut. xxii, 13-21). 

3. In the period after the exile the proper age for 
marriage is fixed in the Mishna at eighteen (Aboth, v, 
31), and though, for the sake of preserving morality, 
puberty was regarded as the desirable age, yet men gen- 
erally married when they were seventeen ( Jebamoth , 62 ; 
Kiddushin , 29). The Talmudists forbade marriage in 
the case of a man under thirteen years and a day, and 
in the case of a woman under twelve years and a day 
(Buxtorf, Sgnagog. cap. 7, p. 143). The day originally 
fixed for marriage was Wednesday for maidens and Fri- 
day for widows (Mishna, Kethuboth, i, 1). But the Tal- 
mud already partially discarded this arrangement (Gc- 
raara, ibid. 3 a), and in the Middle Ages it became quite 
obsolete (Eben Ha-Ezar, Ixv). The primitive practice 
of the sages, however, has been resumed among the or- 
thodox Jews in Russia, Poland, etc. The wedding-feast 
was celebrated in the house of the bridegroom ( Kethu- 
both, 8 a, 10 a), and in the evening, for the bridal pair 
fasted all day, since on it, as on the day of atonement, 
they confessed their sins, and their transgressions were 
forgiven. On the day of the wedding, the bride, with 
her hair flowing, and a myrtle wreath on her head (if 
she was a maiden, Mishna, Kethuboth, ii, 1), was con- 
ducted, with music, singing, and dancing, to the house 
of the bridegroom by her relations and friends, who 
were adorned with chaplets of myrtle, and carried palm 
branches in their hands ( Kethuboth , 1G, 17 ; Sabbath, 1 10 
a ; Sota , 49 b). The streets through which the nuptial 
procession passed were lined with the daughters of Is- 
rael, who greeted the joyous train, and scattered before 
them cakes and roasted ears of wheat, while fountains 
freely poured forth wine (. Kethuboth , 15 b; Berachoth, 
50 b). Having reached the house, the bridegroom, ac- 
companied by the groomsmen, met the bride, took her 
by the hand, and led her to the threshold. The Keihu - 


MARRIAGE 


776 


MARRIAGE 


bah (T\Z"TZi)= donatio propter or ante nuptias, or the 
marriage-settlement, alluded to in the book of Tobit 
(vii, 15), was then written, which in the case of a maid- 
en always promises 200, and in the case of a widow 100 
denar (each denar being equal to 90 grains of pure gold), 
whether the parties are rich or poor (Mishna, Kethu- 
both, i, 2), though it may be enlarged by a special cove- 
nant rHSOir,). The dowry eould not be 

claimed until the termination of the marriage by the 
death of the husband or by divorce (ibid, v, 1), though 
advances might be made to the wife previously (ix, 8). 
Subsequently to betrothal a woman lost all power over 
her property, and it became vested in the husband, un- 
less he had previously to marriage renounced his right 
to it (viii, 1 ; ix, 1). The marriage must not be cele- 
brated before this settlement is written {Baba Kama, 
89). The wording of this instrument has undergone 
various changes in the eourse of time ( Kethuboth , 82 b). 
The form in which it is given in the Talmud, by Mai- 
monides, etc., is as follows : “ Upon the fourth day of 
the week, on the ... of the month, in the year ... of 
the creation of the world, according to the computation 
adopted in this place, A, son of B, said to C, spinster, 
daughter of E, ‘ Be thou my wife according to the law 
of Moses and Israel, and I will work for thee, honor thee, 
maintain thee, and provide for thee according to the 
custom of Jewish husbands, who work for their wives, 
honor them, maintain them, and provide for them hon- 
estly; I also give thee the dowry of thy virginity, 200 
silver Sus. which belong to thee by the law, as well as 
thy food, thy apparel, and whatsoever is required for 
thy maintenance, and I will go in to thee according to 
the custom of the whole earth.’ And C, the spinster, 
consented, and beeame his wife. The dowry which she 
brought him from the house of her father, in silver, 
gold, and ornaments, as well as in apparel, domestic 
utensils, and bedding, amounts to . . . pure silver, and 
A, the bridegroom, has consented to add to it from his 
own property the same sum ; anti the bridegroom said 
thus : ‘ I undertake for myself and my heirs after me the 
security for this Kethubah, this dowry and this addi- 
tion, so that the same shall be paid from the best and 
most choice of my possessions which I have under the 
whole heaven, which I have acquired or shall acquire 
in real or personal property. All this property is to be 
mortgaged and pledged, yea, even the coat which I have 
on is to .go in order to pay this Kethubah, this dowry 
and this addition, from this day to all eternity.’ And 
the surety of this Kethubah, this dowry and this addi- 
tion, A, the bridegroom, has undertaken in the strict- 
ness of all the Kethubaks and supplement instruments 
usual among the daughters of Israel, and which are 
written according to the order of our sages of blessed 
memory, not after the manner of a mere visionary prom- 
ise or empty formula. AVe have taken possession of it 
from A, the bridegroom, and given it to C, spinster, 
daughter of E, according to all that is written and ex- 
plained above, by means of such a garment as is legal 
in the taking of possession. All this yea and amen. 
(Signed) . . .” Comp. Maimonides, Jad Jla-Chazaha 
Hilchoth .[(burn Ve-Cheliza, iv, 33. Among the more 
modem Jews it is the custom in some parts for the 
bridegroom to place a ring on the bride’s finger (Picart, 
i, 239) — a custom which also prevailed among the Iio- 
mans (Smith, Diet, of Ant. p. 904). . Some writers have 
endeavored to prove that the rings noticed in the O. T. 
(Exod. xxxv, 22; Isa. iii, 21) were nuptial rings, but 
there is not the slightest evidence of this. The ring 
was nevertheless regarded among the Hebrews as a to- 
ken of fidelity (Gen. xli, 42), and of adoption into a 
family (Luke xv, 22). According to Seldeu it was orig- 
inally given as an equivalent for dowry-money ( Uxor 
Kbrair. ii, 14). After the document was handed over to 
the bride, crowns, varying in expense according to the 
circumstances of the parties, were plaeed upon the heads 
of the bridal pair (Bota, 49 a, b), and they, with their 
relations and friends, sat down to a sumptuous repast ; 


the marriage-feast was enlivened by the guests, who 
sang various songs and asked each other amusing rid- 
dles (Berachoth, 31 a; Nedarim, 51 a), parched corn was 
distributed among the guests if the bride was a virgin 
{Keth. ii), and when the meal was concluded with cus- 
tomary prayer of thanksgiving, the bridegroom supple- 
mented it with pronouncing over a cup of wine the seven 
nuptial benedictions (rH2“D in the presence of 

at least ten persons ( Kethuboth , 7 b), which gave the 
last religious consecration to the marriage-covenant, and 
which are as follows : i. “ Blessed art thou, O Lord our 
God, king of the universe, who hast created everything 
for thy glory.” ii. “ Blessed art thou, O Lord our God, 
king of the universe, who hast created man.” iii. 
“Blessed art thou, O Lord our God, king of the uni- 
verse, who hast created man in thine image, in the im- 
age of the likeness of thy own form, and hast prepared 
for him, in himself, a building for the perpetuity of the 
species. Blessed art thou, O Lord, the ereator of man.” 
iv. “ The barren woman shall rejoice exceedingly, and 
shout for joy when her children are gathered around her 
in delight. Blessed art thou, O Lord, who rejoicest 
Zion in her children.” v. “Make this loving pair to 
rejoice exceedingly, as thou hast made thy creature re- 
joice in the Garden of Eden in the beginning. Blessed 
art thou, O Lord, who rejoicest the bridegroom and the 
bride.” vi. “ Blessed art thou, O Lord our God, king 
of the universe, who hast ordained joy and gladness, 
bride and bridegroom, delight and song, pleasure and 
intimacy, love and friendship, peace and concord ; speed- 
ily, O Lord our God, let there be heard in the cities of 
Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem the voice of joy 
and the voice of gladness, the voice of the bridegroom 
and the voice of the bride, the voice of jubilant bride- 
grooms under their canopies, and of the young men at 
the nuptial feast playing music. Blessed art thou, O 
Lord our God. who makest the bridegroom rejoice with 
his bride.” vii. “Bemove all suffering and anger; then 
will the dumb be heard in song; lead us in the paths of 
righteousness, listen to the benedictions of the children 
of Jeshurun ! With the permission of our seniors and 
rabbins, and my masters, let us bless our God in whose 
dwelling is joy, and of whose bounties we have par- 
taken!” to which the guests respond, “Blessed be our 
God, in whose dwelling is joy, of whose bounties we 
have partaken, and by whose goodness we live;” and 
he then answers, “Then let us bless our God, in whose 
dwelling is joy, of whose bounties we have partaken, 
and by whose goodness we live” (Kethuboth, 7 b, 8). 
The married couple were then conducted to an elabo- 
rately-ornamented nuptial ehamber (Jl2in, where the 
bridal couch (thalamus) was carefully prepared ; and at 
the production of the linteum virginitatis the following 
morning (Dent, xxii, 13-21), which was anxiously 
awaited, the following benediction was pronounced by 
the bridegroom: “Blessed art thou, O Lord our God, 
king of the universe, who hast placed a nut in paradise, 
the rose of the valleys — a stranger must not rule over 
this sealed fountain; this is why the hind of love has 
preserved the holy seed in purity, and has not broken 
the compact. Blessed art thou, O Lord, who hast cho- 
sen Abraham and his seed after him!” (see JIalachoth 
Gedoloth, ed. Vienna, 51 [comp, Pliny, Hist. Nat. xv, 24], 
where an explanation will be found of the use of 
nut, in this connection). Festivities continued for sev- 
en days (Kethuboth, 7 a). 

As important religious questions had to be put to the 
bridal pair which required a learned man to do ( Gittin , 
G ; Kiddnshin , G, 13), it was afterwards resolved that 
the marriage-ceremony should be performed by a rabbi, 
anil it is celebrated in the following manner : A beauti- 
fully-embroidered silk or velvet canopy, about three or 
four yards square, supported by four long poles, is held 
by four men out of doors on the day of the wedding. 
Under this chupah (!"JEin), which represents the an- 
cient bridal ehamber, the bridegroom is led by his male 


MARRIAGE 


MARRIAGE 


777 


friends, preceded by a band of music, and welcomed by 
the joyous spectators with the exclamation, Blessed is he 
who is now come ! (&CH ~V"D) ; the bride, with her face 
veiled ( nuptice ), is then brought to him by her female 
friends and led three times round the bridegroom, in 
accordance, as they say, with the remark of Jeremiah, 
“ The woman shall compass the man” (xxxi, 22), when 
he takes her round once amid the congratulations of the 
bystanders, and then places her at his right hand (Psa. 
xlv, 10), both standing with their faces to the south and 
their backs to the north. The rabbi then covers the 
bridal pair with the Talith , or fringed wrapper, which 
the bridegroom has on (comp. Ruth iii, 19; Ezek. xvi, 
8), joins their hands together, and pronounces over a 
cup of wine the benediction of affiance (‘pDYlX ro“D), 
which is as follows : “ Blessed art thou, O Lord our God, 
king of the universe, who hast created the fruit of the 
vine. Blessed art thou, O Lord our God, king of the 
universe, who hast sanctified us with thy command- 
ments, and hast forbidden to us consanguinity, and hast 
prohibited us the betrothed, but hast permitted us those 
whom we take by marriage and betrothal. Blessed art 
thou, O Lord, who hast sanctified thy people Israel by 
betrothal and marriage” ( Kethuboth , 7 a). Whereupon 
the bridegroom and bride taste of the cup of blessing, 
and the former produces a plain gold ring, and, in the 
presence of all the party, puts it on the bride’s finger, 
saying, “ Behold, thou art consecrated unto me with this 
ring according to the rites of Moses and Israel 1” The 
rabbi then reads aloud, in the presence of appointed wit- 
nesses, the Kethubahy or the marriage-settlement, which 
is written in Syro-Chaldaic, and concludes by pronounc- 
ing over another cup of wine the seven benedictions 
!7D*J), which the bridegroom in ancient times, 
before the ceremony of marriage became a public act 
and was delegated to the spiritual head, used to pro- 
nounce himself at the end of the meal. The bridegroom 
and bride taste again of this cup of blessing, and when 
the glass is emptied it is put on the ground, and the 
bridegroom breaks it with his foot, as a symbol to re- 
mind them in the midst of their joys that just as this 
glass is destroyed, so Jerusalem is destroyed and trod- 
den down under the foot of the Gentiles. With this the 
ceremony is concluded, amid the shouts, May you he 
happy! (-113 bf^). See Wedding. 

IV. Pohyynmy and Concubinage. — 1. Though the his- 
tory of the protoplasts — in which we are told that God 
in the beginning created a single pair, one of each sex 
— seems to exhibit a standard for monogamy, yet the 
Scriptures record that from the remotest periods men 
had simultaneously several wives, occupying either co- 
ordinate or subordinate positions. Against the opinion 
that Lamech, sixth in descent from Adam through Cain, 
introduced polygamy — based on the circumstance that 
he is the first who is recorded as having married two 
wives (Gen. iv, 19) — is to be urged that (1.) Lamech is 
the first whose marriage or taking of a wife is recorded, 
and consequently it is impossible to say how many wives 
his five progenitors had; (2.) The mention of Lamech’s 
two wives is incidental, and is entirely owing to the fact 
that the sacred historian had to notice the useful inven- 
tions made by their respective sons Jabal, Jubal, and 
Tubal-Cain, as well as to give the oldest piece of rhyth- 
mical composition which was addressed to the wives, cel- 
ebrating one of these inventions; and (3.) If polygamy 
had been for the first time introduced by Lamech, the 
sacred writer would have as distinctly mentioned it as 
he mentions the things which were first introduced by 
Lamcch’s sons. The manner in which Sarah urges 
Abraham to take her servant ITagar, and the fact that 
Sarah herself gives the maiden to her own husband 
(PhU5<b) to be his wife, the readiness with which the 
patriarch accepts the proposal (Gen. xvi, 1-4), unques- 
tionably show that it was a common custom to have 
one or more secondary wives. In fact, it is distinctly 


mentioned that Nahor, Abraham’s own brother, who had 
eight sons by Milcah, his principal wife, and conse- 
quently did not require another wife for the purpose of 
securing progeny, had nevertheless a secondary wife 
(IT^bs), by whom he had four sons (Gen. xxii, 21-24). 
Besides, it is now pretty generally admitted that Gen. 
xxv, 1 describes Abraham himself to have taken anoth- 
er or secondary wife in the lifetime of Sarah, in addition 
to Hagar, who was given to him by his principal wife, 
as is evident from Gen. xxv, 6 ; 1 Chron. i, 32, and that 
he could not have taken her for the sake of obtaining 
an heir. If any more proof be wanted for the preva- 
lence of polygamy in the patriarchal age, we refer to 
Esau, who, to please his father, married his cousin Ma- 
halath in addition to the several wives whom he had 
(Gen.xxviii,8,9) ; and to Jacob, who had not the slight- 
est scruple to marry two sisters, and take two half-wives 
at the same time (Gen. xxix, 23-30; xxx, 4, 9), which 
would be unaccountable on the supposition that polyga- 
my was something strange. Though sacred history is 
silent about the number of wives of the twelve patri- 
archs, yet there can be little doubt that the large num- 
ber of children and grandchildren which Benjamin had 
at so early an age (Gen. xlvi, 21 ; Numb, xxvi, 38-41 ; 
l Chron. vii, 6-12 ; viii, 1), must have been the result of 
polygamy ; and that Simeon, at all events, had more 
than one wife (Exod. vi, 15). The ext raordinary rate 
at which the Jews increased in Egypt implies that they 
practiced polygamy during their bondage. This is, 
moreover, corroborated by the incidental notice that 
Asher, Judah’s grandson, had two wives (1 Chron. iv, 5 
with ii, 24); that Caleb, Judah’s great-grandson, had 
three principal and two subordinate wives (1 Chron. ii, 
9, 18,42, 46, 48); that Aharaim, probably Benjamin’s 
great-grandson, had three wives (1 Chron. viii, 8-11) ; 
and that Moses had two wives (Exod. ii, 21 ; Numb, xii, 
1) ; as well as by the fact that the Mosaic legislation as- 
sumes the existence of polygamy (Lev. xiii, 14 ; Deut. 
xxv, 47). Still, the theory of monogamy seems to be 
exhibited in the case of Noah and his three sons (Gen. 
vi, 18 ; vii, 7, 13 ; viii, 16), of Aaron, and of Eleazar. 

In judging of this period we must take into regard 
the following considerations: (1.) The principle of mo- 
nogamy was retained, even in the practice of polygamy, 
by the distinction made between the chief or original 
wife and the secondary wives, or, as the A.V. terras 
them, “concubines” — a term which is objectionable, in- 
asmuch as it conveys to us the notion of an illicit and 
unrecognised position, whereas the secondary wife was 
regarded by the Hebrews as a wife, and her rights were 
secured by law. The position of the Hebrew concubine 
may be compared with that of the concubine of the 
early Christian Church, the sole distinction between her 
and the wife consisting in this, that the marriage was 
not in accordance with the civil law : in the eye of the 
Church the marriage was perfectly valid (Bingham, A nt. 
xi, 5, § 1 1). It is worthy of notice that the term pillegesk 
(1^3!? S ; A. V. “concubine”) nowhere occurs in the Mo- 
saic law. The terms used are either “ wife” (Deut. xxi, 
15) or “ maid-servant” (Exod. xxi, 7) ; the latter apply- 
ing to a purchased wife. (2.) The motive which led to 
polygamy was that absorbing desire of progeny which 
is prevalent throughout Eastern countries, and was es- 
pecially powerful among the Hebrews. (3.) The power 
of a parent over his child, and of a master over his slave 
(the postestcis pat ria and dominica of the Romans), was 
paramount even in matters of marriage, and led in many 
cases to phases of polygamy that are otherwise quite 
unintelligible, as, for instance, to the cases where it was 
adopted by the husband at the 7'equest of his wife, under 
the idea that children born to a slave were in the eve 
of the law the children of the mistress (Gen. xvi, 3; 
xxx, 4, 9) ; or, again, to cases where it was adopted at 
the instance of the father (Gen. xxix, 23, 28 ; Exod. xxi, 
9, 10). It must be allowed that polygamy, thus legal- 
ized and systematized, justified to a certain extent by 


MARRIAGE 


778 


MARRIAGE 


the motive, and entered into, not only without offence 
to, but actually at the suggestion of those who, accord- 
ing to our notions, would feci most deeply injured by it, 
is a very different thing from what polygamy would be 
in our own state of society. 

2. In the case of polygamy, as in that of other na- 
tional customs, the Mosaic law adheres to the estab- 
lished usage. Hence there is not only no express stat- 
ute to prohibit polygamy, which was previously held 
lawful, but the Mosaic law presupposes its existence and 
practice, bases its legislation thereupon, and thus au- 
thorizes it, as is evident from the following enactments : 
1. It is ordained that a king “shall not multiply wives 
unto himseir (Dent, xvii, 17), which, as bishop Patrick 
rightly remarks, “is not a prohibition to take more 
wives than one, but not to have an excessive number, 
after the manner of Eastern kings, whom Solomon seems 
to have imitated thus, in fact, legalizing a moderate 
number. The Mishna ( Sanhedrin , ii, 4), the Talmud 
{Babylon Sanhedrin , 21 a), liashi (on Dent, xvii, 17), 
etc., in harmony with ancient tradition, regard eighteen 
wives, including half wives, as a moderate number, and 
as not violating the injunction contained in the expres- 
sion “multiply? 2. The law enacts that a man is not 
to marry his wife’s sister to vex her while she lives 
(Lev. xviii, 18), which, as the same prelate justly urges, 
manifestly means “that though two wives at a time, or 
more, were permitted in those days, no man should take 
two sisters (as Jacob had formerly done) begotten of the 
same father or born of the same mother;” or, in other 
words, a man is at liberty to take another wife besides 
the first, and during her lifetime, provided only they are 
not sisters. 3. The law of primogeniture (Dent, xxi, 
15-17) actually presupposes the case of a man having 
tico wives, one beloved and the other not, as it was with 
Jacob and his two wives, and ordains that if the one 
less beloved is the mother of his first-born, the husband 
is not to transfer the right of primogeniture to the son 
of his favorite wife, but is to acknowledge him as first- 
born who is actually so. 4. Exod. xxi, 9, 10, permits a 
father who had given his son a bondwoman for a wife, 
to give him a second wife of freer birth , and prescribes 
how the first is then to be treated — that she is to have 
alimony, clothes, and the conjugal duty; and 5. Deut. 
xxv, 47 expressly enjoins that a man, though having a 
wife already, is to marry his deceased brother’s widow. 

Having existed before the Mosaic law, and being ac- 
knowledged and made the basis of legislation by it, po- 
lygamy continued in full force during the whole of this 
period. Thus, during the government of the judges, 
we find Gideon, the celebrated judge of Israel, “had 
many wives, and three score and ten sons” (Judg, viii, 
30) ; Jair the Gileadite, also a judge of Israel, had thirty 
grown-up sons (Judg. x, 4) and a proportionate number 
of daughters. Ibzan, another judge of Israel, had thirty 
full-grown sons and thirty full-grown daughters (Judg. 
xii, 9) ; and Abdon, also a judge of Israel, had forty 
adult sons and thirty adult daughters — which was ut- 
terly impossible without polygamy; the pious Elkanah, 
father of Samuel the illustrious judge and prophet, had 
two wives (1 Sam. i, 2). During the monarchy, we 
find Saul, the first king of Israel, had many wives and 
half wives (2 Sam. iii, 7; xii, 8); David, the royal 
singer of Israel, “ their best king,” as bishop Patrick re- 
marks in his comment on Lev. xviii, 18, “ who read 
God’s law day and night, and could not but understand 
it, took many wives without any reproof; nay, God 
gave him more than he had before, by delivering his 
master’s wives to him” (2 Sam. xii, K) ; Solomon, the 
wise monarch, had no less than a thousand wives and 
half wives (1 Kings xi, 3) ; Hehoboam, his son and suc- 
cessor, had eighteen wives and three score half wives 
(2 Chron. xi, 21); Abijah, his son and successor to the 
throne of Judah, married fourteen wives (2 Chron. xiv, 
21): and Joash, the tenth king, including David, who 
reigned from B.C. 378 to 33s. had two wives given to 
him by the godly high-priest Jehoiada, who restored 


both the throne of David and the worship of the true 
God according to the law of Moses (2 Chron. xxiv, 3). 
A very remarkable illustration of the prevalence of po- 
lygamy in private life is given in 1 Chron. vii, 4, where 
we arc told that not only did the five fathers, all of them 
chief men of the tribe of Issaehar, live in polygamy, but 
that their descendants, numbering 3G,000 men, “had 
many wives.” De Wette, indeed, affirms that “the 
Hebrew moral teachers speak decidedly for monogamy, 
as is evident from their always speaking of one wife, 
and from the high notion which they have of a good 
wedded wife — ‘A virtuous woman is the diadem of her 
husband, but a bad wife is like rottenness in the bones’ 
(Prov. xii, 4); ‘AVhoso findeth a wife findeth happi- 
ness’ (xviii, 22); ‘A house and wealth are an inherit- 
ance from parents, but a discreet wife is from the Lord’ 
(xix, 14). Prov. xxxi, 10-31 describes an industrious 
and managing wife in such a manner as one only could 
be it” (i Christl . Sitte?ilehre, vol. iii, sec. 472). Similarly 
Ewald : “ Wherever a prophet alludes to matrimonial 
matters, he always assumes faithful and sacred monoga- 
my contracted for the whole life as the legal one” ( Die 
Alterthihner Israels , p. 177 sq.). But we have exactly 
analogous passages where parental felicity is described : 
“A wise son is happiness to the father, but a foolish son 
is the grief of his mother” (Prov. x, 1; xv, 20); “A 
wise son heareth his father’s instruction” (xiii, 1) ; and 
upou the same parity of reasoning it might be said that 
the theory of having only one son is assumed by the 
sacred moralist, because, when speaking of happiness or 
misery, which parents derive from their offspring, only 
one son is alluded to. Besides, the facts which we have 
enumerated cannot be set aside by arguments. 

3. As nothing is said in the post-exilian portions of 
the Bible to discourage polygamy, this ancient practice 
also continued among the Jews during this period. 
During the second Temple, we find that Herod the 
Great had nine wives (Josephus, Ant. xvii, 1.3); his 
two sons, Archelaus the Ethuareh, and Antipas the Tc- 
trarcli of Galilee, had each two wives (Josephus, A nt. 
xvii, 13, 2; xviii, 5, 1) ; and John the Baptist and other 
Jews, who censured the one for violating the Mosaic 
law bv the marriage of his deceased brother’s wife who 
had childreu (Josephus, Ant. xviii, 13, 2), and the other 
for marrying Ilerodias, the wife of his half-brother 
Herod-Philip (Matt, xiv, 3, 4; Mark vi, 17, 18; Luke 
iii, 19), raised no cry against their practicing polygamy ; 
because, as Josephus tells us, “the Jews of those days 
adhered to their ancient practice to have many wives 
at the same time” (Josephus, A nt. xvii, 1, 2). In har- 
mony with this ancestral custom, the post-exilian legis- 
lation enacted various statutes to regulate polygamy 
and protect the rights and settlement of each wife 
(Mishna, Jebamoth , iv. 11: Kethuboth, x, 1-G; Kiddu- 
shin , ii, 7). As a striking illustration of the prevalence 
and legality of polygamy during this period may be 
mentioned the following circumstance which is recorded 
in the Talmud : Twelve widows appealed to their broth- 
er-in-law to perform the duty of Levii\ which he refused 
to do, because he saw no prospect how to maintain such 
an additional number of wives and possibly a large in- 
crease of children. The case was then brought before 
Jehudah the Iloly, who promised that if the man would 
do the duty enjoined on him by the Mosaic law, he 
himself would maintain the family and their children, 
in case there should be any, every sabbatical year, when 
no produce was to be got from the land which was at 
rest. The offer was accepted by the Levir , and he ac- 
cordingly married his twelve sisters-in-law ; and after 
three years these twelve wives appeared with thirty-six 
children before Jehudah the Holy to claim the promised 
alimony, as it was then the sabbatical year, and they 
actually obtained it (Jerusalem Jebamoth , iv, 12). P ab- 
ba ben- Joseph, founder and president of the college at 
Machuza (A.D. 338-352), taught that a man may take 
as many wives as he pleases, provided only that he 
can maintain them all (Jebamoth, G5 a). From the 


MARRIAGE 


MARRIAGE 


779 


remark in the Mishna, that a Levir may marry his 
deceased brother’s four widows ( Jebamotli , iv, 11), the 
Babylonian Gemara concluded that it recommends a 
man to have no more than this number ( Babyl . Jeba- 
moth, 44 a) ; and from this most probably Mohammed’s 
injunction is derived (Koran, iv, 3). It was Rabanu 
Gershom ben-Jehudah of France (born cir. 9G0, died 
1028), who, in the 11th century, prohibited polygamy 
under pains of excommunication, saving in exceptional 
cases (Griitz, Geschichte tier Juden , v, 405-507). 1 1 is 

motive for doing so is a matter of dispute; the older 
Occidental rabbins say that the prohibition originated 
in a desire to preserve the peace of the family, while the 
Oriental rabbins will have it that it was dictated by the 
governments of Christian countries, liis interdict, 
however, made but slow progress, even in Germany and 
France, for which it was chiefly designed. Thus Simon 
ben- Abraham of Sens, one of the most celebrated French 
Tossapliists, tells us (cir. 1200) : “The institution of R. 
Gershom has made no progress either in our neighbor- 
hood or in the provinces of France. On the contrary, 
it happens that pious and learned men and many other 
people marry a second wife in the lifetime of the first” 
(B.- Joseph, Eben Ila-Ezar , 1). The practice of marry- 
ing a second wife in the event of the first having no is- 
sue within ten years also obtained in Italy till about the 
15th century — the pope giving a special dispensation for 
it. The Spanish Jews never recognised R. Gershom’s 
interdict; bigamy was practiced in Castile till the 14th 
century, while the Christian government of Navarre de- 
clared polygamy among the Jews legal, and the law 
of king Theobald allowed them to marry as many wives 
as they could maintain and govern, but they were not 
permitted to divorce any one of them without sending 
all away (Kayserling, Geschichte der Juden in Spanien, 
i, 71). Nor was the said interdict acknowledged by the 


Jews in the East ; and monogamy is there practiced 
simply because the bride makes a special agreement, 
and has a clause inserted in the Kethubah (iUnrc), or 
marriage-settlement , that her husband is not to marry 
another as long as she lives. An exception, however, is 
made in case there is no issue. As to the opinion of 
the Karaites on monogamy and polygamy, the celebra- 
ted Jehudah ben-Elia Hadassi (flourished 1149) re- 
marks, in his famous work against rabbinic Judaism, 
“The Pentateuch prohibits one to marry two wives 
with a view to vex one of them (jnE rnx 
Lev. xviii, 18) ; but he may take them provided he loves 
them and does not grieve either of them, and treats 
them both affectionately. If he does not diminish their 
food, raiment, and conjugal rights (Exod. xxi, 11), he 
is allowed to take two wives or more, just as Elkanalt 
married Hannah and Peninnah, and as David, peace be 
upon him, and other kings and judges did” ( Eshkol Ida - 
Gopher , ed. Eupatoria, 1836, p. 129). From this it is 
evident that polygamy was not prohibited by the Jew- 
ish law, nor was it regarded as a sin, and that the mo- 
nogamy of the Jews in the present day is simph r in 
obedience to the laws of the countries in which they 
live. There were, however, always some rabbins who 
discouraged polygamy ( Aboth , ii, 7 ; Jebamoth, G5 a, al.) ; 
and the elevated notion which they had of monogamy 
is seen in the statutes which they enacted that the high- 
priest is to be the husband of one wife and to keep to 
her (Jebamoth, 58 a; Maimonides, Hilchoth Issure Bia , 
xviii, 13 ; Josephus, Ant. iii, 12, 2) ; and which the 
apostle Paul also urges on Christian bishops (1 Tim. iii, 
2 ; Titus i, 1G). 

V. Proscribed Degrees and Laics of Intermarriage . — 
1. There were no prescribed degrees within which a man 
was forbidden to marry in the pre-Mosaic period. On 





L/fti 0 thei\V 



Grand- \ 
daughter. ) 


Table of Degrees of Marriage prohibited by the Mosaic Law, in the ascending and descending scales. 










MARRIAGE 


*780 


MARRIAGE 


the contrary, the fact that Adam married “ bone of his 
bone and flesh of his flesh,” and that his sons married 
their own sisters, rather engendered an aversion to mar- 
ry out of one’s own kindred. Hence we find that Abra- 
ham married his half-sister (Gen. xx, 12); Nahor, Abra- 
ham’s brother, married the daughter of his brother Ha- 
ran, or his niece (Gen. xi, 29) ; Jacob married two sis- 
ters at the same time, who were the daughters of his 
mother’s brother (Gen. xxviii, 2; xxix, 26) ; Esau mar- 
ried his cousin Malialath, the daughter of Islimael (Gen. 
xxviii, 8, 9); Amram married his aunt Joehebed, liis fa- 
ther’s sister (Exod. vi, 20) ; and Judah married his 
daughter-in-law, Tamar, the widow of his own son 
(Gen. xxxviii, 26-30). This aversion to intermarriage 
with strangers and other tribes, which made Abraham 
pledge his faithful steward by the most sacred oath not 
to take for his son a wife from the daughters of the Ca- 
naanites (Gen. xxiv, 2-4); which occasioned such “a 
grief of mind” to Isaac, because his son Esau married 
Hittite women (Gen. xxvi, 34, 35); and which was the 
cause of great dissatisfaction in the family of Moses 
when he married a Midianitisli woman (Exod. ii, 21); 
was afterwards greatly increased on the ground of dif- 
ference of creed. The same feeling of aversion against 
intermarriage (t^ya/uV) with foreigners prevailed 
among other nations of antiquity, and may also have 
been the cause why marriages with the nearest of kin 
were practiced among them. Thus the Athenians were 
allowed to marry half-sisters by the father’s side (Corn. 
Nepos, Pnvf ; Cimon , i; 1‘lutarch, Cimon, iv; Themis - 
tocl. xxxii) ; the Spartans married half-sisters by the 
same mother (Philo, Be spec. leg. p. 779) ; and the As- 
syrians and Egyptians full sisters (Lucian, Sacrijf. 5 ; 
Diod. i, 27 ; Philo, Be spec. leg. p. 779 ; Selden, Be jure 
naturali et gentium , v, 11). In later times, when the de- 
sire to preserve purity of blood, which was the primary 
cause for not intermarrying with alien tribes, was su- 
perseded by religious motives, the patriarchal instances 
of epigamv recorded without censure during this period 
became very inconvenient. Hence means were adopted 
to explain them away. Thus the marriage of Judah 
with a heathen woman, the daughter of Shuah, a Ca- 
naanite (Gen. xxxviii, 2), is made orthodox by the Chal- 
dee Paraphrase, the Midrash (. Bereshith It abba. c. lxxxv), 
the Talmud ( Pesachim , 50 a), Rashi (ad loc.), etc., by 
explaining to mean merchant , as in Job xl, 

30; Prov. xxxi, 24; and the Jerusalem Targum finds it 
necessary to add that Judah converted her to Judaism 
(•"n^l). The marriage of Simeon with a Canaanitess 
(Gen. xlvi, 10) is explained away in a similar manner 
(comp. Bereshith Rabba , c. lxxx ; Rashi on Gen. xlvi, 10). 

2. The regulations next introduced in this respect are 
of a twofold nature : 

a. The most important change in the Biblical gamol- 
ogy is the Mosaic law about the prohibited degrees 
among the Israelites themselves. While in the pre- 
Mosaic period no prohibition whatever existed against 
marrying one’s nearest and dearest relatives, the Mosaic 
law (Lev. xviii, 7-17 ; xx, 11, etc.) proscribes no less 
than fifteen marriages within specified degrees of both 
consanguinity and affinity. In neither consanguinity 
nor affinity, however, does the law extend beyond two 
degrees, viz. the mother, her daughter, aunt, father’s 
wife, father’s sister, sister on the father’s side, wife of the 
father’s brother, brother’s wife (excepting in the case of 
a Levirate marriage), daughter-in-law, granddaughter, 
either from a son or daughter, a woman and her daugh- 
ter, or her granddaughter either from a son or daugh- 
ter, and two sisters together. The preceding table ex- 
hibits these degrees. We must only remark that the 
squares stand for males , the circles far females-, the trian- 
gles within the squares for deceased, the numbers refer 
to the order in which they are enumerated in Lev. xviii, 
17, and that the husband and wife, who form the start- 
ing-point, are represented by a double square and double 
circle. 


It will be seen from the foregoing table that, while 
some kindred are proscribed, others are allowed, e. g. a 
father’s sister is forbidden while a brother’s daughter is 
not. This has occasioned great difficulty in tracing the 
principle which underlies these prohibitions. Philipp- 
son is of opinion that it may be deduced from the re- 
marks which accompany the respective vetoes. The 
stepmother is proscribed because “it is thy father’s na- 
kedness” (Lev. xviii, 8) ; the son’s or daughter’s daugh- 
ter because it “is thine own nakedness” (ver. 10) ; the 
father’s or mother’s sister because she is the “ father’s or 
mother’s flesh” (vers. 12, 13) ; and the brother’s wife be- 
cause “it is the nakedness of thy brother” (ver. 16). 
“ From this it is evident,” this erudite rabbi submits, 
“ that, on the one side, son, daughter, and grandchild are 
identified with the father, while, on the other side, broth- 
ers and sisters are identified with each other, because 
they have one and the same source of life. Accordingly, 
we obtain the following data. All members proceeding 
from a common father or mother constitute one issue, 
because they possess together the same source of life ; 
while the ascendants and the descendants in a straight 
line form one line, because they have one after the other 
and from each other the same source of life ; and hence 
the law — 1. Two members of the same issue, or two 
members of the same line, are not to intermarry, be- 
cause they have the same source of life. But inasmuch 
as the ascending is the primary to each descending is- 
sue, and the descending the derived to every ascending, 
an ascending issue may press forward out of the straight 
line, or step down into the following, i. e. the primary 
into the one derived from it; while the succeeding can- 
not go backwards into the foregoing, i. e. the derived 
into the primary. Now, as the man is the moving cause 
in carnal intercourse, hence the law — 2. A male member 
of the succeeding issue must not marry a female mem- 
ber of the preceding issue, while, on the contrary, a male 
member of the preceding may marry a female of the 
succeeding issue, provided they are not both of a direct 
line. Half-blood and step-relations make no difference 
in this respect, since they are identified, both in the issue 
and in the line, because husband and wife become iden- 
tified. It is for this reason, also, that the relationship, 
which the wife always assumes in marriage with regard 
to her husband, is such as a blood relation bears to her ; 
hence it is, for instance, that a brother’s wife is pro- 
scribed, while the wife’s sister is allowed. Thus the 
principle of the Mosaie proscriptions is a profound one, 
and is fully borne out by nature. Connubial intercourse 
has for its object to produce a third by the connection 
of two opposites ; but that which proceeds from the same 
source of life is merely of the same kind. Hence, when 
two, originally of the same kind, unite, it is contrary to 
the true design of copulation, and can only proceed from 
an overpowering and excess of rude and animal passions. 
It is a desecration of the nature and morality of man, 
and the highest defilement” (Israelitische Bibd. i, 588 sq.; 
3d. ed. Leipz. 1863). 

Different penalties are attached to the infringement 
of these prohibitions. The punishment of death is to 
be inflicted for marrying a father’s wife (Lev. xviii, 8; 
xx, 11), or a daughter-in-law (Lev. xviii, 15; xx, 12); 
of death by fire for marrying a woman and her daugh- 
ter at the same time (xviii, 17; xx, 14); of being cut 
off or excommunieated for marrying a sister on the fa- 
ther’s side or on the mother’s side (xviii, 9; xx, 17); 
of not being pardoned for marrying a father’s or moth- 
er’s sister (xviii, 12, 13; xx, 19); of not being pardoned 
and childlessness for marrying a father’s brother’s wife 
(xviii, 14; xx, 20); and of childlessness alone for mar- 
rying a brother’s wife (xviii, 16 ; xx, 21), excepting the 
case of a Levirate marriage (Dent. xxv,5-10). No pen- 
alty is mentioned for marrying one’s mother (xviii, 7), 
granddaughter (xviii, 10), or two sisters together (xviii, 
18). From this enumeration it will be seen that it only 
specifies three instances in which capital punishment is 
to be inflicted. 


MARRIAGE 


181 


MARRIAGE 


The grounds on which these prohibitions were enact- 
ed are reducible to the following three heads : (1) moral 
propriety; (2) the practices of heathen nations; and (3) 
social convenience. The first of these grounds comes 
prominently forward in the expressions by which the 
various offences are characterized, as well as in the gen- 
eral prohibition against approaching the flesh of his 
flesh.” The use of such expressions undoubtedly con- 
tains an appeal to the horror naturalis, or that repug- 
nance with which man instinctively shrinks from mat- 
rimonial union with one with whom he is connected by 
the closest ties both of blood and of family affection. 
On this subject we need say no more than that there is 
a difference in kind between the affection that binds the 
members of a family together, and that which lies at 
the bottom of the matrimonial bond, and that the amal- 
gamation of these affections cannot take place without 
a serious shock to one or the other of the two ; hence 
the desirableness of drawing a distinct line between the 
provinces of each, by stating definitely where the mat- 
rimonial affection may legitimately take root. The sec- 
ond motive to laying down these prohibitions was that 
the Hebrews might be preserved as a peculiar people, 
with institutions distinct from those of the Egyptians 
and Canaanites (Lev. xviii, 3), as well as of other hea- 
then nations with whom they might come in contact. 
Marriages within the proscribed degrees prevailed in 
many civilized countries in historical times, and were 
not unusual among the Hebrews themselves in the pre- 
Mosaic age. For instance, marriages with half-sisters 
by the same father were allowed at Athens (Plutarch, 
Cim. 4; Themistocl. 32), with half-sisters by the same 
mother at Sparta (Philo, De spec , leg. p.779), and with 
full sisters in Egypt (Diod. i, 27) and Persia, as illus- 
trated in the well-known instances of Ptolemy Phila- 
delphus in the former (Pans, i, 7, 1), and Cambyses in 
the latter country (Herod, iii, 31). It was even believed 
that in some nations marriages between a son and his 
mother were not unusual (Ovid, Met.x, 331; Eurip.-lw- 
drom. 174). Among the Hebrews we have instances of 
marriage with a half-sister in the case of Abraham (Gen. 
xx, 12), with an aunt in the case of Amram (Exod. vi, 
20), and with two sisters at the same time in the case 
of Jacob (Gen. xxix, 26). Such cases were justifiable 
previous to the enactments of Moses: subsequently to 
them we have no case in the 0. T. of actual marriage 
within the degrees, though the language of Tamar to- 
wards her half-brother Amnon (2 Sam. xiii, 13) implies 
the possibility of their union with the consent of their 
father. The Herods committed some violent breaches 
of the marriage law. Herod the Great married his half- I 
sister {Ant. xvii, 1, 3); Archelaus his brother’s widow, 
who had children (xvii, 13, 1) ; Herod Antipas his broth- 
er’s wife (xviii, 5, 1; Matt, xiv, 3). In the Christian 1 
Church wc have an instance of marriage with a father’s 
wife (1 Cor. v, 1), which St. Paul characterizes as “forni- 
cation” (jropvtia), and visits with the severest condem- 
nation. The third ground of the prohibitions, social 
convenience, comes forward solely in the case of mar- 
riage with two sisters simultaneously, the effect of which 
would be to “ vex” or irritate the first wife, and produce 
domestic jars. 

Besides the proscribed degrees, the Mosaic law also 
forbids the following intermarriages: i. No Israelite is 
to marry the progeny of incestuous and unlawful copu- 
lations, or a mamzer ("iP^‘2, Deut. xxiii,2). In the ab- 
sence of any Biblical definition of this much-disputed 
expression, we must accept the ancient traditional ex- 
planation contained in the Mishna, which is as follows: 
“When there is betrothal without transgression of the 
law about forbidden marriages — e. g. if the daughters of 
priests, Levitcs, or Israelites are married to priests, Le- 
vites, or Israelites — the child goes after the father; 
where there is betrothal, and this law has been trans- 
gressed — e. g. if a widow is married to a high-priest, a 
divorced woman or one who performed the ceremony of 
chalitsah to an ordinary priest, or a bastardess or a fe- 


male nethin to an Israelite; or, vice versa, if a Jewess is 
married to a bastard or nethin — the child goes after the 
inferior party; where the woman cannot be betrothed 
to the man, but might legally be betrothed to another 
person — e. g., i. if a man married within any one of the 
degrees proscribed by the law — the child is a bastard 
or mamzer ” ( Kiddushin , iii, 12). ii. Any person who is 
nil 21 UD, cujus testiculi vulnerati sunt , vel certe unus 
eorum, or r.Y"D, cujus membrum virile preedssum 

est , as the Mishna ( Jebamoth, viii, 2) exjjlains it, is not 
allowed to marry (Deut. xxiii, 1). iii. A man is not to 
remarry a woman whom he had divorced, and who, af- 
ter marrying another husband, had become a widow, or 
been divorced again (Deut. xxiv, 2-4). iv. Heiresses 
are not allowed to intermarry with persons of another 
tribe (Numb. xxxvi,5-9). v. A high-priest is forbid- 
den to marry a widow, a divorced woman, a profane 
woman, or a harlot, and restricted to a pure Jewish 
maiden (Lev. xxi, 13, 14). vi. Ordinary priests are pro- 
hibited from marrying prostitutes and divorced women 
(Lev. xxi, 7). 

b. The proscription of epigamy with non-Israelites is 
absolute with regard to some nations, and conditional 
with regard to others. The Mosaic law absolutely for- 
bids intermarriage with the seven Canaanitish nations, 
on the ground that it would lead the Israelites into idol- 
atry (Exod. xxxiv, 15, 16 ; Deut. vii, 3, 4) ; and with the 
Ammonites and Moabites, on account of national antip- 
athy (Deut. xxiii, 4-8) ; while the prohibition against 
marriage with the Egyptians and Edomites only ex- 
tends to the third generation (Deut. xxiii, 7, 8). The 
Talmud, which rightly expounds the prohibition to “ en- 
ter into the congregation of the Lord ” as necessarily ex- 
tending to epigamy (comp. 1 Kings xi, 2 ; Kiddushin, iv, 
3), takes the third generation to mean of those icho be- 
came pi'oselgtes, i. e. the grandchildren of an Ammonite 
or Moabite who professes Judaism (Mishna, Jebamoth , 
viii, 3 ; Maimonides, Tad Ila-Chazaka , Issut'e Biah, xii f 
19, 20). This view is confirmed by the fact that the 
Bible only mentions three intermarriages with Egyp- 
tians, and records at least two out of the three to show’ 
the evil effects of it. One occurred after the Exodus 
and in the wilderness, and we are told that the son of 
this intermarriage, while quarrelling with a brother Jew, 
blasphemed the name of God, and suffered capital pun- 
ishment (Lev. xxiv, 10-14); the second occurred to- 
wards the end of the rulership of the judges, and tradi- 
tion endeavors to show that Ishmael, the murderer of 
Gcdaliah (Jer. xli, 1, 2), was a descendant of Jarha, the 
Egyptian son-in-law of Sheshan (1 Chron. ii, 34, 35 ; and 
Rashi, ad loc.) ; and the third is the intermarriage of 
Solomon, which, however, is excepted from the censure 
in the book of Kings (1 Kings iii, 1 sq.; xi, 1, 2). Of 
intermarriages with Edomites not a single instance is 
recorded in the O. T.; the Jewish antipathy against 
them was transmitted down to a very late period, as we 
find in the declaration of Jesus, son of Sirach, that his 
soul hates the inhabitants of Scir (Ecclus. iv, 25, 26), 
and in the fact that Judas Maecabjeus carried on a dead- 
ly war with them (1 Macc. v, 3 ; 2 Macc. xx, 15-23). 

An exception is made in the case of female captives 
of war (Deut. xxi, 10-14), which is evidently designed 
to obviate as far as possible the outrages committed af- 
ter the evil passions have been stirred up in the con- 
flict. The law, however, most humanely ordains that 
the captor, before making her his wife, should first al- 
low her to indulge herself for a full month in mourn- 
ing for her parents, from whom she is snatched away, 
and to practice the following customary rites expressive 
of grief: 1. Cut off the hair of her head, which was the 
usual sign of mourning both among the Jews and other 
nations of antiquity (Ezra ix, 3; Job i, 20; Isa. xv, 2; 
Jer. vii, 29; xvi, 6; Ezek. vii, 18; xxvii, 31; Amos viii, 
10; Micah i,16); 2. Cut off her nails, which were stain- 
ed to form a part of personal adornment; and, 3. Put off 
the raiment in which she was taken captive, since the 


MARRIAGE 


182 


MARRIAGE 


women who followed their fathers and husbands to the 
war put on their finest dresses and ornaments previous 
to an engagement, in the hope of finding favor in the 
eyes of their captors in case of a defeat (Ovid, Itemed. 
A mor. 343 ; Rose nm idler, Das alte u. neue Morgenland, 
ii, 30#). 

The first complaint of epigamv with aliens is, strange 
to say, made against Closes, the lawgiver himself (Numb, 
xii, 1). In the days of the Judges the law against in- 
termarriage was commonly transgressed (Judges iii, G), 
and from the earlier portions of the book of Proverbs, 
which ring with repeated denunciations of foreign wom- 
en (Prov. ii, 16, 17 ; v. 8-1 1 ; xv, 17), as well as from the 
warnings of Isaiah (ii, G), it is evident that intermar- 
riages with foreign women were generally practiced in 
private life in after times. Of the twenty kings of Israel 
who reigned from the division of the kingdom to the 
Babylonian captivity, Ahab is the only one mentioned 
who married a foreign wife (1 Kings xvi, 31) ; while of 
the nineteen kings of Judah after the division none in- 
termarried with aliens. Marriages between Israelitish 
women and proselyted foreigners were at all times of 
rare occurrence, and are noticed in the Bible as if they 
■were of an exceptional nature, such as that of au Egyp- 
tian and an Israelitish woman (Lev. xxiv, 10); of Abi- 
gail and Jether, the Ishmaelite, contracted probably 
when Jesse’s family was sojourning in Moab (1 Chron. 
ii, 17) ; of Slieshan’s daughter and an Egyptian, who was 
staying in his house (1 Chron. ii, 35); and of a Napli- 
thalitc woman and a Tyrian, living in adjacent districts 
(I Kings vii, 14). In the reverse case, viz. the mar- 
riage of Israelites with foreign women, it is, of course, 
highly probable that the wives became proselytes after 
their marriage, as instanced in the case of Ruth (i, IG), and 
probably in that of Solomon's Egyptian wife (Psa. xl, 1 0) ; 
but this was by no means invariably the case. On the 
contrary, we find that the Canaanitish wives of Solomon 
(1 Kings xi, 4), and the Phoenician wife of Ahab (1 Kings 
xvi, 31), retained their idolatrous practices, and intro- 
duced them into their adopted countries. Proselytism 
docs not, therefore, appear to have been a sine qua non 
in the case of a wife, though it was so in the case of a 
husband : the total silence of the law as to any such 
condition in regard to a captive, whom an Israelite 
might wish to marry, must be regarded as evidence of 
the reverse (Deut.xxi, 10—1 4), nor have the refinements 
of rabbinical writers on that passage succeeded in es- 
tablishing the necessity of proselytism. The opposition 
of Samson’s parents to his marriage with a Philistine 
woman (Jtidg. xiv, 3) leads to the same conclusion. 

3. In the post-exilian period, besides the fifteen pro- 
scribed degrees enumerated in Lev. xviii, 7-17 ; xx, 11, 
etc., the tiopherim, or scribes (B.C. 322-221), prohibited 
marriage with other relations (Mishna, Jebamoth. ii, 4), 
and those prohibitions were afterwards extended still fur- 
ther by R. Chija ben-Abba the Babylonian (A.D. 1G3- 
103), and friend of Jchudah I the lloly ( Jebamoth , 22 a). 
The prohibited degrees of the scribes are denominated 
r"* i rr, i. e. the second or subordinate in rank 

with respect to those forbidden in the Bible, and may 
be seen in the following list given by Maimonides: “i. 
The mother’s mother, and this is infinite, for the moth- 
er’s mother’s mother’s mother, and so upwards, are pro- 
scribed. ii. The mother of his father’s mother, and no 
further, iii. His father’s mother, and this is infinite, 
for even the father’s mother’s mother’s mother, and so 
upwards, are proscribed, iv. The mother of his father’s 
father only. v. The wife of his father's father, and this 
is infinite, for even if she were the wile of our father 
Jacob, she is forbidden to every one of us. vi. The 
wife of his mother’s father only. vii. The wife of his 
father’s brother by the mother, viii. The wife of his 
mother’s brother, whether by the mother or by the fa- 
ther. ix. 1 1 is son’s daughter-in-law, i. e. his son’s son’s 
wife, and this is infinite, for even if she were the son’s 
son’s son’s son’s wife, descending to the end of the world, 
she is forbidden, so that, as long as the wife of one of us 


lives, she is secondary or forbidden to our father Jacob 
x. II is (laughter’s daughter-in-law, i. e. her son’s wifi 
only. xi. The daughter of his son’s daughter only. xii. 
The daughter of his son's son only. xiii. The daughter 
of bis daughter’s daughter only. xiv. The daughter of 
his daughter’s son only. xv. The daughter of his wife’s 
son only. xvi. The daughter of his wife’s daughter’s 
daughter only. xvii. The mother of his wife’s father’s 
mother only, xviii. The mother of his wife’s mother’s 
father only. xix. The mother of his wife’s mother’s 
mother only. xx. The mother of his wife’s father’s fa- 
ther only. Thus, of these secondary prohibitions, there 
are four which are infinite : a, the mother’s mother and 
all upwards; b , the father’s mother and all upwards; c, 
the grandfather’s wife and all upwards; and, d , the son’s 
son’s wife and all downwards” ( IJilchoth Ishuth, i, G). 
The principle by which the scribes were guided was to 
extend the prohibition to the whole line wherever the 
Mosaic law refers to lineal ascendants or descendants, as 
well as to those who might easily be mistaken by hav- 
ing a common appellation. Thus mother’s mother’s 
mother’s mother, ad infinitum, is forbidden, because the 
Mosaic law proscribes the mother, so also the wife of 
the grandfather, because the wife’s father is forbidden 
in the Mosaic law; while the mother of the father is 
proscribed, because the appellation grandmother is used 
without distinction for both the mother’s and father’s 
mother. From Maimonides’s list, however, it will be 
seen that he, like Alfasi, restricts prohibition ii to the 
mother of the grandfather, and prohibitions xii-xvi, 
xx, to the son’s grandchildren, great-grandmother, and 
great-grandchildren, but does not extend it to any fur- 
ther asceudants or descendants. The whole subject is 
extensively discussed in the Talmud (Jebamoth, 21, 22; 
Jerusalem Jebamoth, ii, 4), and by Maimonides (lad 
Ha-Chazaka, Ililchoth Ishuth , i, G, etc.), to which we 
must refer. It must, however, be remarked that Philo’s 
list of proscribed degrees is much shorter. After ex- 
plaining why Moses prohibited marriage with one’s own 
mother or sister, he says, “For this reason he has also 
forbidden other matrimonial connections, inasmuch as 
he ordained that a man shall not marry his grand- 
daughter (pi) SvyarpiSijr, pi) vilijv), nor his aunt on 
the father's or mother’s side, nor the wife of an uncle, 
son, or brother; nor a step-daughter while in the life- 
time of her mother or after her death, because a step- 
father takes the place of a father, and a step-daughter 
is to be looked upon as his own daughter. Neither does 
he allow the same man to marry two sisters, either at 
the same time or at different times, even in case one of 
them had been married to another and is divorced; for 
he did not consider it pious that one sister should suc- 
ceed to the place of her unfortunate sister, whether the 
latter is still cohabiting with him, or is divorced and 
has no husband, or is married to another husband” (De 
special, legibus, 780). Still shorter is the list of Jose- 
phus, who says, “The law prohibits it as a heavy sin 
I and an abomination to have carnal intercourse with 
one’s mother, step-mother, father's or mother’s sister, 
i one’s own sister, or a son’s wife” (Ant. iii, 12, 1). Mar- 
riage with a wife’s step-mother is allowed by the Bab- 
ylonian and forbidden by the Jerusalem Talmud; the 
Spanish Jews follow the former, while the Germano- 
French communities adopt the latter. Intermarriages 
between cousins, uncle and niece, entire step-brother 
and step-sister, are quite legitimate. Indeed, lor an un- 
1 cle to marry a niece, which the English law forbids, has 
■ been considered by the Jews from time immemorial as 
something specially meritorious. The Talmud says that 
the promise given in Isaiah, “Then shall thou call and 
the Lord shall answer” (lviii, 9), refers to that man es- 
pecially “ who* loves his neighbors, befriends his rela- 
tions, marries his brother's daughter, and lends money 
to the poor in the hour of need” (Jebamoth, G2 b, 63 a). 

As to the ethical cause of the proscribed marriages, 
or the cases specified, including parallels by affinity, the 
i ancient Jews, to whom the oracles of God were commit- 


MARRIAGE 


783 


MARRIAGE 


ted, and who had to explain and administer the law in 
practical life, knew nothing about it. The Palestinian 
doctors regarded the proscribed degrees as a jjositive 
law, the cause of which cannot be divined by human 
reason (Sifra Kedoshim , ix, 12; Talmud, Sabbath , 130 
a; Joma, 75 a). The only attempt to rationalize on the 
subject is on the apparent inconsistency of the Mosaic 
law in prohibiting marriage with the wife of the father’s 
brother, in ease she is divorced or left a widow, and not 
forbidding the wife of the mother’s brother. Upon this 
the Talmud remarks that a man visits his father’s rela- 
tions more than liis mother’s ( Jebamoth , 21 a; and Ka- 
shi on this passage); and it is submitted, and we be- 
lieve with perfect reason, and based on Numb, i, 2, that 
it is the father’s relations who constitute the family, 
and not the mother’s. AVe thus see that up to the time 
of the Ptolemies, when the Greek loose barriers of con- 
sanguinity threatened to fall among the Jewish fami- 
lies, the ancient Hebrews were bound only by the spe- 
citic proscriptions in the Mosaic law, and that even after 
the prohibitions were extended by the scribes, the pro- 
scription of a male relative by blood did not imply the 
wife’s relatives of the like degree, because of the strong 
distinction made by them between consanguinity and 
affinity by marriage ; the former being permanent and 
sacred, and the latter uncertain and vague, as a man 
might any moment divorce his wife, or take as many 
as he pleased, and because the husband’s family were 
regarded as the relations, while the wife’s were not es- 
teemed beyond those who are especially mentioned. 

The proscribed degrees were sacredly avoided by the 
Jews during this period, and no dispensation could be 
obtained by any one, no matter how high his position, 
as Judaism never invested any spiritual functionary . 
with power to absolve, even in extraordinary cases, from 
the obligations of the law. Hence the outcry against 
Ilerod the Great, who married his half-sister (Josephus, 
Ant. xvii, 1,3); against Archelaus, who took his de- 
ceased brother’s widow when she was the mother of 
children (ibid, xvii, 13, 1); and against Herod Antipas, 
for which John the Baptist had to atone with his life 
(Josephus, Ant. xviii, 5, 1 ; Matt, xiv, 3). So long as 
foreign epigamy was of merely occasional occurrence 
no veto was placed upon it by public authority; but 
when, after the return from the Babylonian captivity, 
the Jews contracted marriages with the heathen inhab- 
itants of Palestine in so wholesale a manner as to en- 
danger their national existence, the practice was severe- 
ly condemned (Ezra ix, 2 ; x, 2), and the law of positive 
prohibition, originally pronounced only against the Ca- 
naanites, was extended to the Moabites, Ammonites, and 
Philistines (Neh. xiii, 23-25). Public feeling was 
thenceforth strongly opposed to foreign marriages, and 
the union of Manasseh with a Cutlnean led to such an- 
imosity as to produce the great national schism, which 
had its focus in the temple on Mount Gerizim (Josephus, 
Ant. xi, 8, 2) A no less signal instance of the same 
feeling is exhibited in the cases of Joseph (Ant. xii, 4, 
6) and Anikeus (Ant. xviii. 9, 5), and is noticed by Taci- 
tus (Hist, v, 5) as one of the characteristics of the Jew- 
ish nation in his day. In the N. T. no special direc- 
tions are given on this head, but the general precepts 
of separation between believers and unbelievers (2 Cor. 
vi, 14, 17) would apply with special force to the case of 
marriage; and the permission to dissolve mixed mar- 
riages, contracted previously to the conversion of one 
party, at the instance of the unconverted one, cannot 
but be regarded as implying the impropriety of such 
unions subsequently to conversion (1 Cor. vii, 12). 

Besides the proscribed degrees, the rabbinic law also 
enacted — i. A man must not marry a divorced woman 
with whom he has committed adultery prior to her di- 
vorcement (Sota, 27), or even if he is only suspected of 
it ( Jebamoth , 24; Maimonides, Sota, ii, 12). ii. A man 
who attested the death of the husband is not allowed to 
marry the widow, nor is the bearer of a divorce permit- 
ted to marry the divorced woman, to avoid suspicion 


I (, Jebamoth , ii, 9, 10). iii. If a man’s wife dies, he must 
' not marry again till three festivals after liis wife’s death 
, (J foed Katon , 23). iv. A man is not to marry a woman 
who has lost two husbands ( Jebamoth , 64). v. A father 
is not to give a young daughter in marriage to an old 
man, nor is a young man to marry an old woman (Jeba- 
moth, 101 ; Maimonides, Isure Bia , xxi, 26). vi. A man 
is not to marry within thirty days of the death of a near 
relation (Moed Katon , 23). vii. Widows are not to 
marry within ninety days of the loss of their husbands, 
nor are divorced women to marry within ninety days 
of their being divorced, in order that the paternity of 
the newly-born child might be distinguished ( Jebamoth , 
41 a), viii. If a widow or a divorced woman is nursing 
an infant, she must not marry within twenty-four 
months of the birth of the baby (Jebamoth, 41 ; Kethu - 
both, 60 ; and Tossafoth, on these passages). 

VI. Sanctity of Marriage , and Mutual Bights of Hus- 
band and Wife. — 1. Though at the creation the wife oc- 
cupied an equal position with the husband, being a part 
of him, yet, as she became the cause of his sin, God or- 
dained it as part of her punishment that the wife should 
be in subjection to the will of her husband, and that he 
should be her master, and “rule over her” (Gen. iii, 16). 
This dependence of the wife on her husband is hence- 
forth declared by the very Hebrew appellation (^N-) 
for husband (Exod. xxi, 3, 22), which literally denotes 
lord, master, owner, and is seen in the conduct of Sarah, 
who speaks of her husband Abraham as (‘ 1 D’1X) my lord 
(Gen. xviii, 12), which is commended by Peter as illus- 
trating the proper position of a wife (1 Pet. iii, 6). 
From this mastery of the husband over the wife arose 
the different standard of virtue which obtained in mar- 
ried life. The wife, as subject to her husband, her lord 
and master, was not allowed to practice polyandry; she 
was obliged to regard the sanctity of marriage as abso- 
lute, and any unchastity on her part was visited with 
capital punishment; while the husband could take any 
unmarried woman he liked and violate the laws of 
chastity, as we should view it, with impunity (Gen. 
xxxviii, 24). This absolute sanctity of marriage on 
the part of the wife was also acknowledged by other na- 
tions of antiquity, as is gathered from t lie narratives of 
the patriarchs. Thus Abraham knew that Pharaoh 
would not take Sarah from her husband, and we are 
told that as soon as the Egyptian monarch discovered 
that she was a married woman, he immediately restored 
her to her husband (Gen. xii, 15-19) ; and this is con- 
firmed by Egyptology, which, based on ancient writers 
and monuments, shows that he who seduced a married 
woman received a thousand rods, and that the woman 
had her nose cut off (Ulilemann, Egypt. Alterthumsk. 11, 
sec. 25, 65). The same sanctity was attached to a mar- 
ried woman in Philistia (Gen. xx, 1-18; xxvi, 9-11). 

2. Recognising the previously-existing inequality of 
husband and wife, and basing its laws upon the then 
prevailing notion that the husband is lord over his wife, 
that he can take as many wives as he likes, and send them 
away whenever he dislikes them, the Mosaic gamology, 
as a matter of course, could neither impose the same ob- 
ligation of nuptial fidelity nor confer the same rights on 
both. This is evident from the following facts: 1. The 
husband had a right to .expect from his wife connubial 
chastity, and in ease of infidelity could demand her 
death as well as that of her seducer (Lev. xx, 10; Deut. 
xxii, 20-22 ; Ezek. xvi, 40 ; John viii, 5). 2. If he be- 

came jealous and suspicious of her, even udicn she had not 
been unfaithful , he could bring her before the priest and 
have administered to her the water of jealousy (Numb, 
v, 12-31). But if the husband was suspected, or was 
actually guilt}’' of carnal intercourse with an unmarried 
woman, no statute was enacted to enable the wife or 
wives to arraign him for a breach of marriage or in- 
fringement of her or their rights. Even when he was 
discovered with another man’s wife, it was the injured 
husband that had the power to demand the death of the 


MARRIAGE 


784 


MARRIAGE 


seducer, but not the wife of the criminal. 3. If the wife 
vowed anything to the Lord, or imposed upon herself 
voluntary obligations to the Deity, her husband could 
nullify it (Numb, xxx, 6-8). 4. lie could send her away 

or divorce her when she displeased him (Deut. xxiv, 1- 
4). The woman, again, is protected by the following 
laws: I. When a Hebrew maiden is sold by her father 
to a man, with the understanding that she is to be his 
half-wife (!T£X = tt:i^B, Exod. xxi, 7; Judg. ix, 18 
with Judg. viii, 31), the law enacts that, in case her 
master and intended husband is displeased with her, and 
he refuses to redeem his promise — i, he is not to keep 
her till the sabbatic year, and then give her her liberty 
like ordinary servants; ii, he is not to sell her to any 
one else as a wife; iii, he may give her to his son as a 
'wife, and in that case must treat her as a daughter-in- 
law; iv, if he gives his son an additional wife, she is to 
obtain — a , her food, b , raiment, and, c, conjugal right as 
heretofore; and, v, if these three last-mentioned points 
are refused to her, she is forthwith to be set at liberty 
(Exod. xxi, 7-11). 2. If he maliciously impugns her 

chastity, he is to be scourged, and loses his right over 
her to divorce her (Deut. xxii, 13-19)- 3. If she has 
children, they must render equal obedience to her as to 
the father (Exod. xx, 12; Deut. xxvii, 16). 4. The 

husband must not vex her by marrying two sisters si- 
multaneously (Lev. xviii, 18). 5. He is not allowed to 

annoy his less-beloved wife by transferring the primo- 
geniture from her son to the child of his favorite wife 
(Deut. xxi. 15-17). 6. If her husband dislikes her, he 

is not arbitrarily to dismiss her, but give her a “ bill 
of divorcement” (Deut. xxiv, 1), which requires the in- 
terposition of legal advisers. 7. When a woman is di- 
vorced, or her husband dies, she is free, and at liberty 
to marry any one she likes, as is evident from the en- 
actments in Lev. xxi, 7, 8, 13; Deut. xxiv, 2-4; xxv, 
5, which are based upon this fact. 

3. The notions about sanctity of marriage were loftier 
during the post-exilian period than in the preceding 
epochs, as maybe judged from the fact that unfaithful- 
ness to a wife is denounced by the prophet Malachi as 
violating a sacred covenant, to the transaction of which 
God himself was a witness (ii, 14). And though it may 
be questioned whether the prophet’s appeal to God as 
having been witness to the marriage-contract refers to 
the above-named seven benedictions (JTIB^Q 3.'!T£J) 
which the bridegroom had to pronounce at the mar- 
riage-feast, and in which he invoked God’s presence 
and blessing to the compact, as Abrabanel will have it, 
vet there can be no doubt that marriage is here for the 
tirst time expressly described as a covenant (H^B) 
made in the presence of God. With such a view of the 
sanctity of marriage, the notion that a wife is a play- 
thing for a leisure hour rapidly disappeared, and the 
sages who had to expound the law to the people in the 
time of Christ taught that the declaration “ Peace shall 
be in thy house” (Job v, 24) will be realized by him 
“who loves his wife as himself, and honors her more 
than himself, and trams his sons and daughters up in 
the way of righteousness” ( Jebamoth , 62 b). Moreover, 
marriage was regarded as illegal if the man had not 
given to his wife the instrument (JlBiriB), in which he 
promises his wife, “ I will work for thee, honor thee, 
maintain thee, and provide for thee, according to the 
custom of Jewish husbands.” The rabbinic laws both 
doline this promise and insist upon its being fulfilled, as 
may be seen from the following enactments : i. A wife is 
to be kept in proportion to the circumstances of her hus- 
band, and have her meals with him at the table; if he 
ill-treats her and she removes from him, he is obliged 
to send her maintenance (Jebamoth, 64 b)! ii. If the 
husband goes on a three months’ journey without mak- 
ing provision for his wife, the legal authorities of the 
place are to maintain her from his property ( Kethnboth , 
48 a, 107). iii. He is obliged to perform the duties of a 
husband within a stated period (Mishna, Kethuboth, x, 


I 6). iv. If her husband dies, she is to be maintained from 
' bis property, or by the children, in the same manner as 
she was in his lifetime, till she is betrothed to another 
man, and her rights must be attended to before the 
claims of any one else ( Kethuboth , 43, 51, 52, 68, 103 ; Je- 
rusalem Kethuboth , iv, 14). v. If a woman marries a 
man of higher rank than herself, she rises with him; 
but if he is inferior to her, she does not descend to him 
(rmr V22? r&VJ nr SO [Kethuboth, 48 a, G1 a]). 
For other rights which the wife possesses we must refer 
to the Kethubah, or the marriage-instrument given in sec- 
tion 2 of this period. The husband, on the other hand, 
has a right to expect from his wife chastity which is be- 
yond the reach of suspicion, unreserved obedience, and 
to do the work of a housewife. Other rights are given 
in the following section oil divorce. 

VII. Divorce. — 1 . The arbitrary power of the husband 
over bis wife in the patriarchal age is also seen in the 
fact that he coidd divorce her at his pleasure. There 
is but one instance of it recorded, but it is a very signifi- 
cant one. Abraham, though he has a child by Ilagar, 
sends away his half-wife, not requiring any legal or re- 
ligious intervention (Gen. xxi, 14), hut, as in the case 
of marriage, effecting it by a mere verbal declaration. 
Wherever marriages are effected by the violent exercise 
of the patria potestas, or without any bond of affection 
between the parties concerned, ill-assorted matches must 
be of frequent occurrence ; and without the remedy of 
divorce, in such a state of society, we can understand 
the truth of the apostles’ remark that “ it is not good to 
marry” (Matt, xix, 10). Hence divorce prevails to a 
great extent in all countries where marriage is the re- 
sult of arbitrary appointment or of purchase : we may 
instance the Arabians (Burckhardt’s Notes , i, 111 ; Lay- 
ard, Nineveh, i, 357) and the Egyptians (Lane, i, 235 sq.). 

2. It must be remarked that the Mosaic law does not 
institute divorce, but, as in other matters, recognises and 
most humanely regulates the prevailing patriarchal 
practice (Deut. xxiv, 1-4). The ground on which the 
law allows a divorce is termed 7B1 T'NJ, any shameful 
thing. What the precise meaning of this ambiguous phrase 
is, and what, according to the Mosaic gamology, gives 
a husband the right to divorce his wife, has been greatly 
disputed in the schools of Shammai and Hillel, which were 
founded before the advent of Christ, and these discussions 
are given below. It is, however, certain that the phrase 
does not denote fornication or adultery, for in that ease 
the woman was not divorced, but stoned (Lev. xx, 10; 
Deut. xxii, 20-22 ; Ezek. xvi, 40; John viii, 5). More- 
over, the phrase *022 “jn 2C£*2, with which this 

statute begins, when used of opposite sexes, as in the 
ease before ns, generally denotes favorable impression 
which one produces on the other , by graceful manners, or 
beautiful appearance (Gen. xxxix, 4; Buth ii, 2, 10, 13; 
Ezek. v, 2 with 8). That it has this sense here seems 
to be warranted by ver. 3, where it is supposed that the 
divorced woman marries again, and her second husband 
also divorces her, and that not on account of immoral- 
ity, but because he does not like her. The humane 
regulations which the Mosaic gamology introduced in 
order to render a divorce legal were as follows: 1. If 
a man dislikes his wife, or finds that he cannot live 
happily with her, he is not summarily to send her 
away bv word of mouth as heretofore, but is to give lier 
a formal and judicial bill of divorcement (TT^ZZ ^BD), 
which required the intervention of a legal adviser, and 
caused delay, thus affording time for reilcction, and pre- 
venting many a divorce resolved on under the influence 
of passion. 2. Allowing the parties, even after the dis- 
solution of the marriage, to renew the connection if they 
wished it, provided the divorced wife had not in the 
meantime married another husband, and become a wid- 
ow, or been again divorced. Not only are bishop Pat- 
rick (on Deut. xxiv, 4), Miehaelis (Laws of JUloses, ii, 
137, English translation), and many other Christian ex- 
positors, of this opinion, but it has been so understood 


MARRIAGE 


785 


MARRIAGE 


and acted upon by those who were charged with the 
administration of the law from time immemorial. The 
only exception which the sages made was when a man 
divorced his wife because of an evil report which he 
maliciously circulated about her; then he was not al- 
lowed to remarry her (Mishna, Gittin , iv, 7). 3. If the 

divorced woman marries again, and the second husband 
either dies or divorces her, she is not allowed to remarry 
her first husband : this was to preclude the possibility of 
procuring the death of, or a divorce from, the second 
husband, in case the parties wished to be reunited. 4. 
If a man seduces a maiden, and on this account is legal- 
ly obliged to marry her, “ he may not put her away all 
his life” (Dent, xxii, 28, 29). Or, 5. If he groundlessly 
impugns her chastity, he also loses the power of ever 
divorcing her (Dent, xxii, 13-19). This, as well as the 
preceding benign law, was evidently designed to make 
men care for those women whom they had cither virtu- 
ally or actually deprived of their moral character, and 
who, if these men were allowed to desert them, might 
never be able to get husbands. Thus these laws, while 
cheeking seduction, inasmuch as the man knew that he 
would have all his lifetime to be wedded to and care for 
the injured woman, also prevented those females who 
had momentarih r fallen from being branded for life, and 
compelled to give themselves up to prostitution. 0. 
Though the Mosaic law has no express statute that the 
wife, under certain circumstances, may demand a di- 
vorce from her husband, yet it is undoubtedly implied 
in the enactment contained in Exod. xxi, 10. For if a 
bondwoman who became the wife of her master could 
quit him if he did not fulfil the conditions of a husband, 
it is but natural to conclude that a free wife would, un- 
der similar circumstances, be able to claim the protec- 
tion of the same law. A few instances of the violation 
of the divorce law, between the period of its enactment 
and the Babylonian captivity, are incidentally recorded 
without any censure whatever. Tims we are told that 
Saul took away Miclial, his daughter, David’s wife, 
without David’s formally divorcing her, and gave her to 
Phalti (1 Sam. xxv, 44), and that David took back again 
Miclial, who had been united to another husband (2 
Sam. iii, 14—16). Still the laws of divorce and of pro- 
hibiting reunion after the divorced woman had been 
married to another husband are alluded to by Jeremiah 
as well known and commonly observed (iii, i, 8). 

з. The rather uncertain grounds on which the Mosaic 
law permits divorce (Deut. xxiv, 1-4) were minutely 
defined during the period after the exile. Though the 
school of Shammai restricts the phrase mr to 
miehastity, and the Sadducces too insisted that divorce 
is not to be tolerated except when the woman is guilty 
of adultery (. Eschol Ila-Copher , Alphub. xeix ; Ben-Cho- 
nanja, iv, 276), yet the Jews as a nation, as well as most 
Christian expositors, agree with the school of Hillel, 
(Mishna, Gittin, ix, 10) that it denotes faults or deformi- 
ties ■, as the context plainly shows. Now, in stating the 
grounds on which the Jewish expositors of the law, 
in the time of Christ and after, regarded dissolution of 
marriage as justifiable, we must distinguish the cases in 
which the legal authorities themselves took up the mat- 
ter, from those in which the married parties asked for 
divorce. 

и. Dissolution of marriage occasioned by the lawful 
authorities took place — i. When the woman is guilty of 
adultery, ii. When the woman carries on secret inter- 
course with a man after her husband has warned her 
against it (Sofa, 27 ; Jebamoth , 24). iii. Where, though 
betrothal had taken place, yet a matrimonial law (ma- 
trimonium injustum) is violated, cither referring to the 
proscribed degrees or to other matters enacted by the 
rabbins, iv. When the husband is infected with lep- 
rosy ( Kethuboth , 77). 

b. It was granted on the demand of the married par- 
ties. Thus the husband could effect a dissolution of 
marriage — i. When his wife, by violating the Mosaic 
law, caused him, without knowing it, to be guilty of 
V. — D D D 


transgression (Mishna, Kethuboth, vii, G). ii. If the wife 
violates the bounds of modesty — e. g. by going into the 
street with uncovered hair, flirting with young men, 
etc. (ibid.), iii. If the wife is suspected of adultery, iv. 
If the woman curses her father-in-law in the presence 
of her husband (. Kethuboth , 72). v. If the wife will not 
follow her husband to another place ( Kethuboth , 110). 
vi. If the wife refuses her husband the conjugal rights 
for twelve months. 

The wife can demand a divorce — i. If after marriage 
the husband contracts a loathsome disease (Mishna, Ke- 
thuboth, vii, 9, 10). ii. If after marriage he betakes him- 
self to a disgusting business (ibid, the Gemara thereon, 
75). iii. If he treats her cruelly (Eben Ua-Ezar, 154). 
iv. If her husband changes his religion (ibid.), v. If the 
husband commits an offence which makes him flee from 
his country (Eben IJa-Ezar , 9). vi. If he leads a dis- 
solute and immoral life (Eben IJa-Ezar , Gloss on Sects. 
11). vii. If he wastes his property and neglects to 
maintain her (Mishna, Kethuboth , vii, 1). viii. If he re- 
fuses her connubial rights (Mishna, Kethuboth , v, 6). 
There are other grounds on which divorce can be ob- 
tained, but for these we must refer to the Mishna, Git- 
tin, as they are too numerous to be detailed. The bill 
of divorcement must be handed over, either by the hus- 
band or a messenger, to the wife or one deputed by her, 
with the words, “ This is thy divorce ; thou art hence- 
forth divorced from me, and canst marry whomsoever 
thou likest” (Mishna, Gittin, ix). It must, however, be 
remarked that divorce was greatly discouraged by the 
Talmudists, and it is declared that *■ he who divorces 
his wife is hated of God. The altar sheds tears over 
him who divorces the wife and companion of his youth” 
(Gittin, 90 a). 

During the post-exilian period the abuse of divorce 
continued unabated (Josephus, Life, 76) ; and under the 
Asmona?an dynasty the right was assumed by the wife 
as against her husband, an innovation which is attribu- 
ted to Salome by Josephus (Ant. xv, 7, 10), but which 
appears to have been prevalent in the apostolic age. if 
we may judge from passages where the language im- 
plies that the act emanated from the wife (Mark x, 12; 
1 Cor. vii, 11), as well as from some of the comments of 
the early writers on 1 Tim. v, 9. Our Lord and his 
apostles re-established the integrity and sanctity of the 
marriage-bond by the following measures : (1) by the 
confirmation of the original charter of marriage as the 
basis on which all regulations are to be framed (Matt, 
xix, 4, 5) ; (2) by the restriction of divorce to the case 
of fornication, and the prohibition of remarriage in all 
persons divorced on improper grounds (Matt, v, 32 ; xix, 
9; Bom. vii, 3; 1 Cor. vii, 10, 11); and (3) by the en- 
forcement of moral purity generally (Hcb. xiii, 4, etc.), 
and especially by the formal condemnation of fornica- 
tion, which appears to have been classed among acts 
morally indifferent (acuapopa) by a certain party in the 
Church (Acts xv, 20). 

X III. Levi rate Law. — 1. The only power which a 
woman had over the man during the pre-Mosaic period, 
in matrimonial matters, was when her husband died 
without issue. The widow could then claim his next 
brother to marry her; if the second also died without 
progeny, she could ask the third, and so on. The ob- 
ject of this Levirate marriage, as it is called, from the 
Latin, levir, brother-in-law (Hebrew, C-"'; Greek, im- 
yapfipkoi), is “ to raise up seed to the departed brother,” 
which should preserve his name upon his inheritance, 
and prevent it from being erased from among his breth- 
ren, and from the gate of his town (Gen. xxxviii, 8; 
Deut. xxv, 6; Ruth iv, 10) ; since the Hebrews regard- 
ed childlessness as a great evil (Gen. xvi, 4; xix, 31), 
and entire excision as a most dire calamity and awful 
punishment from God (Deut. ix, 14 ; Psa. ix, 7 ; cix, 15). 
To remove this reproach from the departed, it was re- 
garded as the sacred duty of the eldest surviving broth- 
er to marry the widow, and the first-born son resulting 
from such an alliance was to all intents and purposes 


MARRIAGE 


786 


MARRIAGE 


considered as the representative and heir of the deceased. 
Thus we are told that when Er, Judah’s eldest son, who 
was married to Tamar, died without issue, the second 
son was called upon to marry his deceased brother’s 
widow, and that when he again died, leaving no chil- 
dren, Tamar, the widow, had still a claim upon the only 
surviving son, for whom she had to wait, as he was not 
as yet marriageable (Gen. xxxviii, G-T2, 14, 2G). Ulti- 
mately Judah himself had to marry his daughter-in- 
law, for she inveigled him into it as a punishment for 
neglecting to give her his third son (Gen. xxxviii, 2G- 
30) ; and Pliarez, the issue of this Levirate marriage, 
not only became the founder of a numerous and illus- 
trious family, but was the direct line from which the 
royal family of David descended, and the channel 
through which the Messiah was born (Gen. xxxviii, 
20, with Matt, i, 3). This Levirate marriage was not 
peculiar to the Hebrews. It also obtained among the 
Moabites (Ruth i, 11-13), Persians (Kleuker, Zendaves- 
ta. iii, 220), Indians (A siatic Researches , iii, 35), and still 
exists in Arabia (Burckhardt, Notes, i, 112; Niebuhr, 
\~oyaye, p. G 1 ), among the tribes of the Caucasus (Hant- 
hausen, Transca ucasia, p. 403), and other nations (comp. 
Leyser, in Herzog, Real-Encyklop. viii, 358, s. v. Levi- 
ratsehe). 

2. This law, which, as we have seen, existed from 
time immemorial both among the patriarchs and other 
nations of antiquity, was at length formally enacted as 
part of the Biblical gamologv. In adopting this law, 
however, as in the case of other primitive practices in- 
corporated in the Mosaic code, the sacred legislator both 
prescribes for it definite limits, and most humanely de- 
prives it of the irksome and odious features which it 
possessed in ancient times. This is evident from the 
enactment itself, which is as follows : “ If brothers dwell 
together, and one of them die and have no child, the 
wife of the deceased shall not marry out of the family a 
stranger; her husband’s brother shall go in unto her. 
and take her as his wife, and perform the duty of a 
brother-in-law. Her first-born shall then succeed in 
the name of the deceased brother, so that his name be 
not blotted out of Israel” (Deut. xxv, 5, G), Accord- 
ingly — i. This law is restricted to brothers who dwell to- 
gether , i. e. in contiguous properties, as the rabbinical 
law explains it according to the meaning of the phrase 
*““irn rTJ in Gen. xiii, G; xxxvi, 7, and elsewhere. 
If the brothers lived far away, or if the deceased had 
no brothers at all, it was an understood thing that it 
devolved upon the nearest of kin to marry the widow, 
or eare for her if she was too old, when, of course, it 
passed over from the domain of Leviration into that of 
( Joel or redeemer (Ruth ii, 20; iii, 9; iv, 15. 1G). ii. To 
cases where no issue whatever is left, as “,3 is here used 
in its general sense of offspring and not specifically for 
son. This is not only confirmed by the Sept. (vTrippa'), 
Matthew ( p /} tyum (nreppa, xxii, 5), INI ark (xii, 19), 
Luke (drtKi'OQj xx, 28), Josephus (Ant. iv, 8, 23), anti 
the Talmud ( Jebamoth , 22 b), but is evident from the 
law of inheritance (Numb, xxvii, S-ll), in which it is 
declared that if a man dies without leaving a son, his 
daughter is to inherit the property. For if his widow 
could claim the surviving brother to marry her in order 
to raise up a son to the deceased, the daughter who le- 
gally came to the inheritance would either have to lose 
her possessions, or the son born of the Levirate mar- 
riage would have to be without patrimony. 

In fulfilling the duty of the Levir in the patriarchal 
age the surviving brother had to make great sacrifices, 
lie had not only to renounce the perpetuating of his 
own name through the first-born son (Gen. xxxviii, 9), 
and mar his own inheritance (Ruth iv, G),*but, what was 
most galling, he was obliged to take the widow whether 
he had an inclination for any such marriage or not, as 
the Levir in the patriarchal age had no alternative. 
Now the Mosaic law removed this hardship by opening 
to the man a door of escape : “ But if the man like not 


to take his brother's wife, then let his brother’s wife go 
up to the gate of the elders and say, My husband's 
brother refuseth to raise up unto his brother a name in 
Israel ; he will not perform the Levirate duty. And 
the elders of the city shall call him, and speak unto him. 
But if he still persist and say, I like not to take her, 
then shall his brother’s wife come in to him in the pres- 
ence of the elders, and loose his shoe from off his foot, 
and spit in his face and say, So shall it be done unto 
that man that will not build up his brother’s house; and 
his house shall be called in Israel the house of the bare- 
foot” (Deut. xxv, 7-10). Thus the Mosaic gamology 
does not impose it as an inexorable law, but simply en- 
joins it as a duty of love, which the Levir might escape 
by submitting to censure and reproach. Of this he could 
not complain, for he not only neglected to perform to- 
wards his deceased brother the most sacred offices of 
love, but, by refusing to do so, he openly declared his 
dislike to the widow, and thus publicly insulted her. 
The symbolic manner in which she took away in the 
public court his right to her and his deceased brother’s 
possession, has its origin in the fact that the possession 
of property was claimed by planting the foot on it. 
Hence, when the transfer of property was effected by an 
amicable transaction, the original owner signified the 
renunciation of his rights by taking off his shoe and 
giving it to the new possessor (Ruth iv, 7, 8). A simi- 
lar custom obtained among the Indians (Denary, De 
Ilebrceorum Leviratu , Berol. 1835, p. 14) and the ancient 
Germans (Grimm, Deutsche Rechtsalterthiimcr. p. 15G). 
In the case before us, however, where the privilege of 
possession was not renounced by a mutual understand- 
ing, but involved insult both to the deceased brother 
and the surviving widow, the outraged sister-in-law 
snatched the right from him by pulling off his shoe. 

3. That this patriarchal law — which, as we have seen, 
was incorporated in the Mosaic gamology — continued in 
its full force after the Captivity, is evident from Mat- 
thew (xxii, 25-27), Mark (xii, 19-23), and Luke (xx.28- 
33). From the question put to our Saviour in these 
passages, it will be seen that it was incumbent upon 
each surviving brother in succession to perform the duty 
of the Levir. There were, however, cases where this 
duty could not be performed, about which the Mosaic 
law gives no directions whatever — e. g. when the de- 
ceased brother’s widow was a near relation of the Levir 
and came within the proscribed degrees, of which the 
Mislina (Jebamoth, i, 1) gives fifteen cases; or when the 
latter was a child when his brother died and left a 
widow without issue (ii, 3) ; and if he were on this or 
any other account exempt from the obligation to marry 
one of the widows, he was also from the obligation to 
marry any of them (i, 1); it is also implied that it was 
only necessary for one brother to marry one of the wid- 
ows in eases where there were several widows left. The 
marriage was not to take place within three months of 
the husband's death (iv, 10). The eldest brother ought 
to perform the duty of marriage ; but, on his declining 
it, a younger brother might do it (ii, 8 ; iv, 5). The 
chalitsah was regarded as involving future relationship, 
so that a man who had received it could not marry the 
widow’s relations within the prohibited degrees (iv, 7). 
Special rules are laid down for cases where a woman 
married under a false impression as to her husband's 
death (x, 1), or where a mistake took place as to wheth- 
er her son or her husband died first (x,3). for in the lat- 
ter case the Levirate law would not apply ; and, again, 
as to the evidence of the husband’s death to be pro- 
duced in certain cases (cap. 15, 1G). There can. there- 
fore, be no question that the administrators of the law 
in the time of the prophets and at the advent of our Sav- 
iour had to define and supplement the Levirate law. As 
the space of* this article does not permit us to enumerate 
these important definitions and enactments, we must 
refer to the Mislina, Tract Jebamoth, which derives its 
name (P* , 33“ l ) from the fact that it embodies these 
laws. These descend into trivial distinctions — e. g. that 


MARRIAGE 


787 


MARRIAGE 


the shoe was to be of leather, or a sandal furnished with 
a heel-strap ; a felt shoe, or a sandal without a strap, 
would not do ( Yebam . xii, 1,2). The chalitsah was not 
valid when the person performing it was deaf and dumb 
(xii, 4), as he could not learn the precise formula which 
accompanied the act. The custom is retained by the 
modern Jews, and is minutely described by Picart {Ce- 
remonies Religieuses, i, 243). It receives illustration from 
the expression used by the modern Arabs in speaking of 
a repudiated wife : “ She was my slipper. I have cast 
her off” (Burckhardt, Notes, i, 113). It only remains to 
be remarked that the fear lest the performance of the 
duty of Levir should come into collision with the law of 
consanguinity, made the ancient rabbins declare that 
Dll p iTS^n) the ceremony of taking off* the 
shoe is preferable to marrying the widow, and thus vir- 
tually set aside Levirate marriages. As this ceremony, 
which is called Chalitsah from *j 7 ?n, to draw 

out , to pull off), supersedes the ancient law. the rabbins 
gave very minute orders about the manner in which it 
is to be performed. The ceremony is performed in the 
synagogue after morning prayer, in the presence of three 
rabbis and two witnesses, attended by others of the 
congregation as auditors and spectators. The Levir and 
widow are called forward, and after being questioned by 
the principal rabbi, and avowing his determination not 
to marry her, the man puts on a shoe of a peculiar form 
and made for this purpose, and the woman repeats, “My 
husband’s brother refuseth to raise up unto his brother 
a name in Israel ; he will not perform the duty of my 
husband’s brother.” To which the Levir replies, “ 1 like 
not to take her.” Upon this declaration the widow un- 
ties the shoe with her right hand, takes it off, throws it 
on the ground, and spits before him, saying in Hebrew, 
“ So shall it be done unto that man that will not build 
up his brother’s house ; and his name shall be called in 
Israel, The house of him that hath his shoe loosed 
when the persons present exclaim three times, “ His 
shoe is loosed 1” This concludes the ceremonv, and the 
rabbi tells the widow that she is now at liberty to marry 
whom she pleases. 

IX. In considering the social and domestic conditions 
of married life among the Hebrews, we must, in the first 
place, take into account the position assigned to women 
generally in their social scale. The seclusion of the ha- 
rem, and the habits consequent upon it, were utterly un- 
known in early times, and the condition of the Oriental 
woman, as pictured to us in the Bible, contrasts most 
favorably with that of her modern representative. There 
is abundant evidence that women, whether married or 
unmarried, went about with their faces unveiled (Gen. 
xii, 14 ; xxiv, 1G, G5; xxix, 11 ; 1 Sam. i, 13). An un- 
married woman might meet and converse with men, 
even strangers, in a public place (Gen. xxiv, 24, 45-7 ; 
xxix, 9-12; 1 Sam. ix, 11); she might be found alone 
in the country without any reflection on her character 
(Dent, xxii, 25-27) ; or she might appear in a court of 
justice (Numb, xxvii, 2). Women not unfrequently 
held important offices: some were prophetesses, as Mir- 
iam, Deborah, II uldah, Noadiah, and Anna ; of others ad- 
vice was sought in emergencies (2 Sam. xiv, 2 ; xx, 1G- 
22). They took their part in matters of public interest 
(Exod. xv, 20 ; 1 Sam. xviii, G, 7) ; in short, they enjoy- 
ed as much freedom in ordinary life as the women of 
our own country. 

If such was her general position, it is certain that the 
wife must have exercised an important influence in her 
own home. She appears to have taken her part in 
family affairs, and even to have enjoyed a considerable 
amount of independence. For instance, she entertains 
guests at her own desire (2 Kings iv, 8) in the absence 
of her husband (Judg. iv, 18), and sometimes even in 
defiance of his wishes (1 Sam. xxv, 14, etc.) ; she dis- 
poses of her child by a vow without any reference to 
her husband (1 Sam. i, 24) ; she consults with him as to 
the marriage of her children (Gen. xxvii, 46) ; her sug- 


gestions as to any domestic arrangements meet with due 
attention (2 Kings iv,9) ; and occasionally she criticises 
the conduct of her husband in terms of great severity 
(1 Sam. xxv, 25; 2 Sam.vi, 20). 

The relations of husband and wife appear to have 
been characterized by affection and tenderness. He is 
occasionally described as the “friend” of his wife (Jer. 
iii, 20; IIos. iii, 1), and his love for her is frequently no- 
ticed (Gen. xxiv, G7 ; xxix, 18). On the other hand, 
the wife was the consolation of the husband in time of 
trouble (Gen. xxiv, 67), and her grief at his loss pre- 
sented a picture of the most abject woe (Joel i, 8). No 
stronger testimony, however, can be afforded as to the 
ardent affection of husband and wife than that which 
we derive from the general tenor of the book of Canti- 
cles. At the same time we cannot but think that the 
exceptions to this state of affairs were more numerous 
than is consistent with our ideas of matrimonial happi- 
ness. One of the evils inseparable from poh-gamy is 
the discomfort arising from the jealousies and quarrels 
of the several wives, as instanced in the households of 
Abraham and Elkanah (Gen. xxi, 11 ; 1 Sam. i, 6). The 
purchase of wives, and the small -amount of liberty al- 
lowed to daughters in the choice of husbands, must in- 
evitably have led to unhappy unions. The allusions to 
the misery of a contentious and brawling wife in the 
Proverbs (xix, 13 ; xxi, 9, 19 ; xxvii, 15) convey the im- 
pression that the infliction was of frequent occurrence 
in Hebrew households, and in theMishna (Ketub. vii,G) 
the fact of a woman being noisy is laid down as an ade- 
quate ground for divorce. In the N. T. the mutual re- 
lations of husband and wife are a subject of frequent 
exhortation (Eph. v, 22-33 ; Col. iii, 18, 19 ; Tit. ii, 4, 5 ; 
1 Pet. iii, 1-7) : it is certainly a noticeable coincidence 
that these exhortations should be found exclusively in 
the epistles addressed to Asiatics, nor is it improbable 
that they were more particularly needed for them than 
for Europeans. 

The duties of the wife in the Hebrew houselu !d were 
multifarious. In addition to the general superintendence 
of the domestic arrangements, such as cooking, from 
which even women of rank were not exempted (Gen. 
xviii, 6; 2 Sam. xiii, 8), and the distribution of food at 
meal-times (Prov. xxxi, 15), the manufacture of the 
clothing and the various textures required in an East- 
ern establishment devolved upon her (Prov. xxxi, 13, 
21,22); and if she were a model of activity and skill, she 
produced a surplus of tine linen shirts and girdles, which 
she sold, and so, like a well-freighted merchant-ship, 
brought in wealth to her husband from afar (Prov, xxxi, 
14, 24). The poetical description of a good housewife 
drawn in the last chapter of the Proverbs is both tilled 
up and in some measnre illustrated by the following mi- 
nute description of a wife’s duties towards her husband, 
as laid down in the Mishna: “She must grind corn, and 
bake, and wash, and cook, and suckle his child, make 
his bed, and work in wool. If she brought her husband 
one bondwoman, she need not grind, bake, or wash ; if 
two, she need not cook nor suckle his child; if three, 
she need not make his bed nor work in wool; if four, 
she may sit in her chair of state” ( Ketub . v, 5). What- 
ever money she earned by her labor belonged to her 
husband (vi, 1). The qualification not only of working, 
but of working at home (Tit. ii, 5, where oiKovpy ovg is 
preferable to oitcovpovg), was insisted on in the wife, and 
to spin in the street was regarded as a violation of Jew r - 
ish customs {Ketub. vii,6). 

The legal rights of the wife are noticed in Exod. xxi, 
10, under the three heads of food, raiment, and duty of 
marriage or conjugal right. These were defined with 
great precision by the Jewish doctors, for thus only 
could one of the most cruel effects of polygamy be avert- 
ed, viz. the sacrifice of the rights of the many in favor 
of the one whom the lord of the modern harem selects 
for his special attention. The regulations of the Tal- 
mudists, founded on Exod. xxi, 10, may be found in the 
Mishna (Ketub, v, 6-9). 


MARRIAGE 


MARRIAGE 


1 88 


X. The allegorical and typical allusions to marriage 
have exclusive reference to one subject, viz. to exhibit 
the spiritual relationship between God and his people. 
The earliest form, in which the image is implied, is in 
the expressions “to go a whoring,” and “ whoredom,” as 
descriptive of the rupture of that relationship by acts of 
idolatry. These expressions have by some writers been 
taken in their primary and literal sense, as pointing to 
the licentious practices of idolaters. But this destroys 
the whole point of the comparison, and is opposed to 
the plaiu language of Scripture: for (1) Israel is de- 
scribed as the false wife “playing the harlot” (Isa. i, 21 ; 
Jer. iii, 1,6, 8) ; (2) Jehovah is the injured husband, who 
therefore divorces her (Psa. lxxiii, 27; Jer. ii,20; Hos. 
iv, 12; ix, 1); and (3) the other party in the adultery 
is speeitied, sometimes generally, as idols or false gods 
(Dent, xxxi, 16; Jiulg.ii, 17 ; 1 Chrou. v, 25; Ezek. xx, 
30; xxiii, 30), and sometimes particularly, as in the case 
of the worship of goats (A.V.“ devils,” Lev. xvii, 7), Mo- 
lech (Lev. xx, 5), wizards (Lev. xx, 6), an ephod (Judg. 
viii, 27). Baalim (Judg. viii,33), and even the heart and 
eyes (Numb, xv, 39) — the last of these objects being such 
as wholly to exclude the idea of actual adultery. The 
image is drawn out more at length by Ezekiel (chap, 
xxiii), who compares the kingdoms of Samaria and Ju- 
dah to the harlots Aholah and Aholibah; and again by 
Ilosea (chap, i, iii), whose marriage with an adulterous 
wife, his separation from her, and subsequent reunion 
with her, were designed to be a visible lesson to the Is- 
raelites of their dealings with Jehovah. 

The direct comparison with marriage is confined in 
the O. T. to the prophetic writings, including the Can- 
ticles as an allegorical work. See Canticles. The 
actual relation between Jehovah and his people is gen- 
erally the point of comparison (Isa. liv, 5 ; lxii, 4 ; Jer. 
iii, 14; Hos.ii, 19; Mal.ii,ll); but sometimes the graces 
consequent thereon are described under the image of 
bridal attire (Isa. xlix, 18; lxi, 10), and the joy of Jeho- 
vah in his Church under that of the joy of a bridegroom 
(Isa. lxii, 5). 

In the N. T. the image of the bridegroom is trans- 
ferred from Jehovah to Christ (Matt, ix, 15; John iii, 
29), and that of the bride to the Church (2 Cor. xi, 2; 
Rev. xix, 7 ; xxi, 2, 9; xxii, 17), and the comparison 
thus established is converted by St. Paul into an illus- 
tration of the position and mutual duties of man and 
wife (Eph. v, 23-32). The suddenness of the Messiah’s 
appearing, particularly at the last day, and the necessity 
of watchfulness, are inculcated in the parable of the Ten 
Virgins, the imagery of which is borrowed from the cus- 
toms of the marriage-ceremony (Matt, xxv, 1-13). The 
Father prepares the marriage-feast for his Son, the joys 
that result from the union being thus represented (Matt, 
xxii, 1- U; xxv, 10; Rev. xix, 9; comp. Matt, viii, 11), 
while the qualifications requisite for admission into that 
union are prefigured by the marriage-garment (Matt, 
xxii, 11). The breach of the union is, as before, de- 
scribed as fornication or whoredom in reference to the 
mystical Babylon (Rev. xvii, 1,2,5). 

XI. Literature. — The most important ancient litera- 
ture on all the marriage questions is contained in the 
third order (“ID) of the J Iiskna, five tractates of which 
treat respectively— 1. On the Leviratc law; 2. On the 
marriage-instrument; 3. On suspicion of having violated 
the marriage-bond; 4. On divorce; and, 5. On betroth- 
al. To these must be added the Gemaras or Talmnds 
on these tractates. Maimonidcs devotes six tractates 
of the second volume of his Jad JIa-Chazaka to Biblical 
and Talmudic gamology, giving an abridgment of the 
traditional enactments. Jacob ben-Asher occupies the 
entire third volume of his Tur, called Ebon JIa-Ezar , 
with marriage in its various ramifications, and gives a 
lucid epitome of the ancient code. » Of modern writers 
are to lie mentioned Miehaelis, Commentaries on the Laics 
of Moses, i, 450 sq. ; ii, 1 sq. ; SaalsehUtz, JJas Mosaische 
Recht, ii, 735 sq. ; by the same author, Archaohgie der 
Ilebrder , ii, 173 sq. ; Ewald, Die Alterthiimer der Volkes 


Israel, p. 218 sq.; ( ieiger, Wissensch aftliche Zeitschrift 
(Frankfort-on-the-Main), iv, 3G sq., 345 sq.; Jiidische 
Zeitschrift (Breslau, 1862), i, 19 sq., 253 sq. ; Stein and 
Siisskiud’s Israelitischer 1 ' olkslehrer , i, 192 ; iv, 282, 301, 
315; v, 323; vi,74; vii, 264; viii, 73; ix, 171; Frankel, 
Grundlinien dcs Mosaisch-talmudischen Eherechts (Bres- 
lau, 1860); Leopold Low, Ben Chananja, vol. iii— vi. 
Among the writers on special points we may notice Be- 
nary, De Hebr. Leviratu (Berliu, 1835) ; Redslob’s Led - 
ratsehe (Leipz. 1836) ; and Kurtz’s Ehe des Ilosea (Dor- 
pat, 1859). See Woman. 

MARRIAGE, Christian. The word is derived 
through the French mari, from the Latin maritus , “a 
husband.” Matrimony , a synonyme, comes from the 
Latin mater, “ a mother,” as testimonium from testis , “a 
witness.” Wedlock, a beautiful word, is of Anglo-Saxon 
I origin, from weddian , “ to pledge,” “ to covenant ;” or 
| wedd, “a pledge,” and lac , “a gift.” The definition of 
marriage given by Modestinus, the Roman lawyer and 
scholar of Ulpian, is as follows: “Xuptue sunt conjunc- 
tio maris et femmre et consortium omnis vita;, divini et 
humani juris communicatio” {Digest, xviii, 2, 1). In 
the Institutes of Justinian we have “nuptue sive rnatri- 
nicnium est viri et mulieris conjunctio individuam vitae 
eonsuetndinem eontinens,” that is, a union of a man and 
a woman which contains in itself an inseparable life- 
intercourse. These definitions are not entirely definite, 
nor free from objection ; nor is it easy for the law to 
give a definition of that which transcends the sphere of 
human rights, and has most important relations to mo- 
rality and religion. 

According to Palev, the public use of the marriage 
institution consists in its promoting the following bene- 
ficial effects: 1. The private comfort of individuals. 2. 
The production of the greatest number of healthy chil- 
dren, their better education, and the making of due 
provision for their settlement in life. 3. The peace of 
human society, in cutting off a principal source of con- 
tention, by assigning one or more women to one man, 
and protecting his exclusive right by sanctions of mo- 
rality and law. 4. The better government of society, 
by distributing the community into separate families, 
and appointing over each the authority of a master of a 
family, which has more actual influence than all civil 
authority put together. 5. The additional security 
which the state receives for the good behavior of its 
citizens, from the solicitude they feel for the welfare of 
tlieir children, and from their being confined to perma- 
nent habitations. 6. The encouragement of industry. 
(See also Dwight’s Theology on this topic, and Anderson, 
On the Domestic Constitution.) 

I. The idea of marriage is beautifully expressed in 
those words of the earliest book of the Bible: “There- 
fore shall a man leave his father and his mother, and 
shall cleave unto his wife; and they twain shall be one 
flesh.” Here we have (1) marriage conceived of as a 
union so close that it separates a man from the union of 
the family — the closest but this one that can exist; (2) 
two persons cleave to one another, the word cleace in 
the original denoting to be glued to, to stick to ; (3) the 
result is that they become one flesh, they unite their 
personalities together. A text like this points to 
monogarm r as alone answering to the true conception 
of marriage ; for how can two be one flesh, and one of 
them be also united to a third person, so as to be one 
flesh with that one also. Accordingly the union of one 
man and one woman in the married state, as opposed to 
polygamy, must be regarded as the state pointed out by 
our nature for us. This alone preserves the unity, the 
undivided love and peace of the household. Polygamy 
is an institution growing out of the servile subjection of 
the woman to the man, and out of the indulgence of 
lewd desire. It is also apparently contrary to the order 
of things in this, that the sexes, so obviously made for 
one another, divide between them about equally the 
numbers of those who are born into the world, there 
being a slight excess in the number of male children, 


MARRIAGE 


789 


MARRIAGE 


which is counterbalanced before manhood is reached by 
the greater risks incurred by that sex. The conditions 
which secure the interests of morality are thus pointed 
out by the laws of our physical nature. 

The conception of marriage which appears in the 
writings of Paul has sometimes been said to be a low 
one, as having respect to the gratification of bodily de- 
sires rather than to the true, spiritual, and heart com- 
munion of the wedded pair. This charge is founded on 
such passages as 1 Cor. vii, 9: “It is better to marry 
than to burn and on those verses in the same chapter 
where there appears to be a certain preference in the 
apostle’s mind of the single to the married life (vcr. 33, 
38, etc.). It must be confessed that if such a passage 
as ver. 9 were the apostle’s only expression of opinion, it 
would seem as if lie saw nothing in marriage but the 
prevention of sexual excesses and the satisfaction of 
sexual longings. It ought, however, to be considered, 
first, that in such words he gives us but one side of a 
manifold subject. Christian, like all true moralists, 
must take into account the desires which are implanted 
in our nature for the purpose of securing certain great 
ends, among which the introduction of new beings into 
the world is most prominent. If, as men showed them- 
selves to the apostle, the sexual desires needed a cer- 
tain control, and a certain satisfaction also, it was good 
sense to say that a reason for marrying lay in the tem- 
perament of the particular person, and that he was 
bound to consider his power of continence when he in- 
quired what his duty was in this respect. But, second- 
ly, the apostle gives us another picture of marriage, 
from another point of view. The relation (Ephes. v, 
22-33) is like that of Christ to his Church. The hus- 
band is to love the wife as if she actually formed one 
body with him, and with that pure, self-sacrificing af- 
fection which Christ had when he “loved his Church, 
and gave himself for it.” Here marriage is ennobled 
and glorified by a comparison with the most spiritual 
of all relations. But, thirdly , neither in the writings 
of the apostle nor in any other part of the New Testa- 
ment is there any peculiar sanctity attached to the mar- 
ried life placing it above the single, nor to the single 
life making it more excellent than the married. The 
apostle condemns the false teachings of those who forbid 
men to marry, and command to abstain from meats, 
“which God has created to be received with thanks- 
giving” (1 Tim. iv, 3). Ilis principle would include 
marriage — for which multitudes give thanks — under 
this last remark. At the same time the New Testament 
regards celibacy as equally honorable with marriage 
(Matt, xiv, 13). Nay more, if a person, for the king- 
dom of heaven’s sake, can lead a life of pure thoughts, 
undisturbed by any sensual longings, absorbed in spirit- 
ual employments and pursuits, he may be said to have 
a rare nature, or a rare gift to rise above nature; and so 
he will stand higher in the kingdom of heaven than an- 
other, in proportion to the greatness of his self-sacrifice 
and his consecration. All men are not bound to “ for- 
sake houses, or brethren, or sisters,” etc., for Christ’s 
name’s sake, but those who have the call to do so and 
obey “shall receive a hundred-fold.” So those who 
lead a single life under the same high motive shall have 
the greater praise from the Master: and, as they show 
by their self-denial the strength of Christian virtue, 
they stand higher in the Christian scale than others. 
But so do they also who show a readiness to undergo, 
or actually undergo, any great sacrifice with the same 
spirit. (Comp. Ilarless, Christl, Etkik , § 44, and espe- 
cially § 52.) 

If the Christian Church had stopped at admiring the 
continence and rare self-restraint of men who for Christ’s 
sake led unmarried lives, much evil would have been 
avoided. As it was, the Christian mind passed on from 
such admiration to an undervaluation of the married 
life; celibacy was a sign of greater virtue; second mar- 
riages were looked on with disfavor; and marriages of 
clergymen became unlawful. The heretics Marcion and 


Tatian went even so far as to rail against marriage; as 
Simon Magus is said, on the other hand, to have taught 
in liis day a plurality of wives, and the Guostics and 
Manichceans rejected marriage altogether. But what 
was really the view of the early Church is best seen in 
the canons of the Gangran Synod, held about A.D. 370, 
where it is decreed: “1. If any one reproach marriage, 
or have in abomination the religious woman that is a 
communicant and sleeps with her husband, as one that 
cannot enter into the kingdom of heaven, let him be 
anathema. 4. If any one condemn a married presbyter, 
as if he ought not to partake of the oblation when he 
performs the liturgy, let him be anathema. 9. If any 
one live a virgin, or hi chastity, as abominating marriage 
(while he lives in a retired state), and not for the beau- 
ty and sanctity of a virgin life, let him be anathema. 
10. If one of those who live a virgin life for the Lord’s 
sake insult those who are married, let him be anathema. 
14. If any woman, abominating marriage, desert her 
husband, and will become a recluse, let her be anathe- 
ma.” (See also Isaac Tay lor’s A ncient Christianity.) At 
this very same time, however, marriage became a sacra- 
ment. One may ask how it came to pass that a kind 
of life which was looked on as being not the best one, 
and which had to be renounced in the Western Church 
if a married man would receive ordination, could come 
into the category of baptism, the cucharist, and the 
other acts which, in process of time, took the name of 
sacraments. Without going into an extended answer 
to this question, it may be said that the passage of Paul 
already cited (Ephes. v, 32) calls it a mystery , which 
Jeromes Vulgate renders by sacr amentum. It was, in 
fact, peculiarly holy, as symbolizing Christ’s union with 
the Church. But the word sacramentum had for a long 
time no definite sense, and marriage was not so called 
until the time of Augustine. Nay, that great writer 
had so vague an idea of its religious meaning that he 
does not hesitate to call the polygamous marriage of the 
patriarchs in the Old Testament a “sacramentum plu- 
ralium nuptiarum” {Be bono conjuyii, cap. 18), which, he 
says, “signified a future multitude subject to God in all 
the nations of the earth, and so the sacrament of a sin- 
gle marriage [i. e. between one pair] in our time signi- 
fies the unity of all ours [our Christian Church], which 
is to be subject to God in the one celestial city.” The 
passage itself, howeveu, in the Ephesians, which we have 
referred to, does not, in a fair interpretation of it, call 
marriage a mystery, but gives that name only to Christ’s 
leaving the Father and becoming one with his Church. 
As for the rest, the Catholic theologians have held 
widely diverse opinions about the matter and form of 
marriage. One opinion has been that the consent of the 
parties expressed in words constitute both the matter 
and the/om ; another that the bodies or persons of the 
contracting parties are the matter , and the words ex- 
pressing consent the form. See Matrimoxy. 

Marriage being a peculiarly sacred transaction, and 
having the religious impress put on it, questions rela- 
ting to its celebration, the persons capable of contract- 
ing it, its dissolution, its renewal after the death of one 
of the parties, and the like, came under the control of 
the clergy. Accordingly we find in use in the early 
Church a special ecclesiastical form for the celebration 
of matrimony. The fathers, Tcrtullian, c. g., considered 
marriage contracted without the participation of the 
Church, as tolerated by the law of Home, as almost a 
sin. Later it was sought to make marriage an exclu- 
sively religious institution, and this it finally became, 
and so continued until the days of the Beformation. 
The civil law gradually restricted itself to the regula- 
tion of the material interests connected with marriage, 
leaving the Church to regulate the conditions under 
which it could be contracted. As gradually the re- 
ligious impress put on it brought to the door of the 
clergy the settlement of questions relating not only to 
its celebration, but also to the propriety of its dissolu- 
tion, its renewal after the death of one of the parties, 


MARRIAGE 


790 


MARRIAGE 


ami the like, the State was content to lend the Church 
the secular arm for the enforcement of the decisions of 
the ecclesiastical courts. The principles of the law con- 
cerning marriage thus became a part of canon law in 
the Romish Church, and received final settlement by the 
Council of Trent, which not only established marriage 
as a sacrament in the most solemn manner (Cone. Trid. 
sess. 24, Mat. can. 1 : “Si quis dixerit, matrimonium non 
esse vere et propric untim ex septem legis evangelical 
sacramcntis a Christo iustitutum, sed ab hominibus in 
ccclesia inventum neque gratiam conferrc : anath. sit 
see also I, can. 7, Cat. Rom. 2, 8, 3, 23, 20 sq. ; Conf. orthod. 
p. 183), but referred the question of its validity exclu- 
sively to the Church. The remains of these and simi- 
lar laws have almost disappeared in Protestant England 
in our own times; the act of 1857 (cited as 20 and 21 
Viet. cap. 85), with its amendments, destroys all juris- 
diction of courts ecclesiastical in matters pertaining to 
marriage, except so far as marriage licenses are con- 
cerned, and constitutes a new court, which is called the 
court for divorce and matrimonial causes. See Wool- 
sev, Divorce and Divorce Legislation (New* York, 18G9), 
p. 174-178. , 

The Continental Reformers from the first denied the 
sacramental character of marriage. The}' acknowledged, 
indeed, matrimony as holy and instituted of God, yet 
considered it as partaking more of a civil than of an ec- 
clesiastical character — as an institution which received 
only a higher consecration by the blessing of the Church. 
They even required the Protestant civil authorities to 
legislate on the subject, and thus it passed entirely 
into the hands of the latter. The new laws were pro- 
mulgated in the JGtli and 17th centuries, yet all still re- 
ferred to Scripture, the symbolic books, and canon law* 
as their basis; and, being generally drawn up -with the 
assistance of the clergjq the Church still retained the 
higher authority over all questions pertaining to matri- 
mony. In all Protestant countries at present, as far as 
we are informed, marriage is essentially controlled by 
the law of the state, although the solemnization of it 
may be put into the hands of clerical persons. In Cath- 
olic countries there is a tendency to establish tw r o kinds 
of marriage celebrations — one a civil, the other an eccle- 
siastical one; but all the civil consequences of marriage, 
in relation to property, legitimation of children, bigamy, 
etc., grow out of the civil marriage, and the other (or 
ecclesiastical) is left to the option of the parties. The 
Catholic Church endures this with great unwillingness; 
and in this feeling the Concordat between Austria and 
the pope did away with the civil contract, which w*as 
restored to its former place in the laws in 18G9 (comp. 
Richter, Kirckenr . § 2G3, Gth ed.). We thus arc brought 
to the question of the relations of the state in right 
reason to the marriage-contracts of its citizens. Here, 
before touching the particulars that are within the prov- 
ince of state-law, we wish to make two points in regard 
to the office of the state : 1. Marriage is a contract, be- 
cause it is an agreement between two persons to live to- 
gether in the condition of life called matrimony. Bur, 
while in most other cases the contract creates or speci- 
fies the transaction, in the contract of marriage the 
matter of the contract is presupposed , and the contract 
has nothing to do except to introduce two persons into 
a definite specific state. Out of this grow*s the peculiar 
state of parentage. This, it seems to us, is one of the 
greatest points in hand against the institution of “ Erec- 
love.” The resultant of the marital relation is of a char- 
acter that docs not admit of the dissolution of the con- 
tract when once it has been entered into. The offspring 
requires t lie care of both the contractors, as is clearly 
seen in the case of second marriages with children from 
the first contract. Thus there can be no contract to 
enter into a marriage state which is terminable by the 
consent of the parties, or dependent on the pleasure of 
either. There may be partnerships of this kind, as con- 
tracts of service or of agency, for the performance of 
specific acts for a specific time, but there are no such 


contracts of marriage. This institution is unlike the 
passing business relations of life, and resembles the 
Church and State unions more closely, although not 
entirely. The reason for all this is the moral nature 
of the institution, and its immense importance as the 
foundation of the family as well as the origin of the 
state. In this sense the Roman law correctly pro- 
claimed marriage a“viri et mulicris conjunctio individ- 
uam vitas consuetudinem continens” (to which canon 
law adds, “ i. e. talcm sc in omnibus exhibere viro, qualis 
ipsa sibi cst, et e converse”), or a “consortium omnis vitae, 
divini et humani juris communicatio.” Quite a differ- 
ent tendency, however, is found in the attempts of some 
modern philosophers to establish jree-marriage, as e. g. 
the St. Simonites (q. v.), who would overthrow all these 
laws, and make marriage a mere human convention sub- 
ject to all the whims of the contracting parties, and 
who have failed hitherto from this very cause, as has 
also the pretended emancipation of woman which has 
gone hand in hand with it. The higher nature of mar- 
riage over any other human institution at once mani- 
fests itself not only in the fact that it has at all times 
been connected with religion, both as to its contracting 
and dissolving, but that this view has been in no wise 
confined to Christendom, but in a great degree has taken 
a like hold upon heathen communities also. 

2. Our other point is that on account of the moral and 
religious bearings of marriage, State and Church have 
concurrent power over it; that is, they both may act 
and lay down principles in regard to matrimonial ques- 
tions. ilow are their provinces to be distinguished? 
In this way, as it seems to us: The State can require 
nothing which the Word of God forbids in a Christian 
country, although it may forbid what the Word of God 
docs not forbid. The Church can allow nothing, per- 
mitted by the law, which the Word of God forbids. For 
illustration, we may suppose the State to have very 
loose divorce laws, or to have no penalty for concubin- 
age during regular marriage; it is evident that the 
Church must keep its members pure in such respects, 
until its protest, loud or silent, shall change the current 
of legislation. 

II. These things being premised, we proceed to a brief 
discussion of some of those points relating to marriage 
which may be reasonably made the subjects of legisla- 
tion without violating the feelings of Christians or op- 
posing the authority of the Scriptures. 

1. The State may decide who shall be capable of con- 
tracting marriage. Thus (a) the age at which, or the 
state of the will or reason with which a matrimonial en- 
gagement may be legally made, is as much within the 
control of the law as the similar conditions necessary 
for making business contracts or for exercising political 
rights. If minors are allowed to enter into this condi- 
tion, the law ought to provide that their free consent is 
ascertained beforehand. Thus, too, incapacity to give 
consent, by reason of immaturity, force on the will, in- 
sanity, idiocy, and the like, may be obstacles. But (b) far 
more important is the control of state-law over the de- 
grees of relationship and affinity which shall incapaci- 
tate parties from entering into this close connection. 
Here we find that, although the children of the first pair 
must have united in wedlock, it became the very de- 
cided feeling of a large part of the human race that 
such a union is unlawful for brothers with sisters, or for 
a parent with a child. II. W. J. Thiersch (Das Verbot 
der Ehe [Nonllingen, 18G9], p. 4) remarks that wild 
heathen tribes in Asia and Africa consider incest a crime. 
Exceptions to this occurred in Persia and Egypt, where 
incest was practiced within the reigning families — in 
the latter country after the example of Isis and Osiris. 
At Athens a brother might marry a sister who had not 
the same mother, and adoption was no obstacle to the 
union of an adopted brother and sister. The Romans 
were more strict, but allowed this relation to commence 
between an adopted brother and his adopted sister, after 
the adoption was dissolved by emancipation. By Ro- 


MARRIAGE 


791 


MARRIAGE 


man law a man could not marry his sister's daughter, 
but when the emperor Claudius took Agrippina, his 
brother's daughter, to wife, that relation became permis- 
sible (see Gaii Inst it. i, § Cl, 02). By Levitieal law the 
prohibited degrees embraced t lie direct relatives in the 
ascending and descending line, whether of full or of half 
blood, the children who had the same parents or parent, 
the brothers or sisters of fathers or mothers, brothers’ 
wives, daughters-in-law, a woman and her daughter, or 
other descendant in the third generation, and the sister 
of a wife during her lifetime. It would seem that in 
Lev. xviii, where these rules are given, the analogy de- 
rived from relations there mentioned may be applied to 
others equally close, of which nothing is said (comp. 
Saalschiitz, Mos. Iiecht, cap. 105, § 5). In the Christian 
Church a stricter system of prohibited degrees was a 
part of canonical law, and a sign of the new feeling was 
that the emperor Theodosius I forbade by law the mar- 
riage of first cousins, which was formerly bv Roman law 
permitted. The Roman Catholic and the Greek church- 
es went far beyond this. The Latin Church carried the 
prohibition of marriage to the seventh degree, that is, to 
the sixth cousins — counting brothers and sisters as of 
the first degree, and first cousins as of the second — until 
Innocent III, in 121(1, gave a new rule, that the “ prohi- 
bits copulas eonjugalis quartum consanguinitatis et af- 
finitatis gradum non excedat” — that is, third cousins 
might marry; but a little while after Gregory IX so 
modified Innocent’s rule that a marriage between a third 
and a fourth cousin was allowable. A V here pressing rea- 
sons demanded, these rules might be suspended. More 
severe and worthless were the rules prohibiting mar- 
riage, on the ground of affinity, which reached to the 
same degrees with the rules affecting blood-relatives, 
and were altered together with them. Other restric- 
tions touching spiritual affinities, betrothal, etc., were 
mitigated by the Council of Trent. According to the 
canons of the Greek Church, a man may not marry — 

Ilis second cousin’s daughter. 

His deceased wife’s first cousin. 

His deceased wife’s first cousin’s daughter. 

His deceased wife’s second cousin. 

Two brothers may not marry — 

Two sisters. 

An aunt and a niece. 

Two first cousins. 

A man may not marry — 

Ilis wife’s brother’s wife’s sister, i. e. his brother-in- 
law’s sister-in-law. 

His brother-in-law's wife: nor can his own brother 
marry her. 

Godparentage and Adoption constitute impediments to 
marriage up to the seventh degree. See Affinity. 
AVhat was the feeling lying at the bottom of all these 
prohibitions? It must have been that which led the Ro- 
man lawyer Gains (/. c. § 59) to say that if sueh persons 
as parents and children marry one another nef arias atque 
incestas nnptias contraxisse dicuntur. I neest is the great- 
est unchastity, from which its Latin name comes, and 
men early felt this. If the children of the first parent 
did not partake of this sentiment, there is a parallel in 
the feelings of little children, whose modesty is devel- 
oped just at the time of life when it is needed for a 
moral protection. Besides this moral principle, it might 
be urged that to marry out of one’s near relationship 
binds families together, and diffuses the feeling of broth- 
erhood through neighborhoods and tribes. This is urg- 
ed by Augustine (Civit. Dei , xv, cap. 1(5). Another con- 
sideration is, that the marriage of near relations pro- 
motes neither the health nor the multitude of offspring. 
In a letter imputed to Gregory the Great (A.D. 001). 
written to his missionary in England, Augustine, he is 
made to say, while speaking of the marriages of own 
cousins, “We have learned from experience that from 
such a marriage offspring cannot grow” (Gratian’s Deer. 
cans, xxxv, qua3st. 5, e. 2). This is in conformity with 
a physical law.whicli governs the issue of animals. Nay, 


plants themselves, it is now known, are benefited by 
the pollen of one flower being conveyed to another, and 
it is the office of insects, such as bees and Hies, to medi- 
ate in this keeping up the “breeds” of the vegetable 
kingdom, (c) Besides enacting laws against the mar- 
riage of blood-relations, states have sometimes prohib- 
ited men from connecting themselves with women who 
sustain towards them the closest degrees of affinity. 
Some Protestant countries make it unlawful to marry a 
wife’s sister. There are no valid arguments against 
sueh unions from Scripture, but rather, when it is said 
(Lev. xviii, 18) that a man shall not have two sisters 
together as his wives, the fair inference is that Jewish 
law allowed marriage to one of them after the death of 
the other and preceding wife. Marriage to a brother’s 
widow or deceased husband’s brother is more doubtful. 
Yet in the canonical law, where sueli unions are forbid- 
den, the pope can probably give a dispensation from the 
rule. Such was the ease of Henry VIII of England, and 
a canon of the Couneil of Trent (sess. xxiv, De sacr.ma- 
trim. can. iii) ordains that if any one shall say that the 
Church cannot give a dispensation in the ease of some 
of the prohibitions in Leviticus, eh. xviii, “ anathema 
sit” — evidently referring to that very case which blew 
up such a flame in England. 

On the whole, there are no certi jines within which 
the moral feeling and the law — which in this ease is 
more or less controlled by such feeling — can be confined. 
AA"e have a parallel to this in the definitions of certain 
rights, where the law has to make the positive and ex- 
act metes and bounds. Thus there is a time in the life 
of a child when be ought to acquire a jural capacity, 
and so become legally independent of bis father ; but 
whether this shall be reached at the age of eighteen or 
twenty-one, or shall be reached by degrees or all at 
once, the reason of a state must determine. So the 
moral feeling of a state must determine within what 
limits of consanguinity or of affinity parties may con- 
tract marriage; and if the Church has another prevail- 
ing sentiment, it must have its own rules prohibiting for 
its members what the state does not prohibit. 

AVe will just mention, with little or no remark, sev- 
eral other hinderanees which either State or Church law 
have put in the way of wedlock. Such are fraudu- 
lent representations of either party, which were leading 
causes of the contract of marriage; mistakes affecting 
the identity of the person ; and previous crime of one 
party unknown to the other, especially previous adul- 
tery ; to which is to be added difference of religious 
confessions, especially when so great as that between 
a Jew and a Christian, or a Protestant and a Roman 
Catholic. Indeed, in the ease of mixed marriages (see 
below), there is still much conflict between the leg- 
islation of Church and State. Civil law in countries 
where slavery was allowed made all marriage unions 
between freemen and slaves unlawful. In some coun- 
tries marriage between a noble and an ordinary citizen or 
peasant lias been either forbidden or attended with civil 
disabilities, such as degradation of rank to the offspring. 
Here it may not be out of place to allude also to the 
regulations of the Romish Church in the case of persons 
who may have taken the vow of celibacy. If any such 
party have not. yet entered the convent, pope Boniface 
ATTI decided that marriage may be contracted; after 
having once entered the convent, the contract becomes 
illegal. Among Protestants, however, the taking of the 
vow of celibacy remains a question of conscience only. 
Another objection to marriage in the Roman Catholic 
Church is spiritual relationship, cognatio spirit nalis, 
which prevents marriage between persons who have 
held one another at the baptismal font. In the 13th 
century this was made to include both the infant bap- 
tized and the children of the sponsors, as well as the 
sponsors themselves; but it has since been restricted. 
The Continental Reformers as early as the Smaleald ar- 
ticles declared against this impediment of the sponsors. 
In the Greek Church, as we have seen above, Godparent - 


MARRIAGE 


MARRIAGE 


ay. and adoption constitute impediments up to the sev- 
enth degree. 

2. In order to preserve the purity and peace of mar- 
ried life, the State has often passed rules making all 
sexual union of either the husband or the wife with a 
third party penal, and the Church will of course visit 
such offences of its members with severe discipline. 
Some states in their laws have punished the concubin- 
age or illicit intercourse of a husband with an unmar- 
ried woman less severely than similar offences of a wife, 
or. it may be, has let them go unpunished. According 
to Roman law, adultery was a crime committed only 
with a married woman ; but a wife, displeased with her 
husband's morals, could without difficulty obtain a di- 
vorce. Under English law adultery has not been treat- 
< d as a public crime, the dealing with it being left to 
the ecclesiastical law, and - the temporal courts take no 
cognizance of it otherwise than as a private injury'’ 

( Blackstone’s Comment, bk. iv. chap. 4). In our country 
it is visited with punishment according to law in almost 
all the states — New York, which has followed English 
law, and one or two other states, being exceptions ; but 
it is safe to say that prosecutions for the crime of adul- 
tery are very rare indeed. The protection afforded by 
such laws is very small, except so far as they testify 
that society regards crimes against marriage as deserv- 
ing of civil penalties. 

3. The. State, as the guardian of the family, as the 
protector of the wife's and the children's rights even 
against the husband and father, is bound, and has in no 
civilized country refused, to make laws touching the 
patria postestas — the husband's rights over and obliga- 
tions towards the wife : his obligations especially to sup- 
port his wife and children, and the amount of freedom 
he ought to have in transmitting his property. We 
do not intend to enter into this large subject, except so 
far as to say that there lies a feeling of the unity of 
family life at the foundation of all righteous law on 
these subjects, whatever may be the specific rules of 
this or that code. The family being one, the wife 
ought to be deprived no more than the children of a 
portion of a deceased husband's effects ; so that the right 
of testament in his case, even if he acquired all his prop- 
erty himself, ought not to he absolutely free. 

4. The moral feeling of the importance and sanctity 
of marriage lies also, in a measure, at the foundation of 
laws and usages regulating its commencement. Such 
are betrothal, the formal declaration before a registrar or 
other officer of an intention of marriage, the publication 
of the banns, the celebration or solemnization before 
witnesses and with appropriate formalities. Marriage 
having a religious side, it has beeu natural that the 
ministers of religion should have a part in its initial 
solemnities. But it is a great grievance that they are 
obliged — as the law of Prussia, we believe, requires of 
them — to unite in wedlock any persons who mav bv 
law be lawfully united, whether the minister's own views 
touching the lawfulness of marriage after divorce agree 
with those of the government or not : and it is another 
grievance when only the ministers of an establishment 
can solemnize nuptials. Civil marriage, on the other 
hand, as it exists in some Catholic countries, and mar- 
riage before a magistrate or justice of the peace, which 
is lawful to a great extent through the United States, 
have this great evil attending on them : that they look 
on the civil side of marriage exclusively. Surely that 
institution which is the foundation of the state, the 
guardian of children against evil influences until they 
can act their part in the state ; in which, and in which 
alone love presides over the formation of character; 
from which, through the sympathies of kindred, chords 
run in all directions, binding and weaving society to- 
gether. and where the seeds of religion are sown in the j 
impressible heart — such an institution surely, which pa- I 
gans feel to have a sacred quality, and place under the 
protection of their gods, ought to have a solemn begin- . 
ning, so that the parties to be united in “ holy matri- I 


mony," and the witnesses, may feel that it is a deeply- 
serious transaction — a relation not to be lightly assumed 
without forethought and preparation, and solemn con- 
secration to one another, and earnest prayer to that God 
who has said that “ they twain shall be one flesh.” 

III. When the Church takes a view of divorce differ- 
ent from that taken by the State, it cannot sanction the 
remarriage of a person whom it regards as bound by 
Christ's law to a former wife or husband. See Divorce. 

1. Some of these obstacles to marriage are of such a 
nature that a marriage actually commenced in disregard 
of or in ignorance of the law ruling in such eases is a 
nullity. There is, however, a need of some formal pro- 
ceeding by which the nullity is made manifest. There 
are others in which the innocent party may continue 
the marriage, and condone or consent to live with the 
offender : nor can such consent be afterwards withdrawn 
in order to make good a claim which has been once 
waived. Near relationship or affinity, the existence of 

1 a previous wife or husband, are instances of the first 
kind: impotence, mistake, previous misconduct, even 
fraudulent statements procuring marriage, are instances 
of the second. In the first ease the marriage is void, 
in the second it is voidable. Y\'e are apt to call separa- 
tions for either reason divorces, and onr statutes in many 
state-codes group them with divorces properly so called ; 
but there is a wide difference between separations on 
the ground that there had been no lawful marriage, and 
divorce proper on the ground of some event occurring 
after actual marriage. In the first ease there was a 
form without the reality of marriage, and the court — 
civil or ecclesiastical — pronounced a decree of nullity, 
which did not affect the children nor the parties up to 
the time of the sentence. Being decided to have never 
been united in wedlock, they were free to enter into this 
union with third parties. See Woolsey, On Divorce, 
etc., p. 123, 124, and especially Richter’s Kirchenr. § 26G 
-284, 6th ed. : Goschen, in Herzog’s Real-Encyllopadie, 
vol. iii, s. v. Ehe. 

2. In regard to the lawfulness of remarriage in gen- 
eral, we must refer to the article on Divorce {Christian 
Law of) in this Cyclopaedia. On the particular point 
of marrying again after a first wife’s or husband’s de- 
cease, we have room for a few remarks. That this is 
lawful in itself, and must he left to the conscience and 
the circumstances of individuals, there can be no ques- 
tion, after what the apostle Paul has said in Rom. vii, 
1-3, and in 1 Tim. v, 14. in which latter passage “the 
younger women” evidently refers to the young widows 
just before spoken of. The apologist Athenagoras ($ 33, 
p. 172. edit. Otto) is both unscriptural and weak where 
he says that a second marriage is “decorous adultery,” 
and applies the words of Christ (Matt, xix, 9) to such 
remarriages, adding that he who deprives himself of 
[or separates himself from] a former wife, even if she 
be dead, is a covert adulterer who transgresses the di- 
rection of God, since in the beginning God made one 
man and one woman. Similar views are entertained 
by Tertullian in his treatise De monogamia , which was 
written after he became a Montanist (comp. esp. cap. x) ; 
while in the treatise Ad uxorem, written before he left 
the Catholic Church, he does not condemn remarriage, 
although he praises widowhood. Most of the fathers, 
while, from the times of Hermas and of Clement of Al- 
exandria, they regard remarriage as no sin, look on 
widowhood and the state of a widower as eapatile of 
higher virtue. Augustine thus expresses both opinions 
in his little work De hono r id u it at is, written at the re- 
quest of a widow named Juliana, whose daughter had 
chosen a virgin's life. “As the good thing of virginity 
which vour daughter has chosen does not condemu 
your one marriage, so your widowhood does not con- 
demn tbe second marriage of some one else. . . . Do 
not so extol your good thing as to accuse that which is 
not evil belonging to another, as if it were evil, but so 
much the more rejoice in your good, the more you per- 
ceive that not only evils are prevented by it, but that 


MARRIAGE 


*793 


MARRIAGE 


it surpasses some good things in excellence. The evil 
things are adultery and fornication. Now from these 
illicit things she is far removed who by a free vow has 
bound herself, and thus has brought to pass not by the 
power of law, but by tbe purpose of love, that for her 
not even lawful things should be lawful.” See Diga- 
mists; Celibacy. 

3. But if the apostle Paul could even advise young 
•widows to marry again, must not this be understood as 
if he thought this the less of two evils, and only nec- 
essary to save the persons in question from crime? 
Ilow otherwise can we explain his directions that a 
bishop, and so also a deacon, must be the husband of 
one wife? (I Tim. iii, 2, 12; Titus i, G). * Some have 
explained these directions as forbidding polygamy — 
— that is, simultaneous polygamy, to speak technically 
— which would seem to imply that among the private 
members of the Church at Ephesus and in Crete such 
plurality of wives was allowed. But the words in 1 
Tim. v, 9, where the qualification occurs that the aged 
widow in question must have been the wife of one man , 
forbid such an interpretation, for otherwise we should 
have to suppose that polyandry was practiced. The 
phrases are exactly of the same form in all the four 
cases, since in the last-mentioned verse the participle 
yeyovvia is to be joined to “sixty years” (comp. Luke 
ii, 42). The sense, then, must be that the bishop, or 
deacon, or widow had not been married but once. Now 
this was a special precept suited to the state of life of 
the times, for in marrying more than once they might 
have obtained divorce — in their heathenish condition — 
or have married divorced persons contrary to the law 
of Christ. Of these irregularities, if they had married 
but once, there would be less probability. 

IV. any one-sided and erroneous opinions must 
arise when marriage is looked at only in one of its as- 
pects or relations. Thus it may be said to exist libe- 
rorum quierendorum causa ; but if that is the only side 
on which we view it, we shall have to say that no mar- 
riages ought to be contracted when the woman is past 
the age of child-bearing. It may be put on the foun- 
dation of restraining and moderating those sexual de- 
sires which might otherwise imbrute men. But if this 
were the only reason for marriage, it would be at the 
best but a necessary' evil. It may be said to be insti- 
tuted for the happiness of the partners in the union ; but 
if this were all, every' disappointed man or woman 
ought to have an opportunity to place his or her affec- 
tions on a new object. It may be said to be in idea the 
highest religious union, but a Christian wife has never 
felt it to be right for this reason to leave a husband 
merely because he is unconverted. We must, then, look 
at marriage on every side : on its jural, moral, and re- 
ligious aspects; on its relations to sexual differences ; to 
the birth and education of children; to its use in ce- 
menting the State together through the ties of kindred : 
to the love that will almost of course subsist between 
the married couple ; to the field which it affords for the 
highest social and spiritual well-being of husband, wife, 
and family. It ought to be added also, as a point of no 
small importance, that the jural relations of marriage 
are determined by the moral convictions of men, and 
that thus Christianity, by purifying the moral sense, 
and bv giving forth a nobler idea of marriage, has 
ennobled and strengthened civil law. Those nations 
have had the best moral habits where the sentiments 
regarding matrimony and the family were the most 
pure. Witness the Komans of the earlier ages, to whom 
divorce was unknown, and among whom the matron 
was chaste and frugal. The corruption of Iloraan mor- 
als first appeared, according to Horace, in the defilement 
of married life and the family: 

“ Fecunda cnlpre sseeula nuptias 
Primum inqniuavere et genus et domos.’’ 

And so, if oim Christianity is destined to decay, the loss 
will be soon shown in the family relations. Even now 
a race of women is springing up who seem to have 


caught their inspiration from some of the high dames — 
the Fulvias and Julias — of the expiring Homan republic. 

The neglect to look at the religious and moral side of 
marriage is also doing great evil in this country. In 
fact, a state of things now exists which our fathers 
hardly dreamed of, and which makes reflecting men 
tremble for the future. Rash and ill-sorted marriages 
have always existed; but where divorce laws, so loose 
as to be opposed to the very idea of marriage, open an 
easy door to get out of an uncomfortable relation, the 
tendency is that parties will marry with divorce before 
their eyes, and that, instead of forbearance and patience, 
they will magnify their present evils, and give to one 
another only half a heart. In the old times there were 
few who did not look upon large families as a blessing; 
at present it is established beyond doubt that a multi- 
tude of women, in one part of the country, regard chil- 
dren as an evil to be prevented or avoided, and do actu- 
ally use the means for such flagitious ends. See Infan- 
ticide. Some of these women are communicants in 
Christian churches, as physicians assert who profess to 
know. This shows that the very notion of marriage in 
many minds is a degraded and a corrupting one — that 
this union is entered into as an honest way of gratify- 
ing the lowest desires of human beings, and for no higher 
purpose. Nor are there wanting representatives of these 
base views, who practice upon them in their communi- 
ties and defend them before the world. Who will ques- 
tion that the extreme of ancient asceticism, which gave 
to the word chastity the sense of rigid abstinence, as we 
give to the word temperance the same perverted mean- 
ing, was infinitely nearer to the Christian standard, in 
fact to any respectable pagan standard of morals, than 
feelings which can tolerate such practices? That they 
can exist and even be common is an alarming sign for 
the future of our country. The conscience of men and 
women needs to be enlightened on a point of morals 
which can hardly be referred to from the pulpit. Wc 
ought not to hear Catholics twit the Protestantism of 
the country with winking at methods of preventing the 
increase of families. We ought to strike at that ex- 
travagance of living and showiness of dress which tempt 
the less wealthy to such things. We ought to hear 
from every quarter where the subject can be mentioned 
that “they who do such things cannot inherit the king- 
dom of God.” (T. D. W.) 

See Grove, Mor. Phil. ii. 470; Palev, Mor. Phil. voL 
i, chap, viii, p. 339; Leslie, Sermons on Marriage (1702, 
8vo) ; Fordyce, Moral Philos. (17G9, 8vo) ; Delany. Rel- 
ative Duties (1750. 8vo); Beattie, Elem. Moral Science , 
vol. ii ; Bean, Christian Minister's Advice to a Neiv- 
married Couple (Loud. 1793); Guide to Domestic Hap- 
piness; Advantages and Disadvantages of the Married 
State; Stennett, On Domestic Duties; Jay, Essay on 
Marriage; Doddridge. Led. (8vo edit.) i, 225, 234, 265; 
Ryan. Philosophy of Marriage, in its Social, Moral, and 
Physical Relations (Lond. 1839, 12mo) ; Evans, Chris- 
tian Doctrine of Marriage (Balt., 31 d., 1860. 8vo) ; Klee, 
Die Ehe : eine dogmaf.-archteol. A bhandl. ; Tradition, ou 
histoire de Veglise sur le sacrement de maHage : tiree 
des monumens les plus authentiques de chaque siecle tant 
Vorient que de I'occident (Paris, 1725,3 vols. 4to); Schaff, 
Ch. Hist, i, 325 sq. ; ii. Ill sq., 242 sq. ; Lea. Sacerdotal 
Celibacy (see Index) ; Fry (John), Marriage between Kin- 
dred (1773, 8yo) ; Marriage Rites, Customs , and Ceremo- 
nies of the Motions of the Universe (Lond. 1824. 8vo) ; 
Wuttke, Ethics (transl. by Prof. Lacroix, N. Y. 1873, 2 
vols. 12mo), ii, 310 sq. ; Bril, and For. Rev. 1844, p. 95 
sq.; Engl. Rev. iii, 129; Biblical Repository, ii, 70 sq.; 
Biblioth. Sacra, i, 283 sq. ; Fraser’s Magazine, xli, 132 
sq. ; {Lond.) Quart. Rev. lxxxv, 84 sq. ; Lond. Qu. Rev. x, 
545; Princet. Rev. xv, 182, 420; Meth. Qu. Rev. I860, p. 
137 : Christian Remembr. 1, 130; Evangel. Qu. Rev. 1870, 
p. 482 sq.; North Brit. Review, xii, 28G, 532; 1870, p. 
267 sq. ; New Engl. 1870 (July), p. 540; Am. Qu. Con- 
greg. Rev. 1871. p. G27 ; South. Rev. 1871 (Jan.), art. v. 
See also Herzog, Real-Encyliop. xix, 458; iii, 666, art. 


MARRIAGE 


T9I 


MARRIAGE 


Ehe ; and for early literature, Walcli, Bill. ; and for 
English writers, especially sermons on this subject, Mal- 
colm, I'heoL Index, s. v. For modern half or left-hand 
matrimony in Christendom, see Morganatic Mar- 
riage. For marriage as a sacrament , see Matrimony. 

A". Marriage with Believers. — The importance of reg- 
ulating the conjugal alliance on religious principles was, 
according to the record of the Old Testament, practically 
recognised at a very early period. Indeed, the corrup- 
tion of manners which rendered the Flood necessary is 
directly traced to such mixed marriages (Gen. vi, 1-4). 
The intermixture, by marriage, of the professed serv- 
ants and worshippers of God, with those by whom his 
authority was disowned, was first branded, and after- 
wards positively forbidden by divine authority; being 
denounced as an evil, the results of which were most 
injurious to the interests of religion, and which exposed 
those who fell into it to the condign and awful dis- 
pleasure of the Most High (Exod. xxxiv, 10). Now, 
although there were some circumstances attending the 
marriages in this manner denounced which do not di- 
rectly apply to the state of society in our own country 
(especially the circumstance that the people with whom 
such intercourse was forbidden were idolaters), yet there 
is much, as must be evident to even” pious observer, 
that illustrates the sin and danger of forming so inti- 
mate and permanent a union in life with the ungodly. 
The general fact is hence clearly dedueible that there 
is an influence in marriage strongly affecting the char- 
acter, which demands from those who are anxious for 
moral rectitude and improvement much of caution as to 
the manner in which their affections are fixed; and that 
unequal alliances — alliances where the parties are actu- 
ated by different spiritual habits and desires, and where 
good is made to meet and combine with bad, encounter- 
ing most imminently the danger of seduction and pollu- 
tion — are guilty, unnatural, and monstrous. The ex- 
pression of the divine authority, in application to the 
Jews, is to be regarded as comprehending the principle 
of his people in all ages, that here they ought not to 
walk in the counsel of the ungodly, nor to stand in the 
way of sinners. 

What we thus are enabled to conclude from the Old 
Testament, will be still more distinctly exemplified from 
the New. The evangelical writings do not, indeed, fre- 
quently offer directions expressly on the subject of mar- 
riage, the point appearing rather to be assumed than ar- 
gued, that in Christian marriage the husband and wife 
ought both, in the emphatic terms of the apostle l’eter, 
to he and walk as being “ heirs together of the graee of 
life.” In the first Epistle to the Corinthians, the apos- 
tle Paul applies himself to a question which seems at 
that time to have been agitated — whether Christians 
who, previous to their conversion, had contracted mar- 
riages with unbelievers, ought not to be actually di- 
vorced from the wives or husbands remaining in unbe- 
lief, because of the evil and peril attending the continu- 
ance of the alliance. Such an extreme, advocated by 
some, he considers as uncalled for (1 Cor. vii. 10-17). 
But, respecting the formation of a new matrimonial con- 
nection by a believer (the ease taken being that of a 
believing widow, though the rule, of course, extends to 
all), this is the direction: “She is at liberty to be mar- 
ried to whom she will, only in the Lord” (1 Cor. vii, 30). 
Here is a simple proclamation, the force of which is per- 
manent, and in submission to which Christians in everv 
period should act. They are to marry “only in the 
Lord.” They, being themselves “ in the Lord” — united 
to tlie Lord Jesus by the divine Spirit, and possessing an 
interest in the redeeming blessings he has purchased — 
are to marry only on Christian principles, and, of course, 
only sneli as are thus also “ in the Lord” — believer with 
believer, and with none else. -This is the obvious mean- 
ing of the passage, which no sophism can evade or frit- 
ter away. 

It would be eas} r to employ the attention further, on 
the general statements contained in the Word of God, 


I respecting the character of separation from the world 
which ought to be sustained by bis Church, the ends for 
I which it is ealled, and the objects it is bound to perform ; 
statements which all bear on the principle as to marriage, 
operating to enforce and to confirm it (see especially 2 
j Cor. vi, 14-18; vii, 1). But, without amplifying here, 
and satisfied that this principle reeeives, from the testi- 
mony already quoted, a convincing and solemn estab- 
lishment, the reader is requested to ponder a truth, which 
is as indubitable as it ought to be impressive, namely, 
that marriages formed by Christians in violation of the 
religious design of the institute, and of tlie express prin- 
' ciples of their religion, are connected with evils many 
and calamitous, most earnestly to be deprecated, and 
' most cautiously to be avoided. Is it, indeed, to be ex- 
pected, on the ground of religion, that an act can be 
committed against the expressed will of the Most High 
God without exposing the transgressor to the scourge 
of his chastisement? Is it to be expeeted,on the ground 
of reason, that an alliance can be formed between indi- 
viduals whose moral attributes and desires are essen- 
tially incompatible without creating the elements of 
uneasiness, diseord, and disappointment? Exeited im- 
agination and passion may delude with the belief of in- 
nocence and hope of escape, but religion and reason 
speak the language of unchangeable veracity, and are 
ever justified in the fulfilments of experience and of fact. 

The operation of the evil results whose origin is thus 
deduced, is of course susceptible of modifications from 
several circumstances in domestic and social life ; and, 
for many reasons, the degrees of public exhibition and of 
personal pressure may vary. 1. Yet it may be remark- 
ed uniformly, respecting these results — they are such as 
deeply affect the character. A reference lias already been 
made to the moral influence of marriage, and as the 
marriages stigmatized under tlie patriarchal, and forbid- 
den and punished under the Jewish dispensation, were 
obnoxious on account of tlie contamination into which 
they led tlie professed people of God, so are the mar- 
riages of Christians with worldlings in this age, a icorld - 
ly spirit being still the essence of idolatry (James iv, 4 ; 
Col. iii, 5; 1 John ii, 15-17 ; Matt, vi, 24), the objeets of 
! censure and deprecation, because of the baneful effect 
they exert on those who are numbered among the re- 
deemed of - the Lord. Such marriages as these present 
; constant and insinuating temptations to seduce Chris- 
tians to worldly dispositions and pursuits; they enfee- 
ble their spiritual energies; interfere with their com- 
munion with God ; hinder their growth in the attain- 
ments of divine life; check and oppose their perform- 
ance of duty and their pursuit of usefulness, in the fam- 
ily, tlie Church, and the world. There has probably nev- 
er been known a forbidden marriage which, if its original 
character were continued, did not pollute and injure. 
Some instances have been most palpable and painful; 
nor can it be considered other than a truth, unquestiona- 
ble and notorious, that whoever M ill so transgress invokes 
a very blighting of the soul. 2. It may be remarked re- 
specting these results, again, they are such as deeply af- 
fect happiness. Christian character and Christian hap- 
I piness are closely connected: if the one be hurt, the 
other will not remain untouched. And who sees not in 
the unhallowed alliance a gathering of the elements of 
sorrow? Are there not ample materials for secret and 
pungent accusations of conscience, that agitate tlie heart 
with the untold pangs of self-condemnation and re- 
morse? Is there not reason for the bitterness of disap- 
pointment, and the sadness of foreboding fear, because 
the best intercourse is unknown — the purest affection is 
impossible — the noblest union is wanting — and the being 
on whom the spirit would repose is, to all that is the 
sweetest and most sublime in human sympathies, hu- 
man joys, and human prospeets, an alien and a stran- 
ger? And what must, be the horror of that anticipa- 
tion which sets forth the event of a final separation at 
the bar of God, when, while the hope of personal salva- 
I tion may be preserved, the partner of the bosom is seen 


MARRIAGE 


795 


MARRIAGE 


as one to be. condemned by the Judge, and banished 
with everlasting destruction from his presence and the 
glory of his power! Oh the infatuation of the folly 
which leads to unite, where evils like these are created, 
rather than where God will sanction, and where time 
and eternity will both combine to bless! 3. Its effects 
upon what may be regarded as the supreme end of the 
marriage relation, the religious education of children, is 
another most distressing consideration. What must it 
be ! What has it ever been ! That much injury, there- 
fore, has arisen to the juiblic interests of the Church of 
Christ from this trausgression cannot be doubted. In- 
jury done to individual character is injury done to the 
community to which the individual is attached. It has 
always been a fact, that whoever sins in the household 
of faith, sins not only against himself, but against oth- 
ers; and that this transgression is one peculiarly ex- 
tended in its influence, operating more than, perhaps, 
any one else which can be named to bring religion from ' 
its vantage ground, to clog its progress, and to retard its 
triumph. See Cong. Mag. May, 1331 ; Malcolm on the 
Christian Rule of Marriage; II. More’s Caleb's in Search 
of a Wife. — Henderson’s Buck, s.v. 

AT. Marriage Ceremonies. — In the early Christian 
Church marriages were to be notified to the bishop or 
society, and in the first centuries were solemnized by 
the clergy, but with very many exceptions. Much was 
borrowed from the customs of the Homan law. Banns 
were required about the 12th century. See Banks. 
No prescribed form for the solemnization of marriage 
seems to have existed in early times. Witnesses were 
required, and the dowry was settled in writing. The 
sponsalia or betrothal preceded, and tokens or pledges 
were given or exchanged. The ceremonies were to all 
appearances not regarded as essential by the early Chris- 
tians. but were merely considered appropriate and be- 
coming, and when celebrated were observed as follows : 
“The use of the ring, in the rites both of espousal and 
of marriage, is very ancient. It is mentioned both by 
Tertnllian and Clement of Alexandria, the latter of 
whom says, 4 It was given her, not as an ornament; but 
as a seal, to signify the woman’s duty in preserving the 
goods of her husband, because the care of the house be- 
longs to her.’ ” The crowning of the married pair with 
garlands was a marriage-rite peculiar to many nations 
professing different forms of religion. Tertnllian in- 
veighs against it with all the zeal of a Montanist, but it 
is spoken of with approbation by the fathers of the 4th 
and 5th centuries, from whom it appears that the friends 
and attendants of the bridal pair were adorned in the 
same manner. These chaplets were usually made of 
myrtle, olive, amaranth, rosemary, and evergreens, in- 
termingled with cypress and vervain. The crown , ap- 
propriately so called, was made of olive, myrtle, and 
rosemary, variegated with flowers, and sometimes with 
gold and silver, pearls, precious stones, etc. These 
crowns were constructed in the form of a pyramid or 
tower. Both the bride and the bridegroom were crown- 
ed in this manner, together with the groomsman and 
the bridesmaid. The bride frequently appeared in 
church thus attired on the day when proclamation of 
the banns was made. Chaplets were not worn by the 
parties in case of second marriage, nor bv those who 
had been guilty of impropriety before marriage. In 
the Greek Church the chaplets were imposed by the 
officiating minister at the altar. In the Western Church 
it was customary for the parties to present themselves 
thus attired. The wearing of a veil by the bride was 
borrowed from the Romans. It was also conformable to 
the example of Rebecca (Gen. xxiv). From this mar- 
riage-rite arose the custom of taking the veil in the 
Church of Rome. By this act the nun devotes herself 
to perpetual virginity as the spouse of Christ, the bride- 
groom of the Church. It appears to have been custom- 
er also to spread a robe over the bridegroom and bride, 
called vitta nuptkdis, ])allinm jugale, etc., and made of a 
mixture of white and red colors. Torches and lamps 


were in use on such occasions, as among the Jews and 
pagan nations. The festivities were celebrated by nup- 
tial processions going out to meet the bridegroom and 
conducting him home, by nuptial songs and music, and 
marriage feasts. These festivals w'ere frequently the 
subject of bitter animadversion by the fathers, especial- 
ly by Chrysostom, and often called for the interposition 
of the authority of the Church. At marriage festivals 
it was customary to distribute alms to the poor. The 
groomsman had various duties to perform— to accom- 
pany the parties to the church at their marriage; to act 
as sponsor for them in their vows; to assist in the mar- 
, riage ceremonies; to accompany them to the house of 
the bridegroom ; to preside over and direct the festivi- 
ties of the occasion. 

For a considerable time the observance of a marriage- 
ceremony fell into desuetude among the Christians, to 
remedy which certain laws enforcing it were enacted in 
the 8th century. The ceremony now differs in different 
places. In Scotland, like all other religious services of 
that country, it is extremely simple, and is performed in 
the session-house, the residence of the minister, or the 
private house of some friend of one of the parties. In 
Lutheran countries it is generally celebrated in private 
houses. In England, by the ancient common law, a like 
custom prevailed as in Scotland until 1757, when, by 
lord Ilardwicke’s Act, a ceremony in a church of the 
state establishment was made necessary; and this con- 
tinued till 1830, when the Dissenters succeeded in re- 
moving this exclusiveness. Persons have now the op- 
tion of two forms of contracting marriage: it may be 
with or without a religious ceremony; and, if with a re- 
ligious ceremony, it may be cither in the established 
church or in a dissenting chapel. If the marriage is to 
take place in an established church, then there must be 
either publication of banns of marriage for three pre- 
ceding successive Sundays, or a license or certificate ob- 
tained, which dispenses with such publication; and, in 
either case, seven or fifteen days’ previous residence in 
the parish by one of the parties is necessary, according 
as it is a certificate or license respectively which is ap- 
plied for. The marriage must take place in the church, 
the marriage-service of the Church of England being 
read over, and this must be done in canonical hours, i. e. 
between 8 and 12 A.M., in presence of two witnesses at 
the altar, before which, in the body of the church, the 
parties are placed, after having mutually joined hands, 
and pledged their mutual troth, according to a set form 
of words, which they say after the minister; the man 
gives a ring to the woman, then lays it on the book, 
with the accustomed duty to the priest and clerk. The 
priest then takes the ring and delivers it to the man, 
whom he instructs to put it on the fourth finger of the 
woman’s left hand, and, holding it there, to repeat the 
words, “ With this ring I thee wed. with my body I thee 
worship, and with all my worldly goods I thee endow. 
In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the 
Holy Ghost. Amen.” The minister next joins their 
right hands together, and, after prayers and blessings, 
during certain parts of which the man and woman kneel 
before the altar, they are dismissed with the reading of 
a part of the Prayer-book, which points out the duties 
of the marriage state. If the marriage is celebrated in 
a dissenting chapel (and for that purpose such chapel 
must be duly licensed and registered), there must be 
present the superintendent-registrar of the district as 
one of the witnesses, but the dissenting clergyman may 
use his own or any kind of form of service. If the mar- 
riage is not to be with any religious ceremony, then it 
must take place in the office of the superintendent-reg- 
istrar, and in presence of witnesses, the essential thing 
being that both parties should in the presence of wit- 
nesses there exchange a declaration that they take each 
other for man and wife. The canonical hours must be 
attended to in all cases, and the condition of previous 
residence by one of the parties in the district ; but the 
condition of residence is often evaded. In all cases the 


MARRIAGE 


MARRIAGE 


*796 


fact of the marriage must be entered in a register, which 
register is kept by a public officer, and ultimately filed 
and kept in Somerset House, London, where a copy of 
the certificate of registration of every marriage in Eng- 
land can at all times be had for a small sum. 

In the United States of America the customs of the 
Church of Scotland arc followed by the Presbyterian 
and Congregational churches, and measurably also by 
the Baptists. The Protestant Episcopal Church ad- 
heres closely to the practices of the Church of England, 
and from the latter the Methodists also, in a somewhat 
modified form, have copied in this particular. Minor 
ecclesiastical bodies of the Christian Church follow the 
practices of one or the other of the churches mentioned. 
The laws of the several states differ somewhat as to the 
matter of marriage ceremonies, but they are adapted to 
the usages of all acknowledged Christian denominations, 
and recognise the validity of the act whether performed 
by a clergyman or magistrate, or by a simple contract 
before witnesses. 

Peculiar usages are found in some of the Eastern 
churches of to-day. In Russia the bride and bride- 
groom hold a lighted taper in their hands in front of a 
small altar placed in the centre of the church. Kings 
are placed on their fingers, and, their hands being join- 
ed, they are led by the priest three times round the altar. 
Two highly-ornamented gilt crowns are placed on their 
heads, and held over them by the groomsman during a 
part of the service. They drink wine out of a cup three 
times, and, kissing one another, the ceremony is finished. 
The married couple then make the tour of the church, 
crossing themselves at and saluting each saintly image 
on their way. Weddings generally take place towards 
evening, so that immediately after the ceremony dinner 
commences at the house of the bride’s father. At a 
marriage-feast lighted candles are placed in every posi- 
tion and corner possible. No other wine but cham- 
pagne is drunk, and the quantity of this beverage con- 
sumed is remarkable. The dinner is followed by a ball, 
and the feasting is usually kept up for twenty-four hours. 
The custom of honeymoon docs not exist in Russia. 
The married couple spend the first few days of their 
wedded life with the bride’s father. Shortly after the 
marriage the bride and bridegroom must call upon every 
one of their relations, friends, and acquaintances, and 
after this ceremony is finished they sink back into their 
ordinary life (Ivan at Home). For the Roman Catholic 
view of marriage, see Matrimony. 

MARRIAGE, Heathen. Under this head, as being 
most akin to the ancient Hebrew, and perhaps best rep- 
resenting the general type of Oriental matrimony, we 
begin with — 

1. Mohammedan . — The following description of this 
(condensed from Lane’s Modern Egyptians') applies es- 
pecially to Cairo, but will serve for a general illustration 
in most Moslem countries. To abstain from marrying 
when a man has attained a sufficient age, and when 
there is no just impediment, is esteemed by the Egyp- 
tians improper, and even disreputable. Oriental females 
arrive at puberty much earlier than the natives of colder 
climates. Many marry at the age of twelve or thirteen 
years; few remain unmarried after sixteen years of age. 
An Egyptian girl at the age of thirteen, or even earlier, 
may be a mother. It is very common among the Arabs 
of Egypt and of other countries, but less so in Cairo 
than in other parts of Egypt, for a man to marry his 
first cousin. In this case the husband and wife con- 
tinue to call each other “cousin;” because the tie of 
blood is indissoluble, hut that of matrimony very preca- 
rious. Most commonly the mother, or some other near 
female relation of the youth or man who is desirous of 
obtaining a wife, describes to him the personal and 
other qualifications of the young women with, whom she 
is acquainted, and directs his choice; or he employs a 
woman whose regular business it is to assist men in such 
cases. The parents may betroth their daughter to whom 
they please, and marry her to him without her consent 


if she be not arrived at the age of puberty, hut after she 
has attained that age she may choose a husband for 
herself, and appoint any man to arrange and effect her 
marriage. In the former case, however, the relations 
of a girl sought in marriage usually endeavor to obtain 
her consent to the proposed union. The bridegroom 
can scarcely ever obtain even a surreptitious glance at 
the features of his bride until he finds her in his abso- 
lute possession, unless she belong to the low’er classes of 
society ; in which case it is easy enough for him to see 
her face. When a female is about to marry, she should 
have a deputy to settle the compact and conclude the 
contract for her with her proposed husband. If she be 
under the age of puberty this is absolutely necessary ; 
and in this case her father, if living, or (if he be dead) 
her nearest adult male relation, or a guardian appointed 
by will or by the magistrate, performs the office of dep- 
uty ; but if she be of age she appoints her own deputy, 
or may even make the contract herself, though this is 
seldom done. After a youth or man has made choice 
of a female to demand in marriage, on the report of his 
female relations, and, by proxy, made the preliminary 
arrangements before described with her and her rela- 
tions, he repairs, with two or three of his friends, to her 
deputy. Having obtained consent to the union, if the 
intended bride be under age, he asks what is the amount 
of the required dowry. The giving of a dowry is indis- 
pensable. It is generally stipulated that two thirds of 
the dowry shall be paid immediately before the mar- 
riage-contract is made, and the remaining third held in 
reserve, to be paid to the wife in case of divorcing her 
against her own consent, or in case of the husband’s 
death. This affair being settled, and confirmed by all 
persons present reciting the opening chapter of the Ko- 
ran, an early day (perhaps the day next following) is 
appointed for paying the money, and performing the 
ceremony of the marriage-contract ; but it is very sel- 
dom the case that any document is written to confirm 
the marriage, unless the bridegroom is about to travel 
to another place, and fears that lie may have occasion 
to prove his marriage where witnesses of the contract 
cannot be procured. Sometimes the marriage-contract 
is concluded immediately after the arrangement respect- 
ing the dowry, but more generally a day or two after. 
On the day appointed for this ceremony the bridegroom, 
again accompanied by two or three of his friends, goes 
to the house of the bride, usually about noon, taking 
with him that portion of the dowry which he has prom- 
ised to pay on this occasion. It is necessary that there 
be two witnesses (and those must be Moslems) to the 
marriage-contract, unless in a situation where witnesses 
cannot be procured. All persons present recite the same 
chapter of the Koran, and the bridegroom then pays the 
money. After this the marriage-contract is performed. 
It is very simple. The bridegroom and the bride s dep- 
uty sit upon the ground face to face, with one knee upon 
the ground, and grasp each other’s right hand, raising 
the thumbs, and pressing them against each other. 
A schoolmaster is generally employed to instruct them 
what they arc to say. Having placed a handkerchief 
over their closed hands, he usually prefaces the words 
of the contract with a few words of exhortation and 
prayer, with quotations from the Koran and Traditions, 
on the excellency and advantages of marriage. He then 
desires the bride’s deputy to say, “ I betroth [or marry] 
to thee my daughter [or the female who has appointed 
me her deputy], such a one [naming the bride], the 
virgin [or the adult virgin], for a dowry of such an 
amount.” (The words “ for a dowry,” etc., arc sometimes 
omitted.) The bridegroom says, “I accept from thee 
her betrothal [or marriage] to myself, and take her un- 
der my care, and bind myself to afford her my protec- 
tion ; and ye who are present bear witness of this.” The 
deputy addresses the bridegroom in the same manner a 
second and a third time, and each time the latter replies 
as before. They then generally add, “And blessing be on 
the apostles, and praise be to God, the Lord of all crcat- 


MARRIAGE 797 MARRIAGE 



Mohammedan Bridal Procession. 


ures; amen:” after which all present repeat the same 
chapter. It is not always the same form that is recited 
on these occasions : any form may be used, and it may 
be repeated by any person ; it is not even necessary, and 
is often altogether omitted. The contract concluded, 
the bridegroom sometimes (but seldom unless he be a 
person of the lower orders) kisses the hands of his friends 
and others there present; and they are presented with 
sherbet, and generally remain to dinner. Each of them 
receives an embroidered handkerchief, provided by the 
family of the bride. Before the persons assembled on 
this occasion disperse, they settle upon the night when 
the bride is to be brought to the house of the bridegroom, 
and the latter, for the first time, is to visit her. 

In general, the bridegroom waits for his bride about 
eight or ten days after the conclusion of the contract. 
Meanwhile he sends to her, two or three or more times, 
some fruit, sweetmeats, etc. ; and perhaps makes her a 
present of a shawl, or some other article of value. The 
bride’s family are at the same time occupied in prepar- 
ing for her a stock of household furniture and dress. 
The portion of the dowry which has been paid by the 
bridegroom, and generally a much larger sum (the addi- 
tional money, which is often more than the dowry itself, 
being supplied by the bride’s family), is expended in 
purchasing the articles of furniture, dress, and ornaments 
for the bride. These articles are the property of the 
bride, and, if she be divorced, she takes them away with 
her. She cannot, therefore, with truth be said to be 
purchased. The furniture is sent, commonly borne by 
a train of camels, to the bridegroom’s house. Often 
among the articles is a chair for the turban or head- 
dress. There are sometimes sent two of these chairs, 
one for the husband and the other for the wife. The 
bridegroom should receive his bride on the eve of Fri- 
day, or that of Monday; but the former is generally es- 
teemed the more fortunate period. During two or three 
or more preceding nights the street or quarter in which 
the bridegroom lives is illuminated with chandeliers and 
lanterns (q. v.). An entertainment is also given on each 
of these nights, particularly on the last night before that 
on which the wedding is concluded, at the bridegroom’s 
house. On these occasions it is customary for the per- 
sons invited, and for all intimate friends, to send pres- 
ents to his house a day or two before the feast which 
they purpose or expect to attend : they generally send 
sugar, cotfee, rice, wax candles, or a lamb ; the former 
articles are usually placed upon a tray of copper or wood, 


and covered with a silk or embroidered kerchief. The 
guests are entertained on these occasions by musicians 
and male or female singers, by dancing girls, or by some 
other performance. 

On the preceding Wednesday (or on the Saturday if 
the wedding is to conclude on the eve of Monday), at 
about the hour of noon, or a little later, the bride goes 
in state to the bath. In general the first persons among 
the bride’s part}- are several of her married female rela- 
tions and friends, walking in pairs, and next a number 
of young virgins. The former are dressed in the usual 
manner, covered with the black silk shawl ; the latter 
have white silk shawls. Then follows the bride, walk- 
ing under a canopy of silk, of some gay color, as pink, 
rose-color, or yellow, or of two colors composing wide 
i stripes, often rose-color and yellow. It is carried by 
four men, by means of a pole at each corner, and is open 
i only in front ; and at the top of each of the four poles 
j is attached an embroidered handkerchief. The dress 
of the bride during this procession entirely conceals her 
J person. She is generally covered from head to foot 
I with a red shawl, or with a white or yellow shawl, 
though rarely. Upon her head is placed a small paste- 
board cap or crown. The shawl is placed over this, and 
conceals from the view of the public the richer articles 
of her dress, her face, and her jewels, etc., excepting 
one or two ornaments, generally of diamonds and emer- 
alds, attached to that part of the shawl which covers 
her forehead. She is accompanied by two or three of 
her female relations within the canopy ; and often, 
when in hot weather, a woman, walking backwards be- 
fore her, is constantly employed in fanning her with a 
large fan of black ostrich feathers, the lower part of the 
front of which is usually ornamented with a piece of 
looking-glass. Sometimes one procession, with a single 
canopy, server for two brides, who walk side by side. 
The procession moves very slowly, and generally pur- 
sues a circuitous route, for the sake of greater display. 
On leaving the house it turns to the right. It is closed 
by a second party of musicians, similar to the first, or by 
two or three drummers. The whole bath is sometimes 
hired for the bride and her party exclusively. They 
pass several hours, seldom less than two, occupied in 
washing, sporting, and feasting; and frequently female 
singers are hired to amuse them in the bath : they then 
return in the same order in which they came. Having 
returned from the bath to the house of her family, the 
bride anti her companions sup together. If singers have 



MARRIAGE 


798 


MARRIAGE 


contributed to the festivity in the bath, they also return 
with the bride to renew their concert. Their songs are 
always on the subject of love, and of the joyous event 
which occasions their presence. It is on this night, and 
sometimes also during the latter half of the preceding 
day, that the bridegroom gives his chief entertainment. 
Low farce-players often perform on this occasion before 
the house, or, if it be large enough, in the court. The 
other and more common performances by which the 
guests are amused have been before mentioned. 

On the following day the bride goes in procession to 
the house of the bridegroom. The ceremony usually 
occupies three or more hours. Sometimes, before bridal 
processions of this kind, two swordsmen, clad in nothing 
but their drawers, engage each other in a mock combat ; 
or two peasants cudgel each other with long staves. 
The bride and her party, having arrived at the bride- 
groom’s house, sit down to a repast, ller friends short- 
ly after take their departure, leaving with her only her 
mother and sister, or other near female relations, and 
one or two other women. The bridegroom sits below. 
Before sunset he goes to the bath, and there changes his 
clothes; or he merely does the latter at home, and, after 
having supped with a party of his friends, waits till a 
little before the time of the night-praver, or until the 
third or fourth hour of the night, when, according to 
general custom, he should repair to some celebrated 
mosque, such as that of the Hasaneyn, and there say 
his prayers. The party usually proceeds to the mosque 
with a quick pace, and without much order. A second 
group of musicians, with the same instruments, or with 
drums only, closes the procession. The prayers arc 
commonly performed merely as a matter of ceremony; 
and it is frequently the case that the bridegroom does 
not pray at all. The procession returns from the mosque 
with more order and display, and very slowly ; perhaps 
because it would be considered unbecoming in the bride- 
groom to hasten home to take possession of his bride. 
Soon after his return from the mosque, the bridegroom 
leaves his friends in a lower apartment, enjoying their 
pipes, and coffee, and sherbet. The bride’s mother and 
sister, or whatever other female relations were left with 
her, arc above, and the bride herself and her companion 
in a separate apartment. If the bridegroom be a youth 
or young man, it is considered proper that he, as well 
as the bride, should exhibit some degree -of bashfulness: 
one of his friends therefore carries him a part of the way 
up to the room. On entering the bride’s apartment he 
gives a present to her companion, who then retires. The 
bride lias a shawl thrown over her head, and the bride- 
groom must give her a present of money, which is called 
the price of the uncovering of the face,” before lie at- 
tempts to remove this, which she does not. allow him to 
do without some apparent reluctance, if not violent re- 
sistance, in order to show her maiden modesty. The 
bridegroom now sees the face of his bride for "the first 
time, and generally finds her nearly what he has been 
led to expect. lie remains with her but a few minutes: 
having satisfied his curiosity respecting her personal 
charms, he calls to the women (who generally collect at 
the door, where they wait in anxious suspense) to raise 
their cries of joy, and the shrill sounds acquaint the per- 
sons below anti in the neighborhood, and often, respond- 
ed by other women, spread still further the news that 
he has acknowledged himself satisfied with his bride: 
he soon after descends to rejoin his friends, and remains 
with them an hour or more before lie returns to his 
wife. It very seldom happens that the husband, if dis- 
appointed in liis bride, immediately disgraces and di- 
vorces her; in general lie retains her a week or more, 
even if dissatisfied with her. 

Marriages are sometimes conducted without any pomp 
or ceremony, even in the case of virgins, by mutual con- 
sent of the bridegroom and tlie bride’s family, or the 
bride herself; and widows or divorced women are never 
honored with a procession on marrying again. The 
mere sentence, ‘*1 give myself up to thee,” uttered by a 


female to a man who proposes to become her husband 
(eveu without the presence of witnesses, if none can 
easily be procured), renders her his legal wife, if arrived 
at puberty; and marriages with widows and divorced 
women, among the Moslems of Egypt, and other Arabs, 
are sometimes concluded in this simple manner. The 
dowry of such women is generally one quarter, or third, 
or half the amount of that of a virgin. Among persons 
not of the lowest order, though in very humble life, the 
marriage ceremonies are conducted in the same manner 
as among the middle orders. But when the expenses 
cannot by any means be paid, the bride is paraded in a 
very simple manner, covered with a shawl (generally 
red), and surrounded by a group of her female relations 
and friends, dressed in their best, or in borrowed clothes, 
and enlivened by no other sounds of joy than their 
shrill cry, which they repeat at frequent intervals. The 
general mode of processions among the inhabitants of 
the villages is different from those above described. The 
bride, usually covered with a shawl, is seated on a cam- 
el, and so conveyed to the bridegroom’s dwelling. Some- 
times four or five women or girls sit with her on the 
same camel, one on either side of her, and two or three 
others behind, the seat being made very wide, and usu- 
ally covered with carpets or other drapery. She is fol- 
lowed by a group of women singing. In the evening of 
the wedding, and often during several previous even- 
ings, in a village, the male and female friends of the 
two parties meet at the bridegroom’s house, and pass 
several hours of the night in the open air, amusing 
themselves with songs and a rude kind of dance, accom- 
panied by the sounds of a tambourine, or some, kind of 
drum : both sexes sing, but only the women dance. 

II. Ancient Pagan , i.e. 1. Greek . — The ancient Greek 
legislators considered the relation of marriage as a mat- 
ter not merely of private, but also of public or general 
interest. This was particularly the case at Sparta, 
where proceedings might be taken against those who 
married too late or unsuitably, as well as against those 
who did not marry at all. But, independent of public 
considerations, there were also private or personal rea- 
sons, peculiar to the ancients, which made marriage an 
obligation. One of these was the duty incumbent upon 
every individual to provide for a continuance of repre- 
sentatives to succeed himself as ministers of the divini- 
ty ; and another was the desire felt by almost every one, 
not merely to perpetuate his own name, but to leave 
some one who might make the customary offerings at 
his grave. AVe are told that with this view childless 
persons sometimes adopted children. The choice of a 
wife among the ancients was but rarely grounded upon 
affection, and scarcely ever coidd have been the result 
of previous acquaintance or familiarity. In many cases 
a father chose for his son a bride whom the latter had 
never seen, or compelled him to marry for the sake of 
checking his extravagances. 

By the Athenian laws a citizen was not allowed to 
marry a foreign woman, nor conversely, under very se- 
vere penalties; but proximity by blood (ayxiortia) or 
consanguinity ((ruyyfcvfia) was not, with some few ex- 
ceptions, a bar to marriage in any part of Greece : di- 
rect lineal descent was. At Athens the most important 
preliminary to marriage was the betrothal (tyyi'//<rir), 
which was in fact indispensable to the complete validity 
of a marriage-contract. It was made by the natural or 
legal guardian (o Kvpioq) of the bride elect, and attend- 
ed b} T the relatives of both parties as witnesses. The 
wife’s dowry was settled at the betrothal. On the day 
before the gamos, or marriage, or sometimes on the day 
itself, certain sacrifices or offerings (irporeXtict yagiov 
or TTpoyagtia') were made to the gods who presided 
over marriage. Another ceremony of almost general 
observance on the wedding-day was the bathing of both 
the bride and bridegroom in water fetched from some 
particular fountain, whence, as some think, the custom 
of placing the figure of a Xoi'rpo^opoc, or •* water car- 
rier,” over the tombs of those who died unmarried. Af- 


MARRIAGE 


Y99 


MARRIAGE 


ter these preliminaries, the bride was generally conduct- 
ed from her father’s to the house of the bridegroom at 
nightfall, in a chariot apa&jg) drawn by a pair of 
mules or oxen, and furnished with a kind of couch 
(kXivIq) as a seat. On either side of her sat the bride- 
groom and one of his most intimate friends or relations, 
who from his office was called the paramjmph (jrapa- 
vi’fupog or vvp^evrijg') ; but, as he rode in the carriage 
{oX>]pci) with the bride and bridegroom, he was some- 
times called the 7r apo\og. The nuptial procession was 
probably accompanied, according to circumstances, by a 
number of persons, some of whom carried the nuptial 
torches. Both bride and bridegroom (the former veiled) 
were decked out in their best attire, with chaplets on 
their heads, and the doors of their houses were hung 
with festoons of ivy and bay. As the bridal procession 
moved along, the hvmena?an song was sung to the ac- 
companiment of Lydian liutes, even in olden times, as 
beautifully described by Homer, and the married pair 
received the greetings and congratulations of those who 
met them. After entering the bridegroom’s house, into 
which the bride was probably conducted by his mother, 
bearing a lighted torch, it was customary to shower 
sweetmeats upon them ( Kara\vapaTa ), as emblems of 
plenty and prosperity. After this came the nuptial 
feast, to which the name gumos was particularly ap- 
plied; it was generally given in the house of the bride- 
groom or his parents, and, besides being a festive meet- 
ing, served other and more important purposes. There 
was no public rite, whether civil or religious, connected 
with the celebration of marriage among the ancient 
Greeks, and therefore no public record of its solemniza- 
tion. This deficiency then was supplied by the mar- 
riage-feast, for the guests were of course competent to 
prove the fact of a marriage having taken place. To 
this feast, contrary to the usual practice among the 
Greeks, women were invited as well as men ; but they 
seem to have sat at a separate table, with the bride, 
still veiled, among them. At the conclusion of this 
feast she was conducted by her husband into the bridal 
chamber ; and a law of Solon required that, on entering 
it, they should eat a quince together, as if to indicate 
that their conversation ought to be sweet and agreea- 
ble. The song called the Epithalwnium was then sung 
before the doors of the bridal chamber. The day after 
the marriage, the first of the bride’s residence in her 
new abode, was called the epaulia (hr avXici'), on which 
their friends sent the customary presents to the newly- 
married couple. On another day, the apanlia {cittciv- 
A<«), perhaps the second after marriage, the bridegroom 
left his house to lodge apart from his wife at his father’s- 
in-law. Some of the presents made to the bride by her 
husband and friends were called anacalypteria (a vara - 
\v7TT))pia), as being given on the occasion of the bride 
first appearing unveiled ; they were probably given on 
the epaulia, or day after the marriage. Another cere- 
mony observed after marriage was the sacrifice which 
the husband offered up on the occasion of his bride be- 
ing registered among his own phra tores. 

The above account refers to Athenian customs. At 
Sparta the betrothal of the bride by her father or guar- 
dian ( icrpioc ) was requisite as a preliminary of marriage, 
as well as at Athens. Another custom peculiar to the 
Spartans, and a relic of ancient times, was the seizure 
of the bride by her intended husband, but of course with 
the sanction of her parents or guardians. She was not, 
however, immediately domiciled in her husband’s house, 
but cohabited with him for some time clandestinely, till 
he brought her, and frequently her mother also, to his 
home. 

The Greeks, generally speaking, entertained little re- 
gard for the female character. They considered women, 
in fact.hs decidedly inferior to men, qualified to dis- 
charge only the subordinate functions in life, and rather 
necessary as helpmates than agreeable as companions. 
To these notions female education for the most part cor- 
responded, and, in fact, it confirmed them ; it did not sup- 


ply the elegant accomplishment and refinement of man- 
ners which permanently engage the affections when 
other attractions have passed away. Aristotle states 
that the relation of man to woman is that of the gov- 
ernor to the subject; and Plato, that a woman’s virtue 
may be summed up in a few words, for she has only to 
manage the house well, keeping what there is in it, and 
obeying her husband. Among the Dorians, however, 
and especially at Sparta, women enjoyed much more es- 
timation than in the rest of Greece. 

2. Roman . — A legal Koman marriage was called justce 
nuptice, jastum matnmonium , as being conformable to 
jus (< civile ) or to law. A legal marriage was either cum 
conventione uxoris in minium viri, or it was without this 
conventio. But both forms of marriage agreed in this : 
there must be connubiuin between the parties, and con- 
sent. The legal consequences as to the power of the 
father over his children were the same in both. 

Connubium is merely a term which comprehends all 
the conditions of a legal marriage. Generally it may 
be stated that there was only connubium between Bo- 
man citizens; the cases in which it at anytime existed 
between parties not both Koman citizens, were excep- 
tions to the general ride. Originally, or at least at one 
period of the republic, there was no connubium between 
the patricians and the plebeians; but this was altered 
by the Lex Canuleia (B.C. 445), which allowed connu- 
bium between persons of those two classes. There were 
various degrees of consanguinity and affinity within 
which there was no eomiubium. An illegal union of a 
male and female, though affecting to be, was not a mar- 
riage : the man had no legal wife, and the children had 
no legal father ; consequently they were not in the pow- 
er of their reputed father. The marriage cum eonren- 
lione differed from that sine conventione in the relation- 
ship which it effected between the husband and the 
wife ; the marriage cum conventione was a necessary 
condition to make a woman a materfamilias . By the 
marriage ■cum conventione the wife passed into the fa- 
milia of her husband, and was to him in the relation of 
a daughter, or, as it was expressed, in mamtm convenit. 
In the marriage sine conventione the wife’s relation to 
her own familia remained as before, and she was merely 
uxor. “ Uxor," says Cicero, “ is a genus of which there 
are two species : one is mater fumilias, quee in manum 
convenit; the other is uxor only.” Accordingly a ma- 
terfamilias is a wife who is in manu, and in the familia 
of her husband. A wife not in manu was not a member 
of her husband’s familia, and therefore the term could 
| not apply to her. Mutrona was properly a wife not in 
| manu, and equivalent to uxor ; and she was called ma- 
trona before she had any children. But these words 
are not always used in these their original and proper 
j meanings. 

It does not appear that any forms were requisite in 
the marriage sine conventione; and apparently the evi- 
dence of such marriage was cohabitation matrimonii 
causa. The matrimonii causa might be proved by va- 
rious kinds of evidence. In the case of a marriage cum 
conventione, there were three forms : (1) Usus, (2) Far- 
reum, and (3) Coemptio. 

(1.) Marriage was effected by usus if a woman lived 
with a man for a whole year as his wife ; and this was 
by analogy to nsucaption of movables generally, in 
which usus for one year gave ownership. The law of 
the Twelve Tables provided that if a woman did not 
wish to come into the manus of her husband in this 
manner, she should absent herself from him annually 
for three nights (trinoctiuni), and so break the usus of 
the year. 

(2.) Farreum was a form of marriage in which cer- 
tain words were used in the presence of ten witnesses, 
and were accompanied by a certain religions ceremony, 
in which panis farreus was employed ; and lienee this 
form of marriage was also called confarreatio. It ap- 
pears that certain priestly offices, such as that of Flamen 
Dialis, could only be held by those who were born of 


MARRIAGE 


800 


MARRIAGE 


parents who had been married by this ceremony ( con - 
farreuti parentes ). 

(3.) Coemptio was effected by mancipatio, and conse- 
quently the wife was in mancipio. A woman who was 
cohabiting with a man as uxor, might come into his 
manus by this ceremony, in which case the coemptio 
was said to be matrimonii causa, and she who was for- 
merly uxor became a pud maritum Jiliw loco. 

Sponsalia were not an unusual preliminary of mar- 
riage, but they were not necessary. The sponsalia were 
an agreement to marry, made in such form as to give 
each party a right of action in case of non-performance, 
and the offending party was condemned in such dam- 
ages as to the judex seemed just. The woman who 
was promised in marriage was accordingly called spoiisa , 
which is equivalent to promissa ; the man who was en- 
gaged to marry was called sponsits. The sponsalia were 
of course not binding if the parties consented to waive 
the contract. Sometimes a present was made by the 
future husband to the future wife by way of earnest 
( ttrrha , arrha sponsalitia ), or, as it was called, propter 
nuptias donatio. 

The consequences of marriage were : 1. The power of 
the father over the children of the marriage, which was 
a completely new relation — an effect indeed of marriage, ! 
but one which had no influence over the relation of the 
husband and wife. 2. The liabilities of either of the 
parties to the punishments affixed to the violation of 
the marriage union. 3. The relation of husband and 
wife with respect to property. 

When marriage was dissolved, the parties to it might 
marry again ; but opinion considered it more decent lor 
a woman not to marry again. A woman was required 
by usage (mos) to wait a year before she contracted a 
second marriage, on the pain of infamia. 

It remains to describe the customs and rites which 
■were observed by the Romans at marriages. After the 
parties had agreed to marry, and the persons in whose 
potestas they w T cre had consented, a meeting of friends 
was sometimes held at the house of the maiden for the 
purpose of settling the marriage-contract, which was 
written on tablets, and signed by both parties. The 
woman, after she had promised to become the wife of a 
man, was called sponsa, pacta, dicta , or sperata. It ap- 
pears that — at least during the imperial period — the man 
put a ring on the finger of his betrothed as a pledge of 
his fidelity. This ring was probably, like all rings at 
this time, worn on the left hand, and on the finger near- 
est to the smallest. The last point to be fixed was the 
day on which the marriage was to take place. The 
Homans believed that certain days were unfortunate for 
the performance of the marriage rites, either on account 
of the religious character of those days themselves, or 
on account of the days by which they were followed, as 
the woman had to perform certain religious rites on the 
day after her wedding, which could not take place on a 
dies ater. Days not suitable for entering upon matri- 
mony were the calends, nones, and ides of every month, 
all dies atri, the whole months of May and February, 
and a great number of festivals. On the wedding-day, 
which in the early times was never fixed upon without | 
consulting the auspices, the bride was dressed in a long j 
white robe with a purple fringe, or adorned with rib- 
bons. This dress was called tunica Vecta, and was bound 
round the waist with a girdle ( corona , cingulum, or zona), 
which the husband had to untie in the evening. The 
brides veil, ciiMedfammcum, was of a bright ycilow col- 
or. and her shoes likewise. Her hair was divided on 
this occasion with the point of a spear. The bride was 
conducted to the house of her husband in the evening. 
She was taken with apparent violence from the arms of 
her mother, or of the person who had to give her away. 
On her way she was accompanied by three jjoys dressed 
in the pretext a, and whose fathers and mothers were 
still alive ( patrimi et. matrimi). One of them carried 
before her a torch of white thorn (spina), or, according 
to others, of pine wood ; the two others walked by her 


side, supporting her by the arm. The bride herself car- 
ried a distaff and a spindle, with wool. A boy called 
camillus carried in a covered vase (< camera , cumcrum , or 
camillum) the so-called utensils of the bride and play- 
things for children (crepundia). Besides these persons 
who officiated on the occasion, the procession was at- 
tended by a numerous train of friends, both of the bride 
and the bridegroom. When the procession arrived at 
the house of the bridegroom, the door of which was 
adorned with garlands and flowers, the bride was car- 
ried across the threshold b y pronubi, i. e. men who had 
been married to only one woman, that she might not 
knock against it with her foot, which would have been 
an evil omen. Before she entered the house, she wound 
wool around the door-posts of her new residence, and 
anointed them jvith lard ( adeps suillus) or wolf’s fat 
(adeps lupimts). The husband received her with fire 
and water, which the woman had to touch. This was 
either a symbolic purification, or a symbolic expression 
of welcome, as the interdicere aqua et igni was the for- 
mula for banishment. The bride saluted her husband 
with the words, Ubi tu Cains , ego Caia. After she had 
entered the house with distaff and spindle, she was 
placed upon a sheep-skin, and here the keys of the 
house were delivered into her hands. A repast (coma 
nuptialis), given by the husband to the whole train of 
relatives and friends who accompanied the bride, gen- 
erally concluded the solemnity of the day. Many an- 
cient writers mention a very popular song, Talasius or 
Talassio, which was sung at weddings ; but whether it 
was sung during the repast or during the procession is 
not quite clear, though we may infer from the story re- 
specting the origin of the song that it was sung while 
the procession was advancing towards the house of the 
husband. It may be easily imagined that a solemnity 
like that of marriage did not take place among the mer- 
ry and humorous Italians without a variety of jests and 
railleries ; and Ovid mentions obscene songs which were 
sung before the door of the bridal apartment by girls, 
after the company had left. These songs were probably 
the old Feseennina, and are frequently called 'Epithala- 
mia. At the end of the repast, the bride was conducted 
by matrons who had not had more than one husband 
( pronubee ) to the lectus genialis in the atrium, which 
was on this occasion magnificently adorned and strewed 
with flowers. On the following day the husband some- 
times gave another entertainment to his friends, which 
was called repotia, and the woman, who on this day un- 
dertook the management of the house of her husband, 
had to perform certain religious rites; on which ac- 
count, as was observed above, it was necessary to select 
a day for the marriage which was not followed by a dies 
ater. These rites probably consisted of sacrifices to the 
Dii Penates. 

The position of a Roman woman after marriage was 
very different from that of a Greek woman. The Ho- 
man presided over the whole household ; she educated 
her children, watched over and preserved the honor of 
the house, and, as the materfamilias. she shared the 
honors and respect shown to her husband. Far from 
being confined, like the Greek women, to a distinct 
apartment, the Homan matron (at least during the bet- 
ter centuries of the republic) occupied the most impor- 
tant part of the house, the atrium. — Smith, Diet, of Class. 
Ant. s. v. 

III. Among the Jlbidits.— There are writers, perhaps 
we had better call them “fact gatherers” (comp. Miiller, 
Chips, ii, 202), who, not contenting themselves with the 
accomplishment of the task for which they are fitted, 
frequently go out of their way to cast a slur upon the 
Christian’s belief, and to ridicule him for entertaining 
the thought that the Bible is the educator of the human 
race. Yet the deeper the researches into the “primitive” 
condition of man, and the more intimate our relation 
with those nations who can claim a civilization outside 
of the pale of Christian teachings, the more stubborn ap- 
pears the fact that Christianity alone assigns to womau 


MARRIAGE 


801 


MARRIAGE 


a position of equality with man. The N. T. teaches 
“ there is neither Jew nor Greek ; there is neither bond 
nor free; there is neither male nor female: for ye are 
all one in Christ Jesus.” The Hindu’s sacred writings, 
however, not only fail to make woman the equal of man, 
but they even put a stigma upon her from her very 
birth. A woman, it is affirmed by the Institutes of 
Manu (q. v.), whose inspiration is as unquestioned as 
his legislative supremacy is universal among the Hin- 
dus, “is never fit for independence, or to be trusted with 
liberty; for she may be compared to a heifer on the 
plain, which still longeth for grass.” “They exhaust,” 
says Massie ( Continental India , ii, 153), “ the catalogue 
of vice to affix its epithets to woman’s nature — infidel- 
ity, violence, deceit, envy, extreme avariciousness, an 
entire want of good qualities, with impurity, they af- 
firm, are the innate faults of womankind.” “Why,” 
says Butler ( Land of the Veda, p. 470), “if my native 
friend had six children, three boys and as many girls, 
and 1 happened to inquire, ‘ Lalla, how many children 
have you ?’ the probability is he would reply, ‘Sir, I 
have three children;’ for he would not think it worth 
while to count in the daughters.” Indeed, the Brahmin 
is taught that perfection is to be attained only, freed 
from the contamination of woman, in a purely ascetic 
state (Wuttke, Christian Ethics, i, 51). But let us not 
be misunderstood as conveying the impression that the 
lay Hindu favors asceticism. Far from it. Among the 
laity celibacy is a reproach in either sex. As among 
the Chinese (see below), “girls are not desired, not wel- 
come ;” and, when they come, they are either quickly 
done away with, where the English law does not inter- 
fere [see Infanticide], or, if they must live, are ig- 
nored, if not despised. Arrived at the age of only seven, 
the age at which the Shasters pronounce the girl mar- 
riageable, the unhappy parents begin to look about for 
an early opportunity to free themselves from the burden 
that is upon them by betrothal of the child. As all 
through the East, so also here the whole matter is held 
by the parents in their own hands. The poor girl has 
no choice or voice in her own destiny — all is arranged 
without consulting her views or affections in any way 
whatever. “Courtship, in our Christian sense,” says 
Butler, “the maiden in India can never know. She is 
not allowed to see or converse with him to whose con- 
trol she will ere long be handed over. She cannot write 
to him, for she can neither read nor write; all she is 
able to do is to follow the instructions to ‘worship the 
gods for a good husband.’ She is taught to commence 
as soon as she is four years old. Her prayers are ad- 
dressed chiefly to Kama-deva (q. v.), the Hindu Cu- 
pid. . . . The maiden prays, and father and mother 
manage the business of selection. Each caste [see In- 
dian Caste] has its professional match-makers, whose 
aid is indispensable. When the negotiations have reach- 
ed a certain definiteness, the Pundits are consulted to 
avoid mistakes of consanguinity, and then the astrolo- 
gers, who pronounce upon the carefully-preserved horo- 
scopes of the boy and girl, whether they can be united 
with safety. These preliminaries all found satisfactory, 
the aid of the Brahmin is sought to ascertain if the 
family god favors the union. The stars, the gods, and 
men being a unit, negotiations are opened between the 
parents and relations as to the amount of gift and dow- 
ry, and, when conclusions are reached here to their mu- 
tual satisfaction, the astrologer is again called in to as- 
certain and name a lucky day when the agreement may 
be registered, and a bond for the dowry executed. This 
is done with due solemnity, and then the astrologer has 
again to ascertain and name a lucky day for the cere- 
mony, which is accepted by the parents under their bond 
to see to the consummation of the engagement. This 
is the usual method, slightly varied in different locali- 
ties” (p. 479, 480). No female child is expected to have 
gone beyond the age of twelve without the consumma- 
tion of an engagement. Woe be unto that family 
wherein a girl is past the age of twelve and vet unbe- 
V.— E E E 


trothed (Butler, p. 497). And yet what is the fate of 
the poor girl after she has actually found her mate? 
Marriage to the Hindu female means slavery in its most 
abject form. “ The Ilindit,” says Massie (ii, 154), “ does 
not marry to secure a companion who will aid him in 
enduring the ills of life, or in obtaining the means of ra- 
tional employment, he seeks only a slave who shall 
nourish (he thinks not of training) children, and abide 
in abject subjection to his rule.” 

Betrothal with the Hindus being as binding as mar- 
riage (indeed, the word “ marriage” is used to include both 
betrothal and our conception of the matrimonial alliance), 
the female child enters into a new state of existence im- 
mediately after the ceremony of betrothal. “Henceforth 
she is no more free to roam the fields and enjoy the lovely 
face of nature. Reserved for her husband, she can no 
longer be seen with propriety by any man save her father 
and brothers. She is from that day ‘a jmrdah-nasME 
— one who sits behind the curtains within the inclosure 
which surrounds her mothers home;” and now com- 
mences her education, which, lasting for five or six years, 
may be epitomized in its entire curriculum under these 
four heads : cooking, domestic service, religion, and their 
peculiar female literature, to enter at last a state of 
dependence more strict, contemptuous, and humiliating, 
ordained for the weaker sex among the Ilindils, than 
which there cannot easily be conceived another. Look 
into the house which the bride has entered, and see her 
as she begins the duties for which she has been trained. 
She rises to prepare her husband’s food, and, when all 
is ready and laid out upon the mat — for they ignore 
such aids as chairs and tables, knives or forks, and take 
their meals with the hand, sitting on the floor — she now 
announces to her lord that his meal is ready. lie en- 
ters and sits down, and finds all duly prepared by her 
care. Why does she still stand? Why not sit down 
too, and share with her husband the good things which 
she has made ready. She dares not. He would not al- 
low it — the law of her religion forbids it. She must 
stand and wait upon him, for do not the Shasters render 
it her duty? “When in the presence of her husband,” 
they teach her, “ a woman must keep her ej'OS upon her 
master, and be ready to receive his commands. When 
he speaks she must be quiet, and listen to nothing else, 
and attend upon him alone. A woman has no other 
god on earth but her husband.” Therefore she waits 
upon her husband so patiently. But not only is she 
prohibited from enjoying the blessings of the family ta- 
ble, even when her lord has fully satisfied himself, but 
she is obliged to remove what remains to another apart- 
ment — “for her religion not only forbids her eating with 
him, but also prohibits her from eating even what he 
leaves ‘in the same room where he dines’ — and not till 
then can she and her children eat their food” (Butler, p. 
492). If the state we have portrayed be sad and low 
enough, what shall be said of the helpless condition in 
which the poor woman of India is placed if her husband 
be cruel, aye, brutal ? “ Woman,” says Butler (p. 492), 

“is absolutely without redress, in the power of her hus- 
band, and no one can interfere when it stops short of act- 
ual murder.” Such is woman’s history in a married life, 
as guided and controlled by the sacred writings of a 
people who enjoy a non-Biblical civilization. “ If ever 
woman had an opportunity of showing what she might 
become under the teachings and influence of a civiliza- 
tion where Christianity or the Bible did not interfere 
with her state, the women of India have had that op- 
portunity, and now, after forty centuries of such exper- 
iment, what is woman there to-day?” (Butler, p. 4G9). 
Surely here is a question worthy the attention of those 
“fact gatherers” who so eagerly thrust aside the be- 
nighted influences of a Christian civilization. 

Polygamy exists among the Hindus, as it is allow- 
able. It is a luxury, however, that few poor men can 
afford, and hence the practice of “ successional polyga- 
my:” Hindds often forsake their wives, and then take 
others. Where polygamy has invaded the household, 


MARRIAGE 


802 


MARRIAGE 


the woman who has had the good fortune to be the first 
wife takes precedence in rank; she remaining the mis- 
tress of the zenana — the Hindu harem. 

Polyandry , strangely enough, lias also established it- 
self here. “ This singular and amazing relation existed 
in India twenty-five centuries ago, and lingers to-day 
in some localities to such an extent as to call for the 
legislative action of the English government.” See 
Polyandry. 

The marriage-rites are numerous, tedious, and in many 
parts far from delicate. All, however, being expressed 
in Sanscrit, and recited by the officiating Brahmin with 
the utmost rapidity, no one understands what is said. 
The principal rites among the Brahmins are walking 
three times round a fire, and tying the garments of the 
parties together. The bride has also to make seven 
steps, at the last of which the marriage is complete. 

The marriage is usually solemnized in the house of 
the bride’s father. Thither the bridegroom proceeds, 
attended by his friends, and from thence conducts the 
bride to his home in a grand procession, usually by 
night, with torches and great rejoicings. On both occa- 
sions considerable expenditure is incurred in feasting 
the friends and relatives, and in providing ornaments, 
music, processions, and illuminations. The wealthy 
spend freely on these objects, and the poorer classes of- 
ten incur debts which burden them for many years. 
The costs incurred by the fathers, on both sides, in cel- 
ebrating a marriage, form a heavy item of Hindu ex- 
penditure; and one of the motives to female infanticide 
is doubtless laid in the desire to avoid this charge (Tre- 
vor, Its Xatives and Missions, p. 214). 

The marriage procession is thus described by Butler 
(p. 485). “ Often when travelling at night in my pa- 

lanquin, I have been roused from my sleep by my bear- 
ers catching sight of an approaching marriage proces- 
sion, with its torches, music, and shouting; falling in 
with the enthusiasm of each event, they would cry out 
that ‘ the bridegroom cometh.’ First the bridegroom 
would make his appearance, mounted on a fine horse 
splendidly caparisoned — his own or borrowed for the oc- 
casion — and wearing a grand coat, decked out in tinsel 
and gold thread, with the matrimonial crown on his 
head, and his richly-embroidered slippers, all very fine, 
his friends shouting and dancing alongside of him, and, 
of course, as he passes, we make our salaam and wish 
him joy. Bight behind the bridegroom’s horse comes 
the palanquin of the bride, but she is veiled, and the Ve- 
netians are closely shut, and on the little lady is borne 
to a home which she never saw before, to surrender her- 
self into the hands of one w’ho has neither wooed nor 
won her; a bride without a choice, with no voice in her 
own destiny; married without preference; handed over, 
by those assumed to do all the thinking for her, to a fate 
where the feelings other heart -were never consulted in 
the most important transaction of her existence; begin- 
ning her married life under circumstances which pre- 
clude the possibility of her being sustained by the affec- 
tion which is founded upon esteem. When the proces- 
sion has come within hailing distance of his home, the 
watching friends go forth to meet the bridegroom, the 
bride enters her apartments, the door is shut, and the 
guests are entertained in other parts of the establish- 
ment.” 

IV. Among the Chinese and Japanese. — The Chinese 
arc divided into a number of clans, each distinguished 
by a clan name. Of these clans there are from a hundred 
to a thousand, according to different authors. The law 
is that no man shall marry a woman of his own clan 
name. Thus relationship by the male line, however 
distant, prevents marriage. This rule is very ancient, 
its origin being referred by the Chinese to the mythic 
times of their empire. The legendary emperor Fu-Ui, 
who reigned before the Ilea dynasty, which, according 
to the Chinese annals, began in B.C. 2207, is said to 
have divided the people into clans, and established 
this rule regarding marriage (Tyler, Researches , p. 278). 


We give the Chinese marriage customs at considerable 
length, as they are highly illustrative of Oriental usages 
in general. 

As in all Eastern countries, the girl to be given in 
wedlock is not consulted in the choice of her future 
husband, the parents deciding in her stead. The Chi- 
nese arc firm believers in the sentiment to which the 
Western mind has given expression in the proverb that 
“Matches are made in heaven.” To secure an alliance, 
a person is employed as a go-between or match-maker. 
The negotiation is generally opened by the family of the 
male person. Not unfrequently the girl has to be paid 
for — a relic of the patriarchal custom. Occasionally, 
when a female child is born to persons in humble cir- 
cumstances, it is given away to a family having a male 
child only ; is reared by the latter, and, when the girl and 
boy have reached a marriageable age, they are joined in 
matrimony. Not unfrequently it occurs among wealthy 
families having a daughter that the custom of purchase 
is reversed, and a husband secured for a pecuniary con- 
sideration. The wealthy look with special favor upon 
the literary class, and not unfrequently great sacrifices 
are made to secure a scholarly husband. “ It not un- 
frequently occurs,” says Doolittle {China, i, 99), “ that a 
rich family, having only one daughter and no boys, de- 
sires to obtain a son-in-law who shall be willing to 
marry the girl and live in the family as a son. Some- 
times a notice is seen posted up, stating the desire of a 
certain man to find a son-in-law and heir who will come 
and live with him, perhaps stating the age and qualifi- 
cations of an acceptable person. In such a case, the 
parents of those who have a son whose qualifications 
might warrant such an application, and whom they 
would be willing to allow to marry on such terms, are 
expected to make application by a go-betw r cen, when 
the matter would be considered by the rich man. Some- 
times the rich man makes application by a go-between 
to the parents of a young man whose reputation he is 
pleased with, and who perhaps may be a recent gradu- 
ate. his name standing near the head of the list of suc- 
cessful competitors of the first or second literary de- 
gree.” 

Betrothal. — This among the Chinese is considered as 
binding as marriage, if the rites and observances have 
been carefully looked after. The final act in betroth- 
ment is the exchange of cards (for description, sec Doo- 
little, i, G7). The time intervening between betrothal 
and marriage varies from a month or two to eighteen or 
twenty years, depending much on the age of the parties. 
-From one to three months before the marriage a fortu- 
nate day is selected for its celebration. Generally a 
member of the family of the bridegroom, or a trusty 
friend, takes the eight horary characters which denote 
the birth-time for each of the affianced parties, and for 
each of their parents, if living, to a fortune-teller, who 
selects lucky days and times for the marriage, for the 
cutting of the wedding garments, for the placing of the 
bridal bed in position, for the finishing of the curtains 
of the bridal bed, for the embroidering of the bridal pil- 
lows, and for the entering of the sedan, on the part^of 
the bride, on the day of her marriage. These items are 
written out on a sheet of red paper, which is sent to the 
family of the girl by the hands of the go-between. If 
accepted, the periods specified become the fixed times 
for the performance of the particulars indicated, and 
both parties proceed to make the necessary arrange- 
ments for the approaching wedding. Presenting the 
wedding-cakes and material for the bridal dress to the 
family of the bride by the other party is next in order. 
The relative time usually adopted for the performance 
of this custom is about one month before the day fixed 
for the marriage. The number of these i cakes of cere- 
mony,' or wedding-cakes, varies from several score to 
several hundreds. They are round, and about an inch 
thick, weighing generally about one pound and ten or 
twelve ounces each, and measure nearly a foot in diam- 
eter. They are made out of wheat flour, and contain in 


MARRIAGE 


803 


MARRIAGE 


tlie middle some sugar, lard, and small pieces of fat pork, 
mixed together in a kind of batter, and then cooked : 
they are, in fact, a sort of mince-pies. There is also 
sent a sum of money, of greater or less amount, accord- 
ing to previous agreement; a quantity of red cloth or 
silk, usually not less than five kinds, for the use of the 
bride ; five kinds of dried fruits, several kinds of small 
cakes, a cock and a hen, and a gander and a goose. The 
family of the girl, on receiving these wedding-cakes, 
proceeds to distribute them among their relatives and 
intimate friends. The small cakes are also distributed 
in a similar manner. The money sent is generally spent 
in outfitting the bride. 

“A few days before the day fixed for the wedding, 
the family of the bridegroom again makes a present of 
various articles of food and other things to the family 
of the bride, as a cock and a hen, a leg and foot of a pig 
and of a goat, eight small cakes of bread, eight torches, 
three pairs of large red candles, a quantity of vermicelli, 
and several bunches of fire-crackers. There are also sent 
a girdle, a head-dress, a silken covering for the head 
and face, and several articles of ready-made clothing, 
which are usually borrowed or rented for the occasion. 
These are to be worn by the bride on her entering the 
bridal sedan to be earned to the home of her husband 
on the morning of her marriage. The food, or a part 
of it, including the cock, is to be eaten by her on that 
morning. The fire-crackers are for explosion on the 
road, and the torches are for burning during the time 
occupied en route to her new home. On each of the 
eight bread-cakes is made a large red character in an 
ancient form of writing, of an auspicious meaning, as 
‘longevity,’ ‘ happiness,’ ‘official emolument,’ and ‘joy;’ 
or certain four of them have four characters, meaning 
‘ the phoenixes are singing in concert,’ or ‘ the ducks are 
seeking their mates.’ Four of these bread-loaves are 
accepted ; the remaining four and the hen, according to 
strict custom, are returned to the party which proffers 
them. The bread-cakes and the vermicelli are omens 
significant of good, owing to a play on the local sound 
of the characters which denote them, or in consequence 
of the shape of the article. The vermicelli is signifi- 
cant of ‘longevity,’ because of its length; and the four 
bread-cakes reserved by the family of the bride are kept 
for a singular use on the morning of the girl’s entering 
her bridal chair. Placing the bridal bedstead in the po- 
sition where it is to stand is an important ceremony. 
When the day selected arrives, which is generally only 
a few days before the wedding, the bedstead is arranged 
in some convenient place in the bride’s chamber, and 
then for a considerable time it must not be moved, for 
fear of ill luck. This placing of the bedstead in posi- 
tion is attended with various superstitious acts.” 

Worship of Ancestors by the Bridal Party. — “Usual- 
ly the day before the wedding, the bride has her hair 
done up in the style of married women of her class in 
society, and tries on the clothes she is to w r ear in the 
sedan, and for a time after she arrives at her future home 
on the morrow. This is an occasion of great interest to 
her family. Her parents invite their female relatives 
and friends to a feast at their house. The professed ob- 
ject of trying on the clothing is to see how the articles 
provided will fit, and to ascertain that everything is 
ready, so that there may be no delay or confusion on the 
arrival of the hour when she is to take her seat in her 
sedan. While thus dressed (the thick veil designed to 
conceal her features on arrival at her husband’s resi- 
dence not now being worn), she proceeds to light in- 
cense before the ancestral tablets belonging to her fa- 
ther’s family, and to worship them for the last time be- 
fore her marriage. She also kneels down before her 
parents, her grandparents (if living), her uncles and 
aunts (if present), and worships them in much the same 
manner as she and her husband will on the morrow 
worship his parents and grandparents, and the ancestral 
tablets belonging to his family. On the occasion of the 
girl’s trying on these clothes and worshipping the tablet 


and her parents, it is considered unpropitious that those 
of her female relatives and friends who are in mourning 
should be present. 

“The bridal chair is selected by the family of the 
bridegroom, and sent to the residence of the bride gen- 
erally on the afternoon preceding the wedding-day, at- 
tended by a band of music, some men carrying lighted 
torches, two carrying a pair of large red lanterns, con- 
taining candles also lighted, and one having a large red 
umbrella, and one or two friends or other attendants. 
The bridal chair is always red, and is generally cov- 
ered with broadcloth, or some rich, expensive material. 
It is borne by four men, who wear caps having red tas- 
sels. The musicians and all the persons employed in 
the procession have similar caps. Very early on the 
morning of her marriage the bride or the ‘ new wom- 
an’ arises, bathes, and dresses. While she is bathing 
the musicians are required to play. Her breakfast con- 
sists theoretically of the fowl, the vermicelli, etc., sent 
by the family of her affianced husband. In fact, how- 
ever, she eats and drinks very little of anything on 
the morning or during the day of her wedding. When 
the precise time approaches lor taking her seat in her 
sedan, usually between five and eight o’clock in the 
morning, previously fixed by the fortune-teller, her toilet 
is completed by one of her parents taking a thick veil 
and placing it over her head, completely covering her 
features from view. She is now led out of her room by 
one of her female assistants, and takes her seat in the 
sedan, which has been brought into the reception-room 
of the house. The floor from her room to the sedan is 
covered for the occasion with a kind of red carpeting, so 
that her feet may not touch the ground. She takes her 
place in the sedan amid the sound of fire-crackers and 
music by the band. The bride, her mother, and the va- 
rious members of the family, are required by custom to 
indulge during this morning in hearty and protracted 
crying — oftentimes, no doubt, sincere and unaffected. 
While seated in the sedan, but before she starts for her 
future home, her parents, or some members of her family, 
take a bed-quilt by its four corners, and, while holding 
it thus before the bridal chair, one of the bride’s assist- 
ants tosses into the air, one by one, four bread-cakes, in 
such a manner that they will fall into the bed-quilt. 
These bread-cakes were received from the family of her 
husband at the same time as the cock and vermicelli 
were received. The woman during this ceremony is 
constantly repeating felicitous sentences, which are as- 
sented to by some others of the company. The quilt 
containing these cakes is gathered up and carried imme- 
diately to an adjoining room. The object of this cere- 
mony is explained to be to profit the family of the 
bride’s parents, being an omen of good, which is in some 
manner indicated to the Chinese apprehension by the 
quilt and the cakes being retained in the house — the 
local sound of the common word for ‘bread,’ and a cer- 
tain word meaning ‘ to warrant,’ ‘ to secure,’ being iden- 
tical.” 

Bridal Pi'ocession. — After these performances “the 
bridal procession starts en route for the residence of the 
other party, amid explosions of tire-crackers and the 
music of the band. In the front of the procession go 
two men carrying two large lighted lanterns, having 
the ancestral or family name of the groom cut in a 
large form out of red paper pasted upon them. Then 
come two men carrying similar lanterns, having the 
family name of the bride in a similar manner pasted 
on them. These belong to her family, and accompany 
her only a part of the way. Then comes a large red 
umbrella, followed by men carrying lighted torches, and 
by the band of music. Near the bridal chair are sev- 
eral brothers of the bride or friends of her family, and 
several friends or brothers of the groom. These lat- 
ter are dispatched from the house of the groom early 
in the morning, for the purpose of meeting the bridal 
procession and escorting the bride to her home. This 
deputation sometimes arrives at the house of the bride 


MARRIAGE 


804 


MARRIAGE 


before she sets out on her journey, and, if so, it ac- 
companies the procession all the way. About midway 
between the homes of the bride and the groom the pro- 
cession stops in the street, while the important cere- 
mony of receiving the bride is formally transacted. The 
friends of the bride stand near each other, and at a lit- 
tle distance stand the friends of the groom. The for- 
mer produce a large red card, having the ancestral name 
of the bride’s family written on it ; the latter produce a 
similar card bearing the ancestral name of the groom. 
These they exchange, and each, seizing his own hands 
if la Chino is , bows towards the members of the other 
party. The two men in the front of the procession who 
carry the lanterns having the ancestral name of the 
groom now turn about, and, going between the sedan 
chair and the two men who carry the lanterns having 
the ancestral name of the bride, come back to their for- 
mer position in the procession, having gone around the 
party which has the lanterns with the bride’s ancestral 
name attached. This latter party, while the other is 
thus encircling it, turns round in an opposite direction, 
and starts for the residence of the family of the bride, 
accompanied by that part of t lie escort which consisted 
of her brothers or the friends of her family. The rest 
of the procession now proceeds on its way to the resi- 
dence of the bridegroom, the band playing a lively air. 
At intervals along the street tire-crackers are exploded. 
It is said that, from the precise time when the two par- 
ties carrying lanterns having the ancestral names of the 
two families attached separate from each other in the 
street, the name of the bride is changed into the name 
of her betrothed ; the lanterns having his name attached 
remaining in the procession, while those which liave 
her (former) name are taken back to the residence of 
her father’s family. From this time during the day she 
generally is in the midst of entire personal strangers, 
excepting her female assistants, who accompany the pro- 
cession and keep with her wherever she goes. On ar- 
riving at the door of the bridegroom’s house tire-crack- 
ers are let off in large quantities, and the band plays 
very vigorously. The torch-bearers, lantern-bearers, and 
the musicians stop near the door. The sedan is carried 
into the reception-room. The floor, from the place where 
the sedan stops to the door of the bride’s room, is cov- 
ered with red carpeting, lest her feet should touch the 
floor. A woman who has borne both male and female 
children, or at least male children, and who lives in har- 
monious subjection to her husband, approaches the door 
of the sedan and utters various felicitous sentences. If 
she is in good pecuniary circumstances, and if her par- 
ents are living and of a learned family, so much the 
more fortunate. A boy six or eight years old, holding 
in his hands a brass mirror, with the reflecting surface 
turned from him and towards the chair, also comes near, 
and invites the bride to alight. At the same time the 
married woman who has uttered propitious words ad- 
vances as if to open the door of the sedan, when one of 
the female assistants of the bride, who accompanied the 
procession, steps forward and opens it. The married 
woman referred to and the boy are employed by the 
family of the groom, and receive a small present for 
their services, which are considered quite important and 
ominous of good. The mirror held by the lad is ex- 
pected to ward off all deadly or pernicious influences 
which may emanate from the sedan. The bride is 110W 
aided by her female assistants to alight. While being 
led towards the door of her room, the sieve which had 
been placed over the door of the bridal chair on its ar- 
rival is sometimes held over her head, and sometimes it 
is placed directly in front of the door of the sedan, so 
that, on stepping out. she will step into it. 

44 The groom, on the approach of the bridal proces- 
sion, disappears from the crowd of friends' and relatives 
who have assembled at his residence on the happy oc- 
casion, and takes his position standing hv the side of 
the bedstead, having his face turned towards the bed. 
When the bride enters the room, guided by her assist- 


ants, he turns around, and remains standing with his 
face turned from the bed. As soon as she has reached 
his side, both bridegroom and bride simultaneously seat 
themselves side by side on the edge of the bedstead. 
Oftentimes the groom manages to have a portion of the 
skirt of her dress come under him as he sits down by 
her, such a thing being considered as a kind of omen 
that she will be submissive. Sometimes the bride is 
very careful, by a proper adjustment of her clothing at 
the moment of sitting down, not only to prevent the ac- 
complishment of such an intention on his part, but also 
to sit down, if possible, in such a manner that some of 
his dress will come under her, thus manifesting her de- 
termination to preserve a proper independence, if not to 
bring him actually to yield obedience to her will. Af- 
ter sitting thus in profound silence together for a few 
moments, the groom arises and leaves the room. lie 
waits in the reception-room for the reappearance of his 
bride, to perform the ceremony called 4 worshipping the 
temple’ (q. v.). Until this time the bride has worn the 
heavy embroidered outside garment, head-dress, etc., 
which she had on when she entered her sedan. These 
are now removed. She has her hair carefully combed 
in the style of her class in society, and she is arrayed in 
her own wedding garments. Sometimes her hair is 
gorgeously decked out with pearls and gems, true or 
false, according to the ability of the family to purchase, 
rent, or borrow. When her toilet has been completed, 
and everything has been made ready, the bride and 
bridegroom sit down in her room to their wedding din- 
ner. lie now, oftentimes for the first time in his life, 
and always for the first time on his marriage day, be- 
holds the features of his wife, lie may eat to his fill of 
the good things provided on the occasion, but she, ac- 
cording to established custom, may not take a particle. 
She must sit in silence, dignified and composed. 

44 The wedding festivities generally last at least two 
days. The first day the male friends and relatives of the 
groom are invited to l shed their light ’ on the occasion. 
On the second day the female friends and relatives of the 
family of the groom are invited to the wedding feast; 
this is often called the ‘women’s day.’ Not long after 
the family and guests have breakfasted on the morning 
of the second day, the newly-married couple, amid the 
noise of tire-crackers, come out of their room together 
for the purpose of worshipping the ancestral tablets be- 
longing to the household, the grandparents, and parents 
of the groom. This custom is known by the name of 
4 coming out of the room? In the case of those families 
who devote only one day to the marriage festivities and 
ceremonies, this custom is observed on the afternoon of 
the first day. Not long subsequent to the ceremony of 
‘coming out of the room.’ the couple proceed to the 
kitchen for the purpose of worshipping the god and god- 
dess of the kitchen. This is performed with great de- 
corum, and is regarded as an important and essential 
part of marriage solemnities. Incense and candles are 
lighted, and arranged on a table placed before the pict- 
ure or the writing which represents these divinities, 
plastered upon the wall of the kitchen. Before this ta- 
ble the bridegroom and his bride kneel down side by 
side, and bow in worship of the god and goddess of the 
kitchen. It is believed that the}' will thus propitiate 
their good-will, and especially that the bride, in at- 
tempting culinary operations, will succeed better in con- 
sequence of paying early and respectful attentions to 
these divinities. On the third day the parents of the 
bride send an invitation to their son-in-law and his 
wife to visit them. With this invitation they send se- 
dans for them. The card is usually brought by her 
brothers, if she has any of the proper age, or by rela- 
t i ves having her own ancestral name. Until this morn- 
ing, since she left her former home two days previous, 
the bride has seen none of her own family, and generally 
none of her own relatives or acquaintances. She and 
her husband now receive the congratulations and com- 
pliments of her brothers or other relatives, and prepare 


MARRIAGE 805 MARRIAGE 


to visit her parents. The bride enters her sedan first, 
and proceeds a short distance in front of her husband. 
They do not start together, nor is it proper that they 
should arrive at the house of her parents at the same 
time. The chair provided for the bride on this occa- 
sion is a common black sedan in all respects, except that 
its screen in front has a certain charm painted upon the 
outside. This charm is the picture of a grim-looking 
man, sitting on a tiger, with one of his hands raised up, 
holding a sword, as if in the act of striking, represent- 
ing a certain ruler of elves, hobgoblins, etc. The object 
of its use on the occasion of a bride’s returning to her 
parents’ house, on the third day after her marriage, is 
to keep off evil and unpropitious influences from her. 
On arrival at her paternal home the bride’s sedan is car- 
ried into the reception-room, and she alights amid the 
noise of fire-craekers. The sedan which contains the 
son-in-law stops a few rods from his father-in-law’s resi- 
dence, where he is met by one of his brothers-in-law, or 
some relative or friend deputed to meet and conduct him 
into the house. The two parties, standing in the street, 
respectfully shake their own hands towards each other 
on meeting, according to the approved fashion. The 
newly-arrived is now invited to eider the house. He is 
seated in the reception-room, where he is treated suc- 
cessively to three cups of tea and three pipes of tobacco. 
Afterwards he is invited to go and see his mother-in- 
law in her room, where he finds his wife. There he 
sits awhile, and visits after a stereotyped manner, be- 
ing careful to use only good or propitious words, avoid- 
ing every subject and phrase which, according to the 
notions of this people, are unlucky. He is soon invited 
into the reception-room, where he is joined by his wife. 
Everything being arranged, the husband and wife pro- 
ceed to worship the ancestral tablets of her family. At 
the conclusion of this ceremony the bride retires to her 
mother’s apartments, or to some back room, where she 
and the female relatives present are feasted. Her hus- 
band is invited to partake of some refreshments in the 
reception-room, in doing which he is joined by his 
bride’s brothers, or some others of her family relatives. 
According to the rules of eticpiette, he must eat but very 
little, however hungry he may be. The usual phrase 
employed in speaking of it is that he eats part of ‘ three 
bowls of vegetables,’ after whieh he declines to receive 
anything more, under the plea that he has eaten enough. 
He soon takes his departure in his sedan, leaving his 
bride to follow by herself by-and-by, accompanied usu- 
ally only by a servant or female friend. Husbands are 
never seen with their wives in public.” 

The marriage customs of the Japanese are so very 
like those of the Chinese that we have grouped them to- 
gether. The custom of purchasing the wife is still 
more general among the Japanese than other Asiatic 
nations. Polygamy is strictly forbidden. Though the 
harem is tolerated, only one lawful wife is recognised. 
“It appears, however,” says MaeFarlane (Japan, p. 208), 
“to be very easy for a man to put away his wife and 
take another — at least so far as any law exists to the 
contrary.” The condition of woman is far better than 
in any other Asiatic country. 

Y. Among Savages. — Perhaps in no other way can 
the great advantages of Christian civilization be more 
conclusively shown than by the improvement which it 
has effected in the relations between the two sexes. 
The best students of the primitive condition of man 
have come to the conclusion that where divine revela- 
tion does not extend the institution of marriage, if it 
exists at all, it is by no means the outgrowth of affection 
and a desire for companionship, but is entered into by 
the male savages “as a mere animal and convenient 
connection” as the “ means of getting their dinner 
cooked.” There is “no idea of tenderness nor of chiv- 
alrous devotion” (Ilill, Tracts of Chittagong , p. 116; 
comp. Pallas, Voyages, iv, 94). Indeed, according to 
Lubbock ( Origin of Civilization , and Primitive Condi - 
tion oj' Man), the lowest races have no such institution 


as the marriage rite, because “ true love is almost un- 
known among them” (p. 50). Kolben ( Hist . Cape of 
Good Hope , i, 162) tells us that k, the Hottentots are so 
eold and indifferent to one another that you would 
think there was no such thing as love between them/ 1 
There are even some savages, as the North American 
Indian tribe, the Ti lines, who have no word for “dear” 
or “beloved;” and it is said of the Algonqnins that 
when the Bible was translated into their language a 
word had to be coined to give expression to our verb 
“to love.” There are other uncivilized races of men 
that lack greatly in words to express social relations, 
as, e. g., the Sandwich Glanders, who, according to 
Lubbock (p. 61-63), possess no words answering to 
“son,” “daughter,” “wife,” or “husband,” due not to 
poverty of language, but to the fact that. “ the idea of 
marriage does not enter into the Hawaian system of 
relationship.” 

Among savages, the peculiar ideas attached to the 
bond of matrimony make the marriage-ceremony rather 
an institution peculiar to them. As we have seen above, 
there are many rude people who do not recognise the 
symbol of marriage, and, naturally enough, no ceremony 
is known to them; and then there are many cases in 
whieh the marriage bond is recognised, but no ceremony 
of marriage is observed. “Yet,” says Lubbock (p. 58), 
“ we must not assume that marriage is necessarily and 
always lightly regarded where it is unaccompanied by 
ceremonial.” In Tahiti, says Cook ( Voyage around the 
11 r orld), “ marriage, as appeared to us, is nothing more 
than an agreement between the man and the woman, 
with whieh the priest has no concern. Where it is 
contracted it appears to be pretty well kept, though 
sometimes the parties separate by mutual consent” 
(comp. Klemm, Cultur der Menschen , iv, 299). 

I. Ceremonies . — There cannot be said to exist any 
marriage ceremonies among the Badagas (llindostan) ; 
the Kurumbas, a tribe of the Neilgherry Hills ( Trans- 
act. Kthnol. Soc. vii, 276) ; the Indians of California 
(■ Smithsonian Pep. 1863, p. 368); the Kutchin Indians, 
further north (Smith. Rep. 1866, p. 326) ; the Arawaks 
of .South America (Brett, Guiana, p. 101), and the Bra- 
zilian tribes generally (Martins, Rechtszustand loiter dtn 
Ureinwohnern Brasiliens , p. 51); and the same is the 
ease with the Australian tribes (Eyre’s Discoveries, ii, 
319). Speke (Journ. p. 361) says “there are no such 
things as marriages in Uganda;” and of the Mandin- 
goes (West Africa), Caille ( Trav . to Timhuctoo, i, 350) 
says that husband and wife are not united by any cere- 
mony; and Hutton (in Klemm, Cultur, iii, 280) makes 
the same statement as regards the Ashantees. In Con- 
go and Angola (Astley, Coll, of Voyages, iii, 221, 2*27) 
“ they use no peculiar ceremonies in marriage, nor 
scarce trouble themselves for eonsent of friends.” Nei- 
ther do we find that the Hottentots know anything about 
marriage ceremonies, if we may follow La Vaillant 
(Voy. ii, 58); nor do the Bushmen, according to Mr. 
Wood (A 'at. Hist. Man, i, 269), have in their language 
any means of distinguishing an unmarried from a mar- 
ried girl. According to Dalton ( Trans . Ethn. Soc. vi, 
25), the Iveriahs of Central India have no word for mar- 
riage in their own language, and the only ceremony used 
appears to be little more than a sort of public recogni- 
tion of the fact. “ The marital rite among our tribes” 
(i. e. the Bedskins of the Cnited States), says School- 
craft (Ind. Tribes, p. 132, 248), “is nothing more than 
the personal consent of the parties, without requiring 
any concurrent act of a priesthood, magistracy, or wit- 
nesses; the act is assumed by the parties without the 
necessity of any extraneous sanction.” “There is.” 
says Bruce (Travels, iv, 487), “no such thing as mar- 
riage in Abyssinia, unless that which is contracted by 
mutual consent, without other form, subsisting only till 
dissolved by dissent of one or the other, and to be re- 
newed or repeated as often as it is agreeable to both 
parties, who, when they please, live together again as 
man and wife, after having been divorced, had children 


MARRIAGE 


806 


MARRIAGE 


by others, or whether they have been married or had 
children with others or not.” Among the Bedouin Ar- 
abs there is a marriage ceremony in the case of a girl, 
but the remarriage of a widow is not thought sufficient- 
ly important to deserve one. 

2. Communal Marriage, — Bacliofen and McLennan, 
two of the most devoted students of marriage among 
the savages, will have it that the primitive condition 
of man was one of pure fletairism, or, as it might per- 
haps be conveniently Englished, ‘‘ communal marriage,” 
where every man and woman in a small community 
were regarded as equally married to one another. Of 
course none of our readers will be misled by the use of 
the word “primitive.” It is not our province here to 
enter into a discussion on primeval man [see Pre- 
Adamites] ; we use the word with reference to the 
lowest condition of unchrist utilized man, satisfied, as we 
stated at the beginning of our subject, that the mar- 
riage relation, as it exists among civilized men, is due 
solely to the influence of divine revelation — man’s no- 
blest educator. The most extravagant form of commu- 
nism we find related of the Techurs of Oude. “They 
live together almost indiscriminately in large commu- 
nities, and even when the people are regarded as mar- 
ried the tie is but nominal” (Watson and Kaye, People 
of India, ii, 85). In the Andaman Islands, we arc told 
by Sir Edward Belcher {Trans. Ethn. Hoc. v, 45), it is 
the custom for man and woman to remain together un- 
til the child is weaned, when they separate as a matter 
of course, and each seeks a new partner. Among the 
Southals, one of the aboriginal tribes of India, marriages 
take place once a year, mostly in January. “For six 
days all the candidates for matrimony live together in 
promiscuous concubinage, the introductory rite to the 
marital relation; for only after this are the separate 
couples regarded as having established their right to 
marry” (Watson and Kaye, i, 2). Among the Todas, 
of the Hawaian race, when a man marries a girl, she 
becomes the wife of all his brothers as they successively 
reach manhood ; and they also become the husbands of 
all her sisters, as they become old enough to marry. 
(Comp, here Ethn. Journ. 18(57, p. 286, on a practice 
among the Sioux and other North American Indians.) I 
Among the Greenland Esquimaux it is related that , 
“those are reputed the best and noblest tempered who, ! 
without any pain or reluctancy, will lend their friends 
their wives” (Egede, /list. Greenland , p. 142). This 
custom of wife-lending is, however, by no means con- 
fined to the inhabitants of Greenland, but prevails among 
North and South American Indians, Polynesians, East- 
ern and Western negroes, Arabs, Abyssinians, Kaffirs, 
Mongols, Tutski, etc. (see Lubbock, p. 80), and is prac- I 
tieeri especially as an act of hospitality. Plutarch will 
have it that the custom of lending wives existed also 
among the liomans. Nor must it be forgotten that it 
was held one of the essentials of the model Platonic re- 
public that “among the guardians, at least, the sexual 
arrangements should be under public regulation, and the 
monopoly of one woman by one man forbidden” (Bain, 
Mental and Moral /Science; comp. Karnes, Hist, of Man. 
ii. 50). Sec also Prostitute. A very peculiar custom 
is found among the Nassaniych Arabs. They practice 
what might be appropriately termed three-quarter mar- 
riage ; i. e. the woman is legally married for three days 
out of four, remaining perfectly free for the fourth (Lub- 
bock, ]). 54). In Ceylon, according to Davy {legion, p. 
286), marriages are provisional for the first fortnight, at i 
the expiration of which they are either annulled or con- , 
firmed. Among the Beddies of Southern India a still i 
more singular custom prevails. “A voting woman (»f six- 
teen or twenty years of age may be married to a boy of 
five or six years. She, however, lives with some other 
adult male — perhaps a maternal uncle or cousin — but is 
not allowed to form a connection with the' father’s rcla- j 
tives; occasionally it may be the boy-husband’s father 
himself — that is, the woman’s father-in-law. Should 
there be children from these liaisons, they are fathered | 


on the boy-husband. When the boy grows up the wife 
is cither old or past child-bearing, when he, in his turn, 
takes up with some other boy’s wife in a manner precisely 
similar to his own, and procreates children for the boy- 
husband” (Shortt, Trans . EtlinoL Soc ., New Series, vii, 
104). 

d. Marriage hg Purchase. — Those who believe, like 
Tyler, M‘Lcnnan, Bachofen, and Lubbock, that the com- 
munal system of the marital relation existed in the pri- 
meval state, hold that out of it arose the system of indi- 
vidual marriage. We who depend upon the guidance 
of a written revelation are rather of the opinion that it 
is the influence of Christian civilization upon savage 
life that has led some of them to prefer individual to 
communal marriage. It is true that the marriage by 
capture has done much to bring about individual mar- 
riage, but it is by no means clear to us that even then 
the practice was not borrowed from Christianized peo- 
ple directly or indirectly. We certainly do not believe, 
with Lessing, that nations develop without external in- 
fluences, that civilization is the possession of every peo- 
ple, and that it is constantly progressive. The condi- 
tion of the American savage, and the remnants of an 
early and high civilization, bear witness to the contrary. 
Yet we believe, with Brinton {Myths of the Xew World , 
p. 5), that “religious rites are living commentaries on 
religious beliefs;” and that, while the idea of God does 
not and cannot proceed from the externa) world, it nev- 
ertheless finds its historical origin, also, in the desper- 
ate struggle for life, in the satisfaction of the animal 
wants and passions, in those vulgar aims and motives 
which possessed the mind of the primitive man to the 
exclusion of everything else. It is pretty clear that 
with all pre-Christian nations the modes of getting a 
wife were the same with those of acquiring any other 
species of property — capture, gift, sale. The contract of 
sale may be said to be at the foundation of the mar- 
riage relation in every system of ancient law. When 
daughters belonged to parents as goods, they were part- 
ed with only on the principles of fair exchange. Usually 
| the contract was between the heads of families, the in- 
tending bride and bridegroom not being consulted. As 
I to the marriage ceremonies, they then were those and 
no other which were necessary to complete and evidence 
a sale — delivery, on the price being paid, and “the tak- 
ing home.” It was never thought of that the children 
should be consulted, and allowed to act on their likings. 
Just so the savage has been in a measure addicted to 
the purchase of his wife, with only this difference, how- 
ever, that the property is secured by the buyer for him- 
self. In Sumatra, e. g., there were formerly three per- 
fectly distinct kinds of marriage : the “ Jugur,” in which 
the man purchased the woman; the “Ambel-anak.” in 
which the woman purchased the man (see below, Poly- 
andry'); and the “Semando,” in which they joined on 
terms of equality (comp. Marsden, Ilist. of /Sumatra, p. 
262 sq.). “ Among low races.” says Lubbock (p. 6<s), “ the 
wife is indeed literally the property of the husband, as 
Petrnchio says of Catharine: 

‘I will be master of what is mine own. 

She is my goods, my chattels; she is my house, 

!Wy household stuff,' my field, my barn, 

My horse, my ox, my ass, my anything.’ ” 

Still more peculiar and odd arc the ceremonies of 
courtship and marriage in the mountainous districts of 
Eastern Hungary. In the fall of the year a fair is held 
there of marriageable young men and women. From 
all quarters long trains of chariots wind their way to 
the plain of Kalinosa. They are laden with household 
furniture, and followed by the cattle of the family. In 
the midst of these, goods may be seen the young lady 
whom her family has brought to seek a husband at the 
fair. She is dressed in her best, with brilliant silk scarf 
and scarlet petticoat. These caravans take iqi their po- 
sition one after the other on one side of the plain, while 
on the other side a cavalcade of young men approaches 
and deploys along the whole line. The men— young 


MARRIAGE 


807 


MARRIAGE 


Wallacliians, for the most part — are dressed in their best 
goat-skins, and make what show of horsemanship they 
can. After both parties have taken up their respective 
quarters opposite each other, the fathers step forward 
and begin to negotiate marriages for their children. 
The questions asked on these occasions are, we fear, of a 
somewhat sordid character. “Ilow many bullocks?” 
“How much money?” “Your daughter’s furniture looks 
rather old ; that chest of drawers does not shut properly. 

I must find something better than that for my son.” 
Such would doubtless be a correct report of the conver- 
sations held in this primitive, if not poetical Arcadia, 
previous to clinching the matrimonial bargain. The 
business is, however, carried out with a promptitude 
equal to its frankness. As soon as the parents are 
agreed, a priest, who is always ready at hand, is sum- 
moned. lie chants a hymn and gives his benediction, 
the bride then kisses her parents, mounts the chariot, 
and starts for some unknown village with a husband 
whom she has never seen before, the furniture and cat- 
tle which her parents have allowed her as a marriage- 
portion following in the rear. 

5. Marriage by Capture, — -Marriage by purchase, how- 
ever, is by no means the most usual way of the savage 
to secure a help-meet for himself. Perhaps the general 
mode by which rude nations enter into the marital rela- 
tion is that of capture. In the opinion of Lubbock, the 
first state of individual marriage was brought about by 
capture, and, if he chose to treat of this practice as con- 
fined to rude nations, we can see no reason to disagree 
with him that man came to claim for his sole personal 
benefit the female he secured from the conquered. In- 
deed, such a practice finds a counterpart not only among 
the pagan nations, but is related of even in the O.-T. 
Scriptures (Deut. xx, 10-14). Our readers must not, 
however, be led to believe that among savage races 
marriage by capture means the procuring of a wife by 
hostility. INI any savages, indeed, never secure their fe- 
male companions except, by capture, though they be of 
the same tribe to which they themselves belong. In- 
deed, while there arc many rude nations that do not 
tolerate anything else but endogamy , i. e. intertribal 
marriage, many others, perhaps the majority, permit 
only exogamy , i. e. marriage without the tribe. (See 
this head below.) Nor does it at all follow that all ex- 
ogamous marriages do away with communism. It is 
simply a step in the right direction, and in many in- 
stances has perhaps been instrumental in bringing about 
individual marriage relations. There is certainly no 
symbol more widespread, nor more varied in its forms, 
than that of capture in marriage ceremonies. In many 
cases feigned theft is necessary to the validity of the 
marriage. For the Hindu such a marriage form is 
prescribed in the Sudras (Lassen, Indische Studien , p. 
3*25), and in the Institutes of Manu marriage by capture 
is enumerated among “the eight forms of the nuptial 
ceremony used by the four classes” (chap, iii, 33, Jones r. 
Houghton). “ In the description of this marriage, call- 
ed Racshasa, we have the exact prototype of the Roman 
and Spartan forms, in a code of laws a thousand years 
older than our :vra” (A 'at, Qu, Rev. June, 1872, p. 89). 

The practice of capture is found in great perfection 
among the American Indians, existing everywhere 
throughout the savage races of South America, but more 
particularly in the regions of the Orinoco and the Ama- 
zon. The Fucgians have the practice as well as the fic- 
tion of capture. The Horse Indians of Patagonia are 
commonly at war with each other, or with the Canoe 
Indians, victory on either side resulting in the capture 
of women and slaughter of men. The Oens, or Coin 
men, are more systematic, for every year, at the time 
of red leaf, \ they are said to make excursions from the 
mountains in the north to plunder from the Fucgians j 
their women, dogs, and arms (McLennan, Prim, Mar- 
riage. , p. 01). The tribes of the Amazon and the Orinoco 
are in a state of constant warfare, and alternately rich 
and poor in women. Mr. Rates found the Manaos on 


the Rio Negro to resemble the Oens in habits. The 
Caribbees were found by Humboldt to form family 
groups, often numbering only forty or fifty, which were 
at constant enmity with each other. Capture prevailed 
among them to such an extent that the women of any 
tribe belonged so much to distinct tribes that in no 
group were the men and women found to speak the 
same language ( Personal Narrative of Travels , v, 210). 
Among the wild Indians of the North the same account 
is applicable in varying degrees. Hearne tells us that 
among the Hudson’s Bay Indians “it has ever been the 
custom for the men to wrestle for any woman to whom 
they are attached, and, of course, the strongest party al- 
ways carries off the prize; a weak man, unless he be a 
good hunter and well-beloved, is seldom permitted to 
keep a wife that a stronger man thinks worth his no- 
tice. . . . This custom prevails throughout all their 
tribes, and causes a great spirit of emulation among 
their youth, who are, upon all occasions, from their child- 
hood, trying their strength and skill in wrestling” ( Voy- 
age to the Northern Ocean , p. 104). Franklin also says 
that the Copper Indians hold women in the same low 
estimation as the Chippewavans do, “looking upon them 
as a kind of property, which the stronger may take from 
the weaker” ( Journey to the Shores of the Polar Sea, viii, 
43), and Richardson (Boat Journey, ii, 24) “more than 
once saw a stronger man assert his right to take the 
wife of a weaker countryman. Any one may challenge 
another to wrestle, and, if he overcomes, may carry off 
the wife as the prize.” Yet the women never dream of 
protesting against this, which, indeed, seems to them 
perfectly natural. 

The capture of women for wives prevails also among 
the aborigines of the Deccan, and in Afghanistan (La- 
tham, Descript. Ethnol. ii, 215). It formerly prevailed, 
according to Olaus Magnus, in Muscovy, Lithuania, and 
Livonia ( I/istona de gentibus Septentrionedibus, bk. xiv, 
ch. ix, p. 48). There is ample reason to believe that the 
practice was general among the nations in the north of 
Europe and Asia. Olaus Magnus, indeed, represents the 
tribes of the north as having been continually at war with 
one ‘another, either on account of stolen women, or with 
I the object of stealing women, “propter raptas virgines 
a ut arripiendas” ( ut sup. p. 328). In numerous cases the 
1 plunderers were of the royal houses of Denmark and Swe- 
den. Among the Scandinavians, before they became 
, Christians, wives were almost invariably fought for and 
wedded at the sword-point. Among the Kalmucks, Kir- 
ghis, Nogais, and Circassians, where the price cannot be 
agreed upon, nothing is more common than to carry off 
I the lady by force. This capture constitutes a marriage, 
I even before the parties come to terms (McLennan, p.73). 
The Australians, while having a general system of be- 
trothals, yet employ the practice of capturing wives to 
a great extent. According to Turnbull, when a man 
sees a woman whom he likes, he tells her to follow him. 
1 f she refuses, he forces her to accompany him by blows, 
ending by knocking her down and carrying her off 
( Voyage round the World, i, 81 sq.). Sir George Grey 
says that many plots are laid to carry off' the women, 
and in the encounters which result they receive usually 
very harsh treatment. 

Many other less barbarous nations keep up the show 
of force only. The following are among the most 
marked examples. Among the Khonds the marriage- 
J ceremony begins with a feast at the dwelling of the 
bride. This is followed by dancing and song. When 
the night is far spent in these amusements, the princi- 
pals are lifted by an uncle of each on his shoulders and 
carried through the dance. Suddenly they exchange 
burdens, and the uncle of the youth disappears with the 
bride. The friends of the bride now seek to arrest his 
flight, those of the groom to cover it, the mock contest 
that ensues being often carried to great lengths (M*l’her- 
I son, Report upon Khonds, p. 55). Among the noble 
class of the Kalmucks a similar form appears. The 
i price to be paid being fixed, the bridegroom and his no- 


MARRIAGE 


808 


MARRIAGE 


ble friends go on horseback to her house to carry her 
off. Her friends make a sham resistance, but she is al- 
ways carried off, on a richly-caparisoned horse, with 
loud shouts ondytax de joie (Xavier de Hell, Travels in 
Steppes of Caspian Sea, p. 259). Dr. Clarke ( Travels , 
etc., i, 433) describes a different ceremony, probably ap- 
pertaining to a different clan of the Kalmucks. In ( 
this tine girl is first mounted on horseback, and rides off 
at full speed pursued by her lover. If he overtakes her, 
she becomes his wife; but it sometimes happens that 
the fugitive does not favorably incline towards her pur- 
suer, in which case she will not suffer him to overtake 
her. The author was assured that no instance was 
known of a Kalmuck girl being thus caught unless she 
had a partiality for her pursuer. In many cases this 
form of capture has become a mere pretence, as in lifting 
the bride by force on horseback; or, as in North Fries- 
land, where a young fellow, called the bride-lifter, lifts 
the bride and the two bridesmaids on a wagon in which 
the married couple are to travel home (1 Veinhold, p. 50). 
Among the Bedouins the groom must force the bride to 
enter his tent. A similar custom existed in some prov- 
inces in France in the I7th century (Marriage Ceremo- 
nies, etc. [Gaya, Loud. 1698], p. 30). Among the Cir- 
cassians the form is like that in ancient Borne. In 
the midst of noisy feasting and revelry, the groom must 
rush iu, and, with the help of a few daring young men, 
carry off the lady by force. By this proceeding she be- 
comes his lawful wife (Louis Moser, The Caucasus and 
its People, p. 31). Lord Ivames gives a vivid picture of 
the custom existing in his day, or shortly previous, 
among the Welsh. On the morning of the wedding- 
day the groom appeared, with his friends, on horseback, 
and demanded the bride. Her friends, also mounted, 
refused. There ensued a mock contest, the bride being 
carried off mounted behind her nearest kinsman, and 
pursued with loud shouts. “ It is not uncommon to see 
two or three hundred sturdy Cambro-Britons riding at 
full speed, crossing and jostling, to the no small amuse- 
ment of the spectators.” When they all were tired, the 
groom was allowed to overtake the bride and lead her 
off in triumph (Sketches of the History of Man [1807], 
bk. i, sec. 0, p. 449). In Africa the same custom exists, 
as observed by Speke and others. Also throughout 
America. It is observed in its perfection among the 
people of Terra del Fuego. As soon as a youthful Fue- 
gian has shown his ability to support a wife by exploits 
in fishing and bird-catching, he obtains her parents' con- 
sent, builds or steals a canoe, and watches his chance 
to carry her off. If she is opposed, she hides in the 
woods till he is tired of looking for her; but this sel- 
dom happens (Fitzroy and King, Voyage of the Beagle, 
ii, 182). Sir Ilenry Piers, in J682, describes a custom 
of like nature among the ancient Irish. The cere- 
mony commenced with the drinking of a bottle of good 
usquebaugh , called the agreement bottle. Next the 
payment of the portion was agreed upon, generally a 
fixed number of cows. On the day of bringing home, 1 
the two parties rode out to meet each other. “Being 
come near to each other, the custom was of old to cast 
short darts at the company that attended the bride, but 
at such distance that seldom any hurt ensued” (Col- 
lectanea de Rebus Uibernicis , i, 122). The Turcoman 
youth elopes with his lady-love to some neighboring 
village, where they live five or six weeks. In the mean 
time his friends obtain the consent of the parents. Af- 
terwards the bride returns to her own home, where she 
is retained for six months or a year, sometimes two 
years, and is not allowed to see her husband except by 
stealth ( Fraser, Joiirney, ii, 372). This custom of spend- 
ing the honey-moon away from home is observed by 
various other tribes, and has its counterpart in the civ- 
ilized custom of a wedding journey. 

Among the Bedouins of Sinai, the maiden, when 
coming home in the evening with the cattle, is attacked 
by the groom and two of his friends. She often defends 
herself fiercely with stones. The more she struggles, i 


bites, and cries, the more her own companions applaud 
her. She is taken to her father’s tenr, where follows 
the ceremony of throwing over her the abba, or man’s 
cloak, and the name of the groom is formally announced. 
In the Mczeyne tribe, the girl, after being captured as 
above, is permitted to escape from her tent and fly to 
the neighboring mountains. The groom goes in search 
of her, and is often many days in finding her. Her fe- 
male companions know her hiding-place, and keep her 
supplied with provisions. The length of time she re- 
mains hidden from the groom depends greatly upon the 
impression he has made upon her heart. After being 
found she returns home, but runs away again in the 
evening. These flights are several times repeated be- 
fore she finall 3 r returns to her tent. It is sometimes a 
year before she goes to live in her husband’s tent (Burck- 
hardfc, Xotes, i, 269). 

6. Exogamy and Endogamy . — Marriage by capture, it 
is held by Lubbock and others of his class, led to the 
practice of exogamous marriages. We are, however, of 
the opinion that the great prevalence of infanticide (q. 
v.) among savages, especially the destruction of female 
infants, caused a paucity of women, and made it neces- 
sary to secure wives from hostile tribes. On this ground 
we can easily explain the predominance of exogamy 
over endogamy. Among the Khonds, intermarriage 
between members of the same tribe, we are told by 
MTherson (Account of the Religion of the Khonds, p. 57), 
is considered incestuous, and punishable with death. 
Many savage races have even established something of 
a caste distinction for this purpose. Thus, e. g., the 
Kalmucks are divided into four great nations or tribes, 
subdivided again into many smaller clans. The com- 
mon people do not marry within three or four degrees 
of relationship. But no member of the noble class can 
marry within his own tribe; his wife must be a noble, 
and of a different stock (Bergmann,N2ra/emV»,iii, 155). 
The Circassians are forbidden to marry within their 
own fraternities, though these sometimes comprise sev- 
eral thousand members. Formerly such a marriage was 
considered as incest, and punished by drowning: now 
a fine of two hundred oxen, and the restitution of the 
wife to her parents, are exacted (Bell, Journal of a Res- 
idence in Circassia, i, 347). The Yurak Samoyedes of 
Siberia consider all the members of the tribe as rela- 
tions, however large the tribe, and forbid marriage 
within the tribe limits (Latham, Descriptive Ethnol- 
ogy, ii, 455). The system among the North Amer- 
ican Indians is very similar. The tribal afliliation of 
each person is distinguished by his tolem , generally 
some animal sacred to the tribe. Marriage is forbidden 
between persons of the same tolem. Latitau considers 
each nation as divided into clans, whose members are 
spread indiscriminately through the nation, and says 
that no clansman could marry a member of his own 
clan. Every child was considered as belonging to the 
clan of its mother (i, 558). The Indians of Guiana have 
similar customs. The Brazilian Indians vary, some be- 
ing exogamous, others endogamons in their customs. 
Among the Tinne Indians of the North the same rule 
holds. A man who marries a woman of his own tribe 
is laughed to scorn, and considered as marrying his own 
sister, even if she belong to a separate division of the 
tribe (Xotes on Tinneh, Smithsonian Report, I860). In 
India the custom prevails to a considerable extent, and 
is of very ancient origin, the Institutes of Mann pre- 
scribing "that a “twice-born” man shall not marry a 
woman related to him within the sixth degree, or one 
bearing his family name (ch. iii, § 5). The Battas of 
Sumatra enforce this custom of exogamy by a mode of 
punishment which we should imagine would effectually 
secure its observance. They punish those who impi- 
ously marry within the tribe by cutting them up alive, 
and eating them, grilled or raw, with salt and red pep- 
per. They claim that marriage between a man and 
woman who had common ancestors is highly criminal 
(Taylor, Xat. Hist, of Society, i, 122). The principle of 


MARRIAGE 


809 


MARRIAGE 


exogamy is strictly enforced among the Australian 
tribes. These savages are divided into small tribes, 
named after the districts which they inhabit. The 
tribe inhabiting a particular district considers itself the 
owner thereof, and vigorously resents any intrusion. 
Yet there are many tribes often found inhabiting the 
same area quite differently disposed. Thus on the sub- 
Himalayan ranges are certain tribes which forbid inter- 
marriage of clansmen, and others which forbid marriage 
outside of the tribe limits. In some districts, as in the 
hills on the north-eastern frontier of India, in the Cau- 
casus, and the hill-ranges of Syria, are found a variety 
of tribes undoubtedly of the same original stock, yet in 
this particular utterly differing— some forbidding mar- 
riage within the tribe, and some proscribing marriage 
without it (McLennan, p. 147). 

7. Polgandry and Polggnia . — The paucity of women 
not only reveals to us the reason why exogamy became 
so generally established among rude nations, but also 
easily explains the practice of polyandry, which we are 
told by best authorities exists to a moderate extent 
among savage races. Lubbock, however, will have it 
that ‘’polyandry, or the marriage of one woman to 
several men at once, is more common than is gener- 
ally supposed, though much less so than polygamy” 
(p. 55; compare p. 100). It prevails in its most strik- 
ing form throughout Thibet and in the Himalayan re- 
gions. It is also met with in Ceylon, among tribes 
of the north of Asia, and in parts of Africa and Amer- 
ica. In former times it seems to have prevailed still 
more widely. Tacitus found traces of it among the 
Germans ; and Strabo tells us that in certain cantons of 
Media a woman was looked upon with contempt who 
had less than live husbands (lib, ii, p.794). Caesar tells 
us that in his time polyandry prevailed among the Brit- 
ons (Be Bello Galileo , lib. v, cli. xiv) ; and other traces 
of its former existence remain. It occurs in two dis- 
tinct forms : the ruder, that in which the husbands are 
not brothers; the less rude, that in which they are broth- 
ers. The latter form only prevails in Thibet. In sev- 
eral other ] daces, as in Ceylon, the two forms coexist. 
In Thibet the choice of the wife is the privilege of the 
elder brother. The number of husbands does not ap- 
pear to be defined or restricted within fixed limits. The 
same system prevails throughout the Himalayan re- 
gions, and generally in Ceylon. Humboldt found this 
form among the South American savages, and Crcsar 
among the ancient Britons. In connection with the 
polyandry of Ceylon are two distinct forms of marriage 
• — the Diga and the Bina. The first occurs when the 
wife goes to live in the house or village of her husband; 
the second, when the husband or husbands come to live 
with her. Among the Kandyans, the right of inheri- 
tance of a woman and her children depends on whether 
she is a diga or a bina wife (Forbes, Ceylon , i, 33:4). 
Among the Kochs, though their marriage is now mo- 
nogamous, a like system prevails, seeming to point to 
former polyandry (compare, on the prevalence of poly- 
andry, McLennan, p. 180 sq. ; Lubbock, p. 100 sq.). 

8. Family Relations among Savages . — That the mar- 
riage system in such imperfect stages of development 
as we find it to be among savage races cannot furnish 
any of the advantages guaranteed by the Biblical mar- 
riage system, will appear to all a matter hardly neces- 
sary to be dwelt upon. Yet there are some faint ideas 
of the family relation, as we conceive it, prevailing 
among rude nations also. That polyandry, polygamy, 
and communism cannot establish the relationship of 
father and mother, is clearly apparent. Exogamy, how- 
ever, will do this measurably, especially where it ap- 
proaches the monogamous system. In communal mar- 
riage no man can identify his father; the child is 
raised by the mother as a sort of tribal property, and 
naturally enough assumes her name, and only considers 
parentage as existing in the female line. This gave rise 
to the wide-spread system of kinship through the mother 
only, continuing to exist in many eases, though the 


cause which provoked it has disappeared. There is 
good reason to believe that this system formerly existed 
among the Celts, and Max Miilier ( Chips from a Ger- 
man Workshops) has traced it to the ancient Brahmins. 
It also appears to have been in existence in the Shemi- 
tic races, and is traceable in the Grecian systems. Its 
effect is visible in the habits of many modern tribes, 
and shows itself evidently in the wide-spread habit, of 
which we have already given several instances, of nam- 
ing the child after the clan of its mother, and consider- 
ing it as belonging especially to her family. Another 
cause of this lack of knowledge of the paternal relation 
might be habits similar to those attributed by Lafitau to 
the North American Indians, who, he says, visited their 
wives, as it were, by stealth : “ Ils n’osent aller dans les 
eabanes particnliers ou habitent leurs epouses, que du- 
rent l’obscurite de la nuit. . . . ce serait un action ex- 
traordinaire de s’v presenter le jour” (i, 57G). Herodo- 
tus says that the Lyeians named the children from the 
mother. On the Etruscan tombs descent is traced in 
the female line. Many modern instances exist besides 
those we have already mentioned. We may instance 
the Nairs, and other peoples of India; the Saporogian 
Cossacks, certain Chinese communities, the Herberts of 
Sahara, and various other African tribes. Among the 
Buntar — the highest rank of Sudras in Tulava — a man’s 
children are not his Heirs. During his lifetime he may 
give them money, but all of which he dies possessed 
goes to his sisters and to their children. When a rich 
man died in Guinea, his property descended to his sis- 
ter’s son. Battel says the town of Loango was gov- 
erned by four chiefs, the sons of the king’s sister ; for 
king’s sons never became kings. Quatremere relates 
that, “Chez les Nubiens, dit Abon Selali, lorsqu’un roi 
vient a mourir et qu’il laisse un fils et un neven du cote 
de sa soeur, eelni-ci monte sur le trone de preference a 
l'he'ritier naturel” ( Geograph . surl' Egypte, etc.). M’Len- 
nan (Primit. Marriage, p. 247) thus traces the develop- 
ment of the family relation to our present status ; and, 
though we have said from the outset that we cannot 
sanction the position taken by him and others of his 
class, we will not refuse them an introduction to our 
readers: “The polyandry, in which all the husbands 
were brothers, would establish the certainty of the chil- 
dren being of their own blood. In time the eldest broth- 
er became considered, by a species of fiction, the father 
of all the children ; the mother was deposed from the 
headship of the family, and kinship became established 
in the paternal line. The elder brother became a sort 
of paterfamilias; the right of succession being in the 
younger brothers in their order, and, alter them, in the 
eldest son. Thus the idea of fatherhood grew up 
through the Thibetan system of polyandry. In most 
races, though, as the sexes became more evenly bal- 
anced, through pi'ogress toicarcls civilization , the system 
of monogamy or of polygamy would arise. Paternity 
thus becoming certain, the practice of sons succeeding 
as heirs direct to their father’s estates would ensue, and, 
as this idea of paternal kinship arose, that of maternal 
relationship would die away.” “Our family system, in 
which the child is equally related to both its parents,” 
says Lubbock (p. 110), “appears at first sight the only 
natural one, but it is merely so in connection with our 
marriage system, there being sufficient reason to con- 
clude, as we have seen, that the child is first related to 
t He family group only; then to the mother, and not to 
the father; afterwards to the father, and not to the 
mother; and, only as a final result of civilization, be- 
comes related to both.” Maine (Ancient Law') and oth- 
er writers of his class, however, hold to a theory that 
considers man’s history, in the light of divine revela- 
tion, to open with perfect recognition of such kinship. 
In their view the family, under the father's government, 
was considered the primary unit, containing the germs 
of the state and of royalty. The family gathers other 
families about it, becoming the centre of a group ; and 
these groups, tracing back their descent to a common 


MARRIAGE 


810 


MARROW 


origin, aggregate into tribes and nations. Tribes are 1 
numerous which, make this claim to common descent. 
But, upon inquiry, the ancestor of the race is always a 
legendary hero or god — a being invented to explain the 
origin of the tribe. In some cases the time of the in- 
vention is known, as with the Greek tribes which traced 
their descent to the sons of Helen. 

There are several other peculiar customs widely in 
vogue relating to marriage, some of which arc so curi- 
ous that it will be well to give a brief description of 
them also. The strangest of these is the general avoid- 
ance of intercourse between children and parents-in-law, 
in which the one is often forbidden to look at or men- 
tion the name of the other. The reason or the origin 
of these customs, or of the many strange forms which 
these assume, is not clear to us, and we cau only give ] 
some instances of their general character. Under the j 
peculiar Fijian system known as the tabu , the husband 
and wife arc forbidden to eat from the same dish. (Com- 
pare the above custom among the Hindus.) In other 
places the father is not permitted to speak to the son i 
after the latter is fifteen years old (Williams, Fiji , i, 
130). Among many races the woman is absolutely for- 
bidden to speak to her son-in-law. This system pre- 
vails generally among the American Indians ( Origin of 
Civilization, p. 7). Among the Omahaws neither the 
father nor mother in-law will hold direct communication 
with their son-in-law (Janies, F,rp. to Rocky Mountains, 
i, 232). Under the social system of the Mongols and 
Kalmucks a similar restriction appears, the wife being 
forbidden to speak to her father-in-law, or to sit in his I 
presence. With the Ostiaks of Siberia a similar rule 
holds (“ Un fille mariee evite autant qu’il lui est possi- 
ble la presence du pere de son mari, tant qu’elle n’a pas 
cVenfant; et le mari, pendant cc temps, n’osc pas parai- 
tre devant la mere de sa femme. S’ils se rencontrent 
par hasard, le mari lui tourne le dos, et la femme sc cou- 
vre le visage” [Pallas, iv, 71]). In China customs of a 
like nature exist, and also in some of the Pacific islands. 
In some cases this peculiar system assumes the strangest 
and most decided form. In Central Africa the lover 
carefully avoids seeing either the father or mother of 
his future bride, taking great precautions to avoid an 
encounter. If he is of a different camp, this prohibition 
extends to all the members of the lady’s camp, except ] 
a few special friends with whom he is permitted to have 
intercourse, lie avoids passing through the camp, and, 
if obliged to do so, carefully covers his face (Caille, 
Travels to Timbuctoo, i, 94). This appears to be a relic 
of the old system of capture, in which the captor would 
approach with the greatest stealth, and carefully avoid 
being observed by the inmates of the opposite camp, as 
in the case of the Australians above described. 

Another custom widely prevalent, and of a yet 
stranger character, is that known in Bearn as La Con - 
rude. It consists in putting the husband to bed on the 
birth of a child, and nursing him with the greatest 
care, while the mother goes to her usual duties. In 
some cases the poor fellow is put on such a strict regi- 
men that he really becomes sick. There are, in fact, 
cases in which his peculiar sufferings are continued for 
several months, and he is so hardly dealt with that a 
real sickness would be far more endurable. Cases of 
this description occur in various parts of America, and 
in many regions of Europe and Asia, taking often the 
strangest forms. The idea thus symbolized is that the 
child is affected by anything happening to its nearest 
parent, and that any intemperance in eating, drinking, 
or otherwise, seriously affects the health of the child. 
Under the idea of male kinship, the father was consid- 
ered the nearest parent ; hence, was obliged to perform 
this peculiar penance. Max Miiller says that 'the poor 
husband was first tyrannized- over by his. female rela- 
tives, and afterwards frightened into superstitious]}- 
making a martyr of himself, until he became really ill, 
or took to his bed in self-defence {Chips from a Ger- 
man Workshop, ii, 281). Latitau regards it as arising 


from a dim recollection of original sin, rejecting the 
Carib explanation that if the father engaged in rough 
labor, or was careless in his diet, “ cela feroit mal a ren- 
fant. et que cet enfant partieiperoit a tous les definite 
naturcls des animaux dont le pere auroit mange” (i, 259). 
For additional illustrations, see Wedlock. (J. H. W.) 

Marron, Paul Henri, a Calvinistic divine, was bom 
at Leyden April 12, 1754. After studying at the Acad- 
emy of Leyden, Marron entered the ecclesiastical office, 
and in 177G became pastor of the Walloon Church of 
Dort. In 1782 he was appointed chaplain of the Dutch 
embassy at Paris. Six years later, Rabaut-Saint-Etienne 
secured his election as pastor by the Protestants of Par- 
is, on whom Louis XVI had just conferred civil rights, 
and who flattered themselves that they would obtain 
more complete justice. Being disappointed in this hope, 
they decided, in order to retain their pastor, who had 
just been called to Sedan, to celebrate public worship 
in a place rented for that purpose. In June, 1790, 
Bailly, mayor of Paris, and general La Fayette, obtain- 
ed permission for the Protestants to rent the Church of 
Saint-Louis-du-Louvre, which had been suppressed. 
Marron consecrated it on the 22d of the same month. 
In November, 1793, he had to present to the parish, as a 
patriotic gift, the four silver cups used iu the celebration 
of tlie Lord’s Supper. This proceeding did not save 
him from persecution. He had been twice arrested on 
suspicion, when, on the 7th of June, 1794, lie was again 
imprisoned, and did not recover his liberty until after 
the fall of Robespierre. At this period, not being able 
to exercise bis ministry publicly, lie privately fidfilled 
its duties, and lived on the remuneration received as 
translator. In March, 1795, he obtained permission to 
resume liis pastoral functions. At the time of the reor- 
ganization of divine worship, lie shared largely in the 
benefits of the law of April 7, 1801, and was confirmed 
in liis position of pastor. Marron was a member of the 
Institute of the Low Countries, and of the Society of 
Sciences at Harlem ; he had some talent for preaching, 
and possessed, above all, the showy gift of oratory. He 
died at Paris, July 30, 1832. He composed some Latin 
verses on the events of his time, which are not without, 
merit, and left some small works, of which the principal 
are, Lettre d'un Protestant a Vabbe Cerutti (Paris, 1789, 
8vo) (anonymous) : — Paul-JIenri Marron a la citoyenne 
Ilel'ene-Marie Williams (Paris, an. iii, 8vo); this letter 
has been inserted in the second volume of his Letters 
containing a sketch of the politics of France from the 
31st of May, 1793, to the 28th of July, 1794 (Lond. 1795, 
3 vols. 12mo): — Constitution du peuple Batave, traduiie 
du Ilollandais (Paris, 1789, 8 vo):— P. IL Marron, minis' 
tre du saint- Evan file a Monsieur Lecoz. archcrcqne de 
Besangon; this letter, dated Nov. 11, 1804, is printed at 
the end of a Letter to M. Leeoz, archbishop of Besangon, 
on his project of unit in y all the Protestants and 1 Ionian 
Catholics in the French empire , etc. (Paris, 1807, 8yo). 
Marron also wrote for the Journal de Paris, the Jour- 
nal, and the Mayasin Fncyclopedique ; and contributed 
numerous articles to the ninth edition of the Xoureau 
Bictionnaire ! listoriquc , to the Bioyraphie Univcrselle of 
Michaud, and to the Rente Fncyclopedique, He is cred- 
ited with the notes added to Mirabeau’s work, entitled 
„1 u Butan s, stir le stathouderat (1788,8vo). See A i-cro- 
loejc de 1832 (Par. 1833, 8 vo) ; Barbier, Diet, des ovrraycs 
unonymes et pseudonymes : Haag, La J- ranee Protes - 
tante; Ilocfer, Xourolle Bioyraphie Generate, x ol. xxxiii, 
s. v. 

Marrow (H^, mo' ach, fatness, Job xxi, 21; kin- 
dred is the verb nn*2, macluih', Isa. xxv, 0, “fatness 
vnmarroived," i. e. drawn out from the marrow-bones, 
and therefore the most delicate; pvt\6q, lleb. iv, 12), 
the soft, oleaginous substance contained in the hollow 
of the bones of animals (Job xxi, 23); used figuratively 
for the delicate and most satisfying provisions of the 
Gospel (Isa. xxv, (5), and likewise in the New Testa- 
ment for the most secret thoughts of the heart (Heb, iv f 


MARROW CONTROVERSY 811 


MARS 


12). Other terms so rendered are -5H (< che'leb , Tsa. 
lxiii, 5, fat or fatness, as elsewhere rendered) and 
( shikku'y , Prov. iii, 8, a moistening , i. e. refreshing of the 
bones; or “drink,” as in ITos. ii, 5). 

Marrow Controversy. The Marrow of Modern 
Divinity was a work published in 1 046 by Edward Fish- 
er (q. v.), of the University of Oxford. It was in the 
form of a dialogue, to explain the freeness of the law — to 
expose, on the one hand, Autinomian error, and also, on 
the other, to refute Neonomian heresy, or the idea that 
Christ has, by his atonement, so lowered the require- 
ments of the law that mere endeavor is accepted in room 
of perfect obedience. A copy of the book, which had 
been brought into Scotland by an English Puritan sol- 
dier, was accidentally found by Boston, then minister 
of Simprin, and was republished in 1718, under the edi- 
torial care of Mr. Hogg, minister of Carnoek. It had 
been recommended long before by several divines of the 
Westminster Assembly. The treatise, consisting of 
quaint and stirring dialogues, throws into bold relief 
the peculiar doctrines of grace, occasionally puts them 
into the form of a startling proposition, and is gemmed 
with quotations from eminent Protestant divines. The 
publication of the Marrow threw the clergy into com- 
motion, and by many of them it was violently censured. 
But not a few of the evangelical pastors gave it a cor- 
dial welcome, and among multitudes of the people it be- 
came a favorite book, next in veneration to the Bible 
and the Shorter Catechism. In 1719 its editor, Mr. 
Hogg, wrote an explanation of some of its passages, but 
in the same year principal Iladdow, of Ft. Andrew’s, 
opened the Synod of Fife with a sermon directed against 
it. The synod requested the publication of the dis- 
course, and this step was the signal for a warfare of four 
years’ duration. The Assembly of that year, acting in 
the same spirit with the Synod of Fife, instructed its 
commission to look after books and pamphlets promoting 
such opinions as are found in the M arrow, though they 
do not name the book, and to summon before them the 
authors and reeommenders of sueh publications. The 
commission, so instructed and armed, appointed a com- 
mittee, of which principal Iladdow was the soul ; and 
before this committee, named the “Committee for Pu- 
rity of Doctrine,” four ministers were immediately sum- 
moned. The same committee gave in a report at the 
next Assembly of 1 720, in the shape of an overture, class- 
ifying the doctrines of the Marrow , and solemnly con- 
demning them. It selected several passages which were 
paradoxically expressed, while it severed others from 
the context, and held them up as contrary to Seripture 
and to the Confession of Faith. The passages marked 
for reprobation were arranged under distinct heads — 
such as the nature of faith, the atonement, holiness, obe- 
dience and its motive, and the position of a believer in 
reference to the law. The committee named them as 
errors, thus — universal atonement and pardon, assurance 
of the very essence of faith, holiness not necessary to 
salvation, and the believer not under the law as a rule 
of life. Had the Marrow inculcated such tenets it 
would have been objectionable indeed. The report was 
discussed, and the result was a stern condemnation of 
the Marrow; and “the General Assembly do hereby 
strictly prohibit and discharge all the ministers of this 
Church, either by preaching, writing, or printing, to 
recommend the said book, or in discourse to say any- 
thing in favor of it; but, on the contrary, they are here- 
by enjoined and required to warn and exhort those peo- 
ple in whose hands the said book is or may come not to 
read or use the same.” That book, which had been so 
highly lauded by many of the southern divines — sueh 
as Caryl and Burroughes — by the men who had framed 
the very creed of the Scottish Church, and who were 
universally acknowledged to be as able as most men to 
know truth and detect error, was thus put into a Pres- 
byterian Index expurgatorius. Nobody can justify the 
extreme statements of the Mari'ow, but their bearing 


and connection plainly free them from an Antinomian 
tendenc}'. In fact, some of the so-called Autinomian 
statements condemned by the Assembly are in the very 
words of inspiration. But the rigid decision of the As- 
sembl}' only added fuel to the controversy which it was 
intended to allay, and the forbidden book beeame more 
and more an objeet of intense anxiety and prevalent 
study. The popular party in the Church at once con- 
certed measures to have that act repealed. Consul ta- 
! tions were repeatedly held by a section of the evangeli- 
cal clergy, and at length it was agreed to hand in a 
! representation to the court, eomplaining of the obnox- 
ious decision, and of the injury which had been done by 
it to precious truth. This representation was signed by 
t twelve ministers, and it briefly called the Assembly’s 
attention to the fact that it had condemned propositions 
which are in accordance at once with the Bible and the 
I symbolical books. The names of the twelve were — 
i Messrs. James Hogg, Carnoek; Thomas Boston, Etter- 
ick ; John Bonar, Torphichen ; John Williamson, Inver- 
I esk; James Kidd, Queensferry ; Gabriel Wilson, Max- 
ton; Ebenezer Erskine, Portmoak; Balph Erskine and 
James Wardlaw, Dunfermline; Henry Davidson, Gala- 
shiels; James Bathgate, Orwell; and William Hunter, 
Lilliesleaf. These are the famous “ Marrow Men” — 
| also known as the “Twelve Brethren” and the “ Bepre- 
senters.” They were long held in great veneration by 
; the lovers of evangelical religion. Says Buck ( TheoL 
Did. s. v.), “The ; Bepresenters’ were not onh r accurate 
and able divines, and several of them learned men, but 
| ministers of the most enlightened and tender con- 
sciences, enemies in doctrine and practice to all licen- 
tiousness, and shining examples of true holiness in all 
manner of conversation. They w'ere at the same time 
zealous adherents to the Confession of Faith and the 
Catechisms.” Other discussions followed; the Bepre- 
sc liters were summoned, in 1722, to the bar of the As- 
j senibly and admonished, against which they solemnly 
protested. As the Assembly was not supported in the 
position it had assumed by the. religious sentiment of 
the nation, no further steps were taken in the matter, 
and thus the victory virtually lay with the evangelieal 
recusants. It was, however, substantially this same 
doetrinal controversy — though it did not go by the same 
| name — which, eleven years later, resulted in the depo- 
sition of Ebenezer Erskine and the origination of the 
secession of 1734. See Eadie, Eccles. Cyclopedia, s. v. ; 
Brit, and For. Ec. Her. 18G8 (April), p. 261 ; llethering- 
ton, Eccles. Hist. Ch. of Scotland (sec Index in vol. ii). 
j See also Erskine, Ebenezer. 

Mars, a contraction of Mavers or Manors, in the 
Oscan or Sabine language Mamers, Greek A rers , is the 
name of the Boman and Greek god of war, or, better, of 
battles. 

(1) With the Bomans this divinity is surnamed Gra- 
divus ( =grandis divus, the great god), also S Hr amts, 
and appears to have been originally an agricultural de- 
ity — propitiatory offerings were presented to him as the 
guardian of fields and flocks; but as the fierce shepherds 
who founded the city of Borne were even more addicted 
to martial than to pastoral pursuits, one ean easily un- 
derstand how Mars S Uranus should have, in the course 
of time, become the “God of War.” Mars, who was a 
perfeet representation of the stern, relentless, and even 
cruel valor of the old Bomans, was held in the highest 
honor. He ranked next to Jupiter; like him he bore 
the venerable epithet of Father (Slars-jriter) \ lie was 
one of the three tutelary divinities of the city, to eaeh 
of whom Numa appointed a flanien ; nay, be was said 
to be the father of Bomulus himself (by Blien Silvia, 
the priestess of Vesta), and was thus believed to be the 
real progenitor of the Boman people. He had a sanc- 
tuary on the Quirinal; and the hill received its name 
from his surname, Quirinus, the most probable meaning 
of which is the spear-armed. It was under this desig- 
nation that he was invoked as the protector of the Qui- 
rites (citizens) — in other words, of the state. The 


MARS 


812 


MARSDEN 


principal animals sacred to him were the wolf and the 
horse. He had many temples at Rome, the most cele- 
brated of which was that outside the Porta Capena , 
on the Appian Road. The Campus M art ins, where the 
Romans practiced athletic and military exercises, was 
named after him ; so was the month of March (Martins), j 
the first month of the Roman year. The Ludi Mart hi- ' 
les (games held in his honor) were celebrated every 
year in the circus on the 1st of August. 

(2) Ares, the Greek god of war, was the son of Zeus 
and Hera, and the favorite of Aphrodite, who bore him 
several children. lie is represented in Greek poetry as 
a most sanguinary divinity, delighting in war for its 
own sake, and in the destruction of men. Before him 
into battle goes his sister Kris (Strife); along with him 
arc his sons and eompanious, Deimos (Horror), and Pho- 
bos (Fear). lie does not always adhere to the same 
side, like the great Athena, but inspires now the one, 
now the other. lie is not always victorious. Diomede 
wounded him, and in his fall, says Homer, “he roared 
like nine or ten thousand warriors together.” Such a 
representation would have been deemed blasphemous by 
the ancient Roman mind, imbued as it was with a sol- 
emn, Hebrew-like reverence for its gods. The worship of 
Arcs was never very 
prevalent in Greece; 
it is believed to have 
been imported from 
Thrace. There and 
in Scythia were its 
great seats, and there 
Ares was believed to 
have his chief home, 
lie had, however, 
temples or shrines at 
Athens, Sparta, 
Olympia, and other 
places. On statues 
and reliefs he is represented as a person of great mus- 
cular power, and either naked or clothed with the chla- 
mys. — Chambers, Cyclop. s. v.; Smith, Diet. Gr. and 
Pom. Dior/, and Mythol. vol. ii, s. v. ; Vollmcr, Mythol. 
Worterbuch , s. v. 

Mars, Sr., a French hermit, was born at Bais, near 
La Guerche, about 510. He was priest at Vitre, and 
acquired a great reputation for piety. When old, lie 
constructed a hermitage for himself in some waste land 
in the neighborhood of the village of Mars, and there 
ended his days. His tomb became celebrated for the 
numerous miracles which it was claimed were performed 
there. r lhe faithful came thither on pilgrimages from 
all parts of Brittany. In 1427 the inhabitants of Bais, 
fearing an incursion of the English, carried the body 
of their saint to Saint-Madelaine de Vitre. The dan- 
ger passed, the Baisiens demanded the body of their 
saint, but the canons of Vitre refused to restore it. From 
law-suits they proceeded to blows, and many times dur- 
ing the processions the Baisiens attempted to recover 
their precious relic; but the inhabitants of Vitre always 
proved the stronger, and retained the body of Saint Mars 
until 1750, when a decree of the Parliament of Rennes 
reconciled the parties hv dividing the body of the saint. 
Vitre kept the head, the right thigh, and two sides; 
Bais had the remainder. The festival of Saint Mars oc- 
curs on the 14th of January and 21st of June. At these 
periods the shrine is carried solemnly through the sur- 
rounding country. — Dom Lobineau, JUstoire de Bre- 
tagne; Godescard, 1 7e des plus eelebres Saints , vol. i ; A. 

1 1 ugo, La France jnttoresque ; I loefer, Xou v. Diog. Gene- 
rale, vol. xxxiii, s. v. 

Marsay, Charles Hector de St. Georges, Mar- 
quis de, a French mystic, was born in 1G88 at Paris, 
whither his parents, pious members of the Reformed 
Church, had tied to avoid the persecution raging against 
the Protestants in the provinces. While vet a youth 
the whole family removed to Germany, and there Charles 


| took part in the Spanish War of Succession in the Neth- 
erlands. lie now became a convert to the views of 
' Bourignon (q. v.), and with his friend Cordier retired, 
in 1711, to Schwarzenaiijin the province of Wittgenstein. 

' Cordier, however, leaving him, he married, in 1712, Clara 
Elizabeth of Callerberg, whose views were similar to his 
own. During tlie years 17 13— 1G he made several jour- 
neys to Switzerland, where he became acquainted with 
the works of Madame Guyon (q. v.). He then returned 
to Sehwarzenau, learned the watch-making trade, be- 
came president of the Philadelphian Society, and re- 
sided there until 1724. In 1746 he became a Pietist, 
and died in the neighborhood of Auibleben in 1753, a 
truly evangelical Christian, a disciple of Christ, cling- 
ing faithfully to the truth as it is in Jesus. Marsay had 
great influence in propagating throughout Germany the 
mystic views of Bourignon and Guyon. He wrote Frei- 
miithige u. christliche Discurse (1734) : — Zeugniss eines 
K hides v. d. Richtiglceit d. Wege d. Geistes (1735, 2 parts) : 
— Selbstbiograph ie, in the 2d vol. of Valenti, System d. 
hoheren IJeilkunde (Elberf. 1826). — Gobel, Gesch . der 
wahren Inspirations-gemeinden (in Niedner’s Zeitschr.J. 
hist. Theol. 1855, iii, § 21, 4) ; the same, Gesch. d. christl. 
Lebens, etc. (Gobi. 1852), ii, bk. ix; also the excellent ar- 
ticle in Herzog, Real-Encyldop. ix, 116 sq. 

Marsden, Samuel, one of the noblest missionary 
workers the Church of England ever sent out to bat- 
tle for Christ, the noted Australian chaplain and friend 
of the Maori, was born of humble parentage in 1764, 
and was educated at the free grammar-school at Hull, 
by the celebrated English divine Dr. Joseph Milner. 
Samuel began life as a tradesman at Leeds. He had 
been converted under Wesleyan preaching, had joined 
the Methodists, and belonged to their society for some 
time, but, having higher aspirations than the mercan- 
tile profession, he entered the English Church to secure 
a collegiate training. I Ie was placed at St. Joseph’s Col- 
lege, Cambridge, and there educated by the EUaml So- 
ciety. whose object it was to aid poor young men hav- 
ing the ministry in view. Before Marsden had even 
taken his degree, he was offered the chaplaincy' to New 
South Wales. At first he was very adverse to accept- 
ing it, but, finding that there was no one who could so 
well fill this difficult post, he consented, and in the spring 
of 1793 was ordained. Soon after he married Elizabeth 
Triston, a very worthy lady, who did much to aid him 
in his missionary labors. In 1794 he arrived at Para- 
matta, his new home. Early in the 17th century Eng- 
land had adopted penal transportation. The newly-ac- 
quired territories in America were then used for this 
purpose, and, as we know, oftentimes aided in the prop- 
agation of white slavery. The Revolution, and the sub- 
sequent establishment of independence in the colonies, 
obliged England to discontinue this practice of disposing 
of criminals. But the great fear entertained in England 
that the country would be overrun with crime, led the 
government of George III to establish a penal colony in 
Australia. About seven years previous to Marsdcn’s ar- 
rival there the first convict ship had been sent out with 
its living freight, and yet up to this time religious train- 
ing was unknown. It little mattered to England what 
became of the convict, so long as he was well out of her 
way. A powerful military force was required to keep 
this mass of corrupt humanity in subjection, and, in- 
stead of being benefited, they were rather hardened in 
their sins. For teaching the Gospel the Church fur- 
nished only two ministers — for soldiers, convicts, settlers, 
and all. Marsden was one of these, and, the senior 
preacher failing in health, he was soon left to struggle 
on alone. Although severely tried by domestic afflic- 
tion, he was not found wanting. At that time the cus- 
tom prevailed there and in England for the parish priest 
to administer justice as well as give spiritual advice. 
The son of a Yorkshire farmer could not be expected to 
be very conversant with law, but good sense and a clear 
perception of justice came to the rescue. His farming 
education, however, served him well, for, receiving a 



M ARSEN A 


813 


MARSH 


grant of land, and thirteen convicts to till it, as part pay- 
ment for his services, he made it the model farm in New 
South Wales, and from the profits was enabled to estab- 
lish schools and missions. A rebellious spirit manifest- 
ing itself among the convicts, Marsden sailed for Eng- 
land, after an absence of fourteen years, to appeal to the 
home government. His main object was to secure a 
grant permitting the convicts’ friends to go out with 
them to the penal colony. This was denied him, but 
his representation that the convicts ought to be in- 
structed in trades was well received. 

During his visit to England Mr. Marsden also laid the 
foundation of the missions to New Zealand, and prepared 
to become the apostle of the Maori race. Before leav- 
ing Australia he had had some intercourse with these 
tribes, which he found to be of a much higher type of 
humanity than the Australian native. Indeed, they 
possessed such a spirit of enterprise and curiosity that 
they would often visit the island of Australia, and Mars- 
den is said to have entertained thirty at one time. He 
vainly endeavored to obtain help from the Church Mis- 
sionary Society. No clergyman could be found to un- 
dertake the mission to New Zealand, but two laymen, 
William Hall and John King, consented to act as pio- 
neers. These two good men accompanied Marsden to 
Australia in August, 1809. They were soon followed by 
Thomas Kendall. To transfer these lay missionaries to 
their intended field of labor, M arsden conceived the plan 
of fitting out a missionary ship, but, failing to interest 
outside parties, he finally purchased a small one at his 
own expense. This was the Active, the first of the mis- 
sion ships that now carry the Gospel to every part of 
the globe. Marsden accompanied this expedition, and 
was kindly welcomed by the natives. II is method in 
founding missions to propagate Christianity was unlike 
that of Eliot, to begin with faith, and then to look for 
civilization. He rather thought that civilization pre- 
pared the way for the acceptance of faith, and, as his 
teachers were laymen, he employed them only in laying 
the foundations of a Christian civilization. Marsden 
frequently repeated his visits, and in many ways aided 
the enterprise. On his fourth visit he took out with 
him the Lev. Henry Williams, who afterwards became 
bishop of a Maori district. It was now nine years since 
he had first landed here, and, in spite of so many disap- 
pointments and so much opposition, he found the con- 
dition of the natives greatly improved. A Wesleyan 
mission had been established at Wingaroa, under Mr. 
Leigh. During his two months’ stay he endeavored to 
persuade the natives to adopt a fixed form of govern- 
ment, and advised the missionaries to collect a vocabu- 
lary, and arrange a grammar that might aid in future 
translations. In 1838 he made his seventh and last 
visit. He was now seventy-two years of age. Wher- 
ever he went he was greeted as the friend of the Maori, 
lie had always hoped that this intelligent people might 
be Christianized, and it gladdened his heart to see the 
improvements they had made. Sunday was generally 
observed among the natives, and polygamy and canni- 
balism were fast diminishing, and there was every token 
that the apostle of New Zealand had conquered a coun- 
try and people for the Church of God. Marsden was 
possessed of a will and force of character that enabled 
him to accomplish whatever he undertook. He died 
May 12, 1838. See Miss Charlotte M. Yonge, Pioneers 
and Founders, p. 216-240. See New 7 Zealand; Sel- 
wyx. 

Mar'sena (Ileb. Marsena according to 
Ben fey, the Sanscrit marsha , noble, with the Zend ending 
no, man; Sept. Mapcrtva, but most copies omit; Vulg. 
Marsana), one of the seven Medo-Persian satraps or 
viziers of Xerxes (Esth. i, 14). B.C. 483. Josephus un- 
derstands that they had the office of interpreters of the 
laws (.4 nt. xi, G, 1). 

Mars’ Hill ("Apftoc nciyog, collis Martius , Acts 
xvii, 22, the Areopagus , as in ver. 19 ; so called, accord- 


ing to Pausan. i, 28, 5, from the fact that Mars was first 
judged there), a limestone hill in Athens, north-west of 
the Acropolis (Herod, viii, 52), and considerably low r er 
(Pococke, East , iii, tab. G5), where (even down to the 
time of the Koman emperors, Gell. xii, 7) the most an- 
cient and boasted Athenian supreme tribunal (Tacitus, 
Annal. ii, 55) and court of morals (vEschyl. Eumen. 701 ; 
Seuee. Tranq . 3 ; Yal.Max. ii,G,4), composed of the most 
honorable and upright citizens (Athen. vi, p. 251), and 
held in the highest regard not only throughout Greece, 
but even among foreigners (comp. Wet stein, ii, 5G5), had 
its sessions, to discuss cases of civil and criminal offences, 
originally according to the sole law of its own discre- 
tion (comp. Aristot. Polit. ii, 10 : v, 12 ; Macrob. Saturn. 
vii, I, p. 204; Quintil. Institut. v, 9 ; .Elian, V. II. v, 15). 
After having continued for many centuries in full au- 
thority, it fell under some restrictions in the times of 
the New Test.; but the date of its extinction is un- 
known. (See Pauly, Real-Encylclop. i, 700 sq. ; Doder- 
lein, in the Hall. Eneyklop. v, 193 sq. ; also Meursii Are- 
opagus, Ludg. Bat. 1G24 ; Bdckh, De Areopago , Berol. 
182G.) From some part of that hill, but not before the 
judges (for there is no trace of a regular judicial pro- 
cedure in the entire narrative), Paul delivered his fa- 
mous address (Acts xvii, 19 sq.) to his hearers upon the 
steps and in the valley (comp. Robinson, Researches, i, 
10 sq.). See Areopagus. 

Marsh (XZZ, ge'be, a collection of w r aters, Ezek. xlvii, 
II ; elsewhere a cistern or reservoir, rendered “ pit,” Isa. 
xxx, 14 ; Jer. xiv, 3), a swamp or wet piece of land. 

: The passage in Ezekiel speaks of the future blessings 
of the Jews after their restoration under the figure of 
drainage of land useless by its dampness : “ But the miry 
places thereof, and the marislies thereof, shall not be 
healed : they shall be given to salt” (xlvii, II) ; that is, 
the part in question shall be reserved for the production 
j of salt by the evaporation of the waters (see Henderson, 

I Comment, ad loc.). It is supposed that the “valley of 
I salt” in the neighborhood of the Dead Sea is here refer- 
red to, for there the Kedron, the course of which the 
prophet describes the holy waters as following, empties. 

I This plain or valley has been traversed and described by 
i captains Irby and Mangles in terms appropriate to the 
prophecy. Lieut. Lynch, in coasting around the south- 
ern extremity of the Dead Sea, found not only the Ghof 
to be an immense marshy flat, but the bottom of the 
lake itself a muddy shoal, scarcely allowing the boat to 
be rowed through it. The salt hills around presented a 
! scene of unmitigated desolation {Expedition, p. 310). 

Marsh, Francis, a noted Irish prelate, flourished 
in the second half of the 17th century. He w as made 
bishop of Limerick in 1GG7 ; was transferred to Kilmore 
and Ardagh in 1G73 ; in IG82 became archbishop of Dub- 
lin, and died in 1G93. But little is accessible to gather 
a detailed account of his life and w 7 ork. Lawrence B. 
Phillips {Diet. Biog. Ref.) refers to Cotton, Fasti Eccle - 
siec Ilibernicce (Dubl. 1849, 5 vols. 8vo), and to D’Alton, 
Lives of the A rchbishops of Dublin (Dublin, 1838. 8vo). 

Marsh, Herbert, an English theologian and prel- 
ate, “one of the acutest and most truly learned divines 
of his day,” was born in London in 1757, and w 7 as edu- 
cated at St. John’s College, Cambridge; graduated with 
great distinction ; w as made fellow 7 , and became M.A. 
in 1782. He then went to the Continent, and stud- 
ied at the University of Gottingen, and later at Leip- 
sic. He returned to England in 1800, and in 1807 be- 
came professor of divinity at Cambridge. In 1816 he 
w 7 as appointed bishop of Llandaff, and bishop of Peter- 
borough in 1819. lie died May 1, 1839. He published 
several religious and controversial treatises, and fur- 
nished an excellent English translation of Michaelis’s 
Introduction to the Xeio Testament, with notes. “A dis- 
sertation on the genuineness of 1 John v, 7, included in 
Michaelis’s work, drew 7 from Mr. Travis, archdeacon of 
Chester, 4 Letters to Edw'ard Gibbon, Esq.,’ in defence 
of the genuineness of the passage, which bishop Marsh 


MARSH 


814 


MARSH 


answered, in vindication of Michaelis and himself, in his 
celebrated 'Letters to Archdeacon Travis’ — an able and 
critical production, but which did not, as seme eminent 
scholars have supposed, settle the question. He has 
also published several parts of a Course of Divinity Lect- 
ures, with a historical view of the progress of thco- ! 
logical learning, and notices of authors. This work, en- 
titled Lectures on Divinity, with cm Account of the prin - j 
cipal Authors who hare excelled in Theological Learning \ 
(7 parts, Cambr. 1809-23; Loud. 1838), includes ‘Lect- 
ures on Sacred Criticism and Interpretation,’ which have 
been published separately, and are, as is well known ! 
to Biblical scholars, of the highest value” (Horne, in 
Dill. Bib. 1839, p. 160 sq.). His other works are Essay 
on the Usefulness and Necessity of Theologictd Learning 
to those designed for iloly Orders (1792) : — Comparative 
View of the Churches of England and Dome (Loud. 1841. 
8vo). See Alii bone, Diet, of Brit, and Ainer. Auth. ii, 
1225; Blackwood's Magazine , xxix, 69 sq. 

Marsh, James, D.D., a Congregational minister, 
was born July 19, 1794, at Hartford, Vt. lie graduated [ 
at Dartmouth College in 1817; spent some years in An- 
dover Theological Seminary; was ordained Oct. 12, 1824, 
and during the same month entered upon the duties of 
a professorship in Hampden Sydney College, Ya. In 
1826 he was elected president of the University of Ver- 
mont. which position he resigned in 1833, but continued 
as professor of moral and intellectual philosophy until 
1840. lie died at Colchester, Yt., July 3, 1842. I)r. 
Marsh assisted in translating the work of Bellermann on 
the Geography of the Scriptures (1822). He published 
a Preliminary Essay to Coleridge's “ Aids to Defection" 
(1828): — Selections from the Old English Writers on 
Practiced Theology: — his Inaugural Address at Bur- 
lington (1826): — a Treatise on Eloquence: — Translation 
of Herder's Work on Hebrew Poetry : — and Translation 
of Hegewisch's Chronology. A memoir of his life, with 
selections from his writings, was published by professor 
Torrey (1813. 8vo; 2d ed. 1845). See North Am. Her. 
xxiv, 170; Dnyckinck, Cyclop. Am. Lit. ii, 130; Sprague, 
A muds, ii, 692 ; Drake, Diet. A m. Biog. s. v. 

Marsh, John (1), D.D., a Congregational minister, 
was horn Nov. 2, 1742 (O. S.), at Haverhill, Mass. He 
graduated at Harvard College in 1761 ; entered the min- 
istry in 1705; was appointed tutor at Harvard in 1771 ; 
remained there two years, and was ordained January. 
1774, pastor of the First Church, Wethersfield, Conn., 
where he died, Sept. 13, 1821. He published a few oc- 
casional Sermons. — Sprague, A muds, i, 619. 

Marsh, John (2), D.D., son of the preceding, an 
eminent American divine, who enjoyed a national repu- 
tation from his connection, almost from its origin, with 
the great temperance reform of the last half century, 
was horn in Wethersfield, Conn., April 2, 1788; grad- 
uated at Yale College, and in 1818 was settled as a Con- 
gregational pastor in lladdam, Conn. He at once iden- 
tified himself with the cause he so ably served for half 
a generation, and attracted public attention by the ad- 
dress which he delivered before the Windham County 
Temperance Society in Pomfret, Conn., in 1829. That 
year a state society had been formed, of which Jere- 
miah Day, of Yale College, was the president, and Mr. 
Marsh the secretary and general agent, and, to do effi- 
cient service for the society, the latter offered his services 
to the county associations as far as he could in connection 
with his pastoral labor. His address in Pomfret, styled 
“ Putnam and his Wolf,” ran a parallel between general 
Putnam’s well-known pursuit of the wolf in his den in 
that town and the temperance crusade against a more 
terrible monster. The address was afterwards printed, 
and in a short period 150,000 copies were disposed 
of. The American Tract Society finally placed it upon 
its list. See Temperance Lekokm. In 1833 Dr. 
Marsh was invited to leave his charge and become an 
agent of the society in Philadelphia; and by the advice 
of his friends he yielded himself to what was at that 


| time a most laborious and self-denying mission. Three 
years later he removed to New York as secretary of the 
1 American Temperance Union, and editor of its organ 
and of its publications, and remained until 1865, when 
the society was reorganized, and a change was made in 
its officers. Although full of years, he allowed himself 
no rest from his labors, preaching constantly, lecturing 
upon his life theme, and offering himself to every good 
word and work. His last efforts were put forth in be- 
half of an endowment of the Yale Theological Seminary. 
He had already raised $10,000, and was full of encour- 
agement in reference to the results of his endeavors. 
His labors ended only with his life. He died Aug. 4, 
1868. “Few men have been more respected or more 
widely known throughout the country than Dr. Marsh. 
Enthusiastic in his mission, catholic in spirit, welcoming 
every new laborer in the great field, and readily seizing 
upon each new phase of the temperance reformation, his 
name will remain inseparably connected with the his- 
tory of the cause in all future time. He was a good 
man, shedding a benign influence by his devoted life 
wherever he moved” (A r . Y. Christian Advocate, August, 
1868). Besides editing The Temperance Journal, Dr. 
Marsh was the author of several popular works; among 
others, of a well-known Epitome of Ecclesiastical His - 
I tory (N. 1\, A. S. Barnes and Co.); of a valuable hand- 
! book entitled Temperance Recollections — Labors, De- 
I feats , Triumphs, an autobiography (N. Y. 1S66, 12mo), 

| “ a rich text-book for every man who would plead the 
cause of temperance;” etc. See the (A r . Y.) Christian 
Advocate, August, 1868; the Eclectic Magazine, 1866 
(June), p.773. (J.1LW.) 

Marsh, Narcissus, D.D., a learned Irish prelate, 
was born at Hannington, near Highworth, in Wiltshire, 
in 1638; was educated at Magdalen College, Oxford, 
and in 1658 became fellow of Exeter College. The de- 
gree of D.D. he received in 1671 ; some time previous he 
was made chaplain to the bishop of Exeter, and later to 
chancellor Hyde, earl of Clarendon. In 1673 he was 
appointed principal of St. Alban’s Hall, Oxford, and in 
1678 provost of Dublin College. In 1683 he became 
bishop of Leiglilin and Ferns; archbishop of Cashel in 
1690, of Dublin in 1694, and of Armagh in 1703. He 
died Nov. 2, 1713. Dr. Marsh was a pious and noble 
soul, lie founded an almshouse at Drogheda for poor 
widows of clergymen, and provided for their support, 
lie likewise repaired, at his own expense, many de- 
cayed churches within his diocese, and bought in sev- 
eral impropriations, which lie restored to the Church, 
lie also gave to the Bodleian Library a great number 
of MSS. in the Oriental languages, chiefly purchased 
out of Golitis’s collection. He was a very learned and 
accomplished man. Besides sacred and profane litera- 
ture, he had applied himself to mathematics and natural 
philosophy; lie was deep in the knowledge of languages, 
especially the Oriental ; he was also skilled in music, 
the practice as well as the theory. He published Man- 
uductio ad logicam, written by Philip de Trieu; to 
which he added the Greek text of Aristotle, and some 
tables and schemes, and Gassendus’s small tract De 
demonstratione, which he illustrated with notes (( )xon. 
1678): — Institutiones logical in usuui juventutis academi- 
cs (Dublin, 1681): — An Introductory Essay to the Doc- 
trine of Sounds (published in the “ Philosophical Trans- 
actions” of the Loyal Society of London): — A Charge 
to his Clergy of the Diocese of Dublin (1694, i to). See 
Hook, Eccles. Biog. vol. vii, s. v. ; Biog. Brit. s. v. ; Wood, 
. I then. Oxon. vol, ii (see Index); Ware’s Ireland , s. v. ; 
Allibonc, Diet. Brit, and Amer. A uth. s. v. (J. H. W.) 

Marsll, William (1), D.D., an English divine, was 
incumbent of St. Mary’s, Leamington ; later rector of 
Beddington, and died in 1866. lie published Catechism 
on the Collects (3d cd. 1824, 21mo): — Plain Thoughts on 
Prophecy (3d ed. 1843, 8vo) : — Occasional Sermons, etc. 
(1821, etc.). See Memoirs of the late Rev. Win. Marsh , 
D.D., by liis daughter (post Svo). 


MARSH 


815 


MARSHALL 


Marsh, William (2), a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in Orono, Me., -May 4, 1780 ; 
was converted when about fifteen years old ; began 
preaching before he was twenty-one years of age, at 
one time assisting the preacher in charge of a circuit 
which included the present Dresden charge. In 1811 
Marsh joined the New England Conference; was ordained 
deacon in 1813, and elder in 1815. Ilis appointments 
were as follows: 181 1, Durham, Me. ; 1812, East Green- 
wich, K. 1. ; 1813, New London ; 1814, Bristol; 1815, Tol- 
land, Conn.; 181G, Nantucket, Mass.; 1817, Lynn; in 1818 
he appears to have been sent to Bath, but for some rea- 
son now unknown he spent most of that year in Orring- 
ton. In 1820 he was superannuated, and from 1821 to 
1828 he was located and resided in Orrington, where he 
labored as he was able. In 1829, at the earnest request 
of the Church at Hampden, he again entered the itin- 
erancy, and was stationed with them. A powerful re- 
vival was the result, the people coming miles to the 
meeting, and, being converted, returning to their homes 
to scatter the hallowed influence in regions beyond. In 
1830-31 he presided on Penobscot District ; in 1832 was 
stationed at Iloulton. From 4833-37 he was forced by 
continued ill health to take a superannuated relation, 
and retire from active duty. In 1838 he was made ef- 
fective, and stationed at Lincoln ; 1839, at Monroe ; 
1840, at Frankfort; 1841, superannuated; 1842, was ef- 
fective, and stationed at Cherryfield; 1843, at Edding- 
tjn ; 1814, again superannuated. In 1845 we find him 
again effective, and presiding elder of Bangor District; 
1840-47, on Portland District; 1848, Bangor District; 
1849, superannuated; 1850, effective, and stationed at 
Oldtown; 1851-53, superannuated; 1854-55, effective, 
and stationed at Orrington Centre; 1 850-57, at South 
Orrington, after which he never sustained an effective 
relation. He died Aug. 20, 1865. ‘‘Father Marsh pos- 
sessed great natural abilities. As he had elear percep- 
tion, good judgment, was apt in illustration, graphic in 
description, and ready with appropriate language, he 
could not fail to be an able and effective speaker. It is 
true that bis early educational advantages were not 
great, nor eould we speak of him as a critical scholar; 
yet, in the best sense of the term, he was learned. . . . 
He has been justly styled a model in the social relations. 
His religious experience was deep, his affections centred 
on God. As a preacher, in his prime, he had few equals. 
He seemed at times to entirely command the thought 
and feelings of his hearers, yet was this almost unbounded 
influence entirely consecrated to Christ, and used to pro- 
mote his glory and the salvation ol' men. It is needless 
to add that under such a ministry many were converted.” 
See Conference Minutes, 1800, p. 110. 

Marshall, Andrew, a colored Baptist minister, 
was, according to his own aecouut, born a slave in 1755, 
but by bis diligence and economy succeeded in purchas- 
ing Iiis own freedom and that of his whole family. He 
joined the Baptist Church when nearly fifty years old ; 
was in 1800 ordained pastor of the Second (colored) 
Baptist Church in Savannah ; and after this had, under 
his ministrations, become large enough to be divided, 
he became pastor of the part, which took the name of 
“First African Baptist Church.” This position he tilled 
until his death, Dec. 8, 1850, occasionally preaching also 
in Augusta, Macon, Milledgeville, Charleston, and New 
Orleans. lie was also in business on a large seale. He 
possessed elements in his nature which would have made 
him a leading character anywhere. The high mental 
efforts which he at times displayed proved him to be 
equal to any subject which he would find occasion to 
meet, if allowed opportunity for preparation. Ilis sight 
and hearing remained to the last as good as in middle 
life, and his lower limbs only began seriously to fail 
him in his one hundredth year. During the long pe- 
riod of his ministry" he baptized about thirty-eight hun- 
dred persons, and lie supposed that about four thousand 
had professed conversion under his preaching. — Sprague, 
Annals , vi, 251. 


Marshall, George, a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in Beltegh Parish, Derrv County, Ireland, in 1830. 
He attended the schools of his native land, and, after 
liis arrival in America, continued his studies, and grad- 
uated at Union College, Schenectady, N. Y., in 1852, and 
at the theological seminary at Princeton, N. J., in 1855. 
lie was immediately licensed, and in 1850 ordained and 
installed pastor of Bock Church, Cecil Co., Md., where 
he continued to labor until his death, Feb. 27, 1801. Mr. 
Marshall was a man of devoted piety, excellent natural 
talents, and solid attainments; his sermons were sound 
and instructive, his delivery earnest and impressive. 
See Wilson, Presb.IIist. A Imanac, 1802, p. 101. (J. L. S.) 

Marshall, J olin, a Presbyterian minister, was born 
in Washington Co., Pa., Jan. 13, 1813. He received his 
early education in St. Clairsville, Ohio; graduated at 
Franklin College, Ohio, in 1839; studied theology in the 
seminary of the Associate Presbyterian Church in Ca- 
nonsburg, Pa. ; was licensed in 1*843, and installed pas- 
tor of the Associate Presbyterian churches of London- 
derry and West Chester, Ohio. Owing to the discussion 
going on in anticipation of the union between the Asso- 
ciate and Associate Eeformed Presbyterian churches, his 
mind was directed to the investigation of their views 
concerning psalmody and intercommunion, and this led, 
in 1854, to his joining the presbytery of St. Clairsville. In 
1855 he became the stated supply for Woodsfield Church, 
Ohio, and in 1857 he accepted a call to the churches of 
Doddsville and Huntsville, 111. He died Aug. 24, 1858. 
Air. Marshall was practical and zealous as a preacher, 
social and affable as a Christian gentleman. See Wil- 
son, Presb. Hist. A Imanac, 1800, p. 75. (J. L. S.) 

Marshall, Joseph D., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born at Stamford, Conn., in Nov., 
1804, of Congregational parentage. Ilis early years were 
spent in mercantile life; he was converted when about 
twenty years old; felt a call for the ministry, and in 
1827 entered the New York Conference, and was for two 
years stationed at Kingston Circuit. In 1829 he was ap- 
pointed to New Pfalz Circuit ; in 1830 to Flushing; in 
1832 was transferred to Troy Conference, and appointed 
to St. Albans Circuit; next and successively to Peru, 
Charlotte, Shelburne, and Wesley Chapel, Albany ; in 
1837 was retransferred to the New York Conference, and 
appointed to Windham Circuit; in 1838 to Sag Harbor; 
in 1839 was superannuated, because of failing health ; 
and, though he returned to effective work for a time, he 
only recovered his health in 1843, when he re-entered 
active work, and successively preached at Goshen, Conn., 
Birmingham, Beading, and New Canaan. Thereafter 
he was a superannuate. He died at Brooklyn, Jan. 9, 
1800. “lie magnified his office as a pastor in all the 
churches committed to his care. ... He was character- 
ized for his equanimity of disposition, and the pure tone 
of his devotional and experimental piety.” See Smith, 
Sacred Memories, p. 232 sq. 

Marshall, Nathaniel, D.D.. an English divine, 
flourished in the beginning of the 18tli century. But 
little is known of his personal history. In *1712 he 
preached before the sons of the clergy; in January, 1715, 
he was lecturer at Aldermanburv and curate at Kentish 
Town ; later he became canon of Windsor, lie appears 
also to have had the lectureship of St, Martin’s, Iron- 
monger-lane, and died Feb. 6, 1730-81. lie published 
A Translation of the Genuine 1 1 'orJcs of St. Cyprian 
(1717, fob): — Sermons (1717, 1731-1750, 4 vols. 8vo); 
besides a number of occasional Sermons, etc. — Darling, 
Cyclop. Bill, i, 1790; Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and Amer. 
A uth. s. v. ; Hook, Eccles. Bioy. s. v. 

Marshall, Samuel Vance, a Presbyterian min- 
ister, was bom in Fayette Co., Ky„ Feb. 0, 1798. He 
was educated at Transylvania University, Lexington, 
Ky. (class of 1821) ; studied theology in the seminary at 
Princeton. N. J. ; was licensed in 1825, and ordained by 
West Lexington Presbytery in 182(5. During 1827 he 
labored as a missionary in South Carolina ; then went 


MARSHALL 


81 G 


MARSHMAN 


to North Middleton and Mt. Sterling churches, in Ken- 
tucky; and subsequently to Woodford, Ky. In 1735 he 
was elected professor of languages in Transylvania Uni- 
versity, and in 1837 to the same chair in Oakland Col- 
lege, Miss. Here he spent the remainder of his life in 
teaching, and in voluntary service as an evangelist, es- 
pecially among colored people. He died Nov. 30, 1860. 
Mr. Marshall was a man of strong character, and of 
large attainments, adapted to academic and popular pur- 
suits; a good preacher, kind and social in his disposi- 
tion. See Wilson, Presb. Ilist. Almanac , 1862, p. 102. 
(J.L.S.) 

Marshall, Stephen, a noted commonwealth Pres- 
byterian divine, lecturer at St. Margaret’s Church, West- 
minster, who flourished in the first half of the 17tli cen- 
tury, and died in 1655, was the author of some contro- 
versial theological treatises, etc. (1640-81). lie also 
published a number of occasional Sermons. 11 The most 
memorable of Marshall’s works is his sermon preached 
at the funeral of Pym” (1644, 4to). See Life of Stephen 
Marshall (1680, 4to) ; Darling, Cyclop. Bill, i, 17 59 ; Al- 
libone, Diet, of Brit, and A mer. *1 nth. s. v. 

Marshall or Mareschal, Thomas, an English 
divine of note, was born at Barkbv, in Leicestershire, 
about 1621; was entered at Lincoln College, Oxford, in 
16 10, and while there became a constant hearer of arch- 
bishop Usher’s sermons in All-hallows Church. The 
influence of that prelate’s style is apparent in all the 
writings of Mr. Marshall. Upon the breaking out of the 
civil war he took up arms for the king at his own eharge, 
and therefore, in 1645, when he was a candidate for the 
degree of bachelor of arts, was admitted without paying 
fees. Upon the approach of the Parliamentary visita- 
tion, he left the university, went beyond sea, and be- 
came preacher to the company of English merchants at 
Rotterdam and Dort. In 1661 he was made bachelor 
of divinity; and, in 1668, became fellow of his college; 
and, in 1669, doctor of divinity. In 1672 he was ap- 
pointed reetor of Lincoln College, Oxford ; later he be- 
came chaplain-in-ordinary to the king, and, in 1681. final- 
ly dean of Gloucestershire. He died in 1685. He was 
distinguished for his knowledge of the Oriental tongues 
and of the Anglo-Saxon. He published Observations 
in Evangeliorum versions per antiquas dnas, Gothicas 
scilicet , etc., Anglo-Saxonicas, etc. (Dort, 1665); also a 
Life of Archbishop Usher (Lond. 1686) ; The Catechism 
set forth in the Book of Common Prayer brief y explained 
by short Notes (Oxf. 1679). See Wood, A thence Oxoni- 
enses , vol. ii (see Index) ; Gen. Biog. Diet. s. v. ; Wood, 
Eccles. Biog. vol. vii, s. v. 

Marshall, Walter, an English divine of the sec- 
ond half of the 17th century, was educated at, and later 
became fellow of New College, Oxford, and Winchester 
College; vicar of Hursley, Hampshire; was ejeeted at 
the Restoration ; subsequently became pastor of a dis- 
senting congregation at Gosport, and died in 1690. He 
published The Gospel Mystery of Sanctification Opened 
in sundry Practical Directions , together with a Sermon 
on Justification (Loud. 1692, 8vo; often reprinted; last 
ed. 1838, 32nio). — Allibone, Diet. Brit, and A mer. Anth. 
s. v. ; Pogue and Bennett, Hist. Dissenter's , i, 454. 

Marshall, 'William, a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in Perthshire, Scotland, in 1789; was educated and 
studied divinity at Glasgow; was licensed by the Pres- 
bytery of Dysart, Scotland ; preached a number of years 
at Calinshow, Fifeshire, and in 1832 came to America, 
and was installed pastor of the Church at Peekskill, 
N. Y. In 1843, when the marriage question engaged the 
attention and called forth not a litile of the talent and 
Biblieal lore of the Church, he made the argument in 
that relation before the Synod of New York, which was 
afterwards published under the title, Aw Inquiry con- 
cerning the Lawfulness of Marriage between Parties pre- 
viously related by A ffinity ; also a short History of Opin- 
ions in different Ages and Countries , and of the A ction of 
the Ecclesiastical Bodies on that Subject. He died in 


1864. Mr. Marshall possessed tine analytical powers, 
comprehensive and penetrating; his sermons were re- 
markably exact, his manner rather studied. See Wilson, 
Presb. Hist. Almanac , 1865, p. 99 ; Sprague, Ann. A mer. 
Pulpit , ix, 7. (J. L. S.) 

Marsham, Sir John, an English scholar, celebra- 
ted for bis acquirements in history, languages, and chro- 
nology, was born in London in 1602, and was educated 
at St.John’s College, Oxford. He embraced the cause 
of the Royalists in the civil war. He died in 1685. He 
was the author of a work entitled Chronologicus Canon 
JEgyptiacus, Ebraicus , etc. (Lond. 1672, fob), in which 
lie attempts to reconcile Egyptian chronology with the 
Hebrew Scriptures, by supposing four collateral dynas- 
ties of Egyptian kings reigning at the same time. This 
theory has been adopted by several eminent scholars. 
He also wrote the prefaee to the first volume of Dug- 
dale’s Monasticon A nglicanum, and left behind him at 
his death, unfinished, Canonis chronici liber qaintus: 
sire , Imperium Persicum : — De provinciis et legionibus 
Romanis: — De re nunieraria ; etc. We are likewise 
in some measure obliged to him for the History of Phi- 
losophy by his very learned nephew, Thomas Stanley, 
Esq., since it was chiefly at his instigation that that 
excellent work was undertaken. See Wood, A theme 
Oxonienses ; Shuckford, Sacred and Profane History ; 
Gen. Biog. Diet. s. v. 

Marshman, Joshua, D.D., a noted English Bap- 
tist missionary to India, one of the “ Serampore Breth - 
ren,” as the band of missionaries among whom he and. 
Dr. Carey were the most prominent often styled them- 
selves, the person who, above all others, gave to the 
English Protestant mission in India the strength, con- 
sistency, and prudence which it wanted, was born in 
1767, at Westbury Leigh, in Wiltshire. While yet a 
lad, Joshua Marshman attracted attention by his pas- 
sion for reading, and his quiet, heartfelt religion. His 
parents were poor, and he had to struggle hard to secure 
an education. In 1794 lie became master of a school at 
Bristol, at the same time entering himself a student at 
“ Bristol Academy,” where he studied thoroughly Latin, 
Greek, Hebrew, and Syriac. His mind became imbued 
at this time with the missionary spirit which the noted 
English cobbler, Carey, was spreading in England, 
anti in 1799 Marshman offered to beeome one of the 
party sent out to India by the “ Baptist Missionary 
Society,” to further the cause which Carey was advo- 
cating. Oct. 13, 1799, the company found themselves 
sixteen miles above Calcutta, at Serampore, on the 
Hooghly, “a town pleasantly situated, beautiful to look 
at, and full of a mixed population of Danes, Dutch, Eng- 
lish, and natives of ail hues.” The intention was to 
proceed to British ground, Serampore being at that time 
Danish territory-; but the Anglo-Indians objected to 
Christian missionary- enterprises in their midst, and the 
mission was finally established at Serampore, to spread 
thence, in God’s own appointed time, the truths of his 
Gospel among the benighted of all India. The fate of 
the missionary enterprise has been spoken of in the ar- 
ticle India (q. v.) ; the activity of each member in the 
biographical sketches of these faithful servants of Christ 
[see Carey; Ward, Thomas] ; we can here deal only 
with the part Joshua Marshman himself played in this, 
one of the most important of missionary enterprises. 

Marshman had married the daughter of a Baptist 
minister before he became teacher at Bristol; his wife 
now accompanied him to India, and proved a helpmeet 
indeed from the very outset. Shortly after landing at 
Serampore, finding the support granted by the home 
society inadequate to the wants of the colony, Marsh- 
man, with the assistance of his wife, opened two board- 
ing-schools for European children, and, succeeding even 
beyond their most sanguine expectations in securing 
not only a support for themselves, but a maintenance of 
the mission, shortly after opened a school for the na- 
tives also, which was quickly filled ; and the pecuniary 


MARSHMAN 


817 


MARSILIUS 


return of this enterprise, together with the additional 
income which Carey received for his services as an in- 
structor in the government college at Fort William, en- 
abled these good people in a short time to render their 
mission nearly independent of home support. The Bap- 
tists of England, however, failed to appreciate these 
heroic and self-sacrificing labors of Carey, and Marsh- 
man, and Ward, and much fault was found by the com- 
mittee of the general society. “There were among 
them many men of good intentions, but without breadth 
of views, and used to small economies. They listened 
to false reports, censured without sufficient information, 
pinched their missions, and dictated the management, 
so that to deal with them was but a vexation of spirit. 

. . . Moreover, the American subscribers [American 
Baptists joined their English brethren until Judson 
went out from the American society] sent a most vex- 
atious and absurd remonstrance against any part of their 
contributions for training young men to the ministry 
being employed in teaching science. ‘As if/ said Dr. 
Marshman, ‘youths in America could be educated for 
ministers without learning science.’ ” 

Had the government of the mission been in the hands 
of a body acquainted, by personal experience, with the 
needs of the Serampore Brethren, any misunderstanding 
springing up could easily have been allayed ; but, man- 
aged by the class of men we have just spoken of, the 
disagreement between the Baptist Missionary Society 
and the Serampore missionaries (originating in 1817) 
lasted for some time, and even seriously threatened the 
success of the enterprise. In 1822 Dr. Marshman had 
dispatched his son John to England to restore pleasant 
relations. The disagreement continuing, Dr. Marshman 
decided to go before the society in person, and in 1826 
returned home. But even he failed in his mission ; and 
in 1827, after much argument, the matter ended in the 
separation of the Serampore mission from the general 
society. To a man like Dr. Marshman, now hoary with 
age, this matter became a serious annoyance, and his 
strength of body and of mind were greatly impaired. 
Additional trouble came when the ownership of the 
buildings at the Serampore mission was to be disposed 
of, the home society naturally enough claiming the 
property, although it had been secured mainly by the 
hard labors of Carey and Marshman. In 1823, Dr. 
Marsliman’s trials had become very heavy. At that 
time Air. Ward was taken away by cholera. “ For twen- 
ty-three years had the threefold cord between Carey, 
Marshman, and Ward been unbroken. They had lived 
together like brothers, alike in aim and purposes, each 
supplying what the other lacked; and the distress of 
the parting was terrible, especially to Dr. Marshman, 
who, at the time of his friend’s illness, was suffering from 
an attack of deafness, temporary indeed, but for some 
days total, so that lie could only watch the final strug- 
gle without hearing a single word.” His mental strength 
was even then sorely tried, for “he wrote as if he longed 
to be with those whose toils and sorrows were at an 
end.” Greater was the shock that the treatment of the 
home society brought upon him. “Morbid attacks of 
depression came on, during which he wandered about 
unable to apply himself so much as even to write a let- 
ter.” June 9, 1834, Dr. Carey died, and he was left 
alone to defend his cause. In 1836 a daughter of his, 
who had married the afterwards so celebrated Christian 
soldier of the British army, Henry Havelock, barely 
escaped with her life from her bungalow, which had 
caught fire, losing one of her three children, a baby, in 
the llames. The nervous excitement which this affair 
caused Dr. Marshman prostrated him completely, and 
he died Dec. 5, 1837. A few days previous to this event 
arrangements had been concluded in London for the re- 
union of the Serampore Mission with the parent society, 
and for retaining Dr. Marshman in the superintendence. 

By severe and diligent labor Dr. Marshman had ac- 
quired a complete knowledge of the Bengalee, Sanscrit, 
and Chinese languages. Into the Chinese he translated 
V. — F F F 


the four Gospels, the Epistles of Paul to the Romans and 
the Corinthians, and the book of Genesis. He also wrote 
A Dissertation on the Characters and Sounds of the Chi- 
nese Language (1809, 4to): — The Works of Confucius, 
containing the original Text , with a Translation (1811, 
4to, reviewed in London Quarterly Review •, xi, 332) : — 
Claris Sinica: — Elements of Chinese Grammar , with a 
Preliminary Dissertation on the Characters and Col- 
loquial Medium of the Chinese (Serampore, 1814). In 
Sanscrit and Bengalee he assisted Dr. Carey in the 
preparation of a Sanscrit grammar in 1815, and a Ben- 
galee and English dictionary in 1825. In 1827 he pub- 
lished an abridgment of the dictionary. He also en- 
gaged in a controversy with Rammohun Roy (q. v.), 
who distinguished himself greatly among his country- 
men in India by his spirited attacks upon idolatry, and 
by the publication of a work entitled The Pj’ecepts of 
Jesus , the Guide to Peace , in which, while exalting the 
precepts, he asperses the miracles of Christ. Dr. Marsh- 
man answered this work by a series of articles in the 
Friend of India (a periodical issued by the Serampore 
missionaries), subsequently republished in book form 
(Loiul. 1822), entitled A Defence of the Deity and Atone- 
ment of Jesus Christ, in reply to Rammohun Roy , of Cal- 
cutta . In 1824 appeared a second London edition of 
Rammohun Roy’s work, illustrated with a portrait of 
the author, and containing a reply to Dr. Marshman. 
In a sketch of Dr. Marshman’s character at the end of 
the first volume of Dr. Cox’s History of the Baptist Mis- 
sionary Society he is spoken of as “possessed of great 
mental power and diligence, of firmness bordering upon 
obstinacy, and of much wariness.” See Loml. Gent . Mag . 
1838, pt. ii, p. 216; English Cy eloper dia of Biography 
(1857), iv, 120; Kaye, Christianity in India, cli. vii; 
Yonge, Pioneers and Founders (Loud. 1872, 12mo), ch. v ; 
Trevor, India, its Natives and Missions, p. 316; Marsh- 
man (J.), Life and Times of Carey , Marshman, and 
Ward (Lond. 1859, 2 vols. Svo; popular ed., N. Y. 1867, 
I2mo). 

Marsiac, Council of {Concilium Marsiacense), was 
held Dec. 8, 1320, by William de Flavacour, archbishop 
of Auch, and his suffragans. The proceedings are of 
little interest. This council established the feast of S. 
Martha, the sister of S. Mary Magdalene, celebrated on 
the fourth of the calends of August. See London, Man- 
ual of Councils, p. 390. 

Marsile, a Dutch philosopher and theologian, was 
born at Inghen, in the diocese of Utrecht. He was can- 
on and treasurer of the Church of Saint-Andrew, at Co- 
logne, and when Rupert, the duke of Bavaria, founded 
the academy of Heidelberg in 1386, he called Marsile to 
a professorship of philosophy. He died there Aug. 20, 
1394. Tritenhemius attributes to him a Dicdectic, and 
some comments on Aristotle and on Peter Lombard. 
Fabricius adds that his commentaries on the four books 
of the Sentences were published in Strasburg in 1501, 
folio. A volume published at La II aye (1497, fol.) con- 
tains the first two books of the Sentences , with the criti- 
cism of D'Inghen. — Fabricius, Bill. med. et inf Latin. ; 
Diet . des Sciences philos. ; B. Ilaureau, De la Philos . sco- 
last. ii, 483 ; Hoefer, Xom\ Biog. Generate, vol. xxxiii, s. v. 

Marsilius, Ficinus. See Ficinus. 

Marsilius of Padua, an eminent opponent of the 
papacy, was born towards the close of the 13th century, 
and was probably a native of Italy. He first attracted 
notice at the University of Orleans, in France, and later 
at that of Paris, where he studied jurisprudence, and 
also paid some attention to philosophy, medicine, and 
theology, and in 1312 became rector. It was not, how- 
ever, until 1324 that he became particularly noted. In 
that year he composed his principal work, Defensor pa- 
ds s . de re imperatoria et pontifeia . In this work, writ- 
ten in the interest of the emperor Louis IV, the Bava- 
rian, and against the papacy, he describes the papacy of 
his time as the most dangerous foe to peace and pros- 
perity, supporting his assertion by a reference to events 


MARSILIUS 


818 


MARTENE 


then current, e. g. tlie quarrel of Boniface VIII with 
Philip the Fair of France, the arrogance of Clement V 
towards the emperor Henry VII, and the treatment ac- 
corded by pope John XXII, then reigning, to Louis the 
Bavarian. In order to prevent such scandals for the 
future, he declares that the axe must be laid at the root 
of the evil; and he then proceeds to consider, 1, the na- 
ture, origin, and end of the state, with constant refer- 
ence to peace and quietness as the highest good of social 
life; 2, the relation between Church and State, opposing 
to the exaggerated pretensions of the Curia a doctrine 
of the Church which he grounds on reason, tradition, 
Scripture, history, and ecclesiastical law. The leading 
thoughts are these: (l) The official duties and authority 
of every priest are confined to the ministration of the 
Word and sacraments. His power is spiritual and mor- 
al; the civil power alone may employ force, and the 
priest, even if he be bishop or pope, is subject to the 
civil jiower. (2) All priests, whatever their name, are 
equal in spiritual rank and authority; there was no dis- 
tinction in the apostolic Church between bishops and 
presbyters; and the X. T. shows that there was no pri- 
macy of Peter, but that the apostles were all equal. In 
externals and non-essentials there may be distinctions 
between priests, and gradations of office, so far as cir- 
cumstances require, but as a merely human arrange- 
ment. (3) There is only one divinely-appointed Head 
of the Church- — Christ himself. (4) The highest au- 
thority on earth in ecclesiastical matters does not inhere 
in a single priest or bishop, not even in the bishop of 
Borne, but in a general council, composed as well of in- 
telligent laymen, who are versed in the Scriptures, as of 
priests. Christ has promised to be with his Church unto 
the end of the world, and a general council is the prop- 
er exponent and organ of the Church. The pope has 
not even authority to convene a council, since the ease is 
possible that he should be guilty of conduct which it- 
self would require the attention of a general council. 
This authority, therefore, belongs to the sovereign, as 
supreme lawgiver. (5) The Scriptures, including what 
must be necessarily inferred from their teaching, alone 
deserve an unconditional assent. The principles thus 
submitted by Marsilius found a practical application in 
1338, when the heiress of the Tyrol sought a divorce 
from her husband, John of Bohemia, in order to marry 
a son of the emperor; a step which was sanctioned 
by Louis IV (in 1342), regardless of the faet that the 
parties were within the degrees of consanguinity in 
which marriage was prohibited by the Church, public 
opinion everywhere censuring the emperor’s action. 
Both Marsilius and the learned Franciscan, William Oc- 
cam, came forward in the emperor’s defence, in a work 
bearing the title in each case, Tractatus de jurisdictione 
Imperatoris in causis matrimonialibus . They are com- 
plementary to each other, Marsilius treating especially 
of the dissolution of the former marriage, and Occam of 
the dispensation on account of consanguinity. Marsil- 
ius here also advanced the principle, that the ministers 
and teachers of the Word are to decide on the sufficien- 
cy of any reason for divorce under the divine law, but 
that the sovereign legislator must decide, on grounds 
of human law, whether such sufficient reason exists in 
any given case. Because of his work Defensor pacts, 
Marsilius was placed under the ban in 1327. His deatli 
is generally assigned to 1328, but Louis IV speaks of 
him as living, in a letter addressed to pope Benedict, in 
1333, and there is no reason to doubt the genuineness 
of his work on marriage, which appeared in 1342. He 
must therefore have lived until after that date. In his 
life lie appears as one of the most determined opposers 
of the unlimited pretensions of the papacy; and in his 
views of the headship of the Church as centring in 
Christ, and of the Scriptures jis furnishing the sole rule 
of faith and practice for the Church, we recognise him 
as a forerunner of the Reformation. II is works were 
published in Goldast's Monarchia s. Rom . imp. (Frankf. 
16G8). See Schrbckh, Kirchengesch . xxxi, 79 sq. ; Xe- 


antler, Christian Dogm . ii, 599 sq. ; Milman, Hist, of Latin 
Christianity , vii, 89 sq. ; Ilerzog, Real- Eney Hop. xx, 109 
sq. ; Wetzer und Welte, Kirchcn-Lex. vi, 89G sq. ; Fried- 
berg, Zeitsch.f Kirchenrecht (Tubing. 1869), viii, 69 sq. 
(G.M.) 

Mart (“no, sachar', Isa. xxiii, 3; also spoken of 
what is gained from traffic, profit, wealth, “merchan- 
dise,” Prov. iii, 14; Isa. xlv, 14), a trading-place or em- 
porium. The root signifies to travel about as traders, 
buying and selling; thus pointing out at once the gen- 
eral character of the commerce of the East from the 
earliest age to the present. See Commerce; Mar- 
ket; Merchant. 

Marteilhe, Jean, a French martyr to the Protes- 
tant cause, was born at Bergerac in 1684, and was con- 
demned in 1702 to the galleys at Dunkirk, where he 
spent seven years. He died in 1777. See The Hu- 
guenot Galley-Slave (Xew York, 1867) ; Quarterly Review 
(Jidy), 1S66. 

Martel, Andr^, a Swiss Protestant theologian, was 
born at Montauban in 1618; studied theology at Sau- 
mur, and was appointed pastor of Saint-Alfrique. In 
1647 he was called to Montauban to fill the same office. 
In 1653 he became professor of theology in the Reformed 
academy of that town; he was rector there in 1660, when 
he was transferred to Puvlaurens. Although very re- 
served in all that could wound the pretensions of the 
Catholic clergy, he was nevertheless involved in a suit 
instituted against the pastors of Puvlaurens, who were 
accused of having received into the Church those who, 
once converted to Romanism, had relapsed into Protes- 
tantism, contrary to the royal prescriptions of April, 
1663, of June, 1665, and of April, 1666. He was con- 
ducted with them to the prisons of Toulouse. The at- 
tention of the government was particularly directed to 
him; it was hoped that if they succeeded in extracting 
from him an abjuration, bis example would draw a great 
number of his fellow-reformers, and would serve as an 
excuse to those who only asked a pretext for passing 
over to Romanism. His moderation, moreover, induced 
them to believe in the possibility of success. Conse- 
quently they endeavored to move him sometimes by 
menaces, sometimes by promises. All was useless, and 
they finally liberated him. After the revocation of the 
Edict of Xantes, the ministers of Montauban and of the 
neighboring churches retired to Holland. Martel pre- 
ferred Switzerland, and withdrew to the canton of Berne, 
where he very soon obtained the direction of one of the 
principal churches. He died at Berne towards the close 
of the 17th century, about seventy years of age. Of 
Martel’s productions, we have Response a la methode de 
M. le cardinal de Richelieu (Rouen, 1674, 4to). This re- 
ply, said Cathala-Couture, indicates in the author a pro- 
found knowledge, and, above all, a tone of moderation 
and propriety far removed from the bitterness and fanat- 
icism which prevail ordinarily in the greater part of 
controversial works; — De Xutura Eidei et de Gratia ef- 
fcaci (Montauban, 1653, 4to) : — inaugural thesis — a 
number of theses which he delivered, during his presi- 
dency, to the scholars of the academy of Montauban, 
from 1656 to 1674 : — a collection of sermons that Catha- 
la-Couture attributes to him, without, however, giving 
their titles in detail. See Cathala-Couture, Hist, du 
Querci, vol. iii ; Haag, La France Protest. ; Bayle, A ou- 
velles Lettrcs (La Have, 1739), p. 314, 315 ; Hoeler, Xonv. 
Biog. Generate, vol. xxxiii, s. v. 

Martene, Edmund, a learned French Benedictine, 
was born at St. Jean de Losnc, in the diocese of Dijon, 
Dec. 22, 1654. After completing his studies, he took the 
vows in the Benedictine convent of St. Remi, at liheims, 
Sept. 8, 1672. lie soon distinguished himself by his 
thorough acquaintance with the ancient ascetic writers, 
and was sent by the superiors of the Congregation of 
St.Maur, upon whom his convent depended, to the head- 
quarters of the order, St. Germain des Pres, at Paris. 
Here he was placed under the guidance, and enjoyed 


MARTHA 


819 


MARTIANAY 


the friendship of the great lights D’Achery and Ma- 
billon. He soon afterwards published his Commentarius 
in reyulam S. P. Benedict i (Paris, 1G90, 4to), which met 
with great success. He was well versed in monastic 
archaeology, and, encouraged by Mabillon, published next 
De A ntiquis monachomm ritibus libri quinque (Lugd. 
1090, 2 vols. 4to). He was then sent to the convent of 
M armoutier, where he remained several years, continu- 
ing his studies, and imbibing the strong ascetic views 
of Claudius Martin, whose biography he wrote upon the 
death of Martin. His exaggerated praise of this mys- 
tic aseetist seemed to his superiors more likely to pro- 
voke ridicule than admiration in the age of Louis XIV, 
and itsqmblication was forbidden. The Vie du venera- 
ble P. Dom Claude Martin , etc., was nevertheless pub- 
lished either with or without the author’s consent (Tours, 
1G97, 8vo). He was exiled to Evreux for his insubor- 
dination. lie was, however, soon transferred to the con- 
vent of St. Ouen, at Rouen, and there assisted Dom de 
Sainte Marthe in his edition of the work of Gregory the 
Great. Here he republished the life of Martin, and 
added Maximes spirit uelles du venerable P. D. Claude 
Martin, (liouen, 1G98, 12mo). His next work, to which 
the above De antiquis monachorum , etc., was but a pref- 
ace, is De antiquis ecclesue ritibus (Rotomagi, 1700 sq., 
3 vols. 4to), and as appendix the Tractatus de antiqua 
ecclesim disciplina in celtbrandis officiis (Ludg. 170G, 
4to\ In 1700 he published also, as a complement to 
D’Achery’s Spicilegium , his Veter um scriptorum et mon- 
ument or um , . . collectio nova, after which he devoted 
himself especially to antiquarian researches, and writ- 
ing commentaries on the works of ancient writers. In 
1708 the general chapter of his order sent him on a jour- 
ney through France, to visit all the libraries, and to col- 
lect documents for a new Gallia Christiana. Dom Ur- 
sinus Durand (q. v.) was given him as colleague in 1709, 
and after six years thus employed the result of their re- 
searches was published under the title Thesaurus norus 
Anecdotorum (Paris, 1717, 5 vols. fob), and Voyage lit- 
teraire de deux religieux Benedict ins, etc. (Paris, 1717, 
4to). In the same year he was allowed bv chancellor 
D’Agucsseau to compile a new collection of the works 
of French historical writers, more complete than that of 
Andrew Duchesne, but was prevented from carrying out 
his plan by political events. He was now sent again, 
with his former colleague, on a literary journey, from 
which they returned in 1724. The result of it was the 
Veterum scriptorum et monumentorum . . . amplissima 
collectio (Paris, 1724-33, 9 vols. fob). In 1734 he fell into 
disgrace in consequence of his opposition to the bull 
Unigenitus , thereafter devoted himself exclusively to his 
studies, and in 1738 published a much enlarged edition 
of his archaeological works. He also continued Mabil- 
lon’s A nnales ordinis S. Benedict), tom. vi,ab anno Chris- 
ti 1117 ad 1157 (Paris, 1739), and prepared a continua- 
tion of the Acta Sanctorum ordinis S. Benedicti, and an 
edition of the life and works of Thomas of Canterbury. 
He also asked permission to publish a Ifistoire de la Con- 
gregation de S.Maur, but was refused on account of its 
too enthusiastic praise of the monastic life. He died 
Juno 20, 1739. See Tassin, Hist. Lift, de la Congr . de S. 
Maur; Moreri, Diet. Ifistor.; A l er cure de France, Au- 
gust, 1739; Le Pour et le Contre, vol.xii, u. 249 ; Chris- 
tian Observer, vol. xviii ; Dowling, Introd . to Ch . Hist. ; 
Herzog, Peal-Fncyliop. ix, 1 1 9 ; Hoefer, Xour. Biog. Ge- 
nerate, xxxiii, 1003; Picrer, Untversal-Lexikon, x, 92G. 
(J.N.P.) 

Mar'tha (Mop^a, of unknown signification, but a 
Syriac prop, name [XFn^i] according to Flutarch, Vit. 
Mar. 17), a Jewess, the sister of Lazarus and Mary, who 
resided in the same house with them at Bethany (Luke 
x, 38, 40, 41 ; John xi, 1-39; xii. 2). See Lazarus. 
From the house at Bethany being called “ her house,” 
in Luke x, 38, and from the leading part which Martha 
is always seen to take in domestic matters, it has seemed 
to some that she was a widow, to whom the house at 
Bethany belonged, and with whom her brother and sis- 


ter lodged; but this is uncertain, and the common opin- 
ion that the sisters managed the household of their 
brother is more probable. Jesus was intimate with this 
family, and tlieir house was often his home when at Je- 
rusalem, being accustomed to retire thither in the even- 
ing, after having spent the day in the city. The point 
which the evangelists bring out most distinctly with 
respect to Martha lies in the contrariety of disposition 
between her and her sister Mary. The first notice of 
Christ’s visiting this family occurs in Luke x, 38-42. 
He was received with great attention by the sisters, and 
Martha soon hastened to provide suitable entertainment 
for the Lord and bis followers, while Mary remaiued in 
his presence, sitting at his feet, and drinking in the sa- 
cred words that fell from his lips. The active, bustling 
solicitude of Martha, anxious that the best things in 
the house should be made subservient to the Master’s 
use and solace, and the quiet earnestness of Mary, more 
desirous to profit by the golden opportunity of hearing 
his instructions than to minister to his personal wants, 
strongly marie the points of contrast in the characters 
of the two sisters. (See bishop Hall’s observations on 
this subject in his Contemplations , iii, 4. Nos. 17, 23, 24.) 
She needs the reproof, “ One thing is needful but her 
love, though imperfect in its form, is yet recognised as 
true, and she too, no less than Lazarus and Mary, has 
the distinction of being one whom Jesus loved (John xi, 
3). The part taken by the sisters in the transactions 
connected with the death and resurrection of Lazarus 
(John xi, 20-40) is entirely and beautifully in accord- 
ance with their previous history (see Tholuck, Comment. 
ad loc.). The facts recorded of her indicate a character 
devout after the customary Jewish type of devotion, 
sharing in Messianic hopes and accepting Jesus as the 
Christ; sharing also in the popular belief in a resurrec- 
tion, but not rising, as her sister did, to the belief that 
Christ was making the eternal life to belong, not to the 
future only, but to the present. Nothing more is re- 
corded of Martha save that some time after, at a supper 
given to Christ and his disciples at Bethany, she, as 
usual, busied herself in the external service. Lazarus, 
so marvellously restored from the grave, sat with her 
guests at table. “Martha served,” and Mary occupied 
her favorite station at the feet of Jesus, which she 
bathed with her tears, and anointed with costly oint- 
ment (John xii, 1, 2). See Mary. Notwithstanding 
the seeming drawbacks upon Martha’s character, so viv- 
idly painted in the Gospels, there can be no doubt of her 
genuine piety and love for the Saviour. A.D. 29. See 
Niemever, Char alt. i, GG; and Schulthess, Xeueste theol. 
Xachricht , 1828, ii, 413. According to tradition, she 
went with her brother and other disciples to Marseilles, 
gathered round her a society of devout women, and, 
true to her former character, led them to a life of active 
ministration. The wilder Provencal legends make her 
victorious over a dragon that laid waste the country. 
The town of Tarascon boasted of possessing her remains, 
and claimed her as its patron saint (Acta Sanctorum , 
and Brer. Pom. in Jul. 29; Fabricii Lux^Evamjcl. p. 
388). 

Martha, Order of, is the name sometimes given 
to the organization of the Hospital Sisters of St. Martha 
of Pontarlier, etc. The aim of this female order is the 
care of the sick and the poor, and the gratuitous in- 
struction of poor children. Sec Hospital Sisters. 

Marthe, Anne Briget, a French nun, called Sister 
Martha, born at Besam^on in 1749, deserves a place here 
for her devotion during the French Revolution and the 
wars that followed to the relief of the sick and wounded, 
and of prisoners of all nations. She died in 1824. The 
Martha Order (q. v.) is named after her. 

Martianay, Jean, a learned Benedictine of St. 
Maur, was born at St. Sever Cap, in the diocese of Aire, 
Dec. 30, 1G47. In 1GG7 lie entered the convent of La 
Daurade, at Toulouse. lie now applied himself with 
great zeal to the study of Oriental languages and Bibli- 
cal literature, both of which he afterwards taught in 


MARTIEN 


S20 


MARTIN 


colleges of his order. During his residence at Bor- 
deaux he wrote a work against the chronological sys- 
tem of Pezron, which attracted the notice of his supe- 
riors. lie was called to the head-quarters of his order, 
the abbey of St. Germain des Pres, and intrusted with 
the preparation of a new edition of the works of St. Je- 
rome. Iti 1G90 he published h\s pj'odromus of this work, 
in which he demonstrated the incorrectness of preceding 
editions. His edition was violently attacked by Simon 
and Leclere, but Martianay as vigorously defended it. 
This controversy lasted a long time, yet did not prevent 
him from publishing a large number of works, more re- 
markable for their learning and ingenuity than for large- 
ness of thought or critical acumen. lie died June 16, 
1717. Among his works we notice the above-mentioned 
edition of the works of St. Jerome (Paris, 1693— 1706, 5 
vols. fol.) : — Defense du texte Hebreu et de la chronologie 
de la 1 ' ulgate (Par. 1689) : — Continuation de la Defense du 
texte , etc. (Par. 1693). In both these works he endeavors 
to prove that t lie Hebrew text is to be preferred to the 
Scptuagint, and that less than 4000 years elapsed from 
the creation of the world to the advent of Christ : — 
Traites de la connaissance et de la verite de V Ecriture 
Sainte (Paris. 1694-95, 4 vols.) : — Traite methodique , on 
maniere d'expliquer V Ecriture par le secours des trois 
syntaxes , la prop re, lafiguree, et Vharmonique (1704) : — 
Vie de Et, Jerome (1706): — Harmonic analytiqne de plu- 
sieurs sens caches et rapports inconnus de VAncien et du 
Nouveau Testament (1708): — Essais de Traduction ou 
Remarques sur les traductions Er unguises du Nouveau 
Testament (1709): — Le Nouveau Testament traduit cn 
Fr unguis sur la Vulgate (1712) : — Methode sacree , pour 
apprendre a expliquer V Ecriture sainte par V Ecriture 
meme (1716); etc. See Journal des Savants, Aug. 9, 
1717 ; J/ist. Litt. de la Congreg. de St. Maui', p. 382-397 ; 
Herzog, Reul-En cgklop a die, ix, 120; lloefer, Nouv. Biog. 
Generate , xxxiv, 2. (J. N. 1‘.) 

Martien, William Stockton, a ruling elder of 
the Presbyterian Church, was born June 20, 1798. He 
was of Huguenot descent, and received an early Chris- 
tian education. In 1828 he commenced business, and 
in 1830, in connection with others, engaged in the es- 
tablishment of The Presbyterian, of which he continued 
to be the chief proprietor and publisher until 1861. In 
1833 he commenced the publication of religious books, 
and, as a member of the Board of Publication of the 
Presbyterian Church, he issued many works of standard 
religious character. In 1846 he was elected and ordained 
ruling elder, in which office he continued to labor in the 
Sabbath and mission schools belonging to the congrega- 
tion until his death, April 16, 1861. Mr. Martien was a 
man of great enterprise and efficiency in the Church — 
faithful and conscientious in the discharge of every 
trust, wise in counsels, and eminently gifted in manage- 
ment. See Wilson, Presb. Hist. Almanac, 1862, p. 142. 
(J. L. S.) 

Martin (St.) of Braga, a prelate of the Roman 
Catholic Church, was born in Pannonia about the be- 
ginning of the 6th century. In his youth he visited 
the holy places of Palestine. He afterwards went to 
Galicia, in Spain, where he did much to preserve or- 
thodoxy among the population, which inclined strongly 
to Arianism. He established several convents there, 
and was himself abbot of Dumia until about 560. At 
that time he was made archbishop of Bracara, now 
Braga, in Portugal. As such he took part in the second 
Council of Bracara, in 563, against the Priscillianists and 
Arians. and in 572 presided over the third council at the 
same place on Church discipline. He died about 583. 
He was a very voluminous writer. Among his works 
we notice Formula honesUe vita: s. de dijfi rentiis quatuor 
rirtutum (in the Bibl. Pair. Lugd. x, 382 sq., and Gal- j 
landi Bibl. Patr. xii. 273 sq.).' This work Was very well 
received. The Sententue xEgyptiorum pat rum were not , 
translated from Greek into Latin by Martin, as some 
bare supposed, but by Paschasius, deacon of the convent 
of Dumia, at Martin’s instigation (llosweyd, Vit. Patr. | 


[An tv. 1615], p. 1002 sq.; see also Grasse, Tlandbuch d. 
ally. Literaturgesch. ii, 127). Some Latin poems of Mar- 
tin are to be found in Sismoudi, Opp. [cd.Ven.], ii, 653, 
and in Gallandi Bibl. Patr.). But more important than 
all these is his Collectio Orientalium Canonum , s. Capit- 
ida Ixxxiv collecta ex Gnecis synodis et versa, etc. (in 
Aguirre, Cone. Jlisp. ii, 327 sq., and Mansi, ix, 846 sq. ; 
see Florez, Esp. Sagr. iv, 151 sq.). It is a sort of trans- 
lated compilation of, with commentaries on, the acts of 
the Greek councils, adapted for the use of the Western 
Church. It is divided into two parts, the first contain- 
ing the canons concerning the clergy, the second those 
applying to the laity. Sec D. Czvittingeri Specimen 
llungarice literatce (Francf. and Lip. 1711); Schrockh, 
Kirchengesch. xvii, 392 sq. ; Herzog, Real-Encyklop. ix, 
122. (J. X. P.) 

Martin of Dunin, a noted Polish Roman Catholic 
prelate, was born in the village of Wal, near Rawa, 
Prussian Poland, Nov. 1 1, 1774. Until his twelfth year 
he was kept at the Jesuit school of Rawa ; was then en- 
tered a student at the Gymnasium of Bromberg; but, 
having determined to devote his life to the Church and 
her cause, he was sent to Rome, and became a student 
in the Collegium Germanicum in 1793. Upon the com- 
pletion of his studies, three years after, he was ordained 
subdeacon; later, by papal dispensation, successively dea- 
con and priest, when he returned to his native country, 
which had in the meantime lost its independence, and 
fallen a prey to the Russians, Austrians, and Prussians. 
Martin himself was now a Prussian subject, but he took 
a position in the diocese of Cracowa, and was thus in 
the employ of that portion of the Roman Catholic 
Church of Poland under control of the Austrian govern- 
ment. In 1808 the archbishop of Gnesen, count Rac- 
zynski, called him to Gnesen, and conferred upon Mar- 
tin first a canonieate in the metropolitan church, and 
shortly after made him auditor. Thereafter honors came 
fast and freely. In 1815 lie was made chancellor of the 
metropolitan chapter; in 1824 master of the Cathedral 
of Posen, and shortly after was intrusted by the Prus- 
sian government with the supervision of the Roman 
Catholic schools in the diocese. In 1829 he was pro- 
moted to the position of capitular vicar and general-ad- 
ministrator, and in 1831 was honored with the archie- 
piscopal chair of Gnesen and Posen. This position came 
to him in an hour when great discretion and strong 
nerve were required of Romish prelates on Prussian ter- 
ritory. The discontent of the Poles in 1830, and the re- 
bellion in which it resulted, caused the government of 
Frederick William 111 to look with suspicion upon the 
priesthood of the papal Church. It was a notorious 
fact that the latter was leagued with the revolutionists. 
Poland had ever been a devoted daughter of Rome; 
Prussia decidedly Protestant, the most daring opponent 
of papal interests. Could it be expected that the Ro- 
man Catholics would hesitate to work for the restoration 
of Polish independence? lias not even in our day the 
Prussian government all it can do to control the priest- 
hood in that section of her territory? Sec Posen. To 
prevent the further spread of revolutionary tendencies 
among the priesthood, the Prussian government inau- 
gurated a new policy, the execution of which resulted 
in a spirited contest between the representative of Rome, 
our Martin of Dunin. and the secular authority of t lie 
province of Posen. The difficulties commenced at the 
seat of the metropolitan. A school for the education of 
Romish priests was sustained at this place by the gov- 
ernment. Hitherto the instructors had been chosen by 
the Church for whose service it was intended, but now 
the government insisted upon its right to choose the in- 
cumbents of the. professorships. The archbishop pro- 
tested, but the government proceeded without any re- 
gard to his opposition. Fresh fuel was added to the 
liame in 1837. By the hull Magna: nobis admirationis , 
issued by pope Benedict XIV (June 27, 1748), mixed 
marriages were made possible only by special dispensa- 
tion from the pope, and, when permission was grant- 


MARTIN 


821 


MARTIN 


ed, the children of such unions were demanded for 
the Church of Rome. Poland had conceded this point 
to the Roman pontiff, hut the Prussian government in 
1837 declared that in its territory no such dispensation 
was needed, nor any understanding in regard to the re- 
ligious education of any children from such a union. 
This action on the part of the government the arch- 
bishop held to be illegal, and he stoutly asserted his 
right to dissent from the decision of all secular author- 
ity. Had lie rested here, and awaited the settlement of 
this difficulty between the pope of Rome and the king 
of Prussia, all would have been well. Martin, however, 
proceeded at once to inaugurate measures which clearly 
revealed him as a plotter against the government he had 
sworn to uphold, lie secretly entered into communica- 
tion with the clergy of his dioceses, and threatened with 
excommunication any and all priests who should obey 
the mandates of the government without his consent. 
Promptly the government, after hearing of this pro- 
cedure, arrested the archbishop, and brought him to 
trial, and he was condemned to six months’ confinement 
in a fortress, incapacitated for office, and burdened with 
the expense of his trial. Previous to his arrest the gov- 
ernment had addressed the Roman Catholics of the prov- 
ince of Posen, and had assured them of the preservation 
of their rights and privileges as heretofore, but, notwith- 
standing all these precautions, the priesthood remained 
firmly bound to the interests of their religious shepherd, 
and no sooner had Martin of Dunin been condemned 
and imprisoned at the fortress of Colberg (Oct. 4, 1839), 
than the Romanists of the two archiepiscopal secs went 
into mourning. Fortunately this difficulty occurred near 
the closing days of the reign of Frederick William III. 
The wife (now queen widow) of Frederick William IV 
(who came to the throne in 1840), herself a Roman 
Catholic, was no doubt instrumental in securing an un- 
derstanding between the archbishop and her royal spouse. 
Martin returned to Posen Aug. 5, 1840, and died Dec. 26. 
1842. See Pohl, Martin von Dunin (Marienburg, 1843, 
8vo); Aschbach, Kirchen-Leccikon, s. v. See also Prus- 
sia. (J.H.W.) 

Martin (St.) of Tours, a prelate of the Roman 
Catholic Church, was born in Pannonia about the year 
316. lie was educated at Pavia, and, at the desire of 
his father, who was a military man, entered the army 
under Constantine I, who was then emperor. When 
eighteen years old he became a convert to Christianity, 
was baptized, and a few years afterwards went to Gaul, 
and there became a pupil and follower of St. Hilarius 
(q.v.) Pictaviensis. He quitted the army, and zealous- 
ly devoted himself to the interests of orthodox Chris- 
tianity. On a visit to Lombardy, wishing to see his 
parents again, who were Arians, Martin reproved the 
inhabitants for their views. They took his liberty un- 
kindly; he was imprisoned and flogged by order of the 
magistrates of Milan. He then retired to a neighbor- 
ing village with a few adherents, but being again perse- 
cuted by Auxentius, the Arian bishop of Milan, he at- 
tempted to return to Gaul. That country, however, was 
also a prey to religious dissensions; Hilarius himself 
had been banished to Poitiers, and Martin therefore re- 
tired to the island of Gallinaria, in the Tyrean Sea. 
When St. Hilarius was restored to his Church in 360, 
Martin hastened back to him. and with his assent re- 
tired to the wilds in the neighborhood of Poitiers, at 
the place now called Liguge'. Here he was soon joined 
by others, and thus arose the convent of Liguge. probably 
the oldest monastic establishment of France. About 
370, Lidoire, bishop or archbishop of Tours, died, and the 
clergy of that diocese insisted upon Martin’s acceptance 
of the vacant see. He was finally persuaded to accept 
the office, but he governed the diocese like a convent, 
and always lived himself in the simple way to which 
he was accustomed at Liguge. He erected a convent 
which became the celebrated monastery of Marmoutiers, 
near Tours. Under his active and vigilant care the 
diocese attained great prosperity, while he himself be- 


came renowned for his talents and his virtues, not only 
in the neighboring parts, but even throughout Gaul. 
When Maximus, after the murder of Gratian, caused all 
the bishops of Gaul who had supported his rival to be 
deposed or imprisoned, Martin was sent by them to the 
court at Treves to protest against this violence, and suc- 
ceeded so well that the emperor released all the prison- 
ers. On another occasion, when the Spanish bishops 
Idacius and Ithacius besought Maximus to surrender 
Priscillian and his followers to the civil authorities, to 
be executed as heretics, Martin protested against such 
sanguinary orthodoxy, and when, notwithstanding his 
protests, Priscillian was executed by order of the empe- 
ror, Martin refused to hold any intercourse with those 
who had advocated that measure. This conduct dis- 
pleased the emperor, and when Martin, some time after, 
had occasion to ask the pardoning of Narces and Leoca- 
dius, accused of rebellion,, he granted it only on the con- 
dition that Martin would become reconciled with Itha- 
cius. Martin submitted, but left Treves at once, and it 
is said expressed himself sorry for having purchased the 
pardon of Narces and Leocadius at that price. He died 
at Candes about 396. His life by his contemporary, 
Sulpicius Severus, is a very curious specimen of the 
Christian literature of the age, and, in the profusion of 
miraculous legends with which it abounds, might take 
its place among the lives of the medieval or modern 
Roman Church. The only extant literary relic of Mar- 
tin is a short Confession of Faith on the Holy Trinity , 
which is published by Galland, Bill. Patr. vii, 559. He 
is the first who, without suffering death for the truth, 
has been honored in the Latin Church as a confessor of 
the faith. The festival of his birth is celebrated on the 
1 1th of November. In Scotland this day still marks the 
w’inter-term, which is called Martinmas (q.v.). In Ger- 
many, also, his memory continues to our day among 
the populace in the celebration of the Martinalia. See 
Gregorius Turon, 1 list. Francor. lib. x ; Gervaise, Vie de 
Saint Martin (IG99) ; Dupuy, I/istoire de Saint Martin 
(1852); Jean Maan, Metropoi. Turonensis ; Hist.Litt.de 
la France , i, 417; Gallia Christ, vol. xiv, col. 6 ; S chaff', 
Ch. I/ist. ii, 203 sq. ; Gieseler, Fccles. Hist, i, 278; Mon- 
talembert, Monks of the lUesf, vol. i, bk. iii ; Mrs. Jame- 
son, Sacred and Legendary Art , p. 720; Iloefer, Now. 
Bioy. Generate, xxxiv, 14; Herzog, Real-Encyklop. ix, 
126 sq. (J.II.W.) 

Martin of Treves, a Capuchin monk, was born 
about 1630, in the archbishopric of Treves. He took 
the cowl at an early age, and a little later became a lec- 
tor of theology ; but in consequence of a pestilence, 
whose ravages broke up his school in IG6G, he devoted 
himself to literature. A catechism issued by him was 
received with great favor by the public, and this suc- 
cess led to the publication of a great number of works 
for instruction and edification ; but, zealous for the glory 
of God and the honor of his Church, he did not confine 
his efforts to this field. He was indefatigable in preach- 
ing, in catechizing, and in missionary work, and during 
the course of his labors traversed nearly the whole of 
the archbishoprics ofMayence and Treves. His benevo- 
lent spirit found expression in the readiness with which 
he ministered to the diversified wants of the people, 
among whom the instruction of the unlearned and of 
children claimed his especial notice. He is even cred- 
ited with removing thorns and stones from the high- 
ways, and with placing stepping-stones in streams for 
the convenience of travellers. Withal, he was a thor- 
ough ascetic, eating neither flesh nor fish, and travel- 
ling without either hat or sandals in the most inclement 
weather; and he attended mass as often as possible each 
day for more than twenty years. As a teacher, he was 
wont to lay especial stress on the adoration of the mass 
and the worship of the Virgin, which doctrines he was 
often compelled to defend against opponents. He or- 
ganized a number of brotherhoods in the provinces of 
the Rhine, and rebuilt many churches that had been 
destroyed in the Thirty-years’ War, lie died, after a 


MARTIN 


822 


MARTIN 


brief illness, Sept. 10, 1712. ITis works, after being dis- 
regarded for a time, are again ottered to tbe public; 
they mostly consist of contributions to practical relig- 
ion. The most important are Christian Doctrine (Co- 
logne, 101)0) : — History of the Church (1093) : — Exposi- 
tion of the Mass (169 8):— Legends of Saints (1705); — 
An Essay on the Divine Perfections (Mayence, 1707): — 
Life of Christ (Mayence and Augsburg, 1708).— AVetzer 
u. Welte (R. C.), Kirchen-Lexikon, xii, 771 sq. (G. M.) 

Martin I, Pope, son of Fabrieius, a distinguished 
citizen of the Papal States, was called to the papal chair 
July 5, 640, as successor to Theodore 1. The emperor 
Constans II made every exertion to induce Martin to 
approve a decree he had promulgated in 659, forbidding 
discussions between the orthodox Romanists and the 
Monothelitcs. Martin, on the contrary, assembled a 
council at Rome (the first Lateran), without the emper- 
or’s consent, in Oct., 649, in which all heresies, and partic- 
ularly that of the Monothelites, were condemned, and the 
decrees of Heraclius and of Constans II denounced. (See 
for details the article Lateran Councils [1].) The 
emperor, enraged at this opposition, caused Martin to 
be taken prisoner, June 19, 653, and exiled him to the 
island of Naxos. On Sept. 17, 651, the pope was taken 
to Constantinople, and kept in prison there for six 
months. Put he bore all his trials with great firmness, 
refusing to be reconciled to the heretics, and was finally 
transported to the Thracian Chersonesus. There, in the 
midst of unfeeling barbarians, he had to suffer the great- 
est deprivations. Yet he bore it all with Christian pa- 
tience, and died Sept. 16, 655. His body was after- 
wards removed to Rome. He is commemorated by the 
Church of Rome Nov. 12. Eighteen encyclical letters 
attributed to Martin are published in the Bibliotheca 
Pat rum , and in Labbe’s Concilia. See F. Pagi, Brevia- 
rium , etc., complectans illustriora Pontifcum Romano- 
rum yesta conciliorum , etc.; Platina, Vitce Pot if Roman.; 
Artaud de Montor, /list, des sourerains Pontifes Ro- 
i nnins, vol. i : Power, Hist. Popes, iii, 44 sq. ; Riddle, Hist. 
Papacy , i, 297 ; Ilaur, Dreieinigkeitslehre , vol. i and ii ; 
Iloefer, Xouv. Biog. Generate, xxxiv, 18 ; Neander, Hist, 
of the Christian Religion and Church , iii, 186, 187, 188, 
191 ; Herzog, Real-Encyklopddie , ix, 122. (J. II. W.) 

Martin II (Marinus I), Pope, was born at Monte- 
fiascone. in the Papal States. lie was thrice sent to 
Constantinople (866, 868, 881) as papal legate to oppose 
the nomination of Photius as patriarch, but when he 
was elected pope, Dee. 23, 882, did not continue in the 
policy of his predecessor, John YIII, but reversed the 
condemnation of Photius, of bishop Formosus of Porto, 
and others. His reign lasted only fourteen months. 
He died Feb. 1 1, 884. See Fleury, Ilist.EccJ. iii, 542; 
F. Pagi, Breviarium Pontifcum Romanornm, etc.; Mu- 
ratori, Ann. ltal.; Artaud de Montor, Hist, des souve- 
rains Pontifes Remains, ii, 141; Power, Hist. Popes, v, 
101 sq. ; Riddle, Hist. Papacy, ii, 32 : Iloefer, Xouv. Biog. 
Generate, xxxiv, 18; Herzog, Real-Encyklopddie, ix, 
121 . 

Martin III (called by some Marinus II), Pope, a 
Roman by birth, succeeded Stephen VIII in 912. He 
died only four years after, and was succeeded by Aga- 
petns II. Martin III was a patron of learning, and a 
noble Christian exemplar. 

Martin IV (Simon de hi Brie) , Pope, was probably 
a native of Touraine, France, and of humble origin. lie 
was educated at Tours, and there entered the Franciscan 
order. St. Louis, king of France, favored him, and gave 
him a position at the church of St. Martin. In 1262 he 
was created cardinal by pope Urban IV. and by pope 
Gregory X was appointed apostolical legate to the 
French court. He continued in this olliceTinder the 
popes Hadrian Y, John XXRand Nicholas III ; but upon 
the decease of the last named (Aug. 22, 1280) be was 
elected successor in tbe papal chair in 1281, through the 
intiuence of Charles of Anjou, king of Sicily and Naples. 
The “ Sicilian Yespers” ( q . v.), in 1282, having ejected 


Charles of Sicily, Martin came to the support of his 
royal friend with all his influence, and even by the spir- 
itual censures he had at his command sought to main- 
tain French domination in Sicily. He excommunicated 
Peter of Aragon, whom the Sicilians had elected king; 
but his excommunication was of no more avail than the 
arms of the Angevins, for the Sicilians stood Arm against 
both. Martin also excommunicated the Byzantine em- 
peror Michael, and by this measure widened the breach 
between the Greek and Latin churches. He died in 
1285, and was succeeded by Honorius IY. It is to the 
use of the censures .of the Church in the unpopular cause 
of Charles of Anjou that many Church historians ascribe 
the decline and ultimate extinction of the authority iii 
temporals which the papacy had hitherto exercised. 
Not only did he lower the popular esteem of the papal 
authority, but he made himself a laughing-stock by his 
rashness and inability to make good his threats. Let- 
ters of this pope are found in D’Aclierv, Spicileg. iii, 684. 
His biography (Vita) was written by Bernard, Grindon, 
and by Muratori. See Muratori, Annuli d' Italia, vii, 
435-442 ; Artaud de Montor, Hist, des souverains Pon- 
tifes Romciins, iii, 55-63; Bower, Hist, ropes, vi, 824; 
Ilefele, Concilienrjcsch. vi, 188 sq. ; Leo, Gesch. v. Italien. 
vol. iv. (J. I LAV.) 

Martin V (Otto de Colonna ), pope from 1417 to 
1431, was the son of Agapetus de Colonna, and a de- 
scendant of one of the most ancient and illustrious fam- 
ilies of Italy. Martin studied canon law at Perugia, 
and on his return to his native city, Rome, was created 
by Urban Y1 prothonotary and referendary; by Boni- 
face IX nuncio to the States of Italy; under Innocent 
YII he received the appointment of cardinal deacon of 
St. George ad Aulicum Aureum ; and by John XXIII he 
was appointed apostolic legate for the patrimony of St. 
Peter, and vicar-general of the apostolic see in Umbria. 
When Gregory XII, because of a breach of his oath of 
office, became so unpopular as to be deserted by his car- 
dinals, Martin alone adhered to him steadfastly until he 
was deposed by the Council of Pisa. He was likewise 
a faithful supporter of his immediate predecessor, pope 
John, and even followed him in his flight from Con- 
stance, thus clearly foretokening the uncompromising 
stand which he afterwards took against all opposition 
to what he conceived to he the papal prerogative. 

The general discontent with the abusive reign of pope 
John XXIII, which Gerson, the noted chancellor of the 
University of Paris, had severely attacked, not even 
hesitating to say that the pontiff was “no longer ser- 
vant of servants, but John, the lord of lords,*' as well as 
other auspicious events, had resulted in the general 
Council of Constance (q. v.), whose moving spirits seemed 
determined on reform. Their two great objects were 
the restoration of the Church’s unity, and the reforma- 
tion of the abuses which had crept in. ( )ne of their 
first steps, largely influenced by tbe emperor Sigismund, 
was to depose pope John. There still remained, how- 
ever, two rival pontiffs. Benedict XIII and Gregory XII, 
each claiming the title of supreme head of the Church. 
The latter of these was induced to abdicate, and the for- 
mer, being without any temporal support, was ignored 
by the couneil. The election of a pope was forthwith 
considered. The choice fell upon cardinal Otto de Co- 
lonna by an overwhelming majority of the electors from 
the five nations represented in the council, and the 
unanimous vote of the cardinals. Neander (Ch. Hist. 
v, 126) thus narrates the proceedings for the election: 
‘‘The Germans set the example of sacrificing their own 
wishes and interests to the good of the Church, declar- 
ing themselves ready to give their votes for an Italian; 
they also prevailed on the English to yield. The French 
and Spaniards were refraetory at first : but finally, after 
the invocation of the Holy Ghost, *on St. Martin's day, 
in November, they were prevailed upon to give place 
for the llolv Spirit as a spirit of concord; and on the 
same day cardinal Otto of Colonna was chosen pope, af- 
ter the election had lasted three days.” The election 


MARTIN 


823 


MARTIN 


having taken place on St. Martin’s day, the new pope, 
in honor of that saint, assumed the title of Martin V. 
The whole assembly was in an ecstaey of joy at the re- 
sult, especially because it exhibited the unanimity of 
hitherto eontiieting parties. Martin was immediately 
invested with the papal robes and placed on the altar, 
where the emperor hastened to do him homage by kiss- 
ing his feet. 

But scarcely was Martin securely seated on the pon- 
tifical throne when the whole face of affairs at Con- 
stance changed, and it soon became evident that all 
intentions of reform, for which mainly the council had 
been called and John XXIII deposed, had been put 
away from the mind of Martin. Mild, but sagacious 
?md resolute, seeming to yield everything to the em- 
peror and council, he conceded nothing.” As early as 
April following his election (Noa\ 11, 1417), he dissolved 
the council, which had struggled through three years 
and a half for reform, without being any nearer the ac- 
complishment of their hopes than when they began, 
and the spirit of advance which had inspired the up- 
rising of Bohemia and the organization of the Lollards 
(q. v.) was crushed for a time, to rise only two centu- 
ries thence in a force that defied all opposition, and re- 
sulted in a schism nearly destroying the mother Church. 
So far from aiding a reform, Martin V’s first act was one 
of tyranny. “ The papal chancery had been the object 
of the longest, loudest, and most just clamor. The day 
after the election the pope published a brief confirming 
all the regulations established by his predecessors, even 
by John XXIII. . . . The form was not less dictatorial 
than the substance of the decree. It was an aet of the 
pope, not of the council. It was an absolute resump- 
tion of the whole power of reformation, so far at least 
as the papal court, into his own hands” (Milman, Latin 
Christianity , vii, 517). The Council of Constance, in- 
stead of shaking the papal supremacy, had, by the choice 
of Otto de Colonna, raised it higher than ever before by 
producing a pope who, as Iiomanists will have it, “ re- 
covered the waning reverence of Christendom.” Martin 
V was the product of no schism or party, but of the 
Church universal, and he was justilied in seeking such 
supremacy; nor do we wonder that, in the last con- 
sistory of the cardinals at Constance, Martin Vput forth 
a constitution by which, in direct contradiction to the 
principles so distinctly laid down at Constance, he di- 
rected that no one should be allowed to dispute any de- 
cision of the pope in matters of faith, and to appeal 
from him to a general couneil (Neander, v, 127). See 
Infallibilitv. From Constance the pope proceeded 
to Florence, where he was received with the greatest 
official respect, and where he remained for three years, 
during which interval all opposition, in the form of 
anti-popery, virtually died out. lie then proceeded to 
Borne, where he was also received with demonstrations 
of great joy, and honored with the title of the Father of 
his Country . He set himself with great energy to the 
task of restoring the fallen glory of the Eternal City, 
and so well did lie succeed that he received the addi- 
tional title of Romulus the Second. By his address and 
superior sagacity, Martin V succeeded in bringing a pro- 
tracted cpiarrel with Alphonso of Aragon to a termina- 
tion, which at once secured his own ends and pacified a 
stubborn adversary. At the Council of Constance the 
next general council was appointed to meet, five years 
later, at Pavia. Accordingly such a council was actu- 
ally opened there in the year 1423, but, on account of the 
spread of the pestilence called the Black Death, it was 
dissolved and transferred to Sienna. But at Sienna also 
only a few sessions were held ; and, on the pretence that 
the small number of prelates assembled did not author- 
ize the continuance of the council, in conformity with 
the determination of the Couneil of Constance, the next 
meeting was appointed to be held seven years later, in 
the year 1431, at Basle (comp. Fisher [G. 1\], The Ref- 
ormation [N. Y. 1873, 8vo], p. 43). See J ulian, Cardi- 
nal. This council was intended to close the difficulty with 


the Hussites (q. v.), whose leaders Marfin V had so sum- 
marily disposed of at Constance (q. v.), and to effect the 
reunion of the Greek Church. At this important crisis 
he died, in Rome, of an apopletie fit, in February, 1431. 
As a man, Martin Y was of that class who form their 
determinations deliberately and adhere to them steadily, 
and, if necessary, doggedly. He was possessed of great 
administrative ability. He has been accused of avarice, 
though perhaps unjustly. lie certainly favored learn- 
ing, and the palaces of his cardinals were the schools of 
advancement for the youth of Italy. He has also been 
charged, and with greater justice, with nepotism, an in- 
stance of which is the appointment of his nephew at 
the age of fourteen as arelideaeon of Canterbury. The 
main features of his reign arc the pacification of Italy, 
the restoration of peace between France and England, 
the rebuilding of Rome, and the Avars against Bohemia. 
He Avas succeeded by pope Engenins IV. See BoAver, 
llist. Popes , A'ii, 200 sq. ; Neander, Ch. Hist, x , 120 sq. ; 
Milman, Lat. Christianity , vii, 513 sq. ; Muratori, Script. 
iii, p. ii ; Leo, Gescli. v. Italien , iv, 520 sq. ; Trollope, Hist. 
Florence , A'ol. ii (see Index in vol. n r ); Reichel, Roman 
See in Middle Ayes , p. 492 sq. ; Life of Cardinal Julian, 
p. 18, 57 sq., 90 sq., 103, 120 sq., 243 sq., 338; Gillett, 
Huss and Hussites, ii, 335 sq.; Ffoulkes, Divisions of 
Christendom, vol. ii, ch. vi, p. 83, 134; Butler (C. M.), 
Eccles. Hist, ii, 109-113; Waddington, Ch. Hist. p. 105, 
110, 137, 142, 190; Jahrh. deutsch. Theol , 1871, iii, 564. 
(J. D. II.) 

Martin, Andre, a French ecclesiastic and philoso- 
pher, AA-as born in Poitou in 1621 ; AA'as admitted to the 
oratory in 1041, and instructed in philosophy. In 1679 
lie became a professor of theology at Sauinur, but Avas 
suspended some time after, because aceused of Jansen- 
ism. He died at Poitiers, Sept. 20, 1C95. He AA’as one 
of the earliest adA’oeates of the Cartesian philosophy, 
and Avrote Rhilosophia M oralis Christiana (Angers, 
1053). See Hoefer, Xouv. Bioy. Generale, xxxi\ r , 32. 

Martin, Asa, a Presbyterian minister, Avas born in 
Washington Co., Ind., Oct. 19, 1814. He Avas educated 
at Marietta College, Marietta, Ohio; studied theology 
privately; Avas licensed by Salem Presbytery, and in 
1843 ordained pastor of Mount Vernon Church, Ind. In 
1848 he became pastor of Hartford Church, Ind. ; in 1852, 
of Bloomfield, IoAA*a ; in 1854, of West Grove, IoAva ; in 
1861, of Olivet, in Mahaska Co., IoAva, Avliere he died, 
Nov. 9, 1805. Mr. Martin Avas a man of retiring man- 
ners, a faithful pastor, an excellent presbyter, and an 
earnest and sound preacher. See Wilson, Fresh. Hist. 
Almanac, 1867, p. 312. (J. L. S.) 

Martin, Claude, a French theologian, A\'as born at 
Tours in 1019. He had scarcely attained tAveh’e years 
of age Avhen he Avas abandoned by his mother, Avho en- 
tered the conA'ent of the L T rsulines. After haA'ing stud- 
ied for some time in tlie city of Orleans, he entered the 
Order of the Benedictines. In 1054 he Avas appointed 
prior of Blanes-Manteaux. He aftenvards filled the 
same charge at Saint-Corneille de Compiegne, at Saint- 
Serge d’ Angers, at Bonne-NouA’clle de Rouen, and at Mar- 
moutiers. He died Aug. 9, 1696. Martin Avas distin- 
guished both for great learning and deep piety. His 
AA’orks are Meditations Chretiennes pour les Dimanehes, les 
ferns, et les principules fetes de Vannee (Paris, 1009, 2 
vols. 4to) : — Conduite pour la retraite du tnois (Paris, 
1070, 12mo) : — Pratique de la regie de Saint- Benoit (Par- 
is, 1674, 12mo) : — Vie de la venerable mere Marie de V In- 
carnation, super ieure eles Ursulines en Canada (Paris, 
1077, 4to) : — Meditation pour la fete et pour V octave de 
sainte Ursule (Paris, 1078, lOmo), — Hoefer, Nouv. Bioy. 
Generale, vol. xxxiii, s. a'. 

Martin, C. F., a Congregational minister, AA’as born 
in Illinois about 1821. lie Avas educated at Knox Col- 
lege, Galesburg, Illinois ; taught in an academy at Lis- 
bon, Illinois, four years, and then entered the Union The- 
ological Seminary, NeAv York City, to prepare for the 
ministry. Upon the completion of his studies, he Avas 


MARTIN 


824 


MARTIN 


sent by the American Missionary Society to act as mis- 
sionary among the Copts in Egypt. His health failing 
liim, lie •svas obliged to return after a three years’ stay in 
the East. Later he became pastor of the Congregational 
Church in Peru. Illinois, and remained there until 1803, 
when he was appointed associate secretary of the west- 
ern branch of the American Tract Society. lie labored 
among the soldiers at Chattanooga until he fell in the 
work, March 7, 1804. 


Martin, David, a French 1’rotestant theologian, 
was born at Level, Languedoc, in 1030. 1 le studied phi- 
losophy at Nismes, and theology at Puy-Laurens. Af- 
ter acting as pastor at several places, he was obliged to 
leave France in consequence of the revocation of the 
Edict of Nantes : so great was the consideration he en- 
joyed that Roman Catholics themselves assisted him to 
flee, lie next became pastor at Utrecht, and, although 
invited to Deventer as professor of theology in 1G86, and 
to Haag in 1695, he remained attached to his congrega- 
tion. He died at Utrecht in 1721. He wrote three vol- 
umes of sermons, some polemical and apologetic works, 
and some critical essays, all of which give evidence of 
his learning and talent. The most important of his 
works are Le Nouveau Testament , expUque par des notes 
courtes et claires (Utrecht, 1696,4to): the notes are part- 
ly dogmatic, partly literary, and were subsequently used 
by the editor of the French Roman Catholic translation 
of the N. T. published at Brussels (1700, 4 vois. 12mo) : 
— Ilistoire (lit Vieux et du Nouveau Testament (Amst. 
1700, 2 vols. folA. It contained some magnificent cop- 
per-plate engravings, and was often reprinted. But 
Martin’s chief claim on posterity lies in his revision of 
the Geneva version of the Bible, which he undertook 
at the request of the Walloon communities. It appear- 
ed in 1707 (Amst. 2 vols. fol.), and was often reprinted in 
8vo. The first edition contained theological and crit- 
ical notes, with a general introduction, and special ones 
appended to each book; these, however, were omitted 
in the subsequent popular editions. It was approved 
by the Synod of Leuwarden in 1710. Martin’s transla- 
tion, subsequently revised by Osterwald, is still the one 
most in use in the Protestant churches of France. 
Among his other works we notice Sermons sur divers 
textes de VEcriture Sainte (Amst. 1708. 8vo) : — V. Excel- 
lence de la foi et de ses effets , cxpliquee en xx sermons 
(Amst. 1710, 2 vols. 8vo ): — Traite de la Religion nat- 
urelle (Amst. 1713, Svo ; translated into Dutch in 1720, 
English in 1720, and German in 1735 ): — Le vrai sens 
du Psaume ex (Amst. 1715, 8vo). His dissertation on 
natural religion caused quite a long and spirited contro- 
versy 7 with the Arian Emlyn (q. v.). See Niceron, Me- 
moires , vol. xxi ; Chaufepie, Diet, hist.; Prosper JNIar- 
chand, Diet,; Navral, Biog. Cast raise, vol. ii; Ilaag, La 
France Protestante, vol. vii ; lloefer, Nouv. Biog. Gene- 
rale , xxxiv, 34; Herzog, Rcal-Encyklop. ix, 130. 


Martin, Enoch R., a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in Washington Co., lnd., about the year 1811. He 
received a good common-school education; studied the- 
ology privately; was licensed by Cincinnati Presbytery, 
and ordained bv Salem Presbytery in 1836. He preach- ! 
cd for several years to the Mt. Vernon and Utica church- 
es, in Clark Co., Ind. ; thence removed to Jefferson Co., 
lnd., and preached to the Mizpeh, Sharon, and Mt. Ver- 
non churches, and afterwards became pastor of Sharon 
Church, 111. In 1862 he accepted a call to the Pisgali 
and Sharon eluirehes, Ind. lie died Nov. 26, 1863. Air. 
Martin was a very useful minister, and a sincere Chris- 
tian; lie did much for the cause of education and the | 
suppression of intemperance. See Wilson, Presb. Hist. 
Almanac , 1865, p. 167. (J. L. S.) 

Martin, Gregory, an English Roman Catholic the- I 
ologian of the 16th century, was a native of Sussex, and 
was admitted a scholar of St. John’s College, Oxford, in 
1557. He became professor of Hebrew at Douay, and 
subsequently at Rheims, lie died in 1582. lie is sup- 
posed to have been the author, or one of the authors, of ] 


the Rheims translation of the New Testament, and of 
the Old Testament in the Douav version. He wrote 
several theologico-controversial pamphlets, among them 
A Discovery of the manifold Corruptions of the Jlolg 
Scriptures by the Heretics of our Days , specially the Eng- 
lish Sectaries (printed in Fulke’s Defence of the Trans - 
lations , Parker Society 7 , 1843). — Alii bone, Diet, of Brit, 
and A mer. A nth. s. v. ; Darling, Cgclop. Bibliog. s. v. 

Martin, Jacques de, a French ecclesiastic, noted 
as a writer on philosophical subjects, yvas born in the 
diocese of Mirepoix, May 11, 1684 ; yvas educated at Tou- 
louse ; entered the order of the Congregation of St. Maur 
in 1709; taught the humanities at Sorize; yvent to Par- 
is in 1727, and died there Sept. 5, 1751. lie was a mul- 
tifarious yvriter, and possessed an unusual acquaintance 
yvitli the most diversified subjects of learning. But he 
yvas censured for the immodesty of his illustrations. His 
most important work is La Religion des Gaulois (Paris, 
1727, 2 vols. 4to), in yvhich he attempts to prove that the 
religion of the Gauls yvas derived from that of the patri- 
archs; and that, consequently, an illustration of their 
religious ceremonies must tend to throyv light on many 
dark passages in the Scriptures. He yvrote also Expli- 
cations de j)lusieur$ textes dijficiles de VEcriture Sainte : 
— Be Vorigine de I'dme. selon le sentiment de Saint A u- 
gustin (1736, 12mo). See lloefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate , 
xxxiv, 37. 

Martin, James, a Presbyterian minister, yvas horn 
in Union District, S. C., May 14, 1801. lie graduated at 
the North Carolina University, at Chapel Hill, N. C., in 
1825; studied divinity under the care of Dr. Cunning- 
ham, of Concord Church, Green Co., Ala. ; yvas licensed 
in 1827, and soon after ordained as a domestic mission- 
ary in West Florida and South Alabama. In 1830 he 
took charge of the churches at Linden and Prairie Bluffs, 
Ala. ; in 1837 moved to Louisville, Miss., where he or- 
ganized a Church; in 1841 became pastor of a Church 
at Multona Springs, Miss.; in 1848 remoy-ed to Memphis, 
Tenn., where he taught school till 1850, when he yvent 
to Arkansas, and organized several churches. He died 
Sept. 14, 1863. Mr. Martin possessed an excellent mind ; 
his education was sound and classical, his piety dey'out 
and habitual. See Wilson, Presb. Hist, Almanac, 1867, 
p. 445. (J. L. S.) 

Martin, J olin (I), an English Baptist minister of the 
18th century, yvas in early life a mechanic; but, brought 
under the influence of Gospel teaching, he studied, and 
became the minister of a Baptist congregation at Lon- 
don. lie published a number of occasional Sermons 
and theological treatises (1763-1807). Of these, the 
most important yvas The Conquest of Canaan (Lond. 
1797, 12mo). Of his occasional sermons, the one on Acts 
xiy r , 7, deserves special mention, entitled The Gospel 
of our Salvation (Loud. 1796, S\’o). Besides, there yvere 
published three volumes of his sermons, one treating of 
The Character of Christ (1793, 8vo) ; the other tyvo 
yvere edited by Thomas Palmer (1817, 2 \'ols. 8vo). John 
Martin is described by Ivimy (Baptists') as “a man of 
strong mental powers,” and as a truly “evangelical 
preacher.” See his Autobiography (1797, J2mo). See 
also Darling, Cyclop. Bibliog. s. v. ; Alii bone, Did. Brit, 
and A mer. A vth. s. v. 

Martin, John (2), an English painter of Biblical 
subjects, yvas born near Hexham, Northumberland, Jidy 
19, 1789; yvent to London in 1806. and, after some years 
spent in obscure struggles, made his first appearance as 
an exhibitor at the Royal Academy in 1812. His pict- 
ure yvas entitled Sadah in Search of the Waters of Ob- 
livion, and attracted much notice. Jt yvas followed 
within two years by the Expulsion from Paradise , Cly- 
tee, and Joshua commanding the Sun to stand still. The 
last of these yvorks was a great success in point of popu- 
larity, but it yvas also the cause of a quarrel between 
Martin and the English Academy, in consequence of 
yvhich he ney'er obtained any distinction from the soci- 
ety. From this period till nearly the close of his life 


MARTIN 


825 


MARTIN 


he incessantly painted pictures in a style which was 
considered “sublime” by the same sort of people who 
thought Montgomery’s Satan and Pollok’s Course of 
Time equal to Paradise Lost. The principal of these 
productions are Belshazzar's Feast (1821) ; Creation 
(1824) ; The Deluge (1826) ; The Fall of Nineveh (1828) ; 
Pandemonium (1841) ; Morning and Evening (1844) ; The 
Last Man (1850). He died at Douglas, Isle of Man, 
Feb. 0, 1854. — Chambers, Cyclop, s. v. See Autobiog- 
raphy of John Martin in the Athenceum (1854). 

Martin, John Nicholas, a distinguished minis- 
ter of the Lutheran Church, was born in the duchy of 
Deux Ponts, or Ziceibriicken , in Rhenish Bavaria, and 
came to this country about the middle of the 18tli cen- 
tury, in company with a Lutheran colony, as their spir- 
itual teacher. They landed in Philadelphia with the 
intention of settling permanently on the rich soil of 
Pennsylvania, but, as the land they desired could not be 
procured, they passed on to the valley of the Shenan- 
doah, whither many of the German emigrants had al- 
ready been attracted; but the congregation to which 
Mr. Martin ministered dually determined to locate in 
South Carolina, in a district between the Broad and Sa- 
luda rivers, a favorite spot with the Germans of that 
day in the South. The German population in this re- 
gion increased fast, and Lutheran churches were estab- 
lished on both sides of the rivers. Here Martin re- 
mained for many years, all the time officiating in his 
vernacular German. In 1776 he took charge of the 
Lutheran Church in Charleston. This was his last field 
of labor. Many reminiscences of his life and services 
during this eventful period of our country’s history are 
still preserved. The American Revolution interrupted 
the peaceful course of liis ministry, and exposed him to 
various annoyances and trials. His naturally ardent 
temperament, as well as his love of liberty, led him to 
espouse the cause of the American colonics with great 
zeal and patriotic devotion. lie was closely watched 
by the enemy; and when it was ascertained that he 
would not pray for the king, and that his ministrations 
were not favorable to the royal cause, his pulpit labors 
were interdicted, he was put under arrest, and a guard 
placed over him. Subsequently his property was con- 
fiscated, and he driven from the city. He remained in 
the interior of the state until the conclusion of the war. 
On his return in 1783, although aged and liis physical 
vigor gone, his congregation still clung to him. They 
urged him to resume his pastoral relations; but he min- 
istered to them only until a regular pastor could be 
procured for them from Germany. In 1787 he was re- 
leased from further service, with a vote of thanks for the 
fidelity with which he had ministered to the spiritual 
interests of his people. He now retired to his little farm 
near the city, II is physical as well as mental powers 
gradually failed him, and lie closed his honored and 
useful life July 27, 171)5, illustrating in his death the 
principles which through a long life he had advocated. 
Mr. Martin was faithfully devoted to his work, and ex- 
ceedingly useful as a minister of the Gospel. He pos- 
sessed an integrity that no considerations of personal 
interest or expediency could seduce from the straight 
line of duty. He was a man of great courage and deci- 
sion, firm and persistent in the maintenance of his prin- 
ciples, with an energy of will and a zeal which no dis- 
couragements could repress and no failure abate. In 
the vindication of what he believed was the truth, he 
was prepared for any emergency. The people appre- 
ciated his sagacity, and relied on his clear, practical 
judgment. He steadfastly devoted himself to their in- 
terests. It was the constant burden of his heart and 
the earnest purpose of his life to honor Christ in the 
salvation of souls. lie was regarded by the community 
in which lie lived as a great blessing. His death was 
considered a public calamity. (31. L. S.) 

Martin, Margaret Maxwell, a lady Methodist 
noted as a writer, was born at Dumfries, Scotland, in 


1807, emigrated to America, and was married in 1836 to 
the Rev. William Martin, a Methodist divine. She has 
published Methodism , or Christianity in Earnest , and 
other religious works. 

Martin Mar-Prelate, Controversy of. Abont 
1580, the year of the Armada, there appeared in Eng- 
land a number of tracts — “a series of scurrilous libels in 
which the queen, the bishops, and the rest of the con- 
forming clergy, were assailed with every kind of con- 
tumely” (Hardwick, Ch. Hist. p. 256) — written probably 
by some radicals of the Puritan camp when the contro- 
versy between the Church and the Puritans was wax- 
ing hot. Marsden says “ there is some reason to believe 
that the whole was a contrivance of the Jesuits.” The 
charge against the latter is based, however, only upon 
supposition, and deserves no encouragement. The pub- 
lic printing-presses being at the time, shut against the 
Puritans, all their printing had to be done secretly, and 
it is therefore difficult to determine the origin of the 
“Martin Mar-Prelate” tracts. The Puritan divines Udal 
and Penrv, on their trials, were charged with the au- 
thorship, or with a wilful knowledge of the authors; but 
they refused to make any revelations, and the real au- 
thorship of these once dreaded and proscribed, but now 
ludicrous lampoons, remains a mystery. Their titles 
and contents are given somewhat in detail by Neale, 
Hist, of the Puritans (Harpers’ edit, i, 190 sq.). They 
were reprinted as Puritan Disc. Tracts (Loud. 1843). 
See also 31 askell, II 1st. of the M artin Mar-Prelate Contro- 
versy (Lond. 1845); Marsden, Early Puritans, p. 198 sq. ; 
id. Hist, of Christian Churches and Sects, i, 131 ; Hunt, 
Religious Thought of England, i, 72. (J. II. W.) 

Martin, Saint-, Marquis Louis Claude de, called 
“the Unknown Philosopher,” a noted French mystic, was 
born at Amboise (Touraine) Jan. 18,1743; was educated 
for the bar; preferred a military life, and, through the 
influence of31.de Choiscul, obtained a commission. The 
regiment to which he was assigned contained several 
officers who had been initiated into a sort of mystical 
freemasonry by the Portuguese mystic 3Iartinez Pas- 
qualis; he soon became enamored with mystical doc- 
trines, and read largety in that line. 3Iysticism, how- 
ever, was at that time confined to rather narrow limits 
in France ; the mind of nearly the whole country was ab- 
sorbed in the rising school of materialism, and to com- 
bat the latter became the task of our obscure officer of 
the regiment of Foix. Saint-3fartin soon threw up his 
commission, and gave himself wholly to writing and 
meditation, bent to crush, by every means in his power, 
the cold, heartless form of speculation which was then 
I everywhere the order of the day. First he translated the 
works of Jacob Boelime; but finally he originated a re- 
ligious mysticism, which, according to 3Iorcll {Hist, of 
Philos. in the 19 th Cent. p. 208), consisted of the principles 
oft lie Cambridge Platonist Ilenry 3Iore, “reared up under 
the guidance of a versatile and enthusiastic spirit, as a 
barrier against the philosophical sensationalism of Con- 
dillac and the religious scepticism of Voltaire.” But as 
all mystical schools have sooner or later found their 
natural issue in fanaticism, so Saiut-3Iartin also struck 
against this self-same rock, and, despite the guarded 
manner in which he handled theological questions, the 
heresies contained in his writings are neither few nor 
small. Yet, notwithstanding many feats and vagaries 
of an ultra eccentric description, Saint-31artin has left us 
one of the best refutations of sensualist errors on record, 
and his influence against the materialism of the 18th 
century has to our very day failed to receive the recog- 
nition deserved. AVith his eyes fixed upon the invisi- 
ble world, he passed unscathed through all the horrors 
of the French Revolution ; he saw the Reign of Terror, 
the Directory, the Consulate, and quietly and happily 
closed a life of great literary activity at Aulnay, near 
Paris, Oct. 13, 1803. 

Among Saint -3rartin’s achievements, his victory 
over the sensationalist Garat deserves especial notice. 


MARTIN 


820 


MARTINDALE 


“The legislators of the first French Revolution, in their 
attempt to remodel society after the Reign of Terror, 
had taken as their code of laws, and as their universal 
panacea, a debasing theory, which they, however, imag- 
ined would regenerate the world, and according to which 
they most naturally therefore wished to train the new 
generation. Such was the origin of the Ecole Xormale, 
subsequently remodelled and organized by Napoleon, 
and still rendering the greatest services as a seminary of 
teachers. Saint-Martin had been sent by the district he 
inhabited to attend the lectures delivered in that school, 
and, of course, was expected to receive as sound gospel 
the teaching of the celebrated philosopher Garat, whose 
prelections on £ ideology’ were scarcely anything else 
but a rechauffe of Condillac, dressed up with much taste, 
but still more assurance. A disciple of Jacob Bcehme, 
the young mystic, felt that what society required was 
not the deification of matter, nor the Encyclopedic made 
easy; he boldly rose up to refute the professor, and, by 
a reference to the third volume of the Debuts des Ecoles 
Nor males, the reader can follow all the circumstances of 
a discussion which ended in Garat's discomfiture. M. 
Caro (Saint-Martin’s biographer) has supplied a valuable 
resume of the whole affair — an extremely important epoch 
in the life of Saint-Martin.” M. Caro, in his Essai sur la 
vie et la Doctrine de Saint-Martin (Paris. 185G), has giv- 
en a complete list of Saint-Martin’s works. They are 
rather numerous. The best are the following : Des Er - 
rears et de la Ye rite, oil les homines rappeles an Principe 
unirersel de la Science (1775); V Ilomme de Desir ; and 
De V Esprit des C hoses, ou coup d'ail Philosophiques sur 
la nature des ctres , et sur Vobjet de leur existence (1800, 2 
vols. 8vo). These supply a clue to the main features of 
the authors character, and by a careful study of them 
we are enabled to ascertain the exact position he occu- 
pies in the gallery of modern metaphysicians. 

M. Dam iron, in reviewing the life and works of Saint- 
Martin (Archives Litte retires, 1804). affords us the fol- 
lowing resume of Skint-Martin’s views : “ The system of 
Saint-Martin aims at explaining everything by means of 
man. Man is to him the key to every phenomenon, and 
the image of all truth. Taking, therefore, literally the 
famous oracle of Delphi, ‘Nosce te ipsum,’ he maintains 
that, if we would fall into no mistakes respecting exist- 
ence, and the harmony of all beings in the universe, we 
have only to understand ourselves, inasmuch as the body 
of mail has a necessary relation to everything visible, 
and his spirit is the type of everything that is invisible. 
What wc should study, then, are the physical faculties, 
whose exercise is often influenced by the senses and ex- 
terior objects, and the moral faculties or the conscience, 
which supposes free-will. It is in this study that wc 
must seek for truth, and we shall find in ourselves all 
the necessary means of arriving at it:” this it is which 
our author calls natural revelation. For example : “ The 
smallest attention,” he says, “suffices to assure us that 
we can neither communicate nor form any idea without 
its being preceded by a picture or image of it, engen- 
dered by our own understanding; in this way it is that 
we originate the plan of a building or any other work. 
Our creative faculty is vast, active, inexhaustible; but, 
in examining it closely, we see that it is only secondary, 
temporary, dependent, i. e. that it owes its origin to a 
creative faculty, which is superior, independent, and uni- 
versal, of which ours is but a feeble copy. Man, there- 
fore, is a type, which must have a prototype, and that 
prototype is God.” This extract affords a fair insight, 
v/e think, iuto the philosophical mysticism by which 
Saint-Martin attempted to supplant the shallow mate- 
rialism and growing infidelity of his age, and to induce 
his countrymen to take a deeper insight into the consti- 
tution of the human mind, ami its close connection with 
the divine. Sec, besides M. Caro’s work above alluded to, 
1 )amiron, Me moires pour serrir d I'histoire de philosophic 
au 18" siecle , vol. i ; Malter, Saint-Martin, lx Philosophe 
■inconnu (18G2) ; Morel], History of Modem Philosophy , p. 
208, 200; London Quarterly Review, 185G (Jan.); i857 


(April), p. 177 ; Methodist Quarterly Review , 1863 (April), 
p. 339. (J. H. W.) 

Martin, Sarah, an English philanthropist, was 
bom near Yarmouth in 1791, and died in 1843. She 
was distinguished for her labors in the cause of prison 
reform. See Brief Biographies , by Samuel Smiles; 
Rev. Erskine Neale, Christianity and Infidelity Contrast- 
ed; Edinburgh Review (April), 1847. 

Martin, Thomas, an English jurist noted for the 
part he took in the Marian persecution, was born at 
Cerne, in Dorsetshire, in the first half of the lGth cen- 
tury, and was educated at Winchester School and at 
New College, Oxford. In 1555 he was made chancellor 
of the diocese of Winchester. Martin wrote in Latin, 
Life of William of Wykeham, the founder of New Col- 
lege. He vehemently opposed the marriage of priests, 
and thus also created considerable excitement. lie also 
took part with Story in the trial of archbishop Cranmer 
at Oxford, lie died in 1584. See Hook, Eccles. Biog . 
s. v. ; Strype, A muds ; Wood, A thence Oxon . 

Martin, William Wisner, a Presbyterian min- 
ister, was born in Rahway. N. J., Dee. 18, 1837. He re- 
ceived a most careful parental training ; pursued liis pre- 
paratory studies in the Academy at Brooklyn, N. Y.; 
graduated at Yale College, as salutatorian of his class, 
in I860; studied divinity at the Union Theological 
Seminary, New York City, where he graduated in 18G3; 
and was immediately licensed and ordained as a home 
missionary to the Pacific coast. On his arrival there, 
he began his labors in Sonora, and joined Sierra Nevada 
Presbytery; thence lie supplied the Howard Street 
Church, San Francisco, for a few months, and subse- 
quently accepted a call from the Church at San Jose', 
but, before his installation took place, was taken ill and 
died, Oct. 1G, 18G5. Mr. Martin was characterized by 
an exceedingly frank and genial disposition, clear and 
discriminating habits of thought, and thorough, decided 
Christian principles. See Wilson, Presb. Hist. Almanac, 
1867, p. SI I. (J.L.S.) 

Martin Brethren, or Knights of the Order of St. 
Martin of Mctyence, were organized in 1294 by arch- 
bishop Gerhard, and renewed by archbishop Berthold 
in 1497, and flourished until the days of the French Rev- 
olution. Their object was the attainment of a godly 
life, brotherly love among the knights, ami protection 
of the holy faith. Their sign was a golden shield, with 
a picture of St. Martin. — Regensburg Allgem . Encyhlop. 
s. v. Martinsbruder. 

Martina, a Christian martyr in the reign of the ty- 
rant Maximin, was a noble and beautiful virgin of 
Rome, who for the sake of Christ suffered manifold tor- 
tures, which were finished at length by the sword of the 
executioner, A.l). 235. Multitudes of Christians, in the 
course of this three years’ persecution, were slain with- 
out trial, and buried indiscriminately in heaps, fifty or 
sixty being sometimes cast into a pit together. — Fox, 
Martyrs, p. 25, 2G. 

Martinalia. See Martinmas. 

Martindale, Stephen, a minister of the Meth- 
odist Episcopal Church, was born in Maryland in 1788, 
and entered the itinerant ministry in 1808. He contin- 
ued in active service for fifty-three years, filling the 
most important appointments in the Philadelphia and 
New York conferences. For twenty years he held the 
office of presiding elder on the Rliinebeck, Long Island, 
Prattsville, New York, and Poughkeepsie districts. In 
all these posts his fidelity, prudence, and capacity were 
amply shown ; and through his long term of ministerial 
service he maintained an unblemished and even exalted 
reputation. He was elected to nearly every General 
Conference between 1820 and 185G. lie died at Tarry- 
town, N. Y., May 23, 1860. See Smith, Memorials X. Y. 
and X. Y. East Conf. p. 127. 

Martindale, Theodore Dwight, a minister of 
the Methodist Episcopal Church, was born, of Congre- 


MARTINET 


827 


MARTINI 


gational parents, at Greenfield, Mass., Nov. 28, 1820; 
was educated at the Western Reserve Seminary ; taught 
for a time after his conversion ; served in the local min- 
istry for several years; was admitted into the Ohio Con- 
ference in the fall of 1852, and appointed to Blendon 
Circuit. His subsequent appointments were Maysville, 
Marietta, Logan, Piekerington, and Newark, when, in 
1802, iiis connection with the Conference was dissolved, 
and thenceforth he sustained the relation of loeal preach- 
er. In the fall of 1871 the presiding elder of the Zanes- 
ville District, at the request of the Cireuit, appointed 
him as a supply with the venerable David Smith on the 
Hebron Charge, in the bounds of which he resided. He 
entered upon the work with commendable zeal and with 
general acceptability, but died on April 7, 1872. He was 
gifted and fluent in language, and his pulpit efforts gen- 
erally ranged above mediocrity. See S. C. Hiker, in I Vest. 
Christ . Advocate , July 10, 1872. 

Martinet, Louis-Fran^ois, a Homan Catholic di- 
vine, was born at Epernay, diocese of liheims, April 19, 
1753. At the age of sixteen he entered the regular 
canons of the Congregation of France, and during his 
course of studies at the abbey of St. Genevieve, of Paris, 
he was particularly favored by his superiors, who early 
made him teacher of philosophy and theology. Or- 
dained priest at the age of twenty-five, he was made 
prior of Daon, in the diocese of Angers. It, was in this 
capacity that he was elected delegate to the provincial 
assembly of the clergy of Anjou, and later to the states- 
general of 1789. Faithful to the principles of the minor- 
ity of the Constituent Assembly, he was constantly op- 
posed to the legislative measures whieh, under the sem- 
blance of a useful reform, had a destructive and ruinous 
object. He succeeded in escaping persecution, and em- 
igrated to England. There he did not share in the il- 
lusions of his companions in exile of a speedy return to 
France ; and, with a view to exercising his ministry 
usefully, he applied himself to the study of English. 
Gifted with indefatigable industry, and severely ascetic 
in his habits, lie was enabled to regulate his time judi- 
ciously, and thus attain great success. In 1804 he re- 
turned to France, and at the period of the concord;, t was 
elected priest of Courbevoie. He passed from there to 
the parish of Saint-Leu-Saint-Giles, at Haris. It is to 
Martinet that we owe the preservation of the church of 
Saint-Leu; and, notwithstanding the opposition of M. 
Frochot, the prefect of the Seine, he succeeded in inter- 
esting powerful protectors, and the church was not aban- 
doned. They even ^donated to him considerable funds 
for the reparation and embellishment of the edifice. In 
1820 he was made priest of the parish church of Saint- 
Laurent, and, although advanced in age, his zeal and 
activity did not diminish in his administration. He 
died May 30, 1836. Martinet was one of the most wor- 
thy priests of the elergy of Paris. A knowledge of a 
great variety of subjects, an unbiassed, dear, and me- 
thodical mind, a pleasing and easy elocution, were in- 
creased by that urbanity of manner, that delicacy of 
tact, and that exquisite politeness whieh he observed 
in his habitual relations with persons of distinguished 
rank . — Riographie Universelle , Supplem., vol. lxxiii, s. v. 

Martini, Antonio, an Italian prelate, was born at 
Prato in 1720. Having chosen an ecclesiastical career, 
and possessing a good knowledge of the ancient lan- 
guages, he occupied his time in translating the sacred 
writings into Italian. Pius Yl, informed of his merits, 
appointed him bishop of Bobio (1778); afterwards the 
grand duke of Tuscany called him to the archiepiscopa- 
cy of Florenee (1781). Martini was greatly opposed to 
all new ideas, and decidedly manifested his opinion in 
haughtily condemning the doetrines of Kicci in the 
synod. 

Martini, Corneille, a learned r»elgian Lutheran, 
■was born at Antwerp in 1567, and was educated in Ger- 
many, where he took the degree of doetor of arts and 
theology. In 1591 he taught logic in his native city, 


and for thirty years filled that chair successfully. He 
died at Helmstadt, Dec. 17, 1621, at the age of fifty-four. 
Iiis works are De Subjecto et fini Logicee (Lemgo, 1597, 
12mo): — Metaphysica Commentatio , compendiose , suc- 
cinct e, et perspicue comprehemlens universum metaphysices 
doctrinam (Strasburg, 1605, 12mo, et al.) : — Be A nalysi 
logica (Helmst. 1619, et al.) : — Commentarius in Apuleii 
librum i rtpi ipfnjvtiag (Frankfort, 1621, 12mo): — Com - 
mentariomm logicorinn advei'sus Itamistas Libri quinque 
(Helmst. 1623, 12mo) : — Ethica: — Compendium Theolo- 
gies. See Iloefer, Non r. Biog. Generate , vol. xxxi v, s. v. 

Martini, Giambattista, best known under the 
title of “Padre Martini,” was born at Bologna in 170G. 
Early in youth lie entered the Order of St. Francis, and, 
prompted by a spirit of inquiry and love of antiquity, 
soon set out on travels which he extended to Asia. On 
his return to Europe, he devoted himself to the study of 
music under the celebrated Ant. Perti. In 1723 he be- 
came maestro di capella of the convent of his order, 
which office he retained till his death in 1784. “He 
was,” says Dr. Burney, who knew him well, “ regarded 
during the last fifty years of his life as the most pro- 
found harmonist, and the best acquainted with the art 
and science of music, in Italy. All the great masters of 
his time were ambitious of becoming his disciples and 
proud of his approbation.” Martini was also a com- 
poser, and produced much musie for the Chinch, which 
was formerly held in esteem. Iiis sixty canons in the 
unison, for two, three, and four voices, are still known, 
and admired for their smoothness and graee. His rep- 
utation depends, however, mainly on his Essay o?i Coun- 
terpoint (Bologna, 1774, 2 vols. folio), and on his History 
of Music (1781, 3 vols. 4to). See English Cyclop), s. v. 

Martini, Martino, a Jesuit missionary, was born 
at Trent in 1614, visited China, and published, after his 
return, De Bello Tartarico in Binis, which was trans- 
lated into the principal European languages; also an 
excellent map of China (“Atlas Sinensis”), and a His- 
tory of China previous to the Christian Era . He died 
ill 1661. 

Martini, Raymond, a Spanish Dominican friar, 
noted for his great attainments as an Orientalist, was 
born at Sobirats, Catalonia, near the middle of the 13th 
eentury. At a general chapter held at Toledo in 1250, 
Martini was selected as among the most promising and 
talented of his order to be educated as a defender of the 
faith. Spain was at this time the great centre of Jew- 
ish and Mohammedan scholarship, and the Dominican 
general Raymond de Penafort was bent upon a polem- 
ical war with the “heretics.” To defray the expenses 
of educating sueh of the priests and friars as might act 
as polemics, Raymond had secured a pension from the 
kings of Castile and Aragon. Both Hebrew and Arabic 
were assiduously studied by Martini, who, after having 
sufficiently qualified himself by the mastery of these 
Shemitie tongues, promptly commenced his attack on 
the Jews in a work entitled Pugiofidei, which he finish- 
ed in 1278. He is also reputed to have written Capis- 
trum Judeeorum , and also A Confutatio?i of the Alcoran. 
The time of Iiis decease is not generally known. The 
great knowledge which Martini displayed in his com- 
ments on the boo^s and opinions of tlic Jews, has made 
some unjustly imagine that he was of that religion. 
The “Pugio fidei” is said to have been greatly enlarged 
after Martini’s death. We are told that Bosquet, who 
died bishop of Montpelier, fell upon the manuscript, 
while he was with great ardor rummaging all the cor- 
ners of the library of the College de Foix at Toulouse, 
about 1G29, read it, and, after copying some things out 
of it, gave it to James Spiegel, a learned German, and 
his preceptor in the Hebrew tongue. Spiegel advised 
Maussac to publish it; but the latter, though very able 
to do it himself, had for an assistant Mr. de Voisin, son 
of a counsellor in the Parliament at Bourdeaux, who 
took upon him the greatest part of the task. Thomas 
Turc, general of the Dominicans, was very earnest in 


82S 


MARTYN 


MARTINIQUE 

spurring on the promoters of this edition ; and, not sat- 
isfied with soliciting them by letters equally importu- 
nate and obliging, lie gave orders that they should be 
provided with all the manuscripts of the “ Pugio lidei” 
that could be recovered. In short, the Dominican Or- 
der interested themselves so much in it that they bore 
the charges of the impression, which was made at Paris 
in 1651. 

Martinique, or Martinico, called by the natives 
J fadiana, one of the Lesser Antilles, lying between lat- 
itude 14 D 23' 43" and 14° 52' 47" north, and longitude 
GO 3 5ft' and GI° 19' west, is forty miles long, about twelve 
miles broad, and has an area of about 380 square miles, 
and 137,455 inhabitants, of whom upwards of 87,000 are 
black. The island was discovered by the Spaniards in 
1493, colonized by the French in 1635, and now belongs 
to them. It is of an oval form, with much indented 
coasts, and is everywhere mountainous; the highest 
peak, Mount Fele'e, being considerably more than 4000 
feet above the sea-level. There are six extinct volca- 
noes on the island, one of them with an enormous crater. 
The cultivated portion (about one third of the whole of 
Martinique) lies chiefly along the coast. The climate 
is moist, but, except during the rainy season, is not un- 
healthy, and the soil is very productive. Of the land 
in cultivation, about three fifths are occupied with sugar- 
cane. 

The government of the island consists of a governor, 
a privy council of seven, and a colonial council of thirty 
members. Slavery was abolished in 1848. The island 
is liable to dreadful hurricanes. The capital is Fort 
Royal, but St. Pierre (q. v.) is the largest town and the 
seat of commerce. The average annual fall of rain is 
eighty-four inches. The year is divided into two sea- 
sons; one commences about Oct. 15, and lasts some nine 
months, and the other, or rainy season, lasts the remain- 
der of the year. During the short season the yellow-fe- 
ver prevails largely. The inhabitants of the Martinique 
Islands are usually adherents of the Church of Pome. 

Martini st s, a Russian sect of mystics, which orig- 
inated near the opening of our sera, as a result of the 
labors of St. Martin, the French philosopher whose life 
and labors we have spoken of above. The Martinists 
allied themselves with freemasonry, and spread from 
Moscow over all Russia. Aiming to supplant infidelity 
by mysticism, they read largely the writings of German 
mystics and pietists ; Arndt and Spener were special fa- 
vorites, and were widely scattered in translations. Cath- 
arine I! opposed the sect, but it continued to flourish, 
notwithstanding all persecution, until the despotic reign 
of Nicholas I, when, with many other sects, the Mar- 
tinets were crushed. Under Alexander I, the Martin- 
ets, favored by the patronage of prince Galitzin, en- 
joyed their “golden age.” 

Martinius, Matthias, a German Reformed theo- 
logian, was born in 1572, and became eminent as a 
scholar, preacher, and instructor. lie was made court- 
preacher in 1595, professor at Ilerborn in the following 
year, and placed in charge of the grammar-school con- 
nected with the academy at that place in 1597. He 
continued iu that relation during ten years; and in 1G10, 
after an interval spent in preaching at Emden, accepted 
a call from the Council of Bremen to become the rector 
of the famous gymnasium of their city, and to fill the 
chair of theology in its facultj\ Under his direction 
this institution rose to great prosperity, and students, 
even from many foreign lands, thronged its halls. In 
IG18 he was delegated to the Synod of Dort, where he 
was noted for the moderation of his views. The course 
of that body never received his approval, although his 
name appears among its signers, and in later years he 
was often heard to exclaim, “ O Dort, would to God I 
had never seen thee!” lie died in 1G30 of apoplexy, 
and was buried at Bremen. 1 1 is chief work, the Lexicon 
philologico-etymologicum, is still used. Ilis other writ- 
ings, of which sixty-eight have been enumerated, are 


unimportant. The Lexicon was published at Bremen 
in folio in 1G23, in a second edition at Frankfort in 1GG5, 
and at Utrecht in 1097, — Herzog, Real-Encyklopadie , 
xx, 113 sq. (G. M.) 

Martinmas, or the Mass of St. Martin, a feast 
kept on the 11th of November in honor of St. Martin, 
of Tours. The feast was often a merry one. In Eng- 
land and Scotland the winter’s provisions were, in olden 
days, cured and stored up at that time of the year, and 
were hence called a mart . Luther derived his first name 
from being bom on the eve of this festival; in Germany 
called also Martinalia. See Eadie, Eccles . Cyclop, s. v.; 
Reyenshurg Real-Encyklop. ix, 312, col. i (iii). 

Martin’s Day, St. See Martinmas. 

Martinus, Polonus or Bok emus, a Polish chroni- 
cler and ecclesiastic of the 13th century, was born at 
Troppau, in Silesia; entered the Dominican Order; be- 
came chaplain and confessor to pope Clement IV, and to 
several of his successors; and in 1278 was appointed 
archbishop of Gnesen. He died shortly after at Bologna 
(1278). lie wrote valuable works in the department 
of ecclesiastical history, including biographies of several 
popes. Ills most important production is the Chronicon 
de Summis Pontifcibus. See Hoefer, Xouv. Biog. Gene- 
rate. xxxiv, 27. 

Martyn, Henry, known as “ the scholar mission- 
ary,” one of the most distinguished missionaries of mod- 
ern times, was born of humble parentage at Truro, in 
Cornwall, England, Feb. 18, 1781. He was educated in 
the grammar-school of his native place ; sought for a 
scholarship in Corpus Christi College, Oxford, but, fail- 
ing in this, he went to Cambridge, and entered St.John’s 
College in October, 1797. He was at that time out- 
wardly moral, but still unconverted. But, while at col- 
lege, the death of his father directed his mind to relig- 
ious subjects, and, by his association with the celebrated 
evangelical preacher Charles Simeon, he soon became one 
of the most thoroughly Christian students in the col- 
lege, where, in 1801, he came out “senior wrangler,” the 
highest academical honor adjudged. lie was chosen 
fellow of his college in March, 1802, and obtained the 
first prize for the best Latin prose composition in the 
university. Believing it to be his duty to preach the 
Gospel, he now devoted himself to the work of the min- 
istry. England was at this time wide-awake in the 
cause of missions, and Martyn finally determined that 
he also must go forth to propagate Christianity among 
the nations who sat in darkness. He sought to be em- 
ployed by the “Society for Missions to Africa and the 
East,” now the “ Church Missionary Society ;” but, as he 
was too young to take holy orders, his appointment was 
postponed, lie was ordained deacon Oct. 22, 1803; was 
made bachelor of divinity in March, 1805, and was at 
the same time ordained priest, and, obtaining an ap- 
pointment as missionary to India, embarked Sept. 10, 
1805. 

Henry Martyn reached Madras April 21,1806. He 
stopped for a while at Calcutta, where he continued the 
study of II indostanee, which he had commenced in Eng- 
land, and applied himself also to Sanscrit, as the key to 
most of the Eastern languages, and to Persian. He 
then removed to the station of Din apore, where he was 
appointed to labor, primarily among the English troops 
there posted, and the families of the civilians. But to 
the natives also he constantly addressed himself, and, 
amid all these labors, yet found time to complete a trans- 
lation of the English liturgy into Hindostanee (Feb. 24, 
1807), a translation of the N. T. in that language, and, 
this finished, commenced a version of the N. T. in Per- 
sian, in which he had the assistance of an Arab trans- 
lator, Sabat (q. v.). 

Near the close of 1809, Mr. Martyn commenced his 
first public ministrations among the heathen at Cawn- 
pore, whither he had removed in April of this year. His 
auditory sometimes counted as many as eight hundred. 
They were young, old, male, female, bloated, wizened, 


MARTYjST 


829 


MARTYR 


clothed with abominable rags, nearly naked, some plas- 
tered with mud or cow-dung, others with matted, un- 
combed locks, streaming to the heels, others bald or 
scabby-headed. The authorities seem to have had a 
wide-open eye on his proceedings, and anything which 
appeared to graze roughly against the superstitions of 
his auditory would at once have wrecked his scheme. 
Finally, exhausted with these and other labors, his 
health began to give way, and he was recommended 
either to try the effects of a sea-vovage, or to return to 
England for a time. Having embraced the latter pro- 
posal, he determined to travel by way of Persia and Ara- 
bia, with a view of submitting his Persian and Arabic 
translations of the N. T. to the revision and critical 
judgment of learned Persians. lie left Cawnpore in 
the last of September, 1810, and in the early summer of 
1811 landed at Bushire, and thence proceeded to Shiraz, 
where he resided for more than ten months. Here he 
created great interest by the religious discussions which, 
as the sole advocate of the Christian faith, he carried on 
in the crowded conclaves of Mollahs and Sofis. He 
completed his Persian version of the N.T. Feb. 24,1812, 
and a Persian translation of the Psalms six weeks later. 
From Shiraz he went to Tabriz, resolved on visiting the 
king in his summer camp, and presenting his work in 
person. His interview with the vizier, who was sur- 
rounded by a number of ignorant and intemperate Mol- 
lahs, called forth all the energies of Martyn’s faith and 
patience, and at length it was found that, owing to an 
informality — the want of an introduction from the Brit- 
ish ambassador — he could not be admitted to the royal 
presence. He now proceeded to Tabriz, where he was 
laid up for two months, and compelled to abandon all 
hopes of presenting his N, T. in person to the king, blit 
Sir G.Ousely, the British ambassador, relieved his anx- 
iety by kindly promising to present the volume him- 
self. Ten days after his recovery from the fever which 
had laid him up, he proceeded on his journey home- 
ward. 11 is plan was to return to England via Constan- 
tinople, but, in consequence of too hurried travelling, he 
was laid up at Tocat with severe illness, and died Oct. 
10, 1812. "No more is known of Henry Martvn save 
that he died at Tocat, without a European near. . . . 
He died a pilgrim’s solitary death, and lies in an un- 
known grave in a heathen land.” The regrets in Eng- 
land which this event created were great. Much was 
expected from him, and much would probably have been 
done by him in the cause to which he had devoted him- 
self. As it was, he brought not a few, both Hindus 
and Mohammedans, to make profession of the Christian 
faith, and he caused the Scriptures to be extensively 
dispersed among a people who had not previously known 
them. “The ardent zeal of the Celtic character; the 
religious atmosphere that John Wesley had spread over 
Cornwall, even among those who did not enroll them- 
selves among his followers; the ability and sensitive- 
ness hereditary in the Martyn family, together with the 
strong influence of a university tutor — all combined to 
make such a bright and brief trail of light to the ca- 
reer of Henrv Martyn” (Miss C. M. Yonge, Pioneers and 
Founder s,p.71). An interesting account of his life, com- 
piled from various journals left by him, was published 
by the Rev. John Sargent in 1819. Of his produc- 
tions there were published Sermons preached in Calcutta 
and elsewhere (4th edit. Lend. 1822, 8vo) : — Controver- 
sial Tracts on Christianity and Mohammedanism (edited 
by Prof. Samuel Lee, D.D., Camb. 1824, 8vo) : — Jour- 
nals and Letters (edited by the Rev. J. B. Wilberforce, 
later bishop of Oxford, Bond. 1837, 2 vols. 8vo ; abridged 
1839, post 8vo, and often). See, besides the biography 
already referred to, that by John Hall (N. Y. 18mo, pub- 
lished by the American Tract Society). See also Eclec- 
tic Review, 4th series, iii, 321 : East. Spirit of the Pil- 
grims , i v, 428 ; Albert Barnes, Essays and Reviews (1855), 
ii, 278; Edinb.Rev . 1844 (July), Ixxx, 278; Cyclopedia 
of Modern Religious Biography , p. 321 ; Tiinpson, Bible 
Tiiuntphs , p. 423 ; Encyclopedia of Religious Knowledge ; 


Bond. Quart. Rev. 1857 (July), art. ii, p. 329; Princeton 
Rev. 1853, p. 409 ; 1855, p. 327. (J. H. W.) 

Martyr (fuipryg and pdpTVp, so rendered only in 
Acts xxii, 20 ; Rev. ii, 1 3 ; xviii, 0) is properly a witness , 
and is applied in the New Testament (a) to judicial 
witnesses (Matt. xviii, 16; xxvi,65; Markxiv, 63; Acts 
vi, 13 ; vii, 58 ; 2 Cor. xiii, 1 ; 1 Tim. v, 19 ; Ileb. x, 28. 
The Septuagint also uses it for the Hebrew “!“, ed, in 
Deut. xvii, 16 ; Prov. xxiv, 28) ; ( b ) To one who has tes- 
tified, or can testify to the truth of what he has seen, 
heard, or known. This is a frequent sense in the New 
Testament, as in Luke xxiv, 48; Acts i,8, 22; Rom. i, 
9 ; 2 Cor. i, 23 ; 1 Thes. ii, 5, 10; 1 Tim. vi, 12 ; 2 Tim. ii, 
2; 1 Pet. v, 1 ; Rev. i, 5; iii, 14; xi, 3, and elsewhere, 
(c) The meaning of the word which has now become 
the most usual, is that in which it occurs most rarely in 
the Scriptures, i. e. one who by his death bears witness 
to the truth. In this sense we only find it in Acts xxii, 
20 ; Rev, ii, 13 ; xvii, 6. This now exclusive sense of 
the word was brought into general use by the early ec- 
clesiastical writers, who applied it to every one who suf- 
fered death in the Christian cause (see Suicer, Thesau- 
rus Eccles. sub. voc.). See Martyrs. Stephen was in 
this sense the first martyr [see Stephen], and the spir- 
itual honors of his death tended in no small degree to 
raise to the most extravagant estimation, in the early 
Chinch, the value of the testimony of blood. Eventu- 
ally a martyr’s death was supposed, on the alleged au- 
thority of the under-named texts, to cancel all the sins 
of the past life (Luke xii, 50; Mark x, 39) ; to supply 
the place of baptism (Matt, x, 39), and at once to se- 
cure admittance to the presence of the Lord in Paradise 
(Matt, v, 10-12). In imitation of the family custom of 
annually commemorating at the grave the death of de- 
ceased members, the churches celebrated the deaths of 
their martyrs by prayers at their graves, and by love- 
feasts. From this high estimation of flic martyrs, Chris- 
tians were sometimes led to deliver themselves up vol- 
untarily to the public authorities — thus justifying the 
charge of fanaticism brought against them by the hea- 
then. For the most part, however, this practice was 
discountenanced, the words of Christ himself being 
brought against it (Matt, x, 23 ; sec Gieselcr, Eccles. Hist. 
i, 109, 110). — Kitto. For monographs, see Volbeding, 
Index Programmatum , p. 75, 116. See Confessor. 

Martyr, Peter, one of the early Reformers, was 
born at Florence, Italy, in 1500. His family name was 
Vermigli, but his parents gave him that of Martyr, from 
one Peter, a martyr, whose church stood near their house. 
In 1516 he became a canon regular of the Order of St. 
Augustine, in the convent of Fiesole, near Florence. 
In 1519 he was sent to the University of Padua, where 
he soon distinguished himself as a good scholar. He 
acquired .great reputation as a preacher, was made abbot 
of Spoleto, and afterwards principal of the College of St. 
Peter ad Aram, at Naples. Here he made the intimate 
acquaintance of Juan Valdez (q. v.), a Spaniard, who 
had become a convert to the doctrines of the Reforma- 
tion, and from whom Vermigli adopted some of those 
tenets. He concealed them for a time; but his Biblical 
studies convincing him more and more of the errors of 
the Church of Rome, and a perusal of the works of Lu- 
ther, Zwingle, and Bucer making sure his conversion, he 
publicly avowed his new doctrine shortly after his ap- 
pointment to Lucca as prior of San Frediano, and was 
compelled to leave the place secretly. After a short 
stay at Florence, he went by way of Germany to Switz- 
erland. He found an asylum finally in Strasburg, and 
there, in 1542, was called to a theological chair, and act- 
ed for five years as the colleague of Bucer in the minis- 
terial office. In 1546 he married a converted nun. In 
1547 he received from Cranmcr, and accepted, an invi- 
tation to England. The request was sent in the name 
of king Edward VI, acting under the advice of Sey- 
mour, the protector. In 1549 he was appointed pro- 
fessor of divinity at Oxford. The fame of his learning 


MARTYR 


830 


MARTYROLOGY 


secured him a large auditory, many Romanists among 
the number; "and though they had much envying and 
heart-burning about him, as may easily be imagined, 
yet they bore him pretty patiently till he came to han- 
dle the doctrine of the Lord’s Supper. Then the3 r be- 
gan to break forth into outrages, to disturb him in his 
lectures, to fix up malicious and scandalous schedules 
against him, and to challenge him to disputes; which 
challenges he did not disdain to accept, but disputed 
first privately in the vice-chancellor’s lodge, and after- 
wards in public, before his majesty’s commissioners de- 
puted for that purpose. At length, however, they stirred 
up the seditious multitude against him so successfully 
that he was obliged to retire to London till the tumult 
was suppressed and on returning again, in the year fol- 
lowing, he was, for his better security, made by the king 
canon of Christ-church. It is said that some altera- 
tions in the Prayer-book were made at Peter Martyr’s 
suggestions. On the accession of Mary he was obliged 
to leave England, and, returning to Strasburg, there 
resumed his former professorship. However, as he in- 
clined to Calvin’s views on the doctrine of the Eucha- 
rist, he accepted a pressing invitation extended to him 
by the Senate of Zurich, in 155G, to fill the chair of the- 
ology in that university. In I5G1 lie received letters 
from the queen of France, the king of Navarre, the 
prince of Conde, as well as from Beza and others of the 
leading French Protestants, requesting him to attend at 
the famous Colloquy of Poissy, in France. Here he dis- 
tinguished himself as well for his skill as for his pru- 
dence and moderation. lie died at Zurich Nov. 12, 
1562. “ Peter Martyr is described as a man of an able, 

healthy, big-boned, and well-limbed body, and of a coun- 
tenance which expressed an inwardly grave and settled 
turn of mind. His parts and learning were very un- 
common ; as was also his skill in disputation, which 
made him as much admired by the Protestants as hated 
by the Papists. He was very sincere and indefatigable 
in promoting a reformation in the Church, yet his zeal 
was never known to get the better of his judgment. 
He was always moderate and prudent in his outward 
behavior, nor even in the conflict of a dispute did he suf- 
fer himself to be transported into intemperate warmth or 
allow unguarded expressions ever to escape him. But his 
pains and industry were not confined to preaching and 
disputing against the Papists ; he wrote a great many 
books against them, none of which raised his reputation 
higher than his Defence of the Orthodox Doctrine of the 
Lord's Supper [ Defensio Doctrines refer is et apostolicee 
de S. Encharistiie Sacramento ; access'd Tractatio,et Dis- 
putatio hahita Univ. Oxon. de eodem, 15G2, fob] against 
bishop Gardiner. He wrote also several tracts of divin- 
ity, and commentaries on several books of Scripture, for 
all of which he was as much applauded by one party 
as he was condemned by the other.” Tirabaschi, a 
zealous Roman Catholic, acknowledges that Martyr was 
free from the arrogance and virulence with which the 
Romanists are wont to charge the Reformers; that he 
was deeply acquainted with the Scriptures and the fa- 
thers, and was one of the most learned writers of the 
Reformed Church, He was the author of Expositio 
Symboli Apostolici ; De Ccend Domini Qucestiones, a sys- 
tem of theology, which was first published in England 
by Massonius, then more fully under the title Loci com- 
munes , ex variis ipsiits autlioris scriptis (Zurich, 1580, 
folio; translated into English, 1583, folio, etc.). His 
other works are, Jnprimum librum Mosis qui vulgo Ge- 
nesis dicitnr commentarii . Addita est initio operis vita 
ejusdem a, Josia Simlero (Tiguri, 1569, folio) In Li- 
brum Judicum commentarii , cum tract at ione perutili re- 
rum el locorum. Editio tertia, prioribus longe cmenda- 
tior (Tiguri, 1571, folio) : — In duos libros Sannidis pro- 
phetee commentarii doctissimi , cum rerum et locorum plu- 
rimorum tractatione perutili (Tiguri, 1575, folio) : — In 
Epistolam S. Pauli ad Romanos commentarii doctissimi , 
cum tractatione perutili rerum et locorum, qui ad earn 
epistolam pertinent. Cum indieibus (Basle, tertia editio, 




1570, folio) : — In i. Epistolam ad Corinthios commentarii 
doctissimi (Tiguri, editio secunda, I5G7, folio): — Com- 
mentarii in duos libros Regum (1599): — Commentarii in 
Threnos (1629). See Simler, 0 ratio de vita et obitu D, 
Petri Martyris (Zurich, 1562, 4to); Schlosser, Leben dcs 
Theodor Beza u. d. P. 31. Yermigli (Heidelb. 1807); Le- 
ben der Voter u. Begr under d. reformirten Kirche, vol.vii 
(Elberfeld, 1858) ; Schmidt, Vie de Pierre Martyr \ ~er- 
migli (Strasb. 1835, 8vo); McCrie, Hist. Reformation in 
Italy; Wordsworth, Biog. vol. iii. ; Fisher, Hist. Ref 
p. 336, etc. ; Biblioth . Sacra (1859), p. 445 : Gen. Biog. Diet. 
s. v.; Darling, Cyclop. Bibliog . ii, 1991 ; Hook, Ecclesiast . 
Biog. vii, 245; Mosheim, Eccles. Hist, iii, 67, 192; Her- 
zog, Real-Encykl. xvii, 82 sq. 

Martyrdom is a term employed by Christian ec- 
clesiastical writers to record the suffering of death on 
account of one’s adherence to the faith of the Gospel. 
See Martyr. In times of persecution, martyrdom came 
to be thought so meritorious that it acquired the name 
of second baptism, or baptism in blood, because of the 
power and efficacy it was supposed to have in saving 
men by the invisible baptism of the Spirit, in the ab- 
sence of the external element of water. In any case in 
which a catechumen was apprehended and slain for the 
name of Christ before he could be admitted among the 
faithful by baptism, his martyrdom was deemed suffi- 
cient to answer all the purposes of the sacrament. In 
the writings of Prosper there is an epigram to this effect: 

“Fraudati non sunt sacro baptismate Christi, 

Foils quibus ipsa sui sanguinis nnda fuit; 

Et quicquid sacri fert mystica forma lavacri, 

Id totum implevit gloria martyrii.” 

“They are not deprived of the sacred baptism of Christ 
who, instead of a font, are washed in their own blood ; 
for whatever benefit accrues to any by the mystical rite 
of the sacred laver, is all fulfilled by the glory of mar- 
tyrdom.” The martyrs were supposed to enjoy very 
singular privileges; in some ages the doctrine was 
taught that immediately on death they passed to the 
enjoyment of the beatific vision, for which other Chris- 
tians were required to wait till the day of judgment ; 
and that God would grant to their prayers the hasten- 
ing of liis kingdom and the shortening the times of per- 
secution. — Farrar, Eccles. Diet . s. v. 

Martyriarius is the name, in the Roman Catholic 
Church, of the keeper of saci'ed relics. The relics of 
martyrs are most generally kept under the principal 
altar of the church. 

Martyrion. Sec Martyrium. 

Martyrium. The name of a church built over the 
grave of a martyr, or called by his name to preserve the 
memory of him, had usually the distinguishing title of 
martyrium, or memoria martyrum. Instances of this 
kind of designation occur with great frequency in the 
writings of Eusebius, Augustine, etc. Eusebius calls the 
church which was built by Constantine on Calvary, in 
memory of Christ’s passion and resurrection, Martyr him 
Salratoris. 

Marty rology (Acta Martyrum) is (1) with the 
Protestant a catalogue or list of those who have suffered 
martyrdom for their religion, including the history of 
their lives and sufferings ; but (2) with those who be- 
lieve in the adoration and intercession of saints and 
martyrs, a calendar of martyrs and other saints arranged 
in the order of months and days, and intended partly to 
be read in the public services of the Church, partly for 
the guidance of the devotion of the faithful towards the 
saints and martyrs. The use of the martyrology is com- 
mon both to the Latin and Greek Churches. In the 
latter it is called Menoloyion (q. v.). 

Eusebius of Caesarea was the first who wrote an ex- 
tensive history of the Christian martyrs ; it was trans- 
lated into Latin by St. Jerome, but has been long irre- 
coverably lost. St. Jerome’s own work on the same 
subject — the oldest one now extant — is regarded as the 
great martyrology of the Latin Church [it is published 


MARTYRS 


831 


MARTYRS 


in the eleventh volume of the collected edition of his 
works by Vallars] ; but it is little used in comparison 
with later compilations of idle legends and pretended 
miracles. The latest Greek martyrology or menology 
extant dates from the 9th century. It was prepared by 
order of emperor Basilius Macedo (8G7-88G), and was 
published in 1727 by cardinal Urbini. In the mediae- 
val period, martvrologies were issued in England by 
Venerable Bede ; in France by Florus, Ado, and Usuard ; 
and in Germany by St. Gall, Nolter, and Rabanus Mau- 
rus. The so-called “ Roman Martyrology” ( Martyrolo- 
gium Romanian) is designed for the entire Church, both 
East and West, and was published by authority of 
Gregory XIII, with a critical commentary by the cele- 
brated cardinal Baronius, in 158G. A still more critical 
edition was issued by the learned Jesuit Herebert Ros-. 
weid. The Protestant Church possesses many accounts 
of martyrs ; but as a true martyrology in English, from 
a Protestant stand-point, we may mention Fox’s Book 
of Martyrs. See Martyrs ; Martyrdom. 

Martyrology is (3) also applied to the painted or 
written catalogues in the Roman churches, containing 
the foundations, obits, prayers, and masses to be said 
each day. See Acta Martyrum. 

Martyrs, those who lav down their life or suffer 
death for the sake of their religion. In accordance with 
the primitive Greek sense of the word, i. e. a witness 
[see Martyr], it is applied by Christian writers to 
such as suffer in testimony of the truth of the Gospel or 
its doctrines. The Christian Church has abounded with 
martyrs, and history is filled with surprising accounts 
of their singular constancy and fortitude under the most 
cruel torments that human nature is capable of suffering. 
The primitive Christians were accused by their enemies 
of paying a sort of divine worship to martyrs. Of this 
we have an instance in the answer of the Church of 
Smyrna to the suggestion of the Jews, who, at the mar- 
tyrdom of Polycarp, desired the heathen judge not to 
suffer the Christians to carry off his body, lest they 
should leave their crucified Master, and worship him in 
his stead. To this they answered, “We can neither 
forsake Christ nor worship any other, for we worship 
him as the Son of God ; but love the martyrs as the dis- 
ciples and followers of the Lord, for the great affection 
they have shown to their King and Master.” A like 
answer was given at the martyrdom of Fructuosus in 
Spain; for when the judge asked Eidogius, his deacon, 
whether he would not worship Fructuosus, as thinking 
that, though he refused to worship the heathen idols, 
he might yet be inclined to worship a Christian mar- 
tyr, Eulogius replied, “ I do not worship Fructuosus, but 
him whom Fructuosus worships.” The courage and 
constancy of the sufferers naturally enough won the 
highest admiration from their brethren in the faith; 
and so it came to be held a special privilege to receive 
the martyr’s benediction, to kiss his chains, to visit him 
in prison, or to converse with him; and as it was held 
by the primitive Christians that the martyrs enjoyed 
very singular privileges with God [see Martyrdom], 
it came to be held also that their great and superabun- 
dant merit might, in the eyes of the Church, compen- 
sate for the laxity and weakness of less perfect breth- 
ren, and thus gradually a practice of intercession arose, 
wdiich finally degenerated into the granting of indul- 
gences, etc., as now common in the Roman Catholic 
Church. See Indulgences; Invocation. 

Perhaps the admiration and veneration which Chris- 
tian martyrdom secures has had a great tendency to 
exeite many to court martyrdom. We must not lose 
sight of the fact, however, that martyrdom in itself is no 
proof of the goodness of our cause, but only that w r e our- 
selves are persuaded that it is so. “ It is not the blood , 
but the cause that makes the martyr” (Mead), Yet we 
may consider the number and fortitude of those who 
have suffered for Christianity as a collateral proof at 
least of its excellency; for the thing for wdiich they 
suffered w r as not a point of speculation, but a plain mat- 


ter of fact, in which (had it been false) they could not 
have been mistaken. The martyrdom, therefore, of so 
many wise and good men, taken with a view of the 
whole system of Christianity, will certainly afford some- 
thing considerable in its favor. 

In the early days of Christianity it was no unusual 
occurrence to build a church over the grave of a mar- 
tyr, calling the church after his name, in order to pre- 
serve the memory of his sufferings. See Martyrium. 
But soon every Church vdshed to possess a saint’s tomb 
for an altar. Mere cenotaphs did not suffice. Thus, 
according to Augustine, Ambrose was delayed in the 
consecration of a new church at Milan till a seasonable 
dream helped him to the bones of two martyrs, Gerva- 
sius and Protasius. And the second Council of Nice 
(A.D. 787) went even so far as to threaten bishops with 
deprivation if they should undertake to consecrate 
churches without relies. The consequence was that a 
supply was produced by such a demand, and frauds of 
every kind were perpetrated and overlooked. Each 
Church also had its own Fasti, or calendar of martyrs. 
See Calendar; Ciiurcii. 

The festivals of the martyrs are also of very ancient 
date. On the first establishment of their religion, it 
was natural that Christians should look back from a 
condition of unexpected security on the sufferings of 
their immediate predecessors with the most vivid senti- 
ments of sympathy and admiration. They had wit- 
nessed those sufferings, they had beheld the constancy 
with w hich they were endured ; the same terror had been 
suspended over themselves, and their ow r n preservation 
they attributed, under the especial protection of divine 
Providence, to the perseverance of those who had per- 
ished. The gratitude and veneration thus fervently 
excited were loudly and passionately expressed; and 
the honors wdiich w T ere due to the virtues of the depart- 
ed were profusely bestowed on their names and their 
memory. Enthusiasm easily passed into superstition, 
and those who had sealed a Christian’s faith by a mar- 
tyr's death were exalted above the condition of men, 
and enthroned among superior beings. The day of 
martyrdom, moreover, as being held to be the day of 
the martyr's entering into eternal life, w r as called the 
“ natal” or “ birth” day, and as such w r as celebrated with 
peculiar honor, and with special religious services. Their 
bodies, clothes, books, and the other objects which they 
had possessed, were honored as Belies (q. v.), and their 
tombs were visited for the purpose of asking their inter- 
cession. See Martyrs, Festivals of the. 

Of the sayings, sufferings, and deaths of the martyrs, 
though preserved with great care for the purposes above 
alluded to, and to serve as models to future ages, we 
have but very little left, the greatest part of them hav- 
ing been destroyed during the Diocletian persecution ; 
for a most diligent search v*as then made after all their 
books and papers, and all of them that were found were 
committed to the flames. Some of those records since 
compiled have either never reached us at all, or, if they 
have, their authority is extremely suspected. See Mar- 
tyrology. 

The appropriate homage to be rendered to the mar- 
tyrs by the Protestant world, as a reason why our re- 
spect of these sainted dead should not degenerate into 
martyr-worship, by the exhibition of an enthusiasm 
which with the carty Christians was quite natural, but 
with us would be artificial, has been well commented 
upon by Gieseler ( Church History , i, 10S, 282), who says: 
“The respect paid to martyrs still maintains the same 
character as in the 2d century, differing only in degree, 
not in kind, from the honor shown to other esteemed dead. 
As the churches held the yearly festivals of their mar- 
tyrs at the graves of the latter, so they willingly as- 
sembled frequently in the burial-places of their deceased 
friends, for which they used in many places even caves 
( cryjdce catacumbe p). At the celebration of the Lord’s 
Supper, both the living who brought oblations, as well 
as the dead, and the martyrs for whom offerings were 


MARTYRS, CANONIZATION OF 832 MARTYRS, FESTIVALS OF 


presented, especially on the. anniversary of their death, 
were included by name in the prayer of the Church. 
Inasmuch as the readmission of a sinner into the Church 
was thought to stand in close connection with the for- 
giveness of sin, an opinion was associated with the older 
custom of restoring to Church communion the lapsed 
who had been again received by the martyrs, that the 
martyrs could also be serviceable in obtaining the for- 
giveness of sins. In doing so they set out in part with 
the idea, which is very natural, that the dead prayed 
for the living, as the living prayed for the dead, but 
that the intercession of martyrs abiding in the captivity 
of the Lord would be of peculiar efficacy on behalf of 
their brethren; while they also thought that the mar- 
tyrs, as assessors in the last decisive judgment, were 
particularly active (1 Cor. vi, 2, 3). Origen attributed 
very great value to that intercession, expecting from 
it great help towards sanctification ; but he went be- 
yond the ideas hitherto entertained in attributing to 
martyrdom an importance and efficacy similar to the 
death of Christ. Iieuee he feared the cessation of per- 
secution as a misfortune. The more the opinion that 
value belonged to the intercession of martyrs was estab- 
lished, the oftener it may have happened that persons 
commended themselves to the martyrs yet living for 
intercession.” 

The number of martyrs who suffered death during 
the first ages of Christianity has been a subject of great 
controversy. The early ecclesiastical writers, with the 
natural pride of partisanship, have, it can hardly be 
doubted, leaned to the side of exaggeration. Some of 
their statements are palpably excessive ; and Gibbon, in 
his well-known sixteenth chapter, throws great doubt 
even on the most moderate of the computations of the 
Church historians. But it is clearly though briefly 
shown by Guizot, in his notes on this celebrated chap- 
ter (see Mil man’s Gibbon's Decline ciml Fall, i, 598), that 
Gibbon’s criticisms are founded on unfair and partial 
data, and that even the very authorities upon which he 
relies demonstrate the fallaciousness of his conclusions. 
Those who are interested in the subject will find it dis- 
cussed with much learning and considerable modera- 
tion in Ruinart’s Acta Primitiva et Sincera Martyrum. 
No little difference of opinion has also existed as to 
what, in the exploration of the ancient Christian tombs 
in the Roman Catacombs, are to be considered as signs 
of martyrdom. The chief signs, in the opinion of older 
critics, were (1) the letters B. M., (2) the figure of a 
palm-tree, and (3) a phial with the remains of a red 
liquor believed to be blood. Each of these has in turn 
been the subject of dispute, but the last is commonly 
regarded as the conclusive sign of martyrdom. The 
first recorded martyr of Christianity, called the “proto- 
martyr,” was the deacon Stephen, whose death is re- 
corded in Acts vi and vii. 

See Siegel, Christliche A Iter thumer, iii, 272 sq.; Bing- 
ham, Or iy. Fccles. p. 102, etc.; Riddle, Christian An- 
tiquit. p. 101 sq. ; Donaldson, Lit. ii, 284 sq. ; Neamler, 
Plant and Train. Christ. Churches (see Index); Lardner, 
Works, iii, 91, 219 sq. ; Jortin, Remarks , i, 345; Taylor, 
Anc. Christianity , p. 380; Milman, Christianity (see In- 
dex) ; Lat. Christianity (see Index) ; Waddington, Ch. 
J/ist. pt. iv, p. 114; Sc'haff, Ch. Hist, i, 177 sq., 182 sq. ; 
Coleman, A nc. Christianity, p. 404 ; A m. Theol. Rcr. 1800 
(Aug.), p. 530 ; Zeitschr. histor. theol. 1850, p. 3 15; Eadie, 
Fccles. (' ijclop . s. v. ; Chambers, Cyclop, s. v. 

Martyrs, Canonization of the. The ceremo- 
ny for canonizing saints in the Roman Catholic Church 
varied greatly until, in the middle of the last century, 
pope Benedict XIV definitely prescribed it. It is now 
as follows: After the candidate’s reputation for sanctity 
has been duly proved, he is styled venerable, after which 
an inquiry is entered into to- establish the proof of his 
virtues, in a high or, as it is termed, heroic degree. For 
that purpose the whole life and all the actions of the 
candidate are scrutinized. That task devolves on the 
Sacred Congregation of the Rites, assisted by theolo- 


gians and canonists, three audios of the rota, and 
monks belonging to five different orders. Natural phi- 
losophers and physicians are also called on to give their 
opinions on the temperament of the candidate and on 
the miracles which are attributed to him. The most 
important and the most original character in this court 
of inquiry is that of the promoter of the faith, also called 
the Advocate of the Devil. II is Satanic majesty is a 
power which must be taken into account, and is allowed 
to have his cause pleaded even before the ecclesiastical 
tribunal. This advocate may be supposed to bring for- 
ward arguments to prove that the man who is a candi- 
date for canonization is guilty of every sin ; that he has 
violated the ten commandments of God and those of 
the Church; has eaten on fast days; has entered into a 
compact with the daemons of avarice, pride, envy, ha- 
tred, and malice; and that the miracles attributed to 
him were performed by the devil himself. The advo- 
cate would probably conclude his argument by saying, 
“ Render therefore unto Satan that which is Satan’s, 
and do not deprive Beelzebub of the fruit of his works.” 
The advocate for the candidate then rises, and endeav- 
ors to overturn all the arguments of his learned brother 
by bringing forward and enlarging upon all the virtues 
of his client, and concludes by begging the judges to 
throw open to him the doors of beatitude, and adorn his 
forehead with the rays of glory. The tribunal then 
examines all the arguments pro and con, and at length 
pronounces in favor of the candidate. Next comes the 
question of the miracles, and the natural philosophers are 
requested to bring forward all the objections they may 
have to make. They in their turn declare that science 
is vanquished, and the miracles are declared to he bona 
Jide. A favorable report is then made to the pope, who 
delivers the sentence of beatification, and on the day 
appointed pronounces the canonization from his throne 
at the Vatican. The honors conferred by canonization 
are seven in number: I. The names are inscribed in the 
ecclesiastical almanacs, in the list of martyrs, and in 
the litanies. 2. They are publicly invoked in the pray- 
ers and service of the Church. 3. Chapters, churches, 
and altars are dedicated to them. 4. Sacrifice is offered 
in their honor at the mass. 5. Their fete clay is cele- 
brated. 6. Their images are exhibited in the churches, 
and they may be there represented with a crown of 
light round the head. 7. Their relics are offered to the 
veneration of the faithful, and carried with pomp in sol- 
emn processions. See Canonization. 

Martyrs, Festivals of the. These commemo- 
rations of Christian sufferers for the cause of their Mas- 
ter are of very ancient date, and may be carried as high 
as the time of Polycarp, who suffered death about A.D. 
1G8. In the days of Chrysostom and Theodoret these 
festivals had become so frequent that, so they tell us, 
oftentimes one or two were celebrated in one and the 
same week (see Chrysostom, Ilom. 40 in Juventinum , i, 
546; Theodoret, Serm. 8 de Martyribus , iv, 605; Chry- 
sostom, Horn. 65 de Martyr, iv, 971). On these occa- 
sions, as has been intimated in the article Martyrs, the 
assemblies were not held in the churches or in the usual 
places of worship, but at the graves of the martyrs. The 
night preceding the festival was passed in holy vigil, 
praying and singing psalms and hymns. As they were 
esteemed high festivals, the same service that was per- 
formed on the Sabbath was always performed on such 
occasions. But, besides the usual solemnities of other 
festivals, the history of the sufferings of the martyrs 
was also commonly read, and orations were delivered 
commending their virtues, and the audience invited to 
profit by these self-denying examples. This practice 
was encouraged by a canon of the third Council of 
Carthage (“Liceat etiam legi passiones martyrum, cum 
anniversarii dies eorum celebrantur,” Con. Carth. 3, can. 
47). Mabillon gives several instances to show that the}' 
were read also in the French churches. In the Roman 
Church they were forbidden by pope Gelasius, as many 
were said to be anonymous, and others by heatheu or 


MARUF EL-KARKHI 


833 


MARY 


heretical authors; but this rule, it seems, did not then 
prescribe as to other churches. The Lord’s Supper was 
always administered at these festivals, and at the close 
the rich usually made a feast for the poor, especially 
to the widows and orphans. — Farrar, Eccles. Diet. s. v.; 
Bingham, Antiquities of the Christian Church , i, G59; 
Cyclop, of Religious Knowledge , s. v. ; Wetzer u. Welte, 
Kirchen-Lex. xii, 777. See Feasts. 

Maruf el-Karkhi, Eben-Maiifond, an Arabic 
mystic, was horn at Carkh, between Hamailan and Ispa- 
han, about the year 750. The son of a Christian, he be- 
came a Mussulman, under the name of Ali. While at- 
tached to the house of the imam Ali Kiza, at Bagdad, 
where he discharged the duties of a door-keeper, he 
formed a firm friendship with one of the most ancient 
mystic 'chiefs, Dadd el-Thayi, and became himself one 
of the most celebrated mystics of Arabia. lie died in 
81G, at Bagdad. The mystical system of Maruf is nei- 
ther the ascetic system of the ancient Indian and Chris- 
tian Coenobites, which he rejected, nor that of the more 
recent Persian mystics, who are entirely absorbed in con- 
templations of divine love. lie lays stress on the prac- 
tical virtues; and if he preaches humility in saying that 
we should never appear before God except with the ex- 
terior of a poor mendicant, he still is not led astray in his 
reflections upon divine love, which, according to him, is 
a gift of God’s grace, and not learned by the lessons of 
masters. Maruf, it is true, elsewhere carries out his 
thoughts, hy saying that we must turn to God if we ex- 
pect God’s favor upon us. These ideas have caused him 
to be regarded as one of the orthodox mystics of Islam. 
His maxims arc found dispersed throughout the ascetic 
works of Abulfaray Mansur ibn al-Yanzi, especially in 
the Manakhib- Maruf or Panegyrics of Maruf, and in 
the Kenzel Modzakkirin , or Treasure of the Deist i cal 
Panegyrists. In the Monutekhab fi'l Nowle is found the 
most complete selection of Marufs utterances. — Hadj’l 
Chalfa, Lexikon Ribliographicnm et Encyclopeedicum ; 
Djami, Biographic des Soujis ; Hammer, Gesch.der A ra- 
bischen Literatur ; Hoefer, Noui\ Biog . Generate, vol. 
xxxiii, s. v. 

Marut or Marut (Sanscrit wind) denotes in the 
Hindu mythology the genus or divinities presiding over 
the winds. In the Yedas the Maruts are often addressed 
as the attendants and allies of Indra, and arc called the 
sons of Prisni (or Pricni), or the Earth ; they are also 
called Rhudras, or the sons of Rhudra. Sec the Intro- 
ductions to the several volumes of professor Wilson’s 
translation of the Rig Veda; see also Moor, Hindu Pan- 
theon , s. v. ; Thomas, Diet . of Biog. and Mythol. s. v. 

Maruthas, one of the most important men in the 
Syrian Church of the 4th and 5th centuries, was bishop 
of Tagrit, in Mesopotamia, called also by the Syrians 
Maipherkin, Maipherkat, and Medinat Sohde, i. e. city 
of the martyrs. lie took an active part in the manage- 
ment of Church affairs, and is also known as a writer. 
So great, indeed, was the consideration he enjoyed at 
the hands of his contemporaries that he was popularly 
credited with power to work miracles. In 403 he made 
a journey to Constantinople, as agent in the negotia- 
tions between the emperors Arcadius and Theodosius II 
and the Persian emperor Yezdegerd II, who was per- 
secuting the Christians, and in these negotiations he 
gained the esteem and confidence of the Persian empe- 
ror. He was enabled by his sagacity to defeat the in- 
trigues of the Magians to effect his downfall, and his 
reputation only rose higher, so that he obtained permis- 
sion for the Christians to rebuild their churches, and to 
hold their meetings for divine worship. The next year 
he went again to Constantinople to plead the cause of 
Chrysostom, who was exiled. He was subsequently 
sent again by Theodosius II to Yezdegerd. He is said 
on this occasion to have taken part in a synod assem- 
bled by patriarch Isaac of Seleucia Ctesiphon, but Ile- 
fele ( Conciliengesch . ii, 90) has proved that the docu- 
ments we possess concerning this council are spurious, 
Y. — G G G 


and the very existence of such a council is now consid- 
ered doubtful. Maruthas, however, took part in the 
Council of Antioch against the Messalians (q. v.),in 383 
or 390. He wrote a number of works in Syriac, de- 
scribed by Assemani ( ut infr .). Among them the fol- 
lowing deserve special notice : A liturgic work, found in 
Syriac.in the missal of the Maronites (1594, p. 172), and 
in Latin in Kenaudot (Liturgiarum Orient, collection ii, 
201) ; an exposition of the Gospels, from which it ap- 
pears that he inclined towards the doctrine of trausub- 
stantiation ; a history of the Persian martyrs under king 
Shapur (Sapores)— this history forms the first part of 
Assemani ’s Acta Marty rum Orientalium, qui in Perside 
passi sunt , et Ocddentalium, translated under the title 
htliche Aden heiliger Martyrer d. Morgenlandes (Inns- 
bruck, 183G). See Assemani, Biblicth. Orient. Clemen- 
tino- Vatic ana, i, 174-179; Herzog, Real-Encyklop. ix, 
131 ; Ncander, Hist, of the Christian Religion and Churchy 
ii, 110,700. (J.N.P.) 

Ma'ry (M apia or ISIapaiji , from the Heb. 
Miriam), the name of several females mentioned in the 
New Test. 

1. The wife of Joseph, and a lineal descendant of Da- 
vid (Matt, i) ; “ the Mother of Jesus” (Acts i, 14), and 
“ Maty, his Mother” (Matt, ii, II) ; in later times gener- 
ally called the “ Yirgin Mary,” but never so designated 
in Scripture. Little is known of this highly-favored in- 
dividual, in whom was fulfilled the first prophecy made 
to man, that the “seed of the woman should bruise the 
serpent’s head” (Gen. iii, 15). As her history was of no 
consequence to Christianity, it is not given at large. 
Her genealogy is recorded by Luke (ch. iii), in order to 
prove the truth of the predictions which had foretold 
the descent of the Messiah from Adam through Abra- 
ham and David, with the design evidently of showing 
that Christ was of that royal house and lineage (comp. 
Davidson’s Sacred Hermeneutics, p. 589 sq.). Eusebius, 
the early ecclesiastical historian, although unusually 
lengthy upon “the name Jesus,” and the genealogies in 
Matthew’s and Luke’s Gospels, throws no new light upon 
Mary’s birth and parentage. The very simplicity of 
the evangelical record has no doubt been one cause of 
the abundance of the legendary matter of which she 
forms the central figure. Imagination had to be called 
in to supply a craving which authentic narrative did 
not satisfy. We shall give the account from both these 
sources somewhat in detail, using for this purpose much 
of the matter found in Smith’s and Kitto’s Dictiona- 
ries. 

1. Scripturcd Statements. — 1. We are wholly ignorant 
of the circumstances and occupation of Mary’s parents. 
If, as is most probable, the genealogy given by Luke is 
that of Mary (Greswell,etc.),her father’s name Vas Heli, 
which is another form of the name given to her legend- 
ary father, Jehoiakim or Joachim. But if Jacob and Heli 
were the two sons of Matthan or Matthat, and if Jo- 
seph, being the son of the younger brother, married his 
cousin, the daughter of the elder brother (Hervey, Gen- 
ealogies of our Lord Jesus Christ), her father was Jacob. 
See Genealogy of our Lord. She was, like Joseph, 
of the tribe of Judah, and of the lineage of David (Psa. 
cxxxii, 11 ; Luke i, 32; Rom. i, 3). What was her re- 
lationship to the so-called “ sister” named Mary (John 
xix, 25) is uncertain (see No. 3 below), but she was con- 
nected by marriage {ovyyevi)Q, Luke i, 36) with Elisa- 
beth, who was of the tribe of Levi and of the lineage of 
Aaron. 

2. In the autumn of the year which is known as B.C. 
7, Mary was living at Nazareth, probably at her parents’ 
lionse, not having yet been taken by Joseph to his home. 
,She was at this time betrothed to Joseph, and was there- 
fore regarded by the Jewish law and custom as his wife, 
though he had not yet a husband’s rights over her. See 
Marriage. At this time the angel Gabriel came to 
her with a message from God, and announced to her 
that she was to be the mother of the long-expected 


MARY 


834 


MARY 


Messiah. He probably bore the form of an ordinary 
man, like the angels who manifested themselves to Gid- 
eon and to Manoali (Judg. vi, xiii). This would appear 
both from the expression ruytXSw, “ he came in,” and 
also from the fact of her being troubled, not at his pres- 
ence, but at the meaning of his words. Yet one cannot 
but believe that there was a glory in his features which 
at once convinced Mary of the true nature of her vis- 
itor, entering as he did unannounced, apparently into 
her secret chamber — most probably at the time of her 
devotions. The scene as well as the salutation is very 
similar to that recounted in the book of Daniel, “ Then 
there came again and touched me one like the appear- 
ance of a man, and he strengthened me, and said, O 
man greatly beloved, fear not: peace be unto thee, be 
strong, yea, be strong!” (Dan. x, 18, 19). The exact 
meaning of K(\apiTiopevt] is “ thou that hast had be- 
stowed upon thee a free gift of grace.” The A.Y. ren- 
dering of “highly favored” is therefore very exact, and 
much nearer to the original than the “ gratia plena” of 
the Vulgate, on which a huge and wholly unsubstantial 
edifice has been built by Komanist devotional writers. 
The next part of the salutation, “The Lord is with thee,” 
would probably have been better translated, “The Lord 
be with thee.” It is the same salutation as that with 
which the angel accosted Gideon (Judg. vi, 12). “ Bless- 
ed art thou among women,” is nearly the same expres- 
sion as that used by Ozias to Judith (Jud. xiii, 18). Ga- 
briel proceeds to instruct Mary that by the operation of 
the Holy Ghost the everlasting Son of the Father should 
be born of her; that in him the prophecies relative to 
David's throne and kingdom should be accomplished; 
and that his name was to be called Jesus. lie further 
informs her, perhaps as a sign by which she might con- 
vince herself that his prediction with regard to herself 
would come true, that her relative Elisabeth was within 
three months of being delivered of a child. 

The angel left Mary, and she set off to visit Elisabeth 
either at Hebron or Juttah (whichever way we under- 
stand the hq T))v opuvrjv hq 7to\iv Y ovdci, Luke i, 39), 
where the latter lived with her husband Zacharias, 
about tw r enty miles to the south of Jerusalem, and there- 
fore at a very considerable distance from Nazareth. 1 
Immediately on her entrance into the house she was 
sainted by Elisabeth as the mother of her Lord, and had 
evidence of the truth of the angel's saying with regard 
to her cousin. She embodied her feelings of exultation 
and thankfulness in the hymn known under the name 
of the Magnificat. Whether this was uttered by im- 
mediate inspiration, in reply to Elisabeth’s salutation, 
or composed during her journey from Nazareth, or was 
written at a later period of her three months’ visit at 
Hebron, does not appear with certainty. The hymn is 
founded on Hannah's song of thankfulness (1 Sam. ii, 1- 
10), and exhibits an intimate knowledge of the Psalms, 
prophetical writings, and books of Moses, from which 
sources almost every expression in it is drawn. The 
most remarkable clause, “ From henceforth all genera- 
tions shall call me blessed,” is borrowed from Leah’s ex- 
clamation on the birth of Asher (Gen. xxx, 13). The 
same sentiment and expression are also found in Prov. 
xxxi, 28; Mai. iii, 12; James v, 11. In the latter place 
the word paKapiZio is rendered with great exactness 
“count happy.” Ihe notion that there is conveyed in 
the word any anticipation of her bearing the title of 
“ Blessed” arises solely from ignorance. 

_ Various opinions have been held as to the purpose of 
divine Wisdom in causing the Saviour to be born of a 
betrothed rather than a disengaged virgin. It seems 
eminently seemly and decorous that the mother of the 
Messiah should have some one to vouch for her virgin- 
ity, and to act as her protector and the foster-father of 
her child, and that he should be one who, as heir of the 
throne of David, would give to his adopted Son the legal 
rights to the same dignity, while of all persons he was 
the most interested in resisting the claims of a pretend- 
2 r. Origen, following Ignatius, thinks it was in order 


to baffle the cunning of the devil, and keep him in igno- 
rance of the fact of the Lord’s advent. 

Mary returned to Nazareth shortly before the birth 
of John the Baptist, and continued living at her own 
home. In t lie course of a few months Joseph became 
aware that she was with child, and determined on giv- 
ing her a bill of divorcement, instead of yielding her up 
to the law to suffer the penalty which he supposed that 
she had incurred. Being, how r ever, w T arned and satisfied 
by ail angel wdio appeared to him in a dream, he took 
her to his own house. It was soon after this, as it 
would seem, that Augustus’s decree was promulgated, 
and Joseph and Mary travelled to Bethlehem to have 
their names enrolled in the registers (B.C. G) by way of 
preparation for the taxing, which, however, was not 
completed till several years afterwards (A.D. G), in the 
governorship of Quirinus. They reached Bethlehem, 
and there Mary brought forth the Saviour of the world, 
and humbly laid him in a manger. 

Bethlehem stands on the narrow ridge of a long gray 
hill running east and west, and its position suggests the 
difficulty that a crowd of travellers would have in find- 
ing shelter within it. As early as the second century, 
a neighboring cave was fixed upon as the stable wdiere 
Joseph abode, and where accordingly Christ was born 
and laid in the manger. The hill-sides are covered 
with vineyards, and a range of convents occupies the 
height, and incloses within it the cave of the nativity; 
but there are grassy slopes adjoining, where the shep- 
herds may have kept watch over their flocks, seen the 
vision of the angelic hosts, and heard the divine song 
of “Glory to God in the highest, on earth peace and 
good will towards^ men.” Full of wonder and hope, they 
sought the lowly sojourn of the Virgin, and there saw 
with their own eyes what the Lord had made known to 
them. But while they published abroad and spread the 
wondrous tale, Mary kept all these things and pondered 
them in her heart. 

3. The circumcision, the adoration of the wise men, 
and the presentation in the Temple, are rather scenes in 
the life of Christ than in that of his mother. The pres- 
entation in the Temple might not take place till forty 
days after the birth of the child. During this period 
the mother, according to the law of Moses, was unclean 
(Lev. xii). In the present case there could be no ne- 
cessity for offering the sacrifice and making atonement 
beyond that of obedience to the Mosaic precept; but 
already he, and his mother for him, were acting upon 
the principle of fulfilling all righteousness. The pover- 
ty of Mary and Joseph, it may be noted, is shown by 
their making the offering of the poor. But though to- 
kens of poverty attended her on this occasion, she was 
met by notes of welcome and hymns of grateful joy by 
the worthiest and most venerable of Jerusalem. Sim- 
eon, we know, was a just and devout man — one who wait- 
ed for the consolation of Israel, and had revelations from 
the Holy Ghost ; but tradition also says that he was the 
great rabbi Simeon, the son of Hillel, and father of Ga- 
maliel, in whose days, according to the rabbins, the birth 
of Jesus of Nazareth took place (llosenm filler, quoted 
bv Wordsworth). Anna, too, who had spent her long 
life in daily attendance at the worship of the Temple, 
was evidently the centre of a devout circle, whose minds 
had been led by the study of Scripture to an expecta- 
tion of redemption. Mary wondered when Simeon took 
her child into his arms, and received him as the prom- 
ised salvation of the Lord, the light of the Gentiles, and 
the glory of Israel ; but it was the wonder of joy at the 
unexpected confirmation of the promise already given to 
her by the angel. The song of Simeon and the thanks- 
giving of Anna, like the wonder of the shepherds and 
the adoration of the magi, only incidentally refer to 
Mary. One passage alone in Simeon’s address is spe- 
cially directed to her : “ Yea, a sword shall pierce through 
thy own soul also.” The exact purport of these words 
is doubtful. A common patristic explanation refers 
them to the pang of unbelief which shot through her 


MARY 


835 


MARY 


bosom on seeing her Son expire on the cross (Tertullian, 
Origen, Basil, Cyril, etc.). Bv modern interpreters it is 
more commonly referred to the pangs of grief which she 
experienced on witnessing the sufferings of her Son. 

In the lligbt into Egypt, Mary and the babe had the 
support ail'd protection of Joseph^ as well as in their re- 
turn from thence in the following year, on the death of 
Herod the Great (B.C. 4). It appears to have been the 
intention of Joseph to settle at Bethlehem at this time, 
as his home at Nazareth had been broken up for more 
than a year ; but on finding how Herod’s dominions had 
been disposed of, he changed his mind and returned to 
his old place of abode, thinking that the child’s life 
would be safer in the tetrarchy of Antipas than in that 
of Archelaus. It is possible that Joseph might have 
been himself a native of Bethlehem, and that before 
this time he had only been a visitor at Nazareth, drawn 
thither by his betrothal and marriage. In that case, 
his fear of Archelaus would make him exchange his own 
native town for that of Mary. 

4. Henceforward, until the beginning of our Lord’s 
ministry — i. e. from B.C. 4 to A.D. 25 — we may picture 
Mary to ourselves as living in Nazareth, in a humble 
sphere of life, the wife of Joseph the carpenter, ponder- 
ing over the sayings of the angels, of the shepherds, of 
Simeon, and of those of her Son, as the latter “ increased 
in wisdom and stature, and in favor with God and man” 
(Luke ii, 52). Two circumstances alone, so far as we 
know, broke in on the otherwise even fiow of the still 
waters of her life. One of these was the temporary loss 
of her Son when he remained behind in Jerusalem (A.D. 
8) ; the other was the death of Joseph. The exact date 
of this last event we cannot determine, but it was prob- 
ably not long after the other. See Joseph. 

5. From the time at which our Lord’s ministry com- 
menced, Mary is withdrawn almost wholly from sight. 
Four times only, as detailed below, is the veil removed 
which, surely not without reason, is thrown over her. 
If to these we add two references to her, the first by her 
Nazarene fellow-citizens (Matt, xiii, 54, 55 ; Mark vi, 1- 
3), the second by a woman in the multitude (Luke xi, 
27). we have specified every event known to us in her 
life. It is noticeable that, on every occasion of our 
Lord’s addressing her, or speaking of her, there is a 
sound of reproof in his words, with the exception of the 
last words spoken to her from the cross. 

(1.) The marriage at Cana in Galilee (John ii) took 
place in the few months which intervened between 
the baptism of Christ and the Passover of the year 26. 
When Jesus was found by his mother and Joseph in the 
Temple in the year 8, we find him repudiating the name 
of k - father” as applied to Joseph. “ Thy father and I 
have sought thee sorrowing.” “ How is it that ye 
sought me? Wist ye not that I must be at [not Jo- 
seph’s and yours, but] my Father's house?” (Luke ii, 48, 
49). Now, in like manner, at his first miracle, which in- 
augurates his ministry, he solemnly withdraws himself 
from the authority of his earthly mother. This is Au- 
gustine’s explanation of the “What have I to do with 
thee ? my hour is not yet come.” It was his humanity, 
not his divinity, which came from Mary. While, there- 
fore, he was acting in his divine character, he could not 
acknowledge her, nor does he acknowledge her again 
until he was hanging on the cross, when, in that nature 
which he took from her, he was about to submit to 
death (St. Aug. Comm, in Joan. Evany, tract viii, vol. iii, 
p.1455 [Paris, 1845, edit. Migne]). That the words Tt 
ipoi Kai croi ;= ~jb‘l JT2 imply reproof, is certain 
(comp. Matt, viii, 29; Mark i, 24 ; and Sept., Jmlg. xi, 
12; 1 Kings xvii, 18; 2 Kings iii, 13), and such is the 
patristic explanation of them (see Iren. A dr. Ilccr. iii, 
18; A pud Bihl. Patr. Max. tom. ii, part ii, p. 293; St. 
Chrysost. Horn, in Joan. xxi). But the reproof is of a 
gentle kind (Trench, On the Miracles , p. 102 [London, 
1856]; Alford, Comm, ad loc. ; Wordsworth, Comm, ad 
loc.). Mary seems to have understood it, and accord- 


ingly to have drawn back, desiring the servants to pay 
attention to her divine Son (Olshausen, Comm, ad loc.). 
The modern Bomanist translation, “ What is that to me 
and to thee?” is not a mistake, because it is a wilful 
misrepresentation (Donay version ; Orsini, Life of Mary, 
etc.; see The Catholic Layman, p. 117 [Dublin, 1852]). 
Lightfoot supposes the marriage to have taken place 
in the house of Alplueus, Mary’s brother-in-law, as his 
son Simon is called the Canaanite, or man of Cana. 
But this term rather describes him as a former Zealot. 
See Zelotes. It is clear that Mary felt herself to be 
invested with some authority in the house. Jesus vras 
naturally there as her Son, and the disciples as those 
whom he had called and adopted as his especial friends. 
As yet, the Lord had done no miracle; and it has been 
questioned whether Mary, in drawing his attention to 
the failure of the wine, meant to invoke his miraculous 
powers, or merely to submit the fact to his judgment, 
that he might do what was best under the circumstances 
— either withdrawing from the feast with his disciples, 
or engaging the attention of the guests by his discourse. 
The better opinion, however, seems to be that she knew 
he was about now to enter on his public ministry, and 
that miracles would be wrought by him in proof of his 
divine mission; and the early fathers do not scruple to 
say that a desire to gain eclat by the powers of her Son 
w'as one motive for her wish that he should supply the 
deficiency of the wine, and that by his reply he meant 
to condemn this feeling. 

(2.) Capernaum (John ii, 12) and Nazareth (Matt, iv, 
13 ; xiii, 54 ; Mark vi, 1) appear to have been the resi- 
lience of Mary for a considerable period. The next time 
that she is brought before us we find her at Capernaum 
(Matt, xii, 46; Mark iii, 21, 31 ; Luke viii, 19). It is 
the autumn of the year 27— a year and a half after the 
miracle wrought at the marriage-feast in Cana. The 
Lord had in the mean time attended two feasts of the 
Passover, and had twice made a circuit throughout Gal- 
ilee, teaching and working miracles, llis fame had 
spread, and crowds came pressing round him, so that 
he had not even time “ to eat bread.” Mary was still 
living with her other sons, James, Joses, Simon, Jude, 
and their sisters (Matt, xiii, 55) ; and she and they 
heard of the toils which he was undergoing^ and they 
understood that he was denying himself every relaxa- 
tion from his labors. Their human affection conquered 
their faith. They thought that he was killing himself, 
and, with an indignation arising from love, they ex- 
claimed that he was beside himself, and set off to bring 
him home either by entreaty or compulsion. He was 
surrounded by eager crowds, and they coidd not reach 
him. They therefore sent a message, begging him to 
allow them to speak to him. This message was handed 
on from one person in the crowd to another, till at 
length it was reported aloud to him. Again he re- 
proves ; again he refuses to admit any authority on the 
part of his relatives, or any privilege on account of their 
relationship. “Who is my mother, and who are my 
brethren? And he stretched forth his hand towards 
his disciples, and said, Behold my mother and my breth- 
ren ! For whosoever shall do the will of my Father 
which is in heaven, the same is my brother, and sister, 
and mother” (Matt, xii, 48, 49). Compare Theoph. in 
Marc, iii, 32 ; St. Chrys. Ilom. xliv in Matt.; St. Aug. 
in Joan, tract x, who all of them point out that the 
blessedness of Mary consists, not so much in having 
borne Christ, as in believing on him and in obeying his 
words (see also Qucest. et Resp. ad Orthodox, cxxxvi ; 
ap. Et. Just. Mart, in the Bihl. Max. Patr. tom. ii. pt. ii, 
p. 138). This, indeed, is the lesson taught directly by 
our Lord himself in the next passage in which reference 
is made to Mary. In the midst or at the completion of 
one of his addresses on the same occasion, a woman of 
the multitude, whose soul had been stirred by his words, 
cried out, “ Blessed is the womb that bare thee, and the 
paps which thou hast sucked !” Immediately the Lord 
replied, “Yea, rather, blessed are they that hear the word 


MARY 


836 


MARY 


of God, and keep it” (Luke xi, 27). lie does not either 
affirm or deny anything with regard to the direct bear- 
ing of the woman’s exclamation, but passes that by as a 
thing indifferent, in order to point out in what alone the 
true blessedness of his mother and of all consists. This 
is the full foree of the ptvovvye. with which he com- 
mences his reply. 

(3.) The next scene in Mary’s life brings us to the 
foot of the cross. She was standing there with her sis- 
ter Mary and Mary Magdalene, and Salome, and other 
women, having no doubt followed her Son as she was 
able throughout the terrible morning of Good Friday. 
It was about 3 o’clock in the afternoon, and he was about 
to give up his. spirit, liis divine mission was now, as 
it were, accomplished. While his ministry was in prog- 
ress he had withdrawn himself from her that he might 
do his Father’s work. But now the hour had come 
when his human relationship might again be recognised, 
“Tunc enim agnovit,” says Augustine, “quando illud 
quod peperit moriebatur” (St. Aug. In Jocm. ix). Stand- 
ing near the company of the women was the apostle 
John, and, with almost his last words, Christ commend- 
ed his mother to the care of him who had borne the 
name of “ the Disciple whom Jesus loved:’’ ‘‘Woman, be- 
hold thy Son.” “ Commendat homo homini hominem,” 
says Augustine. From that hour John assures us that 
he took her to his own abode. If by “ that hour” the 
evangelist means immediately after the words were 
spoken, Mary was not present at the last scene of all. 
The sword had sufficiently pierced her soul, and she was 
spared the hearing of the last loud ery, and the sight of 
the bowed head. Ambrose considers the chief purpose 
of our Lord's words to have been a desire to make man- 
ifest the truth that the' redemption was his work alone, 
while he gave human affection to his mother. “Non 
egebat adjutore ad omnium redemptionem. Suscepit 
quidem matris affectum, sed non qiuesivit hominis aux- 
ilium” (St. Amb. Expos. Evang. Luc. x, 132). But it is 
more probable that she continued at the spot till all was 
over. See Crucifixion. 

(4.) A veil is drawn over her sorrow, and over her joy 
which succeeded that sorrow. Mediaeval imagination 
has supposed, but Scripture does not state, that her Son 
appeared to Mary after his resurrection from the dead, 
(See, for example, Ludolph of Saxony, Vita Christ i [Ly- 
ons, 1642], p. 666 ; and Rupert, De Divinis Ojjiciis [Ven- 
ice, 1751], vii, 25, tom. iv, p. 92). Ambrose is considered 
to be the first writer who suggested the idea, and refer- 
ence is made to his treatise De Virginitate , i, 3 ; but it 
is quite certain that the text has been corrupted, and 
that it is of Mary Magdalene that he is there speaking. 
(Comp, his Exposition o f St. Luke, x, 156. See note of 
the Benedictine edition [Paris, 1790], ii, 217.) Another 
reference is usually given to Anselm. The treatise 
quoted is not Anselm's, but Eadmer's. (See Eadmer, 
De Excellentia Mar ice, chap, v, appended to Anselm’s 
lFbnb [Paris, 1721], p. 138.) Ten appearances are re- 
lated by the evangelists as having occurred in the forty 
days intervening between Easter and Ascension Day, 
but none to Mary. She was doubtless living at Jerusa- 
lem with John, cherished with the tenderness which her 
tender soul would have specially needed, and which un- 
doubtedly she found pre-eminently in John. We have 
no record of her presence at the Ascension. Arator, a 
writer ,f the 6th century, describes her as being at the 
time not on the spot, but in Jerusalem (Arat.De Act. 
Apost. 1. 50, apud Migne, lxviii, 95 [Paris, 1848], quoted 
by Wordsworth, Gk. Test. Com. on the A cts, i, 14). We 
have no account of her being present at the descent of 
the lloly Spirit on the day of Pentecost. What we do 
read of her is, that she remained steadfast in prayer in 
the upper room at Jerusalem with Alary Magdalene and 
Salome, and those known as the Lord’s brothers and the 
apostles (Acts i, 14). This is the last view fhat we have 
of her. Holy Scripture leaves her engaged in prayer 
(see Wordsworth, as cited above). 

6. From this point forwards we know notliing of her. 


It is probable that the rest of her life was spent in Jeru- 
salem with John (see Epiph. llcer. 78). According to 
one tradition, the beloved disciple would not leave Pales- 
tine until she had expired in his arms (see Tholuek, Light 
from the Cross , vol. ii, Serm. x, p. 234 [Edinb. 1857]) ; 
and it is added that she lived and died in the Ccenacu- 
lum, in what is now the Mosque of the Tomb of David, 
the traditional chamber of the Last Supper (Stanley, S. 
andP. eli.xiv, p.456). Other traditions make her journey 
with John to Ephesus, and there die in extreme old age. 
It was believed by some in the 5th century that she was 
buried at Ephesus (see Cone. Ephes., Cone. Labb. iii, 574 
a) ; by others, in the same century, that she was buried 
at Gethsemane, and this appears to have been the infor- 
mation given to Mareian and Pulcheria by Juvenal of 
Jerusalem. As soon as we lose the guidance of Scrip., 
ture, we have nothing from which we can derive any 
sure knowledge about her. The darkness in which we 
are left is in itself most instructive. 

7. The character of the Virgin Alary is not drawn by 
any of the evangelists, but some of its lineaments are 
incidentally manifested in the fragmentary record which 
is given of her. They are to be found for the most part 
in Luke’s Gospel, whence an attempt has been made, by 
a curious mixture of the imaginative and rationalistic 
methods of interpretation, to explain the old legend 
which tells us that Luke painted the Virgin’s portrait 
(Calmet, Ivitto, Migne, Airs. Jameson). We might have 
expected greater details from John than from the other 
evangelists, but in his Gospel we learn nothing of her 
except what may be gathered from the scene at Cana 
and at the cross. It is clear from Luke’s account, though 
without any such intimation we might rest assured of 
the fact, that her youth had been spent in the study of 
the holy Scriptures, and that she had set before her the 
example of the holy women of the Old Testament as 
her model. This would appear from the Magnificat 
(Luke i, 46). The same hymn, so far as it emanated 
from herself, would show no little power of mind as well 
as warmth of spirit. Her faith and humility exhibit 
themselves in her immediate surrender of herself to the 
divine will, though ignorant how that will should be ac- 
complished (Luke i, 38) ; her energy and earnestness, \C\ 
her journey from Nazareth to Hebron (Luke i, 39) ; her 
happy thankfulness, in her song of joy (Luke i, 48) ; her 
silent, musing thoughtfulness, in her pondering over the 
shepherds’ visit (Luke ii, 19), and in her keeping her 
Son’s words in her heart (Luke ii, 51), though she could 
not fully understand their import. Again, her humility 
is seen in her drawing back, yet without anger, after re- 
ceiving reproof at Cana, in Galilee (John ii, 5), and in 
the remarkable manner in which she shuns putting her- 
self forward throughout the whole of her Son’s ministry, 
or after his removal from earth. Once only does she 
attempt to interfere with her divine Son's freedom of 
action (Alatt. xii, 46; Alark iii, 31; Luke viii, 19); and 
even here we can hardly blame, for she seems to have 
been roused, not by arrogance and by a desire to show 
her authority and relationship, as Chrysostom supposes 
( Horn . xliv in Matt.), but by a woman’s and a mother’s 
feelings of affection and fear for him whom she loved. 
It was part of that exquisite tenderness which appears 
throughout to have belonged to her. In a word, so far 
as Alary is portrayed to us in Scripture, she is, as we 
should have expected, the most tender, the most faithful, 
humble, patient, and loving of women, but a woman 
still. See Niemeyer, Charakt. i, 58. 

H. Christian Legends. — These, as might naturally be 
expected, played an important part in the traditional 
history of Alary. They began to appear probably in the 
early part of the 3d century, and were usually published 
under false names. Of these the apocryphal writings 
called the Protevangelium and the Gospel of the Birth 
of Mary are among the earlier specimens. AVe give at 
considerable length their contents on this head. 

I. The early Life of Mary . — According to these apoc- 
ryphal accounts, Joachim and ximia were both of the 


MARY 


837 


MARY 


house of David. The abode of the former was Naza- 
reth, the latter passed her early years at Bethlehem. 
They lived piously in the sight of God, and faultlessly 
before man, dividing their substance into three portions, 
one of which they devoted to the service of the Temple, 
another to the poor, and the third to their own writs. 
So twenty years of their lives passed silently away. 
But at the end of this period Joachim went to Jerusa- 
lem with some others of his tribe, to make his usual of- 
fering at the Feast of the Dedication. It chanced that 
Issachar was high-priest (Gospel of Birth of Mary) ; 
that Reuben was liigh-priest (Protevangelion). The 
liigh-priest scorned Joachim, and drove him roughly 
away, asking liow he dared to present himself in com- 
pany with those who had children, while he had none ; 
and he refused to accept his offerings until he should 
have begotten a child, for the Scripture said, “ Cursed 
is every one who does not beget a man-child in Israel,” 
Joachim was ashamed before his friends and neighbors, 
and he retired into the wilderness and fixed his tent 
there, and fasted forty days and forty nights. At the 
end of this period an angel appeared to him, and told 
him that his wife should conceive, and should bring 
forth a daughter, and he should call her name Mary. 
Anna meantime was much distressed at her husband’s 
absence, and being reproached by her maid Judith with 
her barrenness, she was overcome with grief of spirit. 
In her sadness she went into her garden to walk, dressed 
in her wedding-dress. She there sat down under a lau- 
rel-tree, and looked up and spied among the branches a 
sparrow’s nest, and she bemoaned herself as more miser- 
able than the very birds, for they were fruitful and she 
was barren; and she prayed that she might have a 
child, even as Sarai -was blessed with Isaac. At this 
moment two angels appeared to her, and promised her 
that she should have a child who should be spoken of 
in all the world. Joachim returned joyfully to his 
home, and when the time was accomplished Anna 
brought forth a daughter, and they called her name 
Mary. Now the child Mary increased in strength day 
by day, and at nine months of age she walked nine 
steps. When she was three years old her parents 
brought her to the Temple, to dedicate her to the Lord. 
There were fifteen stairs up to the Temple, and, while 
Joseph and Mary were changing their dress, she walked 
up them without help; and the high-priest placed her 
upon the third step of the altar, and she danced with 
her feet, and all the house of Israel loved her. Then 
Mary remained at the Temple until she was twelve 
(Prot.), fourteen (G. B. M.), years old, ministered to by 
the angels, and advancing in perfection as in years. At 
this time the liigh-priest commanded all the virgins 
that were in the Temple to return to their homes and 
to be married. But Mary refused, for she said that she 
had vowed virginity to the Lord. Thus the high-priest 
was brought into a perplexity, and he had recourse to 
God to inquire what he should do. Then a voice from 
the ark answered him (G. B. M.), an angel spake unto 
him (Prot.) ; and they gathered together all the widow- 
ers in Israel (Prot.), all the marriageable men of the 
house of David (G. B. M.), and desired them to bring 
each man his rod. Among them came Joseph and 
brought his rod, but he shunned to present it, because 
he was an old man and had children. Therefore the 
other rods were presented and no sign occurred. Then 
it was found that Joseph had not presented his rod; 
and behold, as soon as he had presented it, a dove came 
forth from the rod and flew upon the head of Joseph 
(Prot.) ; a dove came from heaven and pitched on the 
rod (G. B. M.). So Joseph, in spite of his reluctance, 
was compelled to betroth himself to Mary, and he re- 
turned to Bethlehem to make preparations for his mar- 
riage (G. B. M.) ; he betook himself to his occupation 
of building houses (Prot.) ; while Mary went back to 
her parents’ house in Galilee. Then it chanced that 
the priests needed a new veil for the Temple, and seven 
virgins cast lots to make different parts of it ; and the 


lot to spin the true purple fell to Mary. As she went 
out with a pitcher to draw water, she heard a voice say- 
ing to her, “Hail, thou that art highly favored, the 
Lord is with thee. Blessed art thou among women !” 
and she looked round with trembling to see whence the 
voice came ; and she laid down the pitcher and went 
into the house, and to*k the purple and sat down to 
work at it. But behold the angel Gabriel stood by her 
mid filled the chamber with prodigious light, and said, 
“Fear not,” etc. When Mary had finished the purple, 
she took it to the liigh-priest; and, having received his 
blessing, went to visit her cousin Elisabeth, and returned 
back again. Then Joseph returned to his home from 
building houses (Prot.) ; came into Galilee, to marry the 
Virgin to whom lie was betrothed (G. B. M.), and find- 
ing her with child, he resolved to put her away private- 
ly; but being warned in a dream, lie relinquished liis 
purpose and took her to his house. Then came Annas 
the scribe to visit Joseph, and he went back and told 
the priest that Joseph had committed a great crime, for 
he had privately married the Virgin whom lie had re- 
ceived out of the Temple, and had not made it known 
to the children of Israel. So the priest sent his ser- 
vants, and they found that she was with child ; and he 
called them to him, and Joseph denied that the child 
was liis x and the priest made Joseph drink the bitter 
water of trial (Numb, v, 18), and sent him to a moun- 
tainous place to see what would follow. But Joseph 
returned in perfect health, so the priest sent them away 
to their home. Then after three months Joseph put 
Mary on an ass to go to Bethlehem to be taxed ; aud as 
they were going, Mary besought him to take her down, 
and Joseph took her down and carried her into a cave, 
and, leaving her there with liis sons, he went to seek a 
midwife. As he went he looked up, and he saw the 
clouds astonished and all creatures amazed. The fowls 
stopped in their flight; the working people sat at their 
food, but did not eat ; the sheep stood still ; the shep- 
herds’ lifted hands became fixed ; the kids were touch- 
ing the water with their mouths, but did not drink. A 
midwife came down from the mountains, and Joseph 
took her with him to the cave, and a bright cloud over- 
shadowed the cave, and the cloud became a great light, 
and when the bright light faded there appeared an in- 
fant at the breast of Mary. Then the midwife went 
out and told Salome that a Virgin had brought forth, 
and Salome would not believe; and they came back 
again into the cave, and Salome received satisfaction, 
but her hand withered away, nor was it restored until, 
by the command of an angel, she touched the child, 
whereupon she was straightway cured. See Giles, Co- 
dex Apocryphus Novi Test amend, p. 33-^17 and 66-81 
(Lond. 1852); Jones, On the New Testament , vol. ii, cli. 
xiii and xv (Oxf. 1827) ; Tliilo ,Codex Apocryphus ; also 
Vitce fjlorississhme Matris Amice per F. Petrum Dorlan- 
do , appended to Ludolpli of Saxony’s Vita Christi (Ly- 
ons, 1642) ; and a most audacious Ilistoria Christi , writ- 
ten in Persian by the Jesuit P. Jerome Xavier, and ex- 
posed by Louis de Dieu (Lugd. Bat. 1639). 

Three spots lay claim to be the scene of the Annunci- 
ation. Two of these are, as was to be expected, in Naz- 
areth, and one, as every one knows, is in Italy. The 
Greeks and Latins each claim to be the guardians of the 
true spot in Palestine; the third claimant is the holy 
house of Loretto. The Greeks point out the spring of 
water mentioned in the Protevangelion as confirmatory 
of their claim. The Latins have engraved on a marble 
slab in the grotto of their convent in Nazareth the words 
Verbum hie caro factum cst, and point out the pillar 
which marks the spot where the angel stood; while the 
head of their Church is irretrievably committed to the 
wild legend of Loretto. See Stanley, S. and P. ch. xiv. 

In the Gospel of the Infancy, which seems to date 
from the 2d century, innumerable miracles are made to 
attend on Mary and her Son during their sojourn in 
Egypt, e. g. Mary looked with pity on a woman who 
was possessed, and immediately Satan came out of her 


MARY 


838 


MARY 


in the form of a young man, saying, “Woe is me because 
of thee, Mary, anti thy Son !” On another occasion they 
fell in with two thieves, named Titus and Dumachus; 
and Titus was gentle and Dumachus was harsh: the 
Lady Mary therefore promised Titus that God should 
receive him on his right hand. Accordingly, thirty- 
three years afterwards, Titus was the penitent thief who 
was crucitied on the right hand, and Dumachus was cru- 
cified on the left. These are sufficient as samples. 
Throughout the book we find Mary associated with her 
Son, in the strange freaks of power attributed to them, 
in a way which shows us whence the cultus of Mary 
took its origin. See Jones, On the New Test. vol. ii 
(Oxf. 1827); Giles, Codex Apocryphus ; Thilo, Codex 
A pocryphus. 

2. Mary's later Life. — The foregoing legends of Ma- 
ry’s childhood may be traced back as far as the third or 
even the second century. Those of her death are prob- 
ably of a later date. The chief legend was for a length 
of time considered to be a veritable history, written by 
Melito, bishop of Sardis, in the 2d century. It is to be 
found in the Bibliotheca Maxima (tom. ii, pt. ii, p. 212), 
entitled Sancti Melitonis Episcopi Sardensis de Transitu 
Yirginis Marke Liber; and there certainly existed a 
book with this title at the end of the 5th century, which 
was condemned by Pope Gelasius as apocryphal (Op. 
Gelas. apud Migne, lix, 152). Another form of the same 
legend has been published at Elberfeld,in 1854, bv Maxi- 
milian Enger in Arabic. He supposes that it is an Ara- 
bic translation from a Syriac original. It was found in 
the library at Bonn, and is entitled Joannis Apostoli de 
Transitu Beatee Marke Yirginis Liber. It is perhaps 
the same as that referred to in Assemani (Biblioth. Orient. 
[Pome, 1725], iii, 287), under the name of Ilistoria Dor- 
mitionis et A ssu nipt ion is B. Marke Yirginis Joanni Evan- 
gelistic falso inscripta. We give the substance of the 
legend with its main variations. 

When the apostles separated in order to evangelize 
the world, Mary continued to live with John’s parents 
in their house near the Mount of Olives, and every day 
she went out to pray at the tomb of Christ, and at Gol- 
gotha. But the Jews had placed a watch to prevent 
prayers being offered at these spots, and the watch went 
into the city and told the chief priests that Mary came 
daily to pray. Then the priests commanded the watch 
to stone her. At this time, however, king Abgarus wrote 
to Tiberius to desire him to take vengeance on the Jews 
for slaying Christ. They feared, therefore, to add to his 
wrath by slaying Mary also, and yet they could not al- 
low her to continue her prayers at Golgotha, because an 
excitement and tumult was thereby made. According- 
ly, they went and spoke softly to her, and she consented 
to go and dwell in Bethlehem; and thither she took 
with her three holy virgins who should attend upon her. 
In the twenty-second year after the ascension of the 
Lord, Mary felt her heart burn with an inexpressible 
longing to be with her Son; and behold an angel ap- 
peared to her, and announced to her that her soul should 
be taken up from her body on the third day, and he 
placed a palm-branch from paradise in her hands, and 
desired that it should be carried before her bier. Mary 
besought that the apostles might be gathered round her 
before she died, and the angel replied that they should 
come. Then the Iloly Spirit caught up John as he was 
1 reaching at Ephesus, and Peter as he was offering sac- 
rifice at liome, and Paul as he was disputing with the 
Jews near Koine, and Thomas in the extremity of India, 
and [Matthew and James: these were all of the apostles 
who were still living; then the Iloly Spirit awakened 
the dead, Philip and Andrew, and Luke and Simon, and 
Mark and Bartholomew; and all of them were snatched 
away in a bright cloud and found themselves* at Bethle- 
hem. Angels and powers -without number descended 
from heaven and stood round about the house ; Gabriel 
stood at blessed Mary’s head, and [Michael at her feet, 
and they fanned her with their wings; and Peter and 
John wiped away her tears; and there was a great cry, | 


and they all said “ Hail, blessed one ! blessed is the fruit 
of thy womb!” The people of Bethlehem brought their 
sick to the house, and they were all healed. Then news 
of these things was carried to Jerusalem, and the king 
sent and commanded that they should bring [Mary and 
the disciples to Jerusalem. Accordingly, horsemen came 
to Bethlehem to seize Mary, but they did not find her, 
for the Iloly Spirit had taken her and the disciples in 
a cloud over the heads of the horsemen to Jerusalem. 
Then the men of Jerusalem saw angels ascending and 
descending at the spot where Mary’s house was. But 
the higli-priests went to the governor, and craved per- 
mission to burn her and the house with fire, and the 
governor gave them permission, and they brought wood 
and fire ; but as soon as they came near to the house, 
behold there burst forth a fire upon them which con- 
sumed them utterly. Now the governor saw these 
things afar off, and in the evening he brought his son, 
who was sick, to Mary, and she healed him. 

Then, on the sixth day of the week, the Holy Spirit 
commanded the apostles to take up Mary, and to carry 
her from Jerusalem to Getlisemane, and as they went 
the Jews saw them. Then drew near Jupliia, one of 
the high-priests, and attempted to overthrow the litter 
on which she was carried, for the other priests had 
conspired with him, and they hoped to cast her down 
into the valley, and to throw wood^ upon her, and to 
burn her body with fire. But as soon as Jtiphia had 
touched the litter the angel smote off his arras with a 
fiery sword, and the arms remained fastened to the lit- 
ter. Then he cried to the disciples and Peter for help, 
and they said, “Ask it of the Lady Mary;” and he cried, 
“ O Lady, O [Mother of Salvation, have mercy on me !” 
Then she said to Peter, “Give him back his arms;” and 
they were restored whole. But the disciples proceeded 
onwards, and they laid down the litter in a cave, as they 
were commanded, and gave themselves to prayer. 

Now the angel Gabriel announced that on the first 
day of the week Mary’s soul should be removed from 
this world. So on the morning of that day there came 
Eve, and Anne, and Elisabeth, and they kissed Mary, and 
told her who they were: there came Adam, Seth, Shem, 
Noah, Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, David, and the rest of the 
old fathers: there came Enoch, and Elias, and [Moses: 
there came twelve chariots of angels innumerable: and 
then appeared the Lord Christ in his humanity, and 
[Mary bowed before him and said, “O my Lord and my 
God, place thy hand upon me ;” and he stretched out his 
hand and blessed her ; and she took his hand and kissed 
it, and placed it to her forehead, and said, “ I bow before 
this right hand, which has made heaven and earth, and 
all that in them is, and 1 thank thee and praise thee that 
thou hast thought me worthy of this hour.” Then she 
said, “ O Lord, take me to thyself!” But he said to her, 
“ Now shall thy body be in paradise to the day of the res- 
urrection, and angels shall serve thee ; but thy pure spirit 
shall shine in the kingdom, in the dwelling-place of my 
Father's fulness.” Then the disciples drew near, and be- 
sought her to pray for the world which she was about 
to leave. So Mary prayed. After her prayer was fin- 
ished her face shone with marvellous brightness, and 
she stretched out her hands and blessed them all; and 
her Son put forth his hands and received her pure soul, 
and bore it into his Father’s treasure-house. Then there 
was a light and a sweet smell, sweeter than anything on 
earth; and a voice from heaven saying, “ Hail, blessed 
one! blessed and celebrated art thou among women!” 
(The legend ascribed to [Melito makes her soul to be 
carried to paradise by Gabriel while her Son returns to 
heaven.) 

Now the apostles carried her body to the valley of 
Jehosliaphat, to a place which the Lord had told them 
of, and John went before and carried the palm-branch. 
There they placed her in a new tomb, and sat at the 
mouth of the sepulchre, as the Lord commanded them; 
and suddenly there appeared the Lord Christ surrounded 
by a multitude of angels, and said to the apostles, “What 


MARY 


839 


MARY 


will ve that I should do with her whom my Father’s 
command selected out of all the tribes of Israel that I 
should dwell in her?” So Peter and the apostles be- 
sought him that he would raise the body of Mary and 
take, it with him in glory to heaven. Then the Saviour 
said, “ Be it according to your word,” So he commanded 
Michael the archangel to bring down the soul of Mary. 
Then Gabriel rolled away the stone, and the Lord said, 
“ Rise up, my beloved, thy body shall not suffer corrup- 
tion in the tomb.” Immediately Mary arose, and bowed 
herself at his feet and worshipped ; and the Lord kissed 
her, and gave her to the angels to cam' her to paradise. 

But Thomas was not present with the rest, for at the 
moment that he was summoned to come lie was baptiz- 
ing l’olodius, who was the son of the sister of the king. 
And he arrived just after all these things were accom- 
plished, and he demanded to see the sepulchre in which 
they had laid his Lady: “ For ye know,” said he, “ that 
I am Thomas, and unless I see I will not believe.” Then 
Peter arose in haste and wrath, and the other disciples 
with him, and they opened the sepulchre and went in ; 
but they found nothing therein save that in which her 
body had been wrapped. Then Thomas confessed that 
he too, as he was borne in the cloud from India, had 
seen her holy body carried by the angels with great 
triumph into heaven ; and that on his crying to her 
for her blessing, she had bestowed upon him her pre- 
cious Girdle, which when the apostles saw they were 
glad. Then the apostles were carried back each to his 
own place. For the story of this Saeratissimo Cintolo , 
still preserved at Prato, see Mrs. Jameson’s Legends of 
the Madonna , p. 344 (Lond. 1852). 

On this part of the legend, see generally Joannis A pos- 
toli de Transitu Beatce Maria Yirginis Liber (Elberfcl- 
d:e, 1854); St.MclitonisEpise.Sard.de Transitu Y.M. 
Liber , apud Bibl. Max. Patr. tom. ii, pt.ii, p. 212 (Lugd. 
1G77) ; Jacobi a Voragine. Legenda A urea , ed. Gnesse, ch. 
cxix, p. 504 (Dresd. 184G) ; John Damasc. Serm. de Dor- 
mit. Deipara , in Opp. ii, p. 857 sq. (Venice, 1743); An- 
drew of Crete, In Dormit. Deiparce Serm. iii, p. 115 (Par. 
1G44) ; Sirs. Jameson, Legends of the Madonna (London, 
1852) ; Butler, Lives of the Saints in Aug. 15; Dressel, 
Edita et. inedita Epiphanii Monachi et Presbgteri , p. 105 
(Paris, 1843), 

3. Her Assumption . — The above story gradually gained 
credit. At the end of the 5th century we find that there 
existed a book, De Transitu Virginia Maria, which was 
condemned by pope Gclasius as apocryphal. This book 
is without doubt the oldest form of the legend, of which 
the books ascribed to Melito and John arc variations. 
Down to the end of the 5th century, then, the story of 
the Assumption was external to the Church, and dis- 
tinctly looked upon by the Church as belonging to the 
heretics and not to her. But then came the change of 
sentiment on this subject consequent on the Xesto- 
rian controversy. The desire to protest against the 
early fables which had been spread abroad by the here- 
tics had now passed away, and had been succeeded by 
the desire to magnify her who had brought forth him 
who was God. Accordingly a writer, whose date Ba- 
ronius fixes at about this time (Ann. Eecl. i, 347, Lueea, 
1738), suggested the possibility of the Assumption, but 
declared his inability to decide the question. The let- 
ter in which this possibility or probability is thrown out 
came to be attributed to Jerome, and may still be found 
among his works, entitled Ad Paula m et Eustochium de 
Assumptione B. Yirginis (v, 82, Paris, 1700). About the 
same time, probably, or rather later, an assertion (now 
recognised on all hands to be a forgery) was made in 
Eusebius’s Chronicle, to the effect that “in the year A.D. 
48 Mary the Virgin was taken up into heaven, as some 
wrote that they had had it revealed to them.” Another 
tract was written to prove that the Assumption was not 
a thing in itself unlikely; and this came to be attributed 
to St. Augustine, and may be found in the appendix to 
his works; and a sermon, with a similar purport, was 
ascribed to St. Athanasius. Thus the names of Euse- 


bius, Jerome, Augustine, Athanasius, and others, came to 
be quoted as maintaining the truth of the Assumption. 
The first writers within the Church in whose extant 
writings we find the Assumption asserted, are Gregory 
of Tours in the Gth century, Who has merely copied Meli- 
to’s book, De T ransitn (De Glor . Mart. lib. i, c. 4 ; M igne, 
71, p. 708) ; Andrew of Crete, who probably lived in the 
7th century; and John of Damascus, who lived at the 
begiiming of the 8th century. The last of these authors 
refers to the Eutliymiac history as stating that Marcian 
and Pulcheria, being in search of the body of Mary, sent 
to Juvenal of Jerusalem to inquire for it. Juvenal re- 
plied, “In the holy and divinely-inspired Scriptures, in- 
deed, nothing is recorded of the departure of the holy 
Mary, Mother of God. But from an ancient and most 
true tradition we have received, that at the time of her 
glorious falling asleep all the holy apostles, who were 
going through the world for the salvation of the nations, 
borne aloft in a moment of time, came together to Jeru- 
salem ; and when they were near her they had a vision 
of angels, and divine melody was heard; and then with 
divine and more than heavenly melody she delivered 
her holy soul into the hands of God in an unspeakable 
manner. But that which had borne God, being carried 
with angelic and apostolic psalmody, with funeral rites, 
was deposited in a coffin at Gethsemane. In this place 
the chorus and singing of the angels continued three 
whole days. But after three days, on the angelic music 
ceasing, those of the apostles who were present opened 
the tomb, as one of them, Thomas, had been absent, and 
on his arrival wished to adore the body which had borne 
God. But her all-glorious body they could not find; 
but they found the linen clothes lying, and they were 
filled with an ineffable odor of sweetness which proceeded 
from them. Then they closed the coffin. And they 
were astonished at the mysterious wonder, and they 
came to no other conclusion than that he who had chosen 
to take flesh of the Virgin Mary, and to become a man, 
and to be bom of her — God the Word, the Lord ol Glory 
— and had preserved her virginity after birth, was also 
pleased, after her departure, to honor her immaculate 
and unpolluted body with incorruption, and to translate 
her before the common resurrection of all men” (St. Joan. 
Damas. Op. ii, 880, Venice, 1748). It is quite clear that 
this is the same legend as that which we have before 
given. Here, then, we see it brought over the borders 
and planted within the Church, if this “Eutlymiac 
history” is to be accepted as veritable, by Juvenal of 
Jerusalem in the 5th century, or else by Gregory of 
Tours in the Gth century, or by Andrew of Crete in the 
7th century, or, finally, bv John of Damascus in the 8th 
century (see his three Homilies on the Slap of the Bless- 
ed Virgin Mary, in his Opp. ii, 857-886). The same le- 
gend is given in a slightly different form as veritable 
history by Xicepliorus Callistus in the 13th. century (Xi- 
cepli. i, 171, Paris, 1G30) ; and the fact of the Assumption 
is stereotyped in the Breviary services for August 15 
(Brev. Rom. Pars ast. p. 551, Milan, 1851). Here again, 
then, wc see a legend originated by heretics, and re- 
j maining external to the Church till the close of the 5th 
century, creeping into the Church during the Gth and 
j 7th centuries, and finally ratified by the authority both 
j of Rome and Constantinople. See Baronius, A nn. Ecel. 
(i, 344, Lucca, 1738) and Martyrologium (p. 314, Paris, 
1G07). 

4. On the dogma of Mary’s sinlessness, see Immacu- 
late Conception. On her worship, see Mariolatry. 
On the alleged transportation of her dwelling to Italy, 
see Loretto. 

111. Jewish Traditions . — These are of a very different 
nature from the light-hearted fairy' -tale -like stories 
which we have recounted above. We should expect 
that the miraculous birth of our Lord would he an oc- 
casion of scoffing to the unbelieving Jews, and we find 
this to be the case. We have already a hint during 
| our Lord’s ministry of the Jewish calumnies as to his 
I birth. “ 1 Ye (»)/i£i(;) be not born of fornication” (John 


MARY 


840 


MARY 


viii, 41), seems to be an insinuation on the Jews’ part 
that he was. To the Christian believer the Jewish 
slander becomes in the present case only a confirmation 
of his faith. The most definite and outspoken of these 
slanders is that which is contained in the book called 
2T3"i mPin, or Toledoth Jcsu. It was grasped at 
with avidity by Voltaire, and declared by him to be the 
most ancient Jewish writing directed against Christiani- 
ty, and apparently of the first century. It’was written, 
he says, before the Gospels, and is altogether contrary 
to them ( Lettre sur les Juifs). It is proved by Ammon 
{Biblisch. Theologie , p. 263, Erlang. 1801) to be a compo- 
sition of the 13th century, and by Wagenseil ( Tela ignea 
Satance ; Confute IJbr. Toldos Jescku , p. 12, Altorf, 1681) 
to be irreconcilable with the earlier Jewish tales. In 
the Gospel of Nicodemus, otherwise called the Acts of 
Pilate, we find the Jews represented as charging our 
Lord with illegitimate birth (c. 2). The date of this 
Gospel is about the end of the third century. The ori- 
gin of the charge is referred with great probability by 
TLilo ( Codex Apocr. p. 527, Lips. 1832) to the circular let- 
ters of the Jews mentioned by Grotius {ad Matt . xxvii, 
63, et ad Act Apost . xxviii, 22; Op. ii, 278 and 666, Ba- 
sil. 1732), which were sent from Palestine to all the Jew- 
ish synagogues after the death of Christ, with the view 
of attacking “the lawless and atheistic sect which had 
taken its origin from the deceiver Jesus of Galilee” (Jus- 
tin. adr. Tryph.). The first time that we find it openly 
proclaimed is in an extract made by Origen from the 
work of Celsus, which he is refuting. Celsus introduces 
a Jew declaring that the mother of Jesus was repudiated 
by her husband for adultery {vtto tou yyjpavroc, tckto- 
voq r>)v ri\vi) v bvroQy i&iuoSai, IXtyx^tToav ojq ps- 
poi xtvptvijv, Contra Celsum, c. 28, Origenis Opera, xviii, 
59, Berlin, 1845; again, ?} rov L ]ooi> pprgp tcvovoa, 
iZiocrStioa vi to tov pvrfcrrsvaapkvov ciim)v Hktovoc, 
iXtyX^tiaa ini portly icai riicrovcra enro rivog orpnri- 
torov Uai'^ijpa rovvopa , ibid. 32). Stories to the same 
effect may be found in the Talmud— not in the Mishna, 
which dates from the 2d century, but in the Gemara, 
which is of the 5th or 6th (see 'Tract. Sanhedrin , cap. 
vii, fol. 67. col. 1 ; Shabbath , cap. xii. fol. 104, col. 2 ; and 
the Midrash Koheleth, cap. x, 5). Itabanus Manrus, in 
the 9th century, refers to the same story: “ Jesum filium 
Ethnici enjusdam Pandera adulteri, more latronum pu- 
nitum esse.” Lightfoot quotes the same story from the 
Talmudists ( Exercit . at Matt, xxvii, 56), who, he says, 
often vilify Mary under the name of Satdah; and he 
cites a story in which she is called Mary the daughter 
of Ileli, and is represented as hanging in "torment among 
the damned, with the great bar of hell’s gate hung at 
her ear {ibid, at Luke iii, 23). We then come to the 
Toledoth Jcsu, in which these calumnies were intended 
to be summed up and harmonized. In the year 4671, 
the story runs, in the reign of king .Tannieus, there 
was one Joseph Pandera who lived at Bethlehem. In 
the same village there was a widow who had a daugh- 
ter named Miriam, who was betrothed to a God-fearing 
man named Johanan. Now it came to pass that Joseph 
Pandera meeting with Miriam when it was dark, de- 
ceived her into the belief that he was Johanan her hus- 
band. So after three’ months Johanan consulted rabbi 
Simeon Shetachides what he should do with Miriam, 
ami the rabbi advised him to bring her before the great 
council But Johanan was ashamed to do so, and in- 
stead he left his home and went and lived at Babylon ; 
and there Miriam brought fortli a son, and gave him the 
name of Jehoshua. The rest of the work, which has 
no merit m a literary aspect or otherwise, contains an 
account of how this Jehoshua gained the art of working 
miracles bv stealing the knowledge of the unmentiona- 
ble name from the Temple ; Liow he was, defeated by 
the superior magical arts of one Juda; and how at last 
he was crucified, and his body hidden under a water- 
course. It is offensive to make use of sacred names in 
connection with such tales; but in Wagenseil’s quaint 


| words we may recollect, “ ha?c nomina non attinere ad 
Servatorem Nostrum aut beatissimam illius matrem coe- 
terosque quos significare videntur, sed designari iis a 
Diabolo supposita Spectra, Larvas, Lemures, Lamias, 
Stryges, aut si quid turpius istis” {Liber Toldos Jtschu, 
in the Tela Ignea Satance, p. 2, Altorf, 1681). It is a 
curious thing that a Pandera or Pauther has been in- 
troduced into the genealogy of our Lord by Epiphanius 
{flares, lxxviii), who makes him grandfather of Joseph, 
and by John of Damascus {De Fide orthodoxa , iv, 15), 
who makes him the father of Barpanther and grandfa- 
ther of Mary. 

IV. Mohammedan Traditions. — These are again cast 
in a totally different mould from those of the Jews. 
The Mohammedans had no purpose to serve in spread- 
ing calumnious stories as to the birth of Jesus, and ac- 
| eordingly we find none of the Jewish malignity about 
their traditions. Mohammed and his followers appear 
to have gathered up the floating Oriental traditions 
which originated in the legends of Mary’s early years, 
given above, and to have drawn from them and from 
the Bible indifferently. It has been suggested that the 
Koran had an object in magnifying Mary, and that this 
was to insinuate that the Son was of no other nature 
than the mother. But this does not appear to be the 
case. Mohammed seems merely to have written down 
what had come to his ears about her, without definite 
theological purpose or inquiry. 

Mary was, according to the Koran, the daughter of 
Amram (sur. iii) and the. sister of Aaron (sur. xix). Mo- 
hammed can hardly be absolved from having here con- 
founded Miriam the sister of Moses with Mary the moth- 
er of our Lord. It is possible, indeed, that he may have 
meant different persons, and such is the opinion of Sale 
{Koran, p. 38, 251) and of D’Herbelot {Bill. Orient, s. v. 
Miriam); but the opposite view is more likely (see Gau- 
dagnoli, Apol. pro rel. Christ, c. viii, p. 277, Rom. 1631). 
Indeed, some of the Mohammedan commentators have 
been driven to account for the chronological difficulty 
by saying that Miriam was miraculously kept alive from 
the days of Moses in order that she might be the moth- 
er of Jesns. Iler mother Hannah dedicated her to the 
Lord while still in the womb, and at her birth “com- 
mended her and her future issue to the protection of 
God against Satan.” So Hannah brought the child to 
the Temple to be educated by the priests, and the priests 
disputed among themselves who should take charge of 
her. Zaeharias maintained that it was his office, be- 
cause he had married her aunt. But when the others 
would not give up their claims, it was determined that 
the matter should be decided by lot. So they went to 
the river Jordan, twenty-seven of them, each man with 
his rod; and they threw their rods into the river, and 
none of them floated save that of Zaeharias, whereupon 
the care of the child was committed to him (A1 Beidawi ; 
Jallalo’ddin). Then Zaeharias placed her in an inner 
chamber by herself; and though he kept seven doors 
ever locked upon her (other stories make the only en- 
trance to be by a ladder and a door always kept locked), 
he always found her abundantly supplied with provi- 
sions which God sent her from paradise, winter fruits in 
summer, and summer fruits in winter. Then the angels 
said unto her, “O Mary, verily God hath chosen thee, 
and hath purified thee, and hath chosen thee above all 
the women of the world” {Koran, sur. iii). So she re- 
tired to a place towards the east, and Gabriel appeared 
unto her and said, “Verily I am the messenger of thy 
Lord, and am sent to give thee a holy Son” (sur. xix). 
Then the angels said, “O Mary, verily God sendeth thee 
good tidings that thou shalt bear the Word proceeding 
from himself: llis name shall be Christ Jesus, the Son 
of Mary, honorable in this world and in the world to 
come, and one of them who approach ne t ar to the pres- 
ence of God: and lie shall speak unto men in his cradle 
and when he is grown up; and he shall be one of the 
righteous.” But she said, “Ilow shall I have a son, 
seeing I know not a man?” The angel said, “So God 


MARY 


841 


MARY 


createth that which he pleaseth : when he decreeth a 
thing, he only saith unto it, ‘ Be,’ and it is. God shall 
teach him the Scripture and wisdom, and the Law and 
the Gospel, and shall appoint him his apostle to the 
children of Israel'’ (sur. iii). So God breathed of his 
Spirit into the womb of Mary; and she preserved her 
chastity (sur. lxvi); for the Jews have spoken against 
her a grievous calumny (sur. iv). Thus she conceived 
a son, and retired with him apart to a distant place; 
and the pains of childbirth came upon her near the 
trunk of a palm-tree ; and God provided a rivulet for 
her, and she shook the palm-tree, and it let fall ripe 
dates, and she ate and drank, and was calm. Then she 
carried the child in her arms to her people; but they 
said that it was a strange thing she had done. Then 
she made signs to the child to answer them; and he 
said, “ Verily 1 am the servant of God: he hath given 
me the book of the Gospel, and hath appointed me a 
prophet ; and he hath made me blessed, wheresoever I 
shall be; and hath commanded me to observe prayer 
and to give alms so long as I shall live ; and he hath 
made me dutiful towards my mother, and hath not 
made me proud or unhappy: and peace be on me the 
day whereon I was born, and the day whereon I shall 
die, and the day whereon I shall be raised to life.” This 
was Jesus the Son of Mar}', the Word of Truth, concern- 
ing whom they had doubt (sur. xix). 

Mohammed is reported to have said that many men 
have arrived at perfection, but only four women ; and 
that these are, Asia the wife of Pharaoh, Mary the daugh- 
ter of Arnram, his tirst wife Khadijah, and his daughter 
Fatima. 

The commentators on the Koran tell us that every 
person who comes into the world is touched at his birth 
by the devil, and therefore cries out; but that God 
placed a veil between Mary and her Son and the Evil , 
Spirit, so that he could not reach them. For this rea- ! 
son they were neither of them guilty of sin, like the 
rest of the children of Adam. This privilege they had 
in answer to Hannah’s prayer for their protection from 
Satan (Jallalo’ddin ; A1 Beidawi ; Kitada). The Im- 
maculate Conception therefore, we may note, was a Mo- 
hammedan doctrine six centuries before any Christian 
theologians or schoolmen maintained it. 

See Sale, Koran , p. 39, 79, 250, 458 (Loud. 1734) ; War- 
ner, Compendium Historicum eurum quca Muhammedani 
de Christo tradiderunt (Lugd. Bat. 1643) ; Gaudagnoli, 
Apologia pro Christiana Religione (Bom. 1631); D’Her- 
belot , Bibliotheque Orientate, p. 58 (Paris 1697); Weil, 
Biblische Legenden der Muselmanner, p. 230 (Frkf. 1845). 

V. Emblems . — There was a time in the history of the 
Church when all the expressions used in the book of 
Canticles were applied at once to Mary. Consequently 
all the Eastern metaphors of king Solomon have been 
hardened into symbols, and represented in pictures or 
sculpture, and attached to her in popular litanies. The 
same method of interpretation was applied to certain 
parts of the book of the Revelation. Her chief emblems 
are the sun, moon, and stars (Rev. xii, 1 ; Cant, vi, 10). 
The name of Star of the Sea is also given her, from a fan- 
ciful interpretation of the meaning of her name. She 
is the Rose of Sharon (Cant, ii, 1) and the Lily (ii, 2), 
the Tower of David (iv, 4), the Mountain of Myrrh and 
the Hill of Frankincense (iv, 6), the Garden enclosed, 
the Spring shut up, the Fountain sealed (iv, 12), the Tow- 
er of Ivory (vii, 4), the Palm-tree (vii, 7), the Closed 
Gate (Ezek. xliv, 2). There is no end to these metaphor- 
ical titles. See Mrs. Jameson’s Legends of the Madonna , 
and the ordinary Litanies of the Blessed Virgin. 

VI. Festivals, etc . — The Festival of Mary's Conception 
is said to have been instituted on the occasion of the 
preservation from shipwreck of St. Anselm, afterwards 
archbishop of Canterbury, and by the direction of Mary 
herself, who informed him that the day of her concep- 
tion was the 8th of December. 

The Xativity of the Virgin. — There is a good deal of 
controversy as to the time of its first celebration and its | 


origin. It is celebrated on the 8tli of September, and is 
not traceable further back than the 9th century. There 
is a Romish calumny that queen Elizabeth substituted 
her own birthday in its place. 

Her Presentation in the Temple, November 21, men- 
tioned in very early martjTologies, and in a constitution 
of the emperor Manuel Comnenus. 

Her Espousals, January 23. 

The Annunciation , March 25. 

The Visitation, July 2, established by Urban VI., and 
approved by the Council of Basle. 

The Purification, February 2, established in the East 
under the emperor Justinian, and a little later in the 
West. 

The A ssumption (icoiytjoic, in the Greek Church), cel- 
ebrated originally at dilferent times, but fixed to be On 
the 15th of August about the time of Charlemagne. 

Besides the great festivals in honor of Mary, particu- 
lar churches and fraternities have had their private ones. 
Several religious orders have chosen her for their espe- 
cial patroness, and the whole kingdom of France was, in 
1638, placed under her protection by a vow of Louis 
XIII. Festivals have been established in honor of par- 
ticular objects connected with her, as the chamber in 
which she was born, and which was conveyed miracu- 
lously from Nazareth to Loretto(q.v.), la Cintola at Prato, 
la Saint Chemise at Chartres, the rosary which she gave 
to St. Dominic, and the scapidar which she gave to Simon 
Stock ; and indulgences have been granted on the oc- 
casion of these festivals, and the devotions they elicited. 
Books have been written to describe her miraculous pict- 
ures and images, and the boundless extent and diversi- 
ty of the literature to which her worship has given rise 
may be inferred from a description of two of the 115 
i works, all on the same subject, of Ilippolvte Maracci, 
a member of the congregation of the Clerks of the Moth- 
er of God, born 1604. Bibliotheca Mariana is a bio- 
graphical and bibliographical notice in alphabetical or- 
der of all the authors who have written on any of the 
attributes or perfections of the holy Virgin, with a list 
of their works. The number of writers amounts to more 
than 3000, and the number of works in print or MS. to 
twice as many. This rare and highly -valued work is 
accompanied by five curious and useful indices. The 
other is Conceptio immaculate Ikiparce Virginia Maries 
celebrata MCXV anagrammatibus prorsus puris ex hoc 
salutationis A ngelicce progr animate deduct is “ A re Maria 
gratia plena Dominus tecum T This work, of which Ma- 
racci was only the editor, certainly exceeds in laborious 
trifling the production of father J. B. Ilepburnc, the 
Scotch Minim, who dedicated to his patron, Paul V, sev- 
enty-two encomiums on the Virgin in as many different 
languages. 

For further literature, see Volbeding, Index Program - - 
matum, p. 9 ; Darling, Cyclopaedia Bibliographica, col. 
1841 sq. ; Danz,i Vorterbuch, s. v. Maria; Winer, Reahv. 
s. v. See Jesus Christ; Virgin. 

2. Mary, the Magdalene (M apia Ij M aycaXrjvij, 
A. V. “Mary Magdalene”), one of the most interesting, 
but at the same time most contradictorily-interpreted 
characters in the X. T. In the following statements re- 
specting her we largely follow the article in Smith’s Dic- 
tionary of the Bible, s. v. 

I. The Fame. — Four different explanations have been 
given of this. (1) That which at first suggests itself as 
the most natural, that she came from the town of Mag- 
dala. The statement that the women with whom she 
journeyed followed Jesus in Galilee (Mark xv, 41), agrees 
with this notion. Magdala was originally a tower or 
fortress, as its name indicates, the situation of which is 
probably the same with that of the modern village of 
el-Mejdel, on the western shore of the Lake of Tiberias 
(Stanley). But Ligbtfoot starts another supposition, both 
with regard to the place of residence and to the identity 
of Mary Magdalene. lie shows that there was a place 
called Magdala very near Jerusalem, so near that a per- 
son who set up his candles in order on the eve of the 


MARY 


842 


MARY 


^mbath, might, afterwards go to Jerusalem, pray there, 
and return and light up his candles when the Sabbath 
was now coming in (Exercit. John xii, 3). This place 
is stated in the Talmud to have been destroyed on ac- 
count of its adulteries. Now, it is argued by Baronins, 
that Mary Magdalene must have been the same person 
as Mary the sister of Martha and Lazarus, and on this 
point Lightfoot entirely agrees with him, and he thinks 
that, Bethany and Magdala being both near Jerusalem, 
she may have married a man of Magdala. and acquired 
the dissolute morals of the place ; or that Magdala may 
have been another name for Bethany. All this, how- 
ever, is full of improbabilities. (2) Another explanation 
has been found in the fact that the Talmudic writers, in 
their calumnies against the Nazarenes, make mention 
of a Miriam Megaddda and, deriving that 

word from the riel of to twine, explain it as mean- 
ing “ the twiner or plaiter of hair.” They connect with 
this name a story which will be mentioned later ; but 
the derivation has been accepted by Lightfoot ( Hor . Heb. 
on Matt, xxvi, 5G ; Harm. Evang. on Luke viii, 3) as 
satisfactory, and pointing to the previous worldliness of 
“Miriam with the braided locks” as identical with “ the 
woman that was a sinner” of Luke vii, 37. It has been 
urged in favor of this that the i) icaXovfxha ; of Luke 
viii, 3 implies something peculiar, and is not used where 
the word that follows points only to origin or residence. 
(3) Either seriously, or with the patristic fondness for 
paronomasia , Jerome sees in her name, and in that of 
her town, the old Migdol (“a watch-tower”), and dwells 
on the coincidence accordingly. The name denotes the 
steadfastness of her faith. She is “ vere 7 TvpyiTgc;, vere 
turris candoris et Libani, qua* prospicit in faciem Damas- 
ci” ( Epist . ad Principiam). He is followed in this by 
later Latin writers, and the pun forms the theme of a 
panegyric sermon by Odo of Clugni ( Acta Sanctorum, 
Antwerp, 1727, July 12). (4) Origen, lastly, looking to 

the more common meaning of (gddaV ,tohz great), 

sees in her name a prophecy of her spiritual greatness 
as having ministered to the Lord, and been the first wit- 
ness of his resurrection (Tract, in Matt. xxxv). See 
Magdalene. 

II. Scripture Incidents. — 1. Mary Magdalene comes be- 
fore us for the first time in Luke viii, 2 (A.D. 28). It 
was the custom of Jewish women (Jerome on 1 Cor. ix, 
5) to contribute to the support of rabbis whom they 
reverenced, and, in conformity with that custom, there 
were among the disciples of Jesus women who “minis- 
tered unto him of their substance.” All appear to have 
occupied a position of comparative wealth. With all 
the chief motive was that of gratitude for their deliver- 
ance from “evil spirits and infirmities.” Of Mary it is 
said specially that “ seven diemoiis (daipovia) went out 
of her,” and the number indicates, as in Matt, xii, 45, and 
the “legion” of the Gadarene demoniac (Mark v. 9), a 
possession of more than ordinary malignity. We must 
think of her, accordingly, as having had, in their most 
aggravated forms, some of the phenomena of mental and 
spiritual disease which we meet with in other demoni- 
acs— the wretchedness of despair, the divided conscious- 
ness, the preternatural frenzy, the long-continued fits of 
silence. The appearance of the same description in 
Mark xvi, 9 (whatever opinion we may form as to the 
authorship of the closing section of that Gospel), indi- 
cates that this was the fact most intimately connected 
with her name in the minds of the early disciples. From 
that state of misery she had been set free by the presence 
of the llealer, and, in the absence, as we may infer, of oth- 
er ties and duties, she found her safety and her blessed- 
ness in following him. The silence of the Gospels as 
to the presence of these women at other periods of the 
Lord’s ministry, makes it probable that they attended 
on him chiefly in his more solemn progresses through 
the towns and villages of Galilee, while at other times 
he journeyed to and fro without any other attendants 
than the Twelve, and sometimes without even them. 


2. In the last journey to Jerusalem, to which so many 
had been looking with eager expectation, they again ac- 
companied him (Matt, xxvii, 55; Mark xv, 41; Luke 
xxiii, 55 ; xxiv, 30), A.D. 29. It will explain much that 
follows if we remember that this life of ministration 
must have brought Mary Magdalene into companion- 
ship of the closest nature with Salome, the mother of 
James and John (Mark iv,40), and even also with Mary, 
the mother of the Lord (John xix, 25). The women 
who thus devoted themselves are not prominent in the 
history : we have no record of their mode of life or 
abode, or hopes or fears, during the few momentous days 
that preceded the crucifixion. From that hour they 
came forth for a brief two days’ space into marvellous 
distinctness. They “ stood afar off, beholding these 
things” (Luke xxiii, 49), during the closing hours of the 
agony on the cross. Mary Magdalene, Mary, the moth- 
er of the Lord, and the beloved disciple, were at one 
time not afar off, but close to the cross, within hearing. 
The same close association which drew them .together 
there is seen afterwards. She remains by the cross 
till all is over, waits till the body is taken down, and 
wrapped in the linen-cloth and placed in the garden- 
sepulchre of Joseph of Arimathtea. She remains there in 
the dusk of the evening, watching what she must have 
looked upon as the final resting-place of the Prophet 
and Teaeher whom she had honored (Matt, xxvii, Gl ; 
Mark xv, 47 ; Luke xxiii, 55). Not to her had there 
been given the hope of the resurrection. The disciples 
to whom the words that spoke of it had been addressed 
had failed to understand them, and were not likely to 
have reported them to her. The Sabbath that followed 
brought an enforced rest, but no sooner is the sunset 
over than she, with Salome and Mary, the mother of 
James, “ bought sweet spices that they might come and 
anoint” the body, the interment of which on the night 
of the crucifixion they regarded as hasty and provis- 
ional (Mark xvi, 1). 

The next morning, accordingly, in the earliest daw 
(Matt, xxviii, 1 ; Mark xvi, 2), they came with Mary, 
the mother of James, to the sepulchre, and successively 
saw the “vision of angels” (Matt, xxviii, 5; Mark xvi, 
5). A careful comparison of the relative time of the 
several appearances of Christ on his resurrection makes 
it evident that the term “first,” applied by Mark (xvi, 
9) to the appearance to Mary, must not be taken so 
strictly as to exclude the prior appearance to the other 
females who had accompanied her to the sepulchre (see 
Meth. Quart. Rev. 1850, p. 337 sq.). See Appearances 
of Christ. To her, however, after the first moment of 
joy, it had seemed to be but a vision. She went with 
her cry of sorrow to Peter and John (let us remember 
that Salome had been with her), “They have taken 
away the Lord out of the sepulchre, and we know not 
where they have laid him” (John xx, 1,2). But she 
returns there. She follows Peter and John, and remains 
when they go back. The one thought that fills her 
mind is still that the body is not there. She has been 
robbed of that task of reverential love on which she had 
set her heart. The words of the angels can call out no 
other answer than that — “They have taken away my 
Lord, and I know not where they have laid him” (John 
xx. 13). This intense brooding over one fixed thought 
was, we may venture to say, to one who had suffered as 
she had suffered, full of special danger, and called for a 
special discipline. The spirit must be raised out of its 
blank despair, or else the “seven devils” might come in 
once again, and the last state be worse than the first. 
The utter stupor of grief is shown in her want of power 
to recognise at first either the voice or the form of the 
Lord to whom she had ministered (John xx, 14, 15). At 
last her own name uttered by that voice, as she had 
heard it uttered, it may be, in the hour of her deepest 
misery, recalls her to consciousness; and then follows 
the cry of recognition, with the strongest word of rev- 
erence which a woman of Israel could use, “liabboni,” 
and the rush forwards to cling to his feet. That, how- 


MARY 


843 MARY 


ever, is not the discipline she needs. Her love had been 
too dependent on the visible presence of her Master. 
She had the same lesson to learn as the other disciples. 
Though they had “ known Christ after the flesh,” they 
were ‘‘henceforth to know him so no more.” She was 
to hear that truth in its highest and sharpest form. 
“ Touch me not, for I am not yet ascended to my Fa- 
ther.” For a time, till the earthly affection had been 
raised to a heavenly one, she was to hold back. When 
he had flnished his work and had ascended to the Fa- 
ther, there should be no barrier then to the fullest com- 
munion that the most devoted love could crave. Those 
who sought, might draw near and touch him then. He 
would be one with them, and they one with him. This 
is the last authentic record of the Magdalene. On her 
character, see the Journ. oj' Sac. Jit. Oct. I860. 

II. Proposed Identifications with other Females men- 
tioned in the X. T. — 1 . The questions which meet us con- 
nect themselves with the narratives in the four Gospels 
of women who came with precious ointment to anoint 
the feet or the head of Jesus. Each Gospel contains an 
account of one such anointing, and men have asked, in 
endeavoring to construct a harmony, “ Do they tell us 
of four distinct acts, or of three, or of two, or of one 
only? On any supposition but the last, are the distinct 
acts performed by the same or by different persons, and 
if by different persons, then by how many? Further, 
have we any grounds for identifying Mary Magdalene 
with the woman or with any one of the women whose 
acts are thus brought before us?” This opens a wide 
range of possible combinations, but the limits of the in- 
quiry may, without much difficulty, be narrowed. Al- 
though the opinion seems to have been at one time 
maintained (Origen, Tract . in Matt, xxxv), few would 
now hold that Matt, xxvi and Mark xiv are reports of 
two distinct events. Few, except critics bent like 
Schleiermacher and Strauss on getting up a case against 
the historical veracity of the evangelists, could persuade 
themselves that the narrative of Luke vii, differing as it 
does in well-nigh every circumstance, is but a misplaced 
and embellished version of the incident which the first 
two Gospels connect with the last week of our Lord’s 
ministry. The supposition that there were three anoint- 
ings has found favor with Origen (l. c.) and Lightfopt 
(Harm. Evany . ad loc., and Ilor, Ileh. in Matt, xxvi); 
but while, on the one hand, it removed some harinonistic 
difficulties, there is, on the other, something improbable, 
to the verge of being inconceivable, in the repetition 
within three days of the same scene, at the same place,* 
with precisely the same murmur and the same reproof. 
We are left to the conclusion adopted by the great ma- 
jority of interpreters, that the Gospels record two anoint- 
ings, one in some city unnamed (Capernaum and Nain 
have been suggested), during our Lord’s Galilsean min- 
istry (Luke vii), the other at Bethany, before the last 
entry into Jerusalem (Matt, xxvi; Mark xiv; John 
xii). 

We come, then, to the question whether in these two 
narratives we meet with one woman or with two. The 
one passage adduced for the former conclusion is John 
xi, 2. It has been urged (Maldonatus, in Matt, xxvi, 
and Joan, xi, 2; Acta Sanctorum, July 22) that the 
words which we find there (“It was that Mary which 
anointed the Lord with ointment . . . whose brother 
Lazarus was sick”) could not possibly refer by anticipa- 
tion to the history which was about to follow in eh. xii, 
and must therefore presuppose some fact known through 
the other Gospels to the Church at large, and that fact, 
it is inferred, is found in the history of Luke vii. 
Against this it has been said, on the oilier side, that the 
assumption thus made is entirely an arbitrary one, and 
that there is not the slightest trace of the life of Mary 
of Bethany ever having been one of open and flagrant 
impurity. There is, therefore, but slender evidence for 
the assumption that the two anointings were the acts 
of one and the same woman, and that woman the sister 
of Lazarus. That she may have been in the later scene 


is probable, but certainly not in the earlier. See No. 3, 
below. 

There is, if possible, still less reason for the identifica- 
tion of Mary Magdalene with the chief actor in either 
history. When her name appears in Luke viii, 3, there 
is not one word to connect it with the history that im- 
mediately precedes. Though possible, it is at least un- 
likely that such a one as the “sinner” would at once 
have been received as the chosen companion of Joanna 
and Salome, and have gone from town to town with 
them and the disciples. Lastly, the description that is 
given— “Out of whom went seven devils”— points, as 
has been stated, to a form of suffering all but absolutely 
incompatible with the life implied in dyapTUiXog, and 
to a very different work of healing from that of the di- 
vine words of pardon— “Thy sins be forgiven thee.” 
To say, as has been said, that the “ seven devils” are the 
“many sins” (Greg. Mag. Horn, in Evany. 25 and 53), 
is to identify two things which are separated in the 
whole tenor of the N. T. by the clearest line of demar- 
cation. The argument that because Mary Magdalene 
is mentioned so soon afterwards, she must be the same 
as the woman of Luke vii (Butler’s Lives of the Saints , 
July 22), is simply puerile. It would be just as reason- 
able to identify “the sinner” with Susanna. Never, 
perhaps, has a figment so utterly baseless obtained so 
wide an acceptance as that which we connect with the 
name of the “penitent Magdalene.” It is to be regret- 
ted that the chapter-heading of the A. V. of Luke vii 
should seem to give a quasi-authoritative sanction to a 
tradition so utterly uncertain, and that it should have 
been perpetuated in connection with a great work of 
mercy. 

2. The belief that Mary of Bethany and Mary Mag- 
dalene are identical is yet more startling. Not one sin- 
gle circumstance, except that of love and reverence for 
their Master, is common. The epithet Magdalene, what- 
ever may be its meaning, seems chosen for the express 
purpose of distinguishing her from all other Marys. 
No one evangelist gives the slightest hint of identity. 
Luke mentions Martha and her sister Mary in x, 3*8, 
39, as though neither had been named before. John, 
who gives the fullest account of both, keeps their dis- 
tinct individuality most prominent. The only simula- 
crum of an argument on behalf of the identity is that, 
if we do not admit it, we have no record of the sister of 
Lazarus having been a witness of the resurrection. 

III. Traditions. — 1. On the above Identification. — This 
lack of evidence in the N. T. itself is not compensated 
by any such weight of authority as would indicate a 
really trustworthy tradition. Two of the earliest writers 
who allude to the histories of the anointing — Clement 
of Alexandria (Pa-day. ii, 8) and Tertullian (De Padic. 
chap. 8) — say nothing that would imply that they ac- 
cepted it. The language of Irenams (iii, 4) is against 
it. Origen (l. c.) discusses the question fully, and re- 
jects it. He is followed by the whole succession of the 
expositors of the Eastern Church: Thcophilus of Anti- 
och, Macarius, Chrysostom, Theophylact. The traditions 
of that Church, when they wandered into the regions 
of conjecture, took another direction, and suggested the 
identity of Mary Magdalene with the daughter of the 
Syro-Phoenieian woman of Mark vii, 2G (Nicephorus, II. 
E. i, 33). In the Western Church, however, the other 
belief began to spread. At first it is mentioned hesitat- 
ingly, as by Ambrose ( De Viry. TV., and in Luc. lib. vi), 
and Jerome (in Matt, xxvi, 2 ; contr. Jovin. c. 16). Au- 
gustine at one time inclines to it (De Consens. Evany. 
c. 09), at another speaks very donbtingly (Tract, in 
Joann. 49). At the close of the first great period of 
Church history, Gregory the Great takes up both no- 
tions, embodies them in his Homilies (in Ev. 25, 53), 
and stamps them with his authority. The reverence 
felt for him, and the constant use of his works as a 
text-book of tlieolog}' during the whole mediaeval pe- 
riod, secured for the hypothesis a currency which it 
never would have gained on its own merits. The ser- 


MARY 


844 


MARY 


vices of the Feast of St. Mary Magdalene were con- 
structed on the assumption of its truth ( Brev . Rom. in 
Jut. 22). Hymns, and paintings, and sculptures fixed 
it deep in the minds of the Western nations, France 
and England being foremost in their reverence for the 
saint whose history appealed to their sympathies. (See 
below.) In particular, that passage in Luke has been 
adopted as the lesson of the day for her festival (Meyer 
on Luke vii, 37), and her- name has passed into all the 
languages of Western Christendom as expressive of a 
female penitent, Deyling (Obss. Sacr. iii, 2G1) gives a 
history both of the progress of the identification and of 
those controversies, especially in the Gallic Church, 
which resulted in the distinction being again drawn 
between them; and a testimony to the success with 
which this was done will be found in Daniel ( Thesaui'us 
Ilymnoloyicus, ii, 129), who tells us that in the missals 
of various churches, the words “ Peccatricem absolvisti” 
were substituted for those which unquestionably belong 
to that noble hymn, the Dies Irce , in its original condi- 
tion, “ Qui Mariam absolvisti.” Well-nigh all ecclesias- 
tical writers, after the time of Gregory the Great (Al- 
bert the Great and Thomas Aquinas are exceptions), 
take it for granted. When it was first questioned by 
Fcvre d’Etaplcs (Faber Stapulensis) in the early Bibli- 
cal criticism of the Ifith century, the new opinion was 
formally condemned by the Sorbonne (A eta Sanctorum, 
1. c.), and denounced by bishop Fisher of Rochester. 
The Pra}'er-book of 1549 follows in the wake of the 
Breviary; but in that of 1552, either on account of the 
uncertainty or for other reasons, the feast disappears. 
The Book of Homilies gives a doubtful testimon} 7 . In 
one passage the “sinful woman” is mentioned without 
any notice of her being the same as the Magdalene 
(, Sermon on Repentance , part ii) ; in another it depends 
upon a comma whether the two are distinguished or 
identified (ibid, part ii). The translators under James 
I, as has been stated, adopted the received tradition. 
Since that period there has been a gradually accumu- 
lating consensus against it. Calvin, Grotius, Hammond, 
Casaubon, among older critics, Bengel, Lampe, Gres- 
well, Alford, Wordsworth, Stier, Meyer, EUicott, Ols- 
hausen, among later, agree in rejecting it. Romanist 
writers even (Tillcmont, Dupin, Estius) have borne 
their protest against it iii whole or in part; and books 
that represent the present teaching of the Gallican 
Church reject entirely the identification of the two Ma- 
rys as an unhappy mistake (Migne, Diet, de le Bible'). 
The mediaeval tradition has, however, found defeuders 
in Baronins, the writers of the A eta Sanctorum , Maldo- 
natus, bishop Andrewes, Lightfoot, Isaac Williams, and 
Dr. Puscy. 

2. It remains to give the substance of the legend 
formed out of these combinations. At some time before 
the commencement of our Lord’s -ministry, a great sor- 
row fell upon the household of Bethany. The younger 
of the two sisters fell from her purity and sank into the 
depths of shame. Her life was that of one possessed by 
the “seven devils” of uncleanncss. From the city to 
which she then went, or from her harlot-like adorn- 
ments, she was known by the new name of Magdalene. 
Then she hears of the Deliverer, and repents, and loves, 
and is forgiven. Then she is received at once into the 
fellowship of the holy women and ministers to the Lord, 
and is received back again by her sister and dwells with 
her, and shows that she has chosen the good part. The 
death of Lazarus and his return to life arc new motives 
to her gratitude and love; and she shows them, as she 
had shown them before, anointing no longer the feet 
only, but the head also of her Lord. She watches by 
the cross, and is present at the sepulchre, and witnesses 
the resurrection. Then (the legend goes on, when the 
work of fantastic combination is completed) s after some 
years of waiting, she goes with Lazarus, and Martha, 
and Maximin (one of the seventy) to Marseilles. Comp. 
Lazarus. They land there; and she, leaving Martha 
to more active work, retires to a cave in the neighbor- 


hood of Arles, and there leads a life of penitence for 
thirty years. When she dies a church is built in her 
honor, and miracles are wrought at her tomb. Clovis 
the Frank is healed by her intercession, and his new 
faith is strengthened; and the chivalry of France does 
homage to her name as to that of the greater Mary. 

Such was the full-grown form of the Western story. 
In the East there was a different tradition. Nicepho- 
rus (II. E. ii, 10) states that she went to Rome to accuse 
Pilate for his unrighteous judgment; Modestus, patri- 
arch of Constantinople ( Horn . in Marias), that she came 
to Ephesus with the Virgin and St.John, and died and 
was buried there. The emperor Leo the Philosopher 
(cir. 890) brought her body from that city to Constan- 
tinople (Acta Sanctorum, 1. c.), and deposited it in the 
church of St. Lazarus. The day of her festival, in both 
the Eastern and Western Church, is July 22. 

The name appears to have been conspicuous enough, 
either among the living members of the Church at Je- 
rusalem or in their written records, to attract the notice 
of their Jewish opponents. The Talmudists record a 
tradition, confused enough, that Stada or Satda, whom 
they represent as the mother of the Prophet of Naza- 
reth, was known by this name as a “plaiter or twiner 
of hair;” that she was the wjrfe of Paphus ben-Jebudah, 
a contemporary of Gamaliel, Joshua, and Akiba; and 
that she grieved and angered him by her wantonness 
(Lightfoot, II or. Ileb. on Matt, xxvi; Harm. Evany, oil 
Luke viii, 8). It seems, however, from the fuller report 
given by Eisenmcnger, that there w r ere two women to 
whom the Talmudists gave this namg, and the wife of 
Paphus is not the one whom they identified with the 
Mary Magdalene of the Gospels ( Entdccld . Judenth. i, 
277). There is a pretended history of her said to have 
been written in Hebrew by Marada, servant of Martha, 
but there is no doubt that it is a forgery (Calmct’s Dic- 
tionary of the Bible). 

There is, lastly, the strange supposition (rising out 
of an attempt to evade some of the harmonistic difficul- 
ties of the resurrection history) that there were two 
women both known by this name, and both among those 
who went early to the sepulchre (Lampe, Comm, in Jo- 
ann ; Ambrose, Comm, in Luc. x, 24). 

3. Mary, the Sister of Lazarus. For much of 
the information connected with this name, comp. Laz- 
arus and Mary Magdalene. The facts strictly per- 
sonal to her are but few. She and her sister Martha 
appear in Luke x, 40 as receiving Christ in their house. 
The contrasted temperaments of the two sisters have 
already been in part discussed. See Martha. Mary 
sat listening eagerly for every word that fell from the 
divine Teacher. She had chosen the good part, the life 
that had found its unity, the “ one thing needful,” in 
rising from the earthly to the heavenly, no longer dis- 
tracted by the “ many things” of earth. The same char- 
acter shows itself in the history of John xi. Her grief 
is deeper, but less active. She sits still in the house. 
She will not go to meet the friends who come on the 
formal visit of consolation. But when her sister tells 
her secretly, “ The Master is eome and calleth for thee,” 
she rises quickly and goes forth at once (John xi, 20, 
28). Those who have watched the depth of her grief 
have but one explanation for the sudden change: “ She 
goeth to the grave to weep there !” Her first thought, 
when she sees the Teacher in whose power and love she 
had trusted, is one of complaint. “ She fell down at his 
feet, saying, Lord, if thou liadst been here, my brother 
had not died.” Up to this point her relation to the di- 
vine Friend had been one of reverence, receiving rather 
than giving, blessed in the consciousness of his favor. 
But the great joy and love which her brother s return 
to life called up in her, poured themselves out in larger 
measure than had been seen before. The treasured ala- 
baster-box of ointment was brought forth at the final 
feast of Bethany (John xii, 3). A.D. 29. Matthew and 
Mark keep back her name. See Anointing. 

Of her after-history we know nothing. The ecclesi- 


MARY 


845 


MARY 


astieal traditions about her are based on the unfounded 
hypothesis of her identity with Mary Magdalene. — 
Smith. 

4. Mary, the (Wife) of Clopas (M apia y row 
KXw7Trt, A. X. “of Cleophas”), described by John as 
standing by the cross of Jesus in company with his 
mother and Mary Magdalene (John xix. 25). The 
same group of women is described by Matthew as con- 
sisting of Mary Magdalene, and Mary [the mother] of 
James and Joses, and the mother of Zebedee’s children” 
(Matt, xxvii, 56); and by Mark, as “Mary Magdalene, 
and Mary [the mother] of James the Little and of Joses, 
and Salome” (Mark xv, 40). From a comparison of 
these passages, it appears that “ Mary of Clopas,” and 
“Mary of James the Little and of Joses,” are the same 
person, and that she was the sister of Mary the Virgin. 
The arguments, preponderating on the affirmative side, 
for this Mary being (according to the A.V. translation) 
the wife of Clopas or Alphaeus, and the mother of James 
the Little, Joses, Jude, Simon, and their sisters, have 
been given under the heading James. 

To solve the difficulties of this verse the following 
supposition has been suggested : (1) That the two clauses 
“his mother’s sister” and “Mary of Clopas” are not in 
apposition, and that John meant to designate four per- 
sons as present, namely, the mother of Jesus ; her sister, 
to whom he does not assign any name ; Mary of Clopas ; 
and Alary Magdalene (Lange). It has been further sug- 
gested that this sister’s name was Salome, wife of Zebe- 
dee (Wieseler). This is avoiding, not solving a diffi- 
culty. John could not have expressed himself as he 
does had he meant more than three persons. It has 
been suggested (2) that the word ade\<pt) is not here to 
be taken in its strict sense, but rather in the laxer ac- 
ceptation, which it clearly does bear in other places. 
Alary, wife of Clopas, it has been said, was not the sister, 
but the cousin of Mary the Virgin (see Wordsworth, Gr. 
Test., Preface to the Epistle of St. James). There is 
nothing in this suggestion which is objectionable, or 
which can be disproved. But it is hardly consistent 
with the terms of close relationship assigned to the con- 
nected members of the holy family. See Brethren 
of our Lord. By many, therefore, it has been con- 
tended (3) that the two Marys were literally sisters- 
german. “ That it is far from impossible for two sisters 
to have the same name may be seen by any one who 
will cast his eye over Betham’s Genealogical Tables. 
To name no others, his eye will at once light on a pair 
of Antonias and a pair of Octavias, the daughters of the 
same father, and in one case of different mothers, in the 
other of the same mother. If it be objected that these 
are merely gentilie names, another table will give two 
Cleopatras. I t is quite possible, too, that the same cause 
which operates at present in Spain may have been at 
work formerly in Judrea. Miriam, the sister of Moses, 
may have been the holy woman after whom Jewish 
mothers called their daughters, just as Spanish mothers 
not unfrequently give the name of Alary to their chil- 
dren, male and female alike, in honor of Alary the X T ir- 
gin. (Alaria, Alaria-Pia, and Alaria-rmmacolata, are the 
first names of three of the sisters of the late king of the 
Two Sicilies.) This is on the hypothesis that the two 
names are identical, but, on a close examination of the 
Greek text, we find that it is possible that this was not 
the case. Alary the A T irgin is AI aptdfi ; her sister is 
AI«pj'«. It is more than possible that these names 
are the Greek representatives of two forms which the 
antique had then taken; and as in pronunciation 

the emphasis would have been thrown on the last sylla- 
ble in Alopuqi, while the final letter in Alapia would 
have been almost unheard, there would, upon this hy- 
pothesis, have been a greater difference in the sisters’ 
names than there is between Alary and Alaria among 
ourselves. The ordinary explanation that Alapioju is 
the Hebraic form, and AI apia the Greek form, and that 
the difference is in the use of the evangelists, not in the 


name itself, seems scarcely adequate : for why should 
the evangelists invariably employ the Hebraic form 
when writing of Alary the Virgin, and the Greek form 
when writing about all the other Alarys in the Gospel 
history? It is true that this distinction is not con- 
stantly observed in the readings of the Codex X r atica- 
nus, the Codex Ephraemi, and a few other AISS.; but 
there is sufficient agreement hi the majority of the cod- 
ices to determine the usage. That it is possible for a 
name to develop into several kindred forms, and for these 
forms to be considered sufficiently distinct, appellations 
for two or more brothers or sisters, is evidenced by our 
daily experience” (Smith). “ We find that the higli- 
priest Onias III had a brother also named Onias, who 
eventually succeeded him in his office.under the adopt- 
ed name of Alenelaus. XVe have the authority of the 
earliest traditions for the opinion that our Lord’s mother 
had at least one sister called Alary. Indeed, it is an old 
opinion that Anna, the mother of the Virgin Alary, had 
three daughters of that name by different husbands; 
and Dr. Kouth, in his Iieliquice Sacrce, gives us from Pa- 
pias, the scholar of John (ex Cod. MS. Bill. Bodl. 2397), 
the following enumeration of four Alarys of the N. T. : 
1. Alaria, Alater Domini ; 2. Alaria, Cleophie sive Alptuei 
uxor, qiue fuit mater Jacobi Episcopi et Apostoli, et Si- 
monis, et Thadaii, et cujusdam Joseph ; 3. Alaria Salome, 
uxor Zebedrei, mater Johannis evangelistic et Jacobi ; 4. 
Alaria Alagdalene. It is further stated, in this fragment 
of Papias, that both Alary, the wife of Cleophas, and 
Alary Salome, were aunts of our Lord, and consequently 
sisters of the A T irgin Alary” (Kitto). Finally, most in- 
terpreters, regarding all the above positions as untena- 
ble, or, at least, improbable, suppose (4) that the two 
Alarys were sisters-in-law by virtue of having married 
brothers, i. e. Joseph and Alphieus or Clopas, and after- 
wards, perhaps by a Levirate marriage, having become 
the wives of the same husband, namely, Joseph the sur- 
vivor. See Alphaeus. 

The only knowledge we have of this Alary, besides 
the above facts of her sons, and of her presence at the 
crucifixion, is that she was that “ other Alary” who, with 
Alary Alagdalene, attended the body of Christ to the 
sepulchre when taken down from the cross (Alatt. xxvii, 
61 ; Alark xv, 47 ; Luke xxiii, 55). She was also among 
those who went on the morning of the first day of the 
week to the sepulchre to anoint the body, and who be- 
came the first witnesses of the resurrection (Alatt. xxviii, 
1 ; Alark xvi, 1 ; Luke xxiv, 1). A.D. 29. 

5. AIary, the mother of John, surnamed AIark 
(Alapmc i) p)]Tt]p ’hodi'vov row t7Wca\ovfdt'ov Alup/cov, 
Acts xii, 12). A.D. 44. The woman known by this de- 
scription must have been among the earliest disciples. 
We learn from Col. iv. 10 that she was sister to Barna- 
bas, and it would appear from Acts iv, 37 ; xii, 12, that, 
while the brother gave up his land and brought the 
proceeds of the sale into the common treasury of the 
Church, the sister gave up her house to be used as one 
of its chief places of meeting. The fact that Peter went 
to that house on his release from prison indicates that 
there was some special intimacy (Acts xii, 12) between 
them, and this is confirmed by the language which he 
uses towards Alark as being his “ son” (1 Pet. v, 13). 
She, it may be added, must have been, like Barnabas, of 
the tribe of LeVi, and may have been connected, as ho 
was, with Cyprus (Acts iv, 36). It has been surmised 
that filial anxiety about her welfare during the persecu- 
tions and the famine which harassed the Church at Je- 
rusalem, was the chief cause of Alark’s withdrawal from 
the missionary labors of Paul and Barnabas. The tra- 
dition of a later age represented the place of meeting for 
the disciples, and therefore probably the house of Alary, 
as having stood on the upper slope of Zion, and affirmed 
that it had been the scene of the wonder of the day of 
Pentecost, had escaped the general destruction of the 
city by Titus, and was still used as a church in the 4th 
century (Epiphan. I)e Pond, et Mens, xiv; Cyril Hierosol. 
Catech. xri). — Smith. See AIark, 


MARY 


846 


MARY 


6 . A Christian female at Rome, mentioned by Paul as 1 
having formerly treated him with special kindness (Rom. 
xvi, 6). A.I). 54. As this is the only Hebrew name in 
the list (Jo.natt, ad loc.), and as the reading tig yfiag in 
the same verse is disputed, it is possible that she was 
not a native of Rome. 

Mary of Agreda. See Agreda, Maria de. 

Mary of Egypt, a saint of the Roman Catholic 
Church, according to her legend, ran away from her par- 
ents when twelve years of age; led a very dissolute life 
for seventeen years at Alexandria, and then joined a 
party of pilgrims on their way to Jerusalem, with the 
intention of living there in the same manner. Arriving 
in that city, she wished to visit the Church of the Holy 
Sepulchre, but was held back by an unseen power ; she 
then knelt before an image of Mary, and vowed to re- 
form her life. She was now permitted to enter the 
clinrch, and, after praying to the cross, asked the Vir- 
gin to direct her what she should do to be agreeable to 
God. A supernatural voice told her to go to the other 
side of Jordan, into the wilderness. Mary obeyed, and 
lived there forty-seven years, enduring privations of all 
kinds, until the monk Zosimus discovered her one day, 
an old, naked, sunburnt woman, covered with white hair. 
She asked him for his cloak, his prayers, and his bless- 
ing; related to him her history, and asked him to come 
to see her again in a year, and to bring her the com- 
munion. As lie came at the appointed time, she met 
him and communed with him. But when he went again 
to her, as appointed, three years afterwards, he found 
only a corpse, and her name written beside her on the 
sand. After he had long tried in vaiu to dig a grave 
to bury her, a lion came and helped him. According to 
the general opinion, she died during the reign of Theo- 
dosius the Younger. Her grave became a great shrine, 
and a number of churches and chapels were placed un- 
der her protection. She is most honored in the Greek 
Church, and is commemorated on the 2d of April. See 
C. Baronii Martyrologium Romanian (Mogunthe, 1631', 
p. 200 sq.); Herzog, Real- En cyklopailie, ix, 105. (J. I 

N.P.) 

Mary, queen of England, daughter of Henry VII 1 
by his first wife, Catharine of Aragon, is commonly called 
Bloody Queen Mary , on account of her cruel persecutions 
of the Protestants — “a history of horrors exceeded only 
by the persecutions in the Netherlands by Alva, and of 
Louis XIV after the revocation of the Edict of Nantes.” 
She was born at Greenwich, on the 18th (Burnet says 
10th) of February, 1516. The only living one of sev- 
eral children borne by her mother, she was on this ac- 
count. according to Burnet, and because her* father was 
then “out of hopes of more children,” declared in 1518 
princess of Wales, and sent to Ludlow, to hold her court I 
there, divers matches being projected for her, none of I 
which, however, were carried into effect. After the di- 
vorce of Catharine, and Henry’s marriage of Anne Bo- ! 
leyn, Mary’s position waned at court, and finally the title 
of princess of Wales was transferred to princess Eliza- 
beth, soon after she came into the world. Mary had 
been brought up from her infancy in a strong attach- 
ment to the ancient religion, under the care of her moth- 
er, and Margaret, countess of Salisbury, the effect of 
whose instructions was not impaired by the subsequent 
lessons of the learned Ludovicus Vives, who, though 
somewhat inclined to the Reformed opinions, was ap- 
pointed by Henry to be her Latin tutor. The profli- 
gate conduct of her father, and the wrongs indicted 
upon her mother, naturally had the effect of making her 
still more attached to the Roman Catholics. But im- 
mediately after the execution of queen Anne in 1536, 
a reconcilement took place between Henry an‘d his el- 
dest daughter, who was now prevailed upon to make a 
formal acknowledgment both of Henry’s ecclesiastical 
supremacy — utterly refusing “ the bishop of Rome’s pre- 
tended authority, power, and jurisdiction within this 
realm heretofore usurped” — and of the nullity of the 


marriage of her father and mother, which she declared 
was “ by God’s law and man’s law incestuous and un- 
lawful.” (See the “ Confession of me, the Lady Mary,” 
as printed by Burnet [Hist. Ref.] from the original, “all 
written with her own hand.”) This very year, how- 
ever, shortly after the marriage of Jane Seymour, a new 
act of succession was passed, by which she was again, as 
well as her sister Elizabeth, declared illegitimate, and 
forever excluded from claiming the inheritance of the 
crown as the king’s lawful heir by lineal descent. But 
as, by the powers reserved to Henry VIII of nominating 
his own successor after failure of the issue of queen Jane, 
or of any other queen whom he might afterwards mar- 
ry, a possible chance was left to Mary, she continued to 
yield an outward conformity to all her father’s capri- 
cious movements, even in the matter of religion, and 
she so far succeeded in regaining his favor that in the 
new act of succession, passed in 1544, the inheritance 
to the crown was expressly secured to her next after her 
brother Edward and his heirs, and any issue the king 
might have hv his then wife Catharine Barr. Upon 
the death of Jlcnry VIII and the accession of Edward to 
the throne of England (1544), Mary’s hopes of reigning 
one day over England were darkened by the persistent 
efforts of her half-brother to establish the religion of 
the Reformers. Mary’s compliance with the innovations 
in religion in her father’s time, as we have noted above, 
had been dictated merely by fear or self-interest; no 
longer restrained, she manifested her fidelity to and af- 
fection for the court of Rome when, after Edward’s ac- 
cession, his ministers proceeded to place the whole doc- 
trine, as well as discipline, of the national Church upon 
a new foundation. She openly refused to go along with 
them, nor could all their persuasions and threats, aided 
by those of her brother himself, move her from her 
ground. (Full details of the various attempts that were 
made to prevail upon her may be found in Burnet’s 
History, p. 417-420, and in king Edward's Journal . 
Mention is made in the latter, under date of April, 1549, 
of a demand for the hand of the lady Mary by the duke 
of Brunswick, who was informed by the council that 
j “there was talk for her marriage with the infant of 
Portugal, which being determined, he should have an- 
swer.” About the same time it is noted that “ whereas 
the emperor’s ambassador desired leave, by letters pat- 
ent, that ray lady Mary might have mass, it was denied 
him.” On the 18th of March of the following year the 
king writes : “ The lady Mary, my sister, came to me. at 
Westminster, where, after salutations, she was called, 
with my council, into a chamber; where was declared 
how long I had suffered her mass, in hope of her recon- 
ciliation, and how now being no hope, which I perceived 
by her letters, except I saw some short amendment, I 
could not bear it. She answered that her soid was God’s, 
and her faith she would not change, nor dissemble her 
opinion with contrary doings. It was said, I constrain- 
ed not her faith, but wished her not as a king to rule, 
but as a subject to obey : and that her example might 
breed too much inconvenience.”) Had it not been for 
the interference of Charles V, no doubt Mary would have 
suffered severe punishment for her persistency in remain- 
ing faithful to the pope. The emperor, who had once 
even asked her hand, and only withdrew his request when 
Catharine was divorced, made it “the condition of his 
friendly relations to the English government that Mary 
be left in the free enjoyment of her religious faith, and 
the king of England, rather than be subject to war, yield- 
ed — but with tears” (Lingard, Hist, of Engl, vii, 66 sq.). 
Yet if Mary secured liberty of conscience, she secured it 
at the risk of a crown, for Mary’s firm adherence to the 
Roman faith finally induced Edward, under the inter- 
ested advice of his minister Northumberland, to attempt 
at the close of his life to exclude her from the succes- 
sion, and to make over the crown by will to lady Jane 
Grey, an act which was certainly without any shadow 
of legal force, and failed to be of any effect. Although 
lady Jane was actually proclaimed queen upon the death 


MARY 


847 


MARY 


of Edward, Mary herself claimed the crown, and with 
scarcely any resistance secured the throne. 

Mary’s reign opens a new and bloody chapter in the 
history of England — a period in the ecclesiastical annals 
when the flame of Romanism, which had been slowly 
dying, was fanned into new life, and, glaring up wild- 
ly, spent its full fury, and quickly died, never to burn 
anew. Mary, as we have seen, was ever a faithful ad- 
herent to the cause of Rome ; she had quietly submit- 
ted to the innovations under Henry VIII to secure her 
father’s favors, but as she grew older she grew more 
decided. Indeed, her own legitimacy to the throne was 
involved in her acknowledgment of the pope. One of 
the pontiffs had confirmed her mother’s marriage, and 
another had refused to annul it. Impressed by this 
truth, she had clung closely to the Church of her in- 
fancy, even when she seemed in danger of losing the 
privilege of succession, and she faltered not when lady 
Jane Grey became the avowed heir of her half-broth- 
er. Quite in contrast with this bearing is her conduct 
after the decease of Edward. Satisfied that the way to 
the throne could be opened only by Protestant aid, she 
hesitated not to pledge to the men of Suffolk, whose help 
she invoked, “ that she would be content with her own 
private exercise of religion, and that she would not force 
that of others” (Butler, ii, 437 ; Neale, i, 58). She even 
repeated a like declaration to the council, and renewed 
it as late as a month after her accession to the throne. 
Yet all this time she was preparing the way for a 
speedy return of England’s clergy to the Church of 
Rome. Even before she had made these promises she 
had already sent a message to the Pope announcing her 
accession, and giving in her allegiance to him as a duti- 
ful daughter of the Church (Butler, ii, 437). 

Mary made her accession to the throne on July 19. 
In the course of the month of August, Bonner (q, v.), 
Gardiner (q. v,), and three other bishops, who had been 
deposed for nonconformity in the late reign, were re- 
stored to their sees, and the mass, contrary to law, began 
again to be celebrated in many churches. In the fol- 
lowing month archbishop Cranmer (q. v.) and bishop 
Latimer (q. v.), having opposed these popish innova- 
tions, were committed to the Tower. Soon after Ridley 
(q. v.) was committed, and upon the meeting of Parlia- 
ment, Oct. 5, only three months after the king’s death, 
but two of the Reformed bishops — Taylor of Lincoln and 
Harley of Hereford — remained in their sees, while Pe- 
ter Martyr (q. v.), John a Lasko [see Lasko], and other 
foreign preachers, were advised to quit the country. 
After the assembling of Parliament further steps were 
taken. An act was forced through repealing all the 
acts, nine in number, relating to religion that had been 
passed in the late reign, and restoring the Church to 
the same position which it had held at the death of 
Henry VIII. Most high handed were the games of 
bishop Gardiner, a man truly unscrupulous and void of 
moral sense. Seeking only to promote selfish ends, he 
had in the reign of Henry VIII been the most subser- 
vient instrument of the king in securing the divorce 
from Catharine, and to procure the archbishopric he now 
played a like unmerciful game against all who stood 
in his way. The crime he had perpetrated he assured 
Mary had been committed by Cranmer, and persuaded 
all that he had ever remained a most faithful servant 
of the pope. See Gardiner. Some writers will even 
have it that Mary was at this time inclined to be just 
to all her subjects, and that she was only led astray 
by this dastardly but wily ecclesiastic. But, he this as 
it may, certain it is that Mary acted in the interests of 
Romanism only, quite unmindful of the obligations she 
had assumed before the Protestants. In the Convo- 
cation, the Book of Common Prayer and Poynet’s Cat- 
echism were pronounced “abominable and pestiferous 
books.” In the lower house, six divines disputed boldly 
against transubstantiation for three days; but when, 
overpowered by numbers, they left the house, four arti- 
cles were framed which became the test of heresy to all 


who suffered in this reign. They affirmed (1) commu- 
nion in one kind; (2) a transubstantiation of bread and 
wine into the body and blood of Christ ; (3) that wor- 
ship should be rendered to the host; (4) that Christ is 
offered up as a sacrifice in the mass (comp. Butler, ii, 
440). Rome also promptly responded, and appointed a 
papal legate to England— cardinal Pole — but, as Gardi- 
ner himself was desirous to secure the position (Soames, 

iv, 77), he urged the queen to request the legate to re- 
main at home, at least until the match proposed between 
herself and Philip of Spain, the pious Catholic, be fur- 
ther matured. There was great opposition on the part 
of the people to this proposed union with Spain, and it 
was not best to trifle with popular opinion. Indeed, as 
it was, these measures, anti other indications given by 
the court of a determination to be completely reconciled 
with Rome, were followed by insurrection (commonly 
known as that of Sir Thomas AVyat, its principal lead- 
er), which broke out in the end of January, 1554. It is 
true this rebellion was in a few days effectually put 
down, its suppression being signalized by the executions 
of the unfortunate lady Jane Grey and her husband, the 
lord Guildford Dudley, of her father, the duke of Suf- 
folk, and, finally, of Wyat himself ; but the popular in- 
dignation, instead of bringing Mary to her senses, led 
her further and further away from the people over whom 
she had forced herself as ruler. She was well aware 
that the people were daily growing in dissatisfaction 
because of her decision to lead them back to Rome, and 
yet, in the face of all this opposition, she contracted a 
union with the greatest Roman Catholic power, the gov- 
ernment of Charles V, by her marriage to Philip II (q. 

v. ), July 25. Though the latter pledged himself to the 
performance of many concessions to the English, the 
Spanish match remained exceedingly unpopular. 

Mary’s success in quelling the rebellion winch she had 
provoked gave her, however, most complete ascendency 
over the reactionists, and she promptly used her courage 
and capacity to intrench herself by the aid of Rome. 
Parliament, which was assembled in November, was com- 
pletely under her sway, and, inspired by her, obediently 
passed acts repealing the attainder of cardinal Pole, who 
had long waited to make his appearance in England as 
the papal legate, restoring the authority of the pope, 
repealing all laws made against the see of Rome since 
Henry VIII, reviving the ancient statutes against her- 
esy, and, in short, re-establishing the whole national sys- 
tem of religious policy as it had existed previous to the 
first innovations made by her father. By one of the 
acts of this session of Parliament, also, Philip was au- 
thorized to take the title of King of England during 
the queen’s life. These measures became the inaugu- 
ral ceremonies of a rule of bloodshed and tyranny that 
closed only with the decease of the principal author and 
actor — “ Bloody Queen Marv” herself. 

Not content, however, with having restored the power 
of the Church of Rome over the Anglican Church, Mary 
introduced new and severe measures for the suppression 
of those who had dared to follow her father and half- 
brother in measures of ecclesiastical reform. Many of 
the clergy had married. One of her first acts now was 
the ejection of these clergy. The number of such, ac- 
cording to Burnet, was 12,000 out of 16,000; but this 
seems exaggerated, and we prefer to follow Butler, who 
estimates them at a little over 3,000, certainly a large 
enough number of men so suddenly deprived of their liv- 
ing, and, with thousands dependent upon them, at a 
moment’s warning shut out from home and hearth. To 
say the least, the measure was most tyrannical; not 
even the option of dissolving the marriage-bond was 
given, though they had been married under the sanc- 
tion of the law of the land. Many of the bishops— six- 
teen of them — shared a like fate with their subordi- 
nates. The question, however, still remained to be set- 
tled, How shall the heretic he treated ? “ Cardinal Pole, 

from his gentler temper and larger wisdom, advised 
mild measures in order to win them back ; but, in case 


MARY 


848 


MARY 


they could not be won, he would, equally with Gardiner 
and Bonner, have had them burned. Gardiner was now 
for measures of repression and vigor. He contended 
that relaxation in the time of Henry VIII had been the 
cause of the rapid spread of the heresy. He was disap- 
pointed of the see of Canterbury [which Pole had se- 
cured, of course], and enraged because his books against 
the papal supremacy were reprinted and dispersed through 
the country. The queen was always on the side of the 
severest measures,” and the remainder of the history of 
the reign of Mary is occupied chiefly with the sangui- 
nary persecutions of the adherents to the Reformed doc- 
trines. Most Protestant writers reckon tfiat about 280 
victims perished at the stake from Feb. 4, 1555, on which 
day John Rogers was burned at Smithfield, to Nov. 10, j 
1558, when the last “auto-da-fe” of the reign took place ! 
by the execution in the same manner of three men ami 
two women at Colchester. Dr. Lingard, the Roman 
Catholic, admits that after expunging from the Protes- | 
tant lists “ the names of all who were condemned as fel- 
ons or traitors, or who died peaceably in their beds, or 
who survived the publication of their martyrdom, or 
who would for their heterodoxy have been sent to the 
stake by the Reformed prelates themselves, had they 
been in possession of the power,” and making every 
other possible allowance, it will still be found “that in the 
space of four years almost 200 persons perished in the 
flames for religious opinion.” The harrowing narrative, 
in its details, may be found in part in Burnet, and in full 
in Fox’s Martyrology . Among the most distinguished 
sufferers were Hooper, bishop of Gloucester, Ferrar of 
St. David’s, Latimer of Worcester, Ridley of London, 
and Cranmer, archbishop of Canterbury. Nor were the ' 
sufferings confined to the stake. Intolerance also car- 
ried grief, horror, and ferocity into all England by the 
persecution of those who were guilty of heresy, but were 
not considered fit subjects for the stake. It is said that 
in the last three years of Mary’s reign no less than 
“30,000 persons were exiled and spoiled of their goods” 
(Butler, ii, 445), among whom were not less than 800 
theologians (comp. Fisher, p. 328). 

The question has been raised, Who were most respon- 1 
sible for these persecutions? Gardiner, bishop of Win- 
chester and lord chancellor, was Mary’s chief minister 
till his death in November, 1555, after which the direc- 
tion of affairs fell mostly into the hands of cardinal Pole, 
who, after Cranmer’s deposition, was made archbishop 
of Canterbury ; but the notorious Bonner, Ridley’s suc- 
cessor in the see of London, has the credit of having 
been the principal instigator of these atrocities, which, 
it may be remarked, so far from contributing to put 
down the Reformed doctrines, appear to have had a 
greater effect in disgusting the nation with the restored 
Church than all other causes together. Says Soames 
(iv, 385), “These horrid proceedings filled the whole 
kingdom with amazement, indignation, and disgust. 
Unfeeling Romish bigots were disappointed because this 
atrocious ebullition of their party’s intolerance had 
wholly faded to overawe the spirit of their adversaries. 
Timid Protestants were encouraged by the noble con- 
stancy displayed among their friends. Moderate Ro- 
manists were ashamed of their spiritual guides. The 
mass of men, who live in stupid forgetfulness of God, 
were aroused from that lethargy of sensuality, covetous- 
ness, or vanity in which they dissipate existence, to re- 
flect upon the principles which could support the human 
mind tranquil, or even exulting, amid such frightful 
agonies.” 

At the same time that the attempt was thus made to 
extinguish the new opinions in religion by persecution 
at the stake, exile, and other severe measures, the queen 
gave a further proof of the ardor of her own faith by 
restoring to the Church the tenths and first-fruits, with 
all the rectories, glebe-lands, and tithes that had been 
annexed to the crown in the times of her father and 
brother. She also re-established several of the old mon- 
asteries which her father had dissolved, and endowed 


them as liberally as her means enabled her. Gladly 
would she have restored them all to the Church, “ but 
it was feared that violent commotions would ensue if 
that course were adopted and the papal legate, while 
he “reluctantly assented” to the arrangement as pro- 
posed by the Convocation, “that the present titles to 
monasteries and Church lands should not be disturbed,” 
“ admonished those who held those lands of the guilt of 
sacrilege, and reminded them of the doom of Belshaz- 
zar” (!). See Moxasticism. Fronde, whom the Ro- 
manists are so eager to prove guilty of unfitness as a 
historian, has been one of the most lenient commenta- 
tors on the conduct of Mary of England towards her 
people. lie holds that, “To the time of her accession 
she had lived a blameless and, in many respects, a noble 
life; and few men or women have lived less capable of 
doing knowingly a wrong thing.” He adds that her 
trials and disappointments, “it can hardly be doubted, 
affected her sanity,” and ascribes the guilt chiefly to 
Gardiner, and measurably to Pole. Unless it be on the 
point of insanity, we are inclined to hold Mary respon- 
sible for the persecutions of her reign, believing, with 
Ranke, that “ whatever is done in the name of a prince, 
with his will and by his authority, decides his reputa- 
tion in history.” In her domestic life Mary was wretch- 
ed. Philip, whom she loved with a morbid passion, 
proved a sour, selfish, and heartless husband ; at once a 
bigot and a brute. No children followed their union; 
and exasperation and loneliness, working upon a temper 
naturally obstinate and sullen, without doubt rendered 
her more compliant to the sanguinary policy of the re- 
actionary bishops. Fortunately for England, her reign 
was brief. She died — after suffering much and long 
from dropsy and nervous debility — Nov. 17, 1558. Her 
successor on the throne was her sister Elizabeth, who 
not only undid *all the work she had accomplished, but 
finally and successfully established Protestantism as the 
faith of the nation. See Elizabeth. 

Queen Mary’s literary productions, though of but mi- 
nor interest at present, deserve mention here because of 
the peculiar bearing they have on her early history. 
She is said to have been a superior Latin scholar, and 
was commended by Erasmus. “Seripsit bene Latinas 
epistolas,” says he. Towards the end of her father’s 
reign, at the earnest solicitation of queen Catharine Parr, 
she undertook to translate Erasmus’s Parcip>hrase on the 
Gospel of St . John , but being cast into sickness, as Udall 
relates, partly by overmuch study in this work, after 
she had made some progress therein, she left the rest to 
be done by Dr. Mallet, her chaplain. This translation 
is printed in the first volume of Erasmus's Paraphrase 
upon the New Testament (London, 1548, folio). The 
“ Preface” was written by Udall, the famous master of 
Eton School, and addressed to the queen dowager. Af- 
ter her accession to the throne a proclamation was issued 
calling in and suppressing this very book, and all others 
that iiad any tendency towards furthering the Refor- 
mation. An ingenious writer is of opinion that the sick- 
ness which came upon her while she was translating 
St. John was all affected; “for,” says he, “she would 
not so easily have been cast into sickness had she been 
employed on the legends of St. Teresa or St. Catharine 
of Sienna.” Strype (in, 468) has preserved three pray- 
ers or meditations of hers : the first, Against the Assaults 
of Vice; the second, A Meditation touching Adversity; 
the third, A Prayer to he read at the Hour oj Death, 
In Fox’s Acts and Monuments are printed eight of her 
letters to king Edward and the lords of the council on 
her nonconformity, and on the imprisonment of her 
chaplain, Dr. Mallet. In the Sylloge cpistolarum are 
several more of her letters, extremely curious : one on 
her delicacy in never having written but to three men, 
one of affection for her sister, one after the death of 
Anne Bolevn, and one, very remarkable, of Cromwell to 
her. In Haynes’s State Papers are two in Spanish, to 
the emperor Charles V. There is also a French letter, 
printed by Strype (iii, 318) from the Cotton Library, 


MARY STUART 


849 


MARY STUART 


in answer to a haughty mandate from Philip, when he I to the Highlanders. Scotland had thus far remained 


had a mind to marry the lady Elizabeth to the dtike of 
Savoy, against the queen’s and princess’s inclination : 
it is written in a most abject manner and a wretched 
style. Bishop Tanner ascribes to her A History of her 
own Life and Death , and An Account of Martyrs in her 
Reign, but this is manifestly an error. See llomel, Ma- 
rie la Sanglante (Paris, 1862, 8vo) ; Burnet, llist. Ref p. 
458 sq. ; Soames, Hist. Ref. vol. iv, ch. i-iv; Perry, Ch. 
Hist, of Engl, iii, 2G, 96; Collier, Eccles. Hist.v i, 1 sq.; 
Fuller, Ch. Hist, ii, 369 sq. ; Short, Eccles. Hist, of Engl. 
p. 351-358 ; Froude, Hist, of Engl. vol. v, ch. xxviii, and 
the whole of vol. vi; Strickland, Queens of Engl. ; Tur- 
ner, Hist, of the Reigns of Edward VI, Mary, and Eliz- 
abeth (Lond. 1829, 8vo); Butler, Eccles. llist. (Pliila. 
1872, Svo), vol. ii, ch. xliii ; Wordsworth, Eccles. Biog. 
(see Index in vol. iv); Hardwick, Reformation, p. 240; 
Fisher (George P.), The Reformation (X. Y. 1873, 8vo), 
p. 327 sq. ; Brit, and For. Review, 1844, p. 388 sq. ; Eng- 
lish Cyclop, s. v. 

Mary Stuart, the famous queen of Scotland, whose 
name, Froude (Hist, of Engl, x ii, 369) says, “will never 
be spoken of in history without sad and profound emo- 
tion, however opinions may vary on the special details 
of her life,” the hope of Rome at an hour of sorest trav- 
ail, was born at Linlithgow Dec. 8, 1512. She was the 
third child of king James Y of Scotland, by his wife 
Mary of Lorraine, daughter of the duke of Guise, who 
had previously borne her husband two sons, both of 
whom died in infancy. A report prevailed that Mary 
too was not likely to live ; but being unswaddled by her 
nurse at the desire of her anxious mother, in presence 
of the English ambassador, the latter wrote to his court 
that she was as goodly a child as lie had seen of her 
age. At the time of her birth her father lay sick in the 
palace of Falkland, and in the course of a few days after 
he expired, at the early age of thirty, his death 
being hastened by distress of mind occasioned by 
the defeats which his nobles had sustained at 
Fala and Solway Moss. James was naturally a 
person of considerable energy and vigor both of 
mind and body, but previous to his death he fell 
into a state of listlessness and despondency, and 
after his decease it was found that he had made 
no provision for the care of the infant princess 
or for the administration of the government. 

After great animosities among the nobility, it 
was decreed that the earl of Arran, as being by 
proximity of blood the next heir to the crown 
in legitimate descent, and the first, peer of Scot- 
land, should be made governor of the kingdom, 
and guardian of the queen, who remained in the 
mean time with her mother in the royal palace 
at Linlithgow. But while the difficulty was set- 
tling, the Roman Catholics, fearing for the decline 
of their power if the choice of the nubility should 
fall upon some one likely to join hands with 
Henry Y1H, urged cardinal Beatoun. the head of 
their party, to seize the regency. Ambitious for 
office and power, Beatoun but too willingly lis- 
tened to the advice of his friends, and, producing 
a testament which he asserted to be that of the 
late king, promptly claimed the control of the 
affairs of Scotland. The fraud was not long un- 
discovered, but as great suit had been made by 
king Ilenrv, in behalf of his son Edward, for the 
hand of the infant queen, and as Arran and his 
party had been indiscreet enough to accept the 
offer in spite of the opposition of the people, 
Beatoun held his own in the country, and finally 
even persuaded Arran to his views, and the en- 


true to the cause of Rome : a scion of the house of Guise 
(duke Claude) was on the throne, and the Reformation, 
though progressing in the adjoining country, had not 
yet been suffered to make much of an impression on the 
Scots. But the new doctrine had found an entrance at 
least. Indeed, the regent Arran was himself favorable 
to the Reformers, and in Parliament, as early as 1542, 
an act had been passed declaring it lawful for all to 
read the Scriptures in their native language. It was 
clear, therefore, that though Romanism had hitherto 
sustained its supremacy, its power was tottering. At 
this critical juncture of affairs France came forward and 
offered assistance to the Romish party. The cause of 
the Church must be upheld at all hazards. The result 
was the establishment of two camps. “The friends of 
the Reformation,” says Russell (Hist, of the Ch. of Scot- 
land [Lond. 1834,2 vols. 18mo], i, 181), “supported those 
counsels which had for their object the union of the 
British crowns; while the Romanists very naturally 
clung to that alliance which, aided by the personal in- 
fluence of the queen-mother, promised to strengthen the 
foundations of their establishment, already somewhat 
shaken by the popular tempest.” Had Arran been a 
person of indomitable will and stability of purpose the 
cause of the Reformers might now have been firmly es- 
tablished, but he was “ a weak and fickle man, liable at 
all times to be wrought upon and biased by those of 
greater decision and energy of character,” and his op- 
ponent, the wily cardinal, had obtained the ascendancy, 
and not only neutralized Arran’s opposition, but actually 
brought him to approve and further the great master- 
scheme of the cardinal to give the young queen in mar- 
riage to the dauphin of France. In consonance with a 
treaty for this purpose, Mary was sent to France in 1548, 
to be educated in that country. 



Mary Queen of Scots. 


[The numerous portraits ascribed to this princess are as various and dissimilar aa 
, . . , , the circumstances of her life, and have excited almost as much doubt and controversy 

gagemeilt with England was annulled. I he re- as the disputed points of her history, agreeing only in representing her as eminently 
suit was a war bottveon Srr.tlnml oml Fno-lnnd beautiful. The picture which has 'furnished Ihe plate before us has been preserved 

suit 4 as a \\ar UClVteen Scotland ana imglantt, with the neatest care from time immemorial in the mansion of Dalmnhoy, The P rin- 

Which ended most ignominioitslv for the lli°'ll- C 'P«1 seat ill Scotland of the earl of Morton. On the upper part of it is inscribed, 
1 n ,.,i n „ t . • , ,,, . „n vi i u ° , , “ Mary Queen ofScots: said to have been painted during her confinement in Loch- 

landers. It. lb not at all likely that tilts war would leven Castle:” and the earl who at present possesses it states that, according to a 

have broken out between England and Scotland , lrndition in bis lordship’s family, it was once the property of Georpe Douglas, the 
... . c , & liberator of Mary, and that it passed from him to his eminent relation, James, fourth 

had It not been lor the encouragement r ranee gave earl of Morton, with whose posterity it remains to the present day.] 

V.— II It H 


MARY STUART 


850 


MARY STUART 


Soon after her arrival at her destination Mary was 
placed with the French king's own daughters in one 
of the first convents of the kingdom, where she made 
rapid progress in the acquisition of the literature and 
accomplishment of the age. She received instructions 
in the art of making verses by the famous Ron sard, 
and Latin was taught her by the great Scottish scholar 
Ihichanan. When only fourteen years old she had 
attained to such a mastery of the language that she 
pronounced before Ilenry II a Latin oration, in which 
she maintained that it is becoming for women to study 
literature and master the liberal arts. Introduced at 
the court of Henry II, which, as Robertson observes, 
“ was one of the politest but most corrupt in Europe,” 
Mary, while yet a child, became the envy of her sex, 
surpassing the most accomplished in the elegance and 
fluency of her language, the grace and liveliness of her 
movements, and tl»e charm of her whole manner and 
behavior. “ Graceful alike in person and intellect,” says 
Froiule, “she possessed that peculiar beauty in which the 
form is lost in the expression, and which every painter, 
therefore, has represented differently. Rarely, perhaps, 
has any woman combined so many noticeable qualities 
as Mary Stuart: with a feminine insight into men and 
things and human life, she had cultivated herself to 
that high perfection in which accomplishments were no 
longer adventitious ornaments, but were wrought into 
her organic constitution. . . . She had vigor, energy, 
tenacity of purpose, with perfect and never-failing self- 
possession, and, as the one indispensable foundation for 
the effective use of all other qualities, she had indomi- 
table courage” {/list, of England, vol. vii, ch. iv). The 
dauphin, to whom she was betrothed, was about two 
years her junior, but, as they had been playmates in 
early childhood, a mutual affection had sprung up be- 
tween them, and when, on April 24, 1558, she was to be 
joined to him in wedlock, she hesitated not to submit to 
the most absurd stipulations. Not only was she obliged 
to agree that her intended husband should have the title 
of king of the Scots, but she was even betrayed into the 
signature of a secret deed, by which, if she died child- 
less, both her Scottish realm and her right of succession 
to the English crown, as the granddaughter of Henry 
VII, were conveyed to France. The foolishness of this 
secret compact Mary had afterwards sufficient cause to 
regret more than once. 

Scarce were the nuptial solemnities fairly over, when 
queen Mary of England died (1558). In accordance 
with the agreement entered into, France promptly put 
forward her claims to the vacated throne, and, though 
Elizabeth was made successor, Mary Stuart’s rights were 
insisted upon, and continued to be urged with great per- 
tinacity by her ambitious uncles the princes of Lorraine. 
“On every occasion on which the dauphin and dau- 
phiness appeared in public, they were ostentatiously 
greeted as the king and queen of England ; the English 
arms were engraved upon their plate, embroidered on 
their banners, and painted on their furniture; and Mary’s 
own favorite device at the time was the two crowns of 
France and Scotland, with the motto ‘Aliaque mora- 
tur,’ meaning that of England.” July 10, 1550, Henry 
died, and the young dauphin ascended the throne of 
Charlemagne as Francis II. “ Surely,” thought Mary, “ I 
am soon to realize my highest expectations. Over three 
kingdoms 1 shall sway the sceptre. The holy father 
himself will come from Rome and pronounce his bless- 
ing upon me as his most faithful daughter. The lately- 
deceased queen of England received her name in honor 
of the blessed Virgin, I shall be pronounced more worthy 
of it still.” Alas for human frailty. Man proposeth, 
but God disposeth. Mary had reached the summit of 
her splendor at a moment when she believed herself 
only ascending the heights. ' Feeble and * sickly, Fran- 
cis II was scarcely seated on the throne when he was 
seized by disease, and, fast wasting away, died Dee. 5, 
15G0. Only a year and a half had the young pair en- 
joyed their royal honors. Childless, Alary 7- was obliged 


to yield her place on the throne, and the reins of power 
were seized by the queen-mother, Catharine of Medieis, 
as regent for her son, Charles IX. Mary must have been 
prepared, under almost any circumstances, to quit a court 
which was now swayed bv one whom, during her brief 
reign, she had taunted with being “ a merchant’s daugh- 
ter.” But there were other reasons for her departure 
from France. Her presence was urgently needed in 
Scotland, which the death of her mother, a few months 
before, had left without a government, at a moment 
when it was convulsed by the throes of the Reforma- 
tion. Her kinsmen of Lorraine had ambitious projects 
for her marriage ; great schemes were based on her near- 
ness of succession to the English crown ; and both these, 
it was thought, might be more successfully followed out 
when she was seated on her native throne. The queen 
of England, however, interposed; and, as Mary would 
not abandon all claim to the English throne, refused to 
grant her a free passage. Mary, notwithstanding, re- 
solved to go, and at length, after repeated delays, still 
lingering on the soil where fortune had augured so 
much, she reached Calais, attended thus far by the car- 
dinals of Guise and Lorraine, while three other uncles, 
D’Klboeuf, D’Aumale. and the grand prior, had come to 
see her safely to Edinburgh. August 14 she finally set 
sail, “and with ‘Adieu, belle France,’ sentimental verses, 
and a passionate ehatelar sighing at her feet in melodi- 
ous music, she sailed away over the summer seas,” and, 
safely escaping the English ships-of-war Elizabeth had 
despatched to intercept her, reached Leith on the 19th. 
Her arrival on her native shores is thus beautifully de- 
scribed in Harper's Magazine , Feb. 1873, p.348 : “August 
19, 15GI. The thickest mist and most drenching rain 
men remembered ever to have seen. A fog so thick 
that the very cannon in the harbor boom with a muf- 
fled sound, and the peal of bells from the Edinburgh 
churches sounds ominously, as if it rang out the funeral 
knell of the young queen. Such is the day that greets 
French Mary when she lands on Scottish shores. Bet- 
ter far for her had not this fog hid her squadron from 
the watchful eyes of her royal cousin. Better that she 
had fallen then into the hands of queen Elizabeth than 
to have become her wretched prisoner seven years later, 
shorn of that good name which is woman’s chief protec- 
tion — always and everywhere her best ‘safe-conduct.’” 

A great change had taken place in Scotland since 
Mary had left her country nearly thirteen years ago. 
The Roman Catholic religion was then supreme; and, 
under the direction of cardinal Beatoun, the Romish 
clergy displayed a fierceness of intolerance which seemed 
to aim at nothing short of the utter extirpation of every 
seed of dissent and reform. The same causes, however, 
which gave strength to the ecclesiastics gave strength 
also, though more slowly, to the great body of the peo- 
ple ; and at length, after the repeated losses of Flodden 
and Faia, and Solway Moss and Pinkie — which, by the 
fall of nearly the whole lay nobility and leading men 
of the kingdom, brought all classes within the influence 
of public events — the energies, physical and mental, of 
the entire nation were drawn out, and under the guid- 
ance of the reformer Knox expended themselves with 
the fury of awakened indignation upon rhe whole fabric 
of the ancient religion. The queen-regent died June 
10, 15G0. In August following the estates convened, 
adopted and approved the Calvinistic Confession of 
Faith, and. abolishing the Roman Catholic religion, for- 
bade at the same time the administering of the mass or 
attendance upon it — the penalty for the third offence be- 
ing death. “ On the morning of Aug. 25, 1560,” says 
Burton (iv, 89), “the Romish hierarchy was supreme; 
in the evening of the same day Calvinistic Protestant- 
ism was established in its stead.” Hardly a year had 
passed since these changes had been effected. A strange 
atmosphere this for Mary, who had been taught in 
France to abhor Protestant opinions. But, fortunately 
for Mar} 7 , she had enjoyed a training which fitted her 
well for the part she was now to play. Had she not 


MARY STUART 


851 


MARY STUART 


spent the most susceptible years of her life in the court 
of France under those worthy custodians of the con- 
science — Vasquez, Escobar, Mendoza? These Jesuit 
fathers had not hesitated to defend by their casuistry, 
and under color of religion, fraud, forgery, falsehood, 
and murder. Their teachings, before counteracted by 
the protests of such believers as Pascal and such heretics 
as Luther, had brought forth their fruit in the assassina- 
tion of William of Orange and of Coligni, and in the 
wholesale massacre of St. Bartholomew. Surely it could 
not be expected that Mary would prove herself unwor- 
thy of her birth and her costly education. Indeed, as 
early as 1558 she had shown herself an apt pupil wor- 
thy of her Jesuitical masters. Never a blush of secret 
shame mantled her maiden cheek when she signed the 
treaty which the Scotch commissioners brought her for 
the purpose of guarding the independence of the nation, 
jealous of foreign interference; never a hint from which 
diplomats could guess that fifteen days before she had 
signed away the kingdom to the crown of France, an- 
nulling beforehand whatever solemn promise to the con- 
trary she might make to her own most beloved and 
trusting subjects. So young, so fair, and vet so false, 
was Mary queen of Scots. “ The •enthusiastic admirers 
and apologists of Mary maintain that she was sincerely 
in favor of toleration. They would make her a kind of 
apostle of religious liberty. It is an unreasonable stretch 
of charity, however, to suppose that she would not . . . 
have rejoiced in the restoration, and, had it been feasi- 
ble, the forcible restoration of the old religion. . . . That 
she should ‘serve the time and still commode herself 
discreetly and gently with her own subjects,’ and ‘in 
effect repose most on them of the .Reformed religion,’ 
was the policy which had been sketched for her in 
France, as we learn from her faithful friend, Sir James 
Melville” (Fisher, Reform, p. 858, 859). But Mary was 
wise enough to comprehend that the situation was such 
that any active opposition to the newly-established re- 
ligion would be futile and disastrous to herself, and she 
accommodated herself to the circumstances. Yet even 
this she did only moderately, ller letters to pope Pius 
IV and to her uncle, the cardinal of Lorraine, in 15G3, 
plainly reveal the secret working of her desire to re- 
store the old religious system to supremacy as soon as 
practicable. With this purpose in view she refused to 
grant her assent to the acts of Parliament which estab- 
lished the new religion as the faith of the nation; while 
she herself failed not to seize every opportunity to prove 
her attachment to Romanism. The very first Sunday 
after her arrival Marv commanded a solemn mass to be 
celebrated in the chapel of the palace; and, as might 
have been expected, an uproar ensued, the servants of 
the chapel were insulted and abused, and had not some 
of the lay nobility of the Protestant pa^ty interposed, 
the riot might have become general. The next Sunday 
Knox preached a violent sermon against idolatry, and 
in his discourse he took occasion to say that a single 
mass was, in his estimation, more to be feared than ten 
thousand armed men. Upon this, Mary sent for the 
Reformer, desiring to have an interview with him. The 
interview took place, as well as one or two subsequent 
ones from a like cause ; but the only result was to make 
plainer the fact that she was at variance with the newly- 
established religious power of her country. Her youth, 
however, her beauty and accomplishments, and her af- 
fability, interested many in her favor; she had, more- 
over, from the first continued the government in the 
hands of the Protestants. The principal direction of 
affairs she had left in the hands of her half-brother, the 
carl of Murray (q. v.), the leader of the Protestant no- 
bles, and she had made William Maitland, of Lethington, 
another great Protestant leader, one of her most trust- 
ed advisers. The government in the hands of worthy 
leaders, the court sacredly promised to the unimpaired 
preservation of the Reformed faith and worship, no 
Protestant felt inclined to ask more ; and there were but 
few to complain when Mary only demanded for herself 


the same privilege which she accorded to her subjects — 
“ that of worshipping God according to her own creed.” 
“So the nation rested in tolerable peace, trusting in Mur- 
ray rather than in Mary, and suffering her mass, though 
always under protest, so long as she suffered herself to be 
guided by his counsels. But of this kind of compromise 
the holy Mother Church is always impatient. Although 
there was no papal legate at the court of Edinburgh, 
Rome did not lack for envoys — shrewd ones, too. Of 
these the chief was an Italian, David Rizzio (q.v.). He 
entered her service as a musician soon after she went to 
Scotland ; was promoted to the office of valet de chambre ; 
became her private secretary; conducted all her private 
and secret correspondence; became eventually the pow- 
er behind the throne greater than the throne itself, 
usurping the very government. Chief we have called 
him, yet lie was not alone. The court of Scotland had her 
representatives in foreign courts, as befitted her dignity; 
but her true representatives were' unknown to courtly 
fame — Chesein in France, Yaxley in the Netherlands, 
Ranlet in the Low Countries. So there was an outer and 
inner court. My lord James, earl of M array, was, indeed, 
the queen’s prime minister; but this unknown adventur- 
er from Piedmont — unknown because he succeeded best 
while he hid his office, as his designs — was virtually 
her secretary for foreign affairs, and her most confiden- 
tial adviser. The earl of Murray must be dismissed. 
No easy task, surely, but one that art can accomplish. 
Who so fitting to come between sister and brother as a 
husband? Queen Mary shall be married. It is time 
she laid off her widow’s weeds. And 'who so fitting a 
spouse as my lord Darnley — the only one who, when 
Elizabeth dies, can compete with Mary for the throne 
of England? So my lord Darnley and Mary queen of 
Scots are brought together. They meet in Wemyss 
Castle, by the Firth of Forth. It is a clear case of 
‘love at first sight.’ Royal husbands not a few have 
been proposed for Mary’s hand, but nothing more is 
heard of them. ‘ He is the handsomest and best-pro- 
portioned long man,’ says Mary, ‘ I have ever seen.’ 
Everything goes as Rizzio and the papal court would 
have it. The Protestant interest takes fire, for Darnley 
is a Catholic. It is not less furious in England than in 
Scotland, for the nation has little hope now that queen 
Elizabeth will ever take a husband, and in the absence 
of her heirs the throne of the united kingdom will fall 
into the hands of this Catholic couple. . . . Queen Eliz- 
abeth, who has been playing fast and loose, with fair 
promises and fickle performance, finds herself no match 
for the cunning Italian. Her own kingdom is threat- 
ened with faction; and rumors of Catholic rebellion, to 
unseat her and place her rival and cousin on the empty 
throne, fill the court and the nation with perplexity. 
She indignantly summons Darnley back again, and gets 
for answer that ‘ he has no mind to return.’ 1 1 find my- 
self,’ he says, shortly and almost contemptuously, ‘ very 
well where I am, and so I purpose to keep me.’ My 
lord Murray sees the end of all this from the beginning. 
Neither Mary’s tears nor Mary’s threats, and she uses 
both with a woman’s consummate skill, can wring from 
him an approval of the marriage. But all his affcction- 
ately-carncst protests are powerless to hinder it. Op- 
position is only fuel to the flame. Marry she will, 
though all the world opposes. Love, blind as it always 
is said to be, for the ignoble Darnlej r , revenge on Eliza- 
beth, whom Mary cordially hates, and who hates her as 
cordially, and ambition — the ambition to make good her 
claim to the English throne, which since she was a girl 
eighteen years old she has never ceased to nourish — all 
push her on to this destructive marriage. And Me- 
phistopheles is at her side to remove every obstacle and 
clear the way. It is Rizzio who arranges for the first 
meeting between Mary and Darnley. It is Rizzio who 
affects such liking for the young lord that he shares his 
bed with him. It is Rizzio who promises to secure the 
pope’s dispensation — for Mary and Darnley are cousins. 
It is Rizzio who, while negotiations are still pending 


MARY STUART 


852 


MARY STUART 


and the envoy is yet on his way to the court of Rome, 
lits up a private room in the palace, where the marriage- 
ceremony, which the Church pronounces void, is clan- 
destinely performed. For the papal benediction is need- 
ed. it appears, not to hallow the marriage-tie, but only to 
give it respectability before the public. Elizabeth might 
as well spare her diplomacy, since all is virtually settled. 
Rizzio lias not exceeded his instructions. There are 
no delays at the court of Rome. Fast as wind and wave 
can carry him comes back the messenger with the prom- 
ised dispensation. The marriage, already performed in 
secret, is repeated in public. It takes place on June 29, 
1005. Queen INI ary, as though some secret conscious- 
ness hung over her of the sorrows on which she is en- 
tering, wears at the marriage-altar her mourning dress 
of black velvet. It is a gloomy ceremony. When the 
herald proclaims in the streets of Edinburgh that Henry, 
earl of Ross and Albany, is hereafter king of Scotland, 
the crowd receive the proclamation in sullen silence. 
Even the money distributed in profusion among them 
awakens no enthusiasm. Only one voice cries, ‘ God 
save his Grace.’ It is the voice of Darnley’s father. 
My lord the earl of Murray has tried dissuasion. It has 
failed. He has tried wile against wile, has planned to 
abduct lord Darnley and send him back to the queen of 
England. Rut the rough Scotchman is no match in 
craft for the cunning Italian. This fruitless conspiracy 
has only incensed the queen against him. His honest 
portraiture of the poor fool with whom queen Mary is 
so infatuated has awakened all her womanly indigna- 
tion. The court is no longer safe. Rumors are rife of 
plans for his assassination. True or false, they are prob- 
able enough to make him avoid Rizzio and Darnley. 
The queen summons him to court, and offers him a safe- 
conduct. Rut Protestants have learned to look with 
suspicion on safe-conducts proffered by Roman Catholic 
princes. Murray is conveniently sick, and cannot come. 
Sentence of outlawry is pronounced against him. All 
the hate of a hot woman’s heart is aroused; ‘hatred the 
more malignant because it was unnatural.’ Revenge is 
sweeter than ambition. ‘ I would rather lose my crown 
than not be revenged upon him,’ she is heard to say. 
lie calls to arms. The interest of the Protestant religion 
is his battle-cry. Rut there are few responses. He 
despatches messengers to queen Elizabeth for the help 
she has long since promised. She hesitates, delays, 
falters. Mary knows no delay. She takes the field in 
person. Lord Darnley rides at her side. He is clad in 
gilt armor, she in steel bonnet and corslet, with pistols 
at her saddle-bow and pistols in her hand. In August 
the standard of rebellion was raised. In October Mur- 
ray and his few retainers are flying across the border 
into England (Burton, ix, 286). Mepliistopheles no 
longer conceals his purpose. Mass is no longer confined 
to the queen’s private chapel. The retainers of Darn- 
ley’s father go openly to the Catholic service. The 
General Assembly have passed a resolution that the 
sovereign is not exempt from the law of the land, and 
that the Reformed service take the place of the mass in 
the royal chapel. This is Rizzio’s answer to their de- 
mand. Negotiations are opened with pope Pius V and 
Philip of Spain. One promises soldiers, twelve thou- 
sand men; the other sends money, twenty thousand 
crowns. The Catholic powers of Europe have at length 
settled their political controversies, and joined in a se- 
cret league for the extirpation of heresy by fire and 
sword; a league of which that Alva was the founder 
whose estimate of Protestantism was summed up in the 
epigrammatic saying, ‘One salmon is worth a multitude 
of frogs;’ a league of which the outcome was the Inqui- 
sition in Holland, and the massacre of St. Bartholomew 
in France. That Diary was in hearty sympathy with 
this league is undoubted ; that'&hc was actually a party to 
it is both asserted and denied by men behind the scenes 
who had every opportunity to know. That a vigorous 
attempt was to be made to re-establish the Catholic 
faith and worship is certain. Her most Catholic maj- 


esty assures her subjects that in any event the religion 
of the realm shall not be interfered with. At the same 
time she writes to Pius V to congratulate him on the 
victories already gained, and to inspire him with hopes 
of victories yet to come : ‘ With the help of God and his 
holiness,’ she says, ‘ she will yet leap over the wall’ ” 
( Harper's Magazine , 1878, Feb., p. 352, 353). “ To this 

fatal resolution,” says Robertson ( History of Scotland ), 
“ may be imputed all the subsequent calamities of Mary’s 
life.” Many of the Protestant lords who had hitherto 
supported the queen now took fright lest they should 
suffer the fate of the adherents of the Protestant religion 
under Mary of England. The bloody deeds of that foul 
woman were yet fresh in the minds of all. What was 
there to hinder Diary Stuart from uprooting heresy in 
her dominions, with her hands stayed by all the other 
Romish powers of Europe? Moved by such fears, several 
of the Scotch nobles, whose covetousness had had more 
to do with their interest in the new religion than their 
soul’s salvation (Fisher, p. 351-353), determined to strike 
boldly against the throne. Diary, however, was not now 
the ruler of Scotland. She was only called so. Upon 
the throne sat the Italian singer. When Diary was 
married to Darnley she had promised him an equal share 
in the royal authority, and accordingly the public pa- 
pers and the public coin were issued in the name of 
Henry and Diary. But Darnley had not proved the 
right husband for her, and ere long she manifested her 
disappointment by placing her name first. Gradually 
the place lost by the husband is occupied by the Italian 
adventurer. The public seal is given to Rizzio, and 
with his own hand he signs and stamps the official pa- 
pers for the king. There is no access to Diary but 
through Rizzio; he who would gain the ear of the one 
must buy the favor of the other. ‘-He had the control,” 
says Fronde, “of all the business of the state.” The 
king himself finds the door barred — David admitted, 
himself shut out. Whispers such as no true woman can 
afford to suffer circulate freely, and Diary suffers them; 
ugly stories, aptly illustrated by the saying of a later 
day, that “King James the Sixth’s title to be called 
the modern Solomon was, doubtless, that he was the 
son of David, who performed upon the harp.” History 
does not justify these scandals. Neither can it justify 
the queen who suffered them. David Rizzio was not a 
I man to entertain passion or to inspire it. His power 
. over Diary was not that which love gives. It was that 
' of a Jesuit father over an obedient child. To Diary, 
Rizzio was the pope, whose benediction he carried with 
him, whose secret envoy he was. But no husband in 
such an issue is apt to weigh pros and cons nicely, le ast 
of all such a man as Darnley. “ Handsome long man” 
he may have been, but lie carried all bis merits in his 
face and figure. Intriguing nobles easily played the part 
of Iago to one who was in heart anything but an Othello. 
A jealous husband and an unscrupulous nobility were not 
slow to make common cause; and so the death of the 
queen’s favorite was determined, and accordingly Rizzio 
fell a prey to both Darnley and the nobles, March 9, 
1566. The assassins, of course, suffered their merited 
punishment. High in position and power, they were not 
given to the hangman, but an ever-watchful Providence 
meted out to all their merited award. (The charge 
formerly made by some [e. g. Tytler] that Knox and 
the Reformed clergy were privy to this scheme to mur- 
der Rizzio has been so thoroughly exploded that it is 
hardly necessary for us even to allude to it here. Those 
1 who wish to examine particularly are referred toDPCrie, 
Sketches of Scottish Ch. Hist., and Ilethcrington, Hist. 
Ch. of Scotland, i. 124, 402 sq.) It was an aggravation 
of the murder of Rizzio that it was committed, if not in 
the queen’s presence, at least within a few yards of her 
person, only three months before she gave birth (June 
19, 1566) to the prince who became king James VI. As 
that event drew near, the queen's affection for her hus- 
band, who had nnblushinglv declaimed against all part 
| in the conspiracy, seemed to revive; but the change 


MARY STUART 


853 


MARY STUART 


was only momentary ; and before the boy’s baptism, in 
December, her estrangement from the king was greater 
than ever. Divorce was openly discussed in her pres- 
ence, and even darker designs were obscurely hinted at 
among her friends. The king, on his part, spoke of leav- 
ing the country; but before his preparations were com- 
pleted, he fell ill of the small-pox at Glasgow. This was 
about Jan. 0, 1567. On the 25th Mary went to see him, 
and, travelling by easy stages, brought him to Edinburgh 
on the 31st. He was lodged in a small mansion beside 
the Kirk of the Field, nearly on the spot where the 
south-east corner of the University now stands. There 
Mary visited him daily, and slept for two nights in a 
room below his bedchamber. She passed the evening 
of Sunday, Feb. 0, by his bedside, talking cheerfully and 
affectionately with him, although she is said to have 
dropped one remark which gave him uneasy forebodings 
— that it was much about that time twelvemonth that 
Bizzio was murdered. She left him between ten and 
eleven o’clock to take part in a mask at llolvrood, at 
the marriage of a favorite valet. The festivities had 
not long ceased in the palace when, about two hours 
after midnight, the house in which the king slept was 
blown up by gunpowder, and in the neighboring garden 
was found the lifeless body of him to whom Mary, on 
the assassination of Rizzio, had spoken these ominous 
words: “I shall never rest till I give you as sorrowful 
heart as I have at this present.” 

The chief actor in this tragedy was undoubtedly 
James Ilepburn, earl of 1 loth well, a needy, reckless, vain- 
glorious, profligate noble, who, since Murray’s revolt, 
and still more since Kizzio’s murder, had enjoyed a large 
share of the queen’s favor, lint there were suspicions 
that the queen herself was not wholly ignorant of the 
plot, and these suspicions could not but be strengthened 
by what followed. On the 12th of April, Iiothwell was 
brought to a mock-trial and acquitted ; on the 24th, he 
intercepted the queen on her way from Linlithgow to 
Edinburgh, and carried her, with scarcely a show of re- 
sistance, to Dunbar. On the 7th of May, he was di- 
vorced from the young and comely wife whom he had 
married little more than a twelvemonth before; on the 
12th, Mary publicly pardoned his seizure of her person, 
and created him duke of Orkney; and on the 15th — only 
three months after her husband's murder — she married 
the man whom every one regarded as his murderer, 
married while the stain of her husband’s blood was still 
upon him. “ Surely this is carrying quite too far the 
‘indulgent temper’ for which her eulogist (Meline, p. 124) 
praises Her so highly.” Impelled by a just and burning 
indignation, her subjects rose in rebellion, led by nobles 
of both the Protestant and Romish factions. Surround- 
ed at Bortlnvick Castle, Bothwell escaped under cover 
of the night, Mary following him dressed in male attire. 
They hastily gathered the Royalists about them, but 
such a cause enlisted few followers. Yet the few were 
mustered, and, however sparse in number, Mary hesitated 
not to brave the storm ; she even dared to enter the 
lists against her opponents, but on the field of Carberry 
(June 15) the army melted away in sight of the enemy, 
and no alternative was ieft to her but to abandon Both- 
well. and surrender herself to the confederate lords. She 
was now escorted by the nobles as a prisoner to Edin- 
burgh, where the insults of the rabble and grief at part- 
ing with Bothwell threw her into such a frenzy that 
she refused all nourishment, and, rushing to the window 
of the room in which she was kept prisoner, called for 
help, and showed herself to the people half naked, with 
her hair hanging about her ears. From Edinburgh she 
was hurried to Loch Leven. where, on the 24th of July, 
she was prevailed upon to sign an act of abdication in 
favor of her son, who, five days .afterwards, was crowned 
at Stirling [see James I] ; while to her brother Murray 
was intrusted the government during the minority of 
her successor on the throne. Barred windows and iron 
doors proved no confinement to Mary. She soon found 
ways to communicate with the world, and made even 


the very prison-keeper her friend and confidant. May 
2, 1568, she finally succeeded in making her escape from 
the island-prison, and once more she made a call to arms, 
this time to enter the lists life for life. An army gath- 
ered, and in a few days she found herself at the head of 
6000 men. Elizabeth of England, whose great political 
maxim was “ that the head should not be subject to the 
foot,” would gladly have extended aid to Mary had 
she not feared the power of the perspicacious and firm 
leader of the Protestants who had imprisoned Mary — 
her own half-brother, Murray. On the 12th of May it 
finally came to a battle between the Royalists and the 
insurgents at Langside, near Glasgow. Mary was com- 
pletely routed, and obliged to flee the kingdom. She 
entered England, and threw herself on the protection of 
Elizabeth. The queen of England, however, had al- 
ways had cause to fear the presence of her rival on 
English ground. Mary had never yet renounced her 
claim to the crown which Elizabeth wore. Moreover, 
“Mary Stuart was the centre of the hopes of the ene- 
mies of Protestant England and of Elizabeth. Their 
plots looked to the elevation of Mary to the throne 
which Elizabeth filled ” (Fisher, p. 882). 1’olitical ambi- 
tion and religious fanaticism controlled both parties, and 
should the stronger yield to the weaker? Mary had 
come hoping to secure her cousin’s sympathy and aid. 
But that cousin feared for her own life and the security of 
her throne, and therefore persistently denied the ardent 
and persevering solicitations of Mary for an interview, 
on the agreeable pretence that she should first clear her- 
self of the crime imputed to her. A criminal, then, s.he 
was made a prisoner, and, after an immense amount of 
deceptive diplomacy, a commission was appointed, nom- 
inally to investigate the charges of Mary against her 
rebellious lords, really to investigate the charges of the 
lords against their queen. Before this commission 
Murray represented the Scottish government. At first 
he laid the guilt of the murder on Bothwell alone, and 
defended the insurrection only as one against the infa- 
mous, ambitious, and tyrannical carl. But as the trial 
proceeded he changed his ground. He hesitated, pro- 
crastinated, faltered. At length he openly charged his 
sister with the murder of her husband; and he pro- 
duced, in confirmation of this charge, the since famous 
“casket letters.” Of their discovery he told this story : 
The earl of Bothwell — so said lord Murray, and so said 
the lords he represented — fleeing from Edinburgh, sent 
back a confidential messenger to the castle to bring 
thence a silver casket from a certain drawer. James 
Balfour — that Balfour who drew the deed for Darnley’s 
murder — had received the captaincy of the castle as the 
price of his crime, lie delivered the casket ; he at the 
same time sent the lords a hint of the fact. The mes- 
senger was intercepted and the casket seized. This 
casket, with its contents, was the witness Murray pro- 
duced before the English commission against the Scot- 
tish queen. Its contents were eight letters and twelve 
sonnets, written in French, apparently in Mary’s hand- 
writing. Among the commissioners were more than 
one of Mary’s friends, one of them that duke of Norfolk 
who subsequently attested the strength of his attach- 
ment by the sacrifice of his life : if these letters were a 
forgery, they were not so declared hv them. Of these 
letters one gave a full account of Mary’s interview with 
Darnley at Glasgow; of his unsuspicious confidence; 
of her own mournful sense of shame and guilt. Another 
advised the earl when and where to abduct her, and cau- 
tioned him to come with force sufficient to overcome all 
resistance. All breathed the language of passionate de- 
votion, with here and there a flash of fierce jealousy. 
They were true to nature, but to a lost, though not a 
shameless one. Their language was that of a once noble 
but now ruined woman unveiling her heart’s secrets in 
unsuspecting confidence. If forged, the forger was a 
consummate master of his art. True or lalse, they were 
equally remarkable as contributions to rhe language of 
passion. Mary denounced them as forgeries. She de- 


MARY STUART 


854 


MARY STUART 


mantled to see the originals. Elizabeth granted the 
reasonableness of the demand, but never complied with 
it. She demanded to face her accusers. Elizabetli 
half promised that she should do so, but never fulfilled 
the pledge. The commission broke, up without a ver- 
dict. Elizabeth had no interest to press for either ae- 
uuittal or conviction. Murray was glad to return to his 
regency. Mary alone had any reason to demand the 
completion of the investigation, but Mary was a prisoner, 
and her access to the public not the most easy. Though 
inconclusive, the trial had revealed enough to strength- 
en the worst suspicions of the Scottish people, and no 
one thought of finding fault with Elizabeth for retain- 
ing 31 ary a prisoner. For nineteen years Mary Stuart 
thus passed life. “For nineteen years both captive and 
captor are made miserable by plots and counterplots; 
and whether Mary in prison or Mary at large is the 
more dangerous to the security of Protestant England 
is a question so hard to decide that Elizabeth never 
fairly attempts to determine it. At length a plot is un- 
covered more deadly than any that has preceded. Half 
a score of assassins band themselves together to attempt 
Elizabeth’s life, and to put Catholic Mary on the vacant 
throne. The blessing of the pope is pronounced upon 
the enterprise. The Catholic powers of Europe stand 
ready to welcome its consummation. Mary gives it 
her cordial approbation. £ The hour of deliverance,’ she 
writes exultingly, ‘is at hand.’ But plots breed coun- 
terplots. In all the diplomatic service of Europe there 
is no so ingenious spy as Walsingham, Elizabeth’s prime 
minister. Every letter of Mary’s is opened and copied 
by his agents before sent to its destination. The con- 
spiracy is allowed to ripen. Then, when all is ready 
for consummation, the leaders are arrested, the plot is 
brought to the light of day. Mary, with all her faults, 
never knew fear ; no craven heart was hers. The more 
dangerous was she because so brave. She battles for 
her life with a heroism well worthy a nobler nature — 
battles to the last, though there be no hope. She re- 
ceives the sentence of death with the calmness of true 
courage, not of despair. With all her treachery, never 
recreant to her faith — never but once, when her infatu- 
ated love of Both well swerved her from it for a few 
short weeks — she clings to her crucifix till the very 
hour of death. Almost her last words are words of 
courage to her friends. ‘ Weep not,’ she says; ‘ I have 
promised for you.’ Her very last are a psalm from her 
Prayer-book — ‘ In thee, O Lord, have I pu„ my trust.’ 
And then she lays her head upon the block as peace- 
fully as ever she laid it upon her pillow. No ‘grizzled, 
wrinkled old woman,’ but in the full bloom of ripened 
womanhood — forty-five, no more — 3 1 ary Stuart pays on 
the scaffold at Fothcringay [whither she had been re- 
moved for trial of conspiracy from Charpley in Septem- 
ber, lo-sfi] the penalty of her treachery at Edinburgh, 
May 8, lo87. The spirit of the stern old Puritans is sat- 
isfied, and the prophecy of the Good Book receives a 
new and pregnant illustration — ‘Whoso sheddeth man’s 
blood, by man shall his blood be shed.’ ” Five months 
after the execution her body was % buried with great 
pomp at Peterborough, whence, in IC>1*2, it was removed 
to king Henry VH’s Chapel at Westminster, where it 
still lies in a sumptuous tomb erected by king James VI. 

“Whoever has attended but little to the phenomena 
of human nature has discovered how inadequate is the 
clearest insight which he can hope to attain into char- 
acter and disposition. Every one is a perplexity to 
himself and a perplexity to his neighbors; and men 
who are horn in the same generation, who are exposed 
to the same intlnenccs, trained by the same teachers, 
and live from childhood to age in constant and familiar 
intercourse, are often little more than shadows to each 
other, intelligible in superficial form and outline, but di- 
vided inwardly by impalpable and mysterious barriers.” 
Thus Fronde opens the fourth volume of his Hinton/ of 
j England, when about to pass in review the affairs of 
Scotland and Ireland in the lGth century. Vet. when 


this same writer comes to speak of Mary Stuart, he 
“writes almost as a public prosecutor of the Scottish 
queen, and sometimes sacrifices historical accuracy to 
dramatic effect.” The truth is that the character of 
Mary was long one of the most fiercely-vexed questions 
of history, and is still in debate; hence the difficulties 
which beset any attempt to tell correctly the story of 
her career, or analyze aright her character. The stu- 
dent oi'history finds no impartial witnesses; few in her 
own time who are not ready to tell and to believe about 
her the most barefaced lies which will promote their 
own party. During her life she was calumniated and 
eulogized with equal audacity. Since her death the 
same curiously-contradictory estimates of her character 
have been vigorously maintained — by those, too, who 
have not their judgment impaired by the prejudices 
which environed her. On the one hand, we arc assured 
that she was “the most amiable of women;” “the up- 
right queen, the noble and true woman, the faithful 
spouse and affectionate mother;” “the poor martyred 
queen;” “the helpless victim of fraud and force;” an 
“illustrious victim of state-craft,” whose “kindly spirit 
in prosperity and matchless heroism in misfortune* 
award her “ the most prominent place in the annals of 
her sex.” On the other, we are assured, by men equally 
competent to jiulgc, that she was “a spoiled beauty 
“ the heroine of an adulterous melodrama:” “ the victim 
of a blind, imperious passion an “ apt scholar” in “ the 
profound dissimulation of that school of which Catharine 
de’ Medici was the chief instructor;” “a bad woman, 

| disguised in the livery of a martyr,” having “a proud 
heart, a crafty wit, and indurate mind against God and 
his truth “ a bold, unscrupulous, ambitious woman,” 
with “ the panther’s nature — graceful, beautiful, malig- 
nant, untamable.” The great preponderance of author- 
ity, however, seems now to be on the side of those who 
believe in her criminal love for Botliwell and her guilty 
knowledge of his conspiracy against her husband’s life. 
The question of her guilt as to the murder of her hus- 
band does certainly not rest on the authenticity of the 
“casket letters,” however much these may be matter of 
historical interest. “ Evidence which her own day 
deemed clear,” says the writer in Harper whom we had 
occasion to quote before, “history deems uncertain. 
Circumstances which, isolated, only created a wide- 
spread suspicion in her own times, put together by his- 
tory, form a net-work of evidence clear and conclusive. 
A wife learns to loathe her husband ; utters her passion- 
ate hate in terms that are unmistakable; is reconciled 
to him for a purpose; casts him off when that purpose 
is accomplished; makes no secret of her desire for a 
divorce; listens with blit cold rebuke to intimations of 
his assassination; dallies while he languishes upon a 
sick-bed so long as death is near; hastens to him only 
when he is convalescent ; becomes, in seeming, recon- 
ciled to him ; by her blandishments allays his terror 
and arrests his flight, which nothing else could arrest; 
brings him with her to the house chosen by the assas- 
sins for his tomb — a house which has absolutely nothing 
else to recommend it but its singular adaptation to the 
deed of cruelty to be wrought there; remains with him 
till within two hours of his murder; hears with uncon- 
cern the story of his tragic end, which thrills all other 
hearts with horror; makes no effort to bring the perpe- 
trators of the crime to punishment; rewards the sus- 
pected with places and pensions, and the chief criminal 
with her hand in marriage while the blood is still wet 
on his. That t lie world should he asked to believe her 
the innocent victim of a diabolical conspiracy affords a 
I singular illustration of the effrontery of the Church 
which claims her for a martyr. That half the world 
should have acquiesced in the claim affords an illustra- 
tion no less singular of the credulity of mankind when 
I sentiments and sympathies are called on to render the 
judgment which the reason alone is qualified to render.” 

The genuineness of the “ casket letters” is maintained 
by the historians Ilume, Kobertson, Laing, Burton, 


MARY STUART 


855 


MASADA 


Mackintosh, Mignet, Ranke, anti Froude. The most 
acute writer on the other side of the question isllosack, 
an Edinburgh barrister, but he “writes in such a vein 
as would befit him were he indeed earning a lawyer’s 
fee by a lawyer’s service.” One of the latest writers on 
the ecclesiastical history of this period, Prof. Fisher (p. 
37G), of Yale College, thus comments on the question at 
issue: “No candid critic can deny, whatever may be 
his final verdict, that the letters contain many internal 
marks of genuineness which it would be exceedingly 
difficult for a counterfeiter to invent, and that the scru- 
tiny to which they were subjected in the Scottish Par- 
liament, the Scottish privy council, and the English 
privy council, was such that, if they were forged, it is 
hard to account for the failure to detect the imposture. 
Moreover, the character of Murray, although it may be 
admitted that he was not the immaculate person that 
he is sometimes considered to have been, must have 
been black indeed if these documents, which he brought 
forward to prove the guilt of his sister, were forged; but 
Murray is praised not only by his personal adherents 
and by his party, but by men like Spottiswoode and 
Melville (Spottiswoode, History of the Church of Scot- 
land, ii, 121).” Yet, however writers may differ about 
her moral conduct, they agree very well as to the vari- 
ety of her accomplishments. She wrote poems on vari- 
ous occasions, in the Latin, Italian, French, and Scotch 
languages; “Royal advice to her son,” in two books, 
the consolation of her long imprisonment. A great 
number of her original letters are preserved in the king 
of France’s library, in the Royal, Cottonian, and Ash- 
molean libraries. We have in print eleven to the earl of 
Bothwell, translated from the French by Edward Sim- 
monds, of Christ-churcli, Oxford, and printed at West- 
minster in 1726. There are ten more, with her answers 
to the articles against her, in “Haynes’s State-papers;” 
six moro in “Anderson's Collections;” another in the 
“Appendix” to her life by Dr. Jebb; and some others dis- 
persed among the works of Pius Y, Buchanan, Camden, 
Udall, and Sanderson. 

To enumerate all that has been written on Mary would 
fill a volume. Among the chief works are S. Jebb, De 
Vita et Rthus Gestis Maries Scotorum Regime (Loud. 
1725, 2 vols. fol.) ; J. Anderson, Collections relating to the 
History of Mary, Queen of Scotland (Lond. 1727-28, 4 
vols. 4to) ; Burton, Hist, of Scotland, vol. iv; Bishop 
Keith, Hist, of the A fairs of Church and State in Scot- 
land (Edinb. 1734, fol. ; 1844-50, 3 vols. 8vo) ; W. Good- 
all, Examination of the Letters said to be ivritten by Mary, 
Queen of Scots , to James , Earl of Bothwell (Edinb. 1754, 
2 vols. 8vo) ; Robertson, Hist, of Scotland ; W. Ty tier, 
Inquiry into the Evidence against Mary, Queen of Scots 
(Edinb. 1759, 8vo ; Loml. 1790, 2 vols. 8vo) ; Laing, Hist, 
of Scotland ; Chalmers, Life of Mary, Queen of Scots 
(Loud. 1818, 2 vols. 4to; 1822, 3 vols. 8vo) ; Schiitz, 
Leben M aria Stuarts (1839) ; P. F. Ty tier, Hist, of Scot- 
land; Prince Labanoff, Recueil des Lettres de Marie Stu- 
art (Loud. 1844, 7 vols. 8vo) ; David Laing, edition of 
John Knox’s Hist, of the Reformation (Edinb. 1846-48, 
2 vols. 8vo) ; M. Teulet, Rapiers d'Etat rclatifs a I'His- 
toire de VEcosse (Par. 1851 -GO, 3 vols. 4to ; 18G2, 5 vols. 
8vo) ; Miss Agnes Strickland, Lives of the Queens of 
Scotland (Edinb. 1850-59, 8 vols. 8vo) ; M. Mignet, JJis- 
toire de Marie Stuart (Par. 1852, 2 vols. 8vo) ; A. de 
Montaiglon, Latin Themes of Mary Stuart (Loml. 1855, 
8vo) ; Prince Labanoff, Notice sur la Collection des Poi'- 
traits de Marie Stuart (St. Petersb. 1856); M. Cheruel, 
Marie Stuart et Catherine de Medicis (Par. 1858, 8vo) ; 
M. Teulet, Lettres de Marie Stuart (Par. 1859, 8vo); 
Joseph Robertson, Catalogues of the Jewels, Dresses, Fur- 
niture, Books, and Paintings of Mary, Quee?i of Scots 
(Edinb. 18G3, 4to); Ilosack, Mary, Queen of Scots and 
her Acc«sers.(2d ed. Loud. 1870, 2 vols. 8vo) ; Meline, 
Mary, Queen of Scots, and her latest English Historian 
(N. Y. 1872, 8vo), a polemic against Froude, assails the 
English historian very bitterly, and shows him to be in- 
accurate in some minor details; but Meline’s own “in- 


tense partisanship unfits him for the office of a critic, 
and he entirely fails in his narrative.” (J. H.W.) 

Masaccio, called Maso da San Giovanni, one of 
the earliest and the most celebrated of the Italian paint- 
ers of the second or middle age of modern painting, the 
unquestioned founder of the Florentine school, was born 
at San Giovanni, in Yal d’Arno, in the year 1401. lie 
was a disciple of Masolino da Panicale, to whom he 
proved as much superior as his master was to all his con- 
temporaries. He had great readiness of invention, with 
unusual truth and elegance of design. He made nature 
his constant study; and he gave in his works exam- 
ples of that beauty which arises from a judicious and 
pleasing choice of attitudes, accompanied with spirit, 
boldness, and relief. lie was the first who studied to give 
more dignity to his draperies, by designing them with 
greater breadth and fulness, and omitting the multitude 
of small folds. lie was also the first who endeavored to 
adapt the color of his draperies to the tints of his car- 
nations, so that they might harmonize with each other. 
Masaccio was remarkably well skilled in perspective, 
which he was taught by Brunelleschi. His works pro- 
cured him great reputation, but excited the envy of his 
competitors. He is supposed to have been poisoned, 
and died about 1443. Fuseli says of him : “Masaccio 
was a genius, and the head of an epoch in the art. He 
may be considered as the precursor of Raphael, who im- 
itated his principles, and sometimes transcribed his fig- 
ures.” His most perfect works are the frescoes of St. 
Pietro del Carmine at Florence, “where vigor of concep- 
tion, truth and vivacity of expression, correctness of 
design, and breadth of manner are supported by a most 
surprising harmony of color;” and the picture of Christ 
curing the Dcemoniacs. The “Arundel Society” has 
lately published these frescoes in a series of superior 
chromo-lithographs. See Yasari, Lives of the Painters ; 
Mrs. Jameson, Memoirs of Early Italian Painters. 

Masada (Mu<rd£«), a very strong fortress not far 
south of Engedi (Josephus, War; Ant. i, 12, I), on the 
west of the Dead Sea (Pliny, v, 17), in a volcanic region 
(Strabo, xvi, p.764), minutely described by Josephus in 
various places, especially in the account of its final trag- 
edy (War, vii, 8). It was built by Jonathan Macca- 
bauis on an almost inaccessible rock, and was probably 
one of his “strongholds in Judcea” (1 Macc. xii, 35), as 
it had possibly been in earlier times a refuge of David 
(I Sam. xxiii, 14, 29 ; comp. 2 Sam. v, 17). It was much 
enlarged and strengthened by Herod the Great, who 
placed Mariamne here for safety when he was driven 
from Jerusalem by Antigonus (Josephus, War, i, 13, 7). 
It resisted, at that time, the attack by the Parthians 
(ib. 15, 3), but was afterwards taken from the Romans 
through treachery by Judas the Galilsean (ib. 17, 2). It 
was the last stronghold of the Jews in the final struggle 
with the Romans under Flavius Silva, who took it by 
assault, the garrison, in their desperation, having immo- 
lated themselves (ut sup.). The site was conjectured by 
Dr. Eli Smith to be that of the modern Sebbeh (Robin- 
son, Researches, u, 24) ; which has been abundant^ con- 
firmed by later travellers, who have attested the pro- 
digious strength of the place, and its exact agreement 
with the description of Josephus (Traill’s Josephus, ii, 109 
sq. ; Biblioth. Sacra, 1843, p. G2 sq. ; Van de Yelde, Nar- 
rative, ii, 97 sq.; Tristram, Land of Israel, p. 293 sq.). 

The description of Josephus, in whose histories Ma- 
sada plays a conspicuous part, is as follows : A lofty rock 
of considerable extent, surrounded on all sides pre- 
cipitous valleys of frightful depth, afforded difficult ac- 
cess only in two parts — one on the east, towards the 
Lake Asphaltis, by a zigzag path, scarcely practicable, 
and extremely dangerous, called “ the Serpent,” from its 
sinuosities ; the other more easy, towards the west, on 
which side the isolated rock was more nearly ap- 
proached by the hills. The summit of the rock was not 
pointed, but a plain of 7 stadia in circumference, sur- 
rounded by a wall of white stone, 12 cubits high and 


MASADA 


S56 


MASALOTH 


yielded to the ram, when an 
inner wall was discovered to 
have been constructed by the 
garrison — a framework of tim- 
ber filled with soil, which be- 
came more solid and compact 
by the concussions of the ram. 
This, however, was speedily 
fired. The assault was fixed 
for the morrow, when the gar- 
rison anticipated the swords 
of the Homans by one of the 
most cold-blooded and atro- 
cious massacres on record. At 
the instigation of Eleazar, 
they first slew every man his 
wife and children; then, hav- 
ing collected the property into 
one heap, and destroyed it all 
by fire, they cast lots for ten 
men, who should act as exe- 
cutioners of the others while 
they lay in the embrace of 
their slaughtered families. 
One was then selected by lot 
to slay the other nine sur- 
vivors; and he at last, having 
set fire to the palace, with a 
desperate effort drove his 
sword completely through his 
own body, and so perished. 
The total number, including 
•women and children, was 900. 
8 cubits thick, fortified with 37 towers of 50 cubits in | An old woman, with a female relative of Eleazar, and 
height. The wall was joined within by large buildings five children, who had contrived to conceal tliem- 
conneeted with the towers, designed for barracks and selves in the reservoirs while the massacre was being 
magazines for the enormous stores and munitions of w ar perpetrated, survived, and narrated these facts to the 
which were laid up in this fortress. The remainder of i astonished Homans when they entered the fortress 
the area, not occupied by buildings, was arable, the soil 1 the following morning, and had ocular demonstration 
being richer and more genial than that of the plain be- of the frightful tragedy. On the present ruined site 
low; and a further provision was thus made for the the ground-plan of the storehouses and barracks can 
garrison in case of a failure of supplies from without, still be traced in the foundations of the buildings on 
The rain-water w r as preserved in large cisterns excavated the summit, and the cisterns, excavated in the nat- 
in the solid rock. A palace, on a grand scale, occupied ural rock, are of enormous dimensions. One is men- 
the north-west ascent, on a lower level than the fortress, tinned as nearly 50 feet deep, 100 long, and 45 broad, 
but connected with it by covered passages cut in the The foundations of a round tower, 40 or 50 feet below 
rock. This was adorned within with porticoes and the northern summit, may have been connected with 
baths, supported by monolithic columns; the walls and the palace, and the windows cut in the rock near by, 
lloors were covered with tessellated work. At the dis- which Mr. Wooleot conjectures to have belonged to some 
tance of 1000 cubits from the fortress, a massive tower large cistern, now covered up, may possibly have light- 
guarded the western approach at its narrowest and most ed the rock-hewn gallery by which the palace commn- 
diffieult point, and thus completed the artificial de- nicated with the fortress. From the summit of the 
fences of this most remarkable site, which nature had rock every part of the wall of circumvallation could be 
rendered almost impregnable. In attacking the fortress, traced, carried along the low ground, and, wherever it 
the first act of the Roman general was to surround the met a precipice, commencing again on the high sum- 
fortress with a wall, to prevent the escape of the garri- mit above, thus making the entire circuit of the place, 
son. Having distributed sentries along this line of cir- Connected with it, at intervals, were the walls of the 
cnmvallation, he pitched his own camp on the west, Roman camps, opposite the north-west and south-east 
where the rock was most nearly approached by the j corners, the former being the spot where Josephus places 
mountains, and was therefore more open to assault ; for that of the Roman general. A third may be traced on 
the difficulty of procuring provisions and water for his the level near the shore. The outline of the works, as 
soldiers did not allow him to attempt a protracted block- seen from the heights above, is as complete as if they 
ade, which the enormous stores of provisions and water had been but recently abandoned. The Roman wall is 
still found there by Eleazar would have enabled the six feet broad, built, like the fortress walls and buildings 
garrison better to endure. Behind the tower which above, with rough stones laid loosely together, and the 
guarded the ascent was a prominent rock of considerable interstices filled in with small pieces of stone. The 
size and height, though 300 cubits lower than the wall wall is half a mile or more distant from the rock, so as 
of the fortress, called the White Cliff. ( )n this a bank to be without range of the stones discharged by the gar- 
of 200 cubits’ height was raised, which formed a base for rison. No water was to he found in the neighborhood 
a platform (/3 ij/m) of solid masonry, 50 cubits in width but such as the recent rains had left in the hollows of 
and height, and on this was placed a tower similar in the rocks, confirming the remark of Josephus that wa- 
construetion to those invented and employed in sieges ter, as well as food, was brought thither to the Roman 
by Vespasian and Titus, covered with plates of iron, army from a distance. Its position is exactly opposite 
which reached an additional fiO cubits, so as to domi- to the peninsula that runs into the Dead Sea from its 
nate the wall of the castle, which was quickly cleared eastern shore, towards its southern extremity. See 
of its defenders by the showers of missiles discharged , Smith, Diet, of Class. Gcog . s. v. 

from the scorpions and balista?. The outer wall soon l Mas'aloth (MauraXw^ v. r. MeacraXw^), a place 




MASAUPASA 


857 


MASH 


in Arbela, which Bacchides and Alcimus besieged and 
captured on their way from Gilgal to Judrea (1 Macc. ix, 
2). Josephus, in his parallel account, omits the name 
{Ant. xii, 11, 1); but a trace of the name is thought by 
Robinson ( Researches , ii, 398) to be found in the “ steps” 
(n’lSDlD, mesilloth ') or terraces (as in 2 Chron. ix, 11), 
in connection with the remarkable caverns besieged by 
Herod near Arbela (Josephus, War, i, Id, 4), now Ivulat 
ibn-Maon. See Arbela. 

Masaupasa, a famous fast among the East Indian 
pagans. The name is derived from nutsa, which, in the 
Malabarian language, signities a mouth, and upada a 
fast. It is the most sacred of all their fasts, and begins 
with the last day of October. Such as keep the fast, 
having first washed and dressed themselves very clean, 
repair to the pagoda or temple of the god Vistnum, and 
the next morning, having changed their clothes, go 
round the temple 101 times, and the most devoted 1001 
times. They repeat the same ceremony every day dur- 
ing the months of November and December. During 
this time they must eat nothing but milk and eggs, 
must not look upon a woman, nor think or speak of any- 
thing but what relates to the Vistnum. The next year 
they perform the same devotion, beginning with the 
first day of December, and continuing till the tenth day 
of January. The next year they begin with the first 
day of January and end with the tenth day of February, 
and so on till the number of twelve years is completed, 
when they receive pardon for all their sins. — Brough- 
ton, Biblioth. Hist. Sac. vol. ii, s. v. 

Mascaron, Jules, a distinguished French Roman 
Catholic preacher, was born at Aix in March, 1034. He 
studied at the college of the Oratorians in his native 
city, and afterwards at that of Mans, where he was ap- 
pointed professor of rhetoric in 1G56. About the same 
time he commenced preaching at Saumur, and soon at- 
tracted attention. He afterwards preached successively 
at Marseilles, Aix, and Nantes, and then at Paris, in the 
churches of the Oratory, of the Louvre, and of St. Andre 
des Arts. In 1600 he preached, in presence of Francis 
de Harlav, archbishop of Rouen, the funeral sermon of 
the queen dowager, Anne of Austria. This discourse was 
so much admired that, aided by the influence of De 
Ilarlay, Mascaron was admitted at Versailles. Louis 
XIV was greatly pleased with him, and appointed him 
court preacher. He was made bishop of Tulle in 1671, 
but his bulls arrived only two years afterwards. In the 
mean time Mascaron preached three other funeral ser- 
mons: those of the duke of Beaufort, of Henrietta of 
England, and of chancellor Scguier (the two first are 
considered his best), lie finally went into his diocese, 
and wrote there, in 1675, the funeral sermon of marshal 
Turcnne, eulogized by La Harpe as a chef- d’ceuvre. 
Made bishop of Agen in 1678, he founded there a theo- 
logical seminary and a hospital. He only left his diocese 
once, to preach his last sermon before Louis XIV. He 
died Nov. 20, 1703. 1 lis 0 raisons funebres passed through 
a large number of editions (Paris, 1704, 12mo ; reprinted 
in 1740, 1745, 1785, 1828, etc., and in 1734, together with 
those of Bossuet and Flechier). See A. de Bellccombe, 
LWgenois illastre ; Diet, of Biog. s. v. lloefer, Nouv. 
Biog. Generate , xxxiv, 125. (J. N. P.) 

Masch, Andreas Gottlieb, D.D., a noted German 
pulpit orator, was born at Beseritz, in Mecklenburg, 
Dee. 5, 1724. His father was himself a minister of the 
Gospel, and instructed Andreas in the preparatory 
branches of study. In 1743 he went to the University 
of Rostock; two years later removed to Halle, and there 
enjoyed the favor and society of the celebrated Baum- 
garten and Semler. The latter desired that Masch 
should remain at the university as instructor, but his 
health failing he decided to return to his father’s. In 
1752 he was made the assistant preacher, in 1756 pastor 
of a church at New Strelitz, and only four years after 
this he was honored with the appointment of “court 
preacher.” He died Oct. 26, 1807. His most impor- 


tant literary remains are embodied in the Bibliotheca 
Sacra , which, originally edited by Le Long, he contin- 
ued upon the same plan (now in 5 vols. 4to) — a work 
of great labor and merit, which had been discontinued 
for want of patronage. Le Long had published 2 vols. 
8vo (Paris, 1709; republished by Burner, of Leipsic, 
with additions). Dr. Masch began its continuation in 
1778, and completed it in 1790. It gives a full account 
of the literary history of the Bible, the various editions 
of the original, and the ancient and modern versions. 
Dr. Masch also wrote several dissertations of considera- 
ble value, particularly a treatise on the Religions of the 
Heathen and of Christians ( Gedunken i'on der Geoffen- 
barten Religion, Halle, 1750, 8vo), intended as an argu- 
ment against the naturalists. For a complete list of his 
works, see Ddring, Gelehrte Tkeologen Deutschlands d. 
18 ren ii. 19'™ Jahrb. ii, 422 sq. 

Mas'chil (Heb. mask it', instructing , Hiph. 

part, of bz’V, to be wise ; used as a noun in Psa. xlvii, 7, 
b m z''2j^2 sing ye a poem, Pesliito, sing praise, but 

the Sept.,Vulg., and Auth. Vers, “sing ye with under- 
standing”) occurs in the titles or inscriptions of Psa. 
xxxii, xlii, xliv, xlv, lii, liii, liv, lv, Ixxiv. Ixxviii, 
lxxxviii, lxxxix, cxlii. The origin of the use of this 
word is uncertain, and it has been variously interpreted. 
The most probable meaning of maschil is a poem, song, 
which enforces intelligence, wisdom, piety, q. d. didactic ; 
which is true of every sacred song, not excepting Psa. 
xlv, where everything is referred to the goodness of 
God. It occurs elsewhere as an adjective, and is accord- 
ingly rendered “ wise,” or some other term equivalent 
to instruction (1 Sam. xviii, 14, 15; 2 Chron. xxx, 22; 
Job xxii, 2; Psa. xiv, 2; xli, 1 ; liii, 2; Prow x, 5, 19; 
xiv, 35; xv, 24; xvi, 20; xvii, 2; xix, 14; xxi, 12; 
Jer. 1, 9; Dan. i, 4; xi, 33, 35; xii, 3, 10; Amos v, 13), 
For other derivations from the Arabic, see Gesenius, 
Thes. Heb. p. 1331. See Psalms, Book of. 

Masclef, Francois, a noted Roman Catholic divine 
and Orientalist, was born at Amiens in the year 1662. 
He very early devoted himself to the study of Oriental 
languages, and attained in them an extraordinary de- 
gree of proficiency. Educated for service in the Church, 
he became first a curate in the diocese of Amiens, but 
afterwards obtained the confidence of De Brou, bishop 
of Amiens, who placed him at the head of the theologi- 
cal seminary of the dist rict, and made him a canon. De 
Brou died in 1706, and Masclcf, whose opinions on the 
Jansenistic controversy were not in accordance with 
those of the new prelate Sabbatier, was compelled to re- 
sign his place in the theological seminary and retire from 
public life. From this time he devoted himself to study 
with such close application as to bring on a disease, of 
which he died, on Nov. 24, 1728, when only in his prime. 
Though austere in his habits, he was amiable and pious. 
Masclef s chief work is the Grammatica Ilebraica, a 
pnnetis aliisgue inventis Jfassorethicis libera, still con- 
sidered one of the best works of the kind; it embodies 
an elaborate argument against the use of the vowel- 
points. The first edition was published in 1716, and 
speedily called forth a defence of the points from the 
abbe Gnarin, a learned Benedictine monk. In the year 
1731 a second edition was published at Paris, containing 
an answer to Guarin’s objections, with the addition of 
grammars of the Syriac, Chaldee, and Samaritan lan- 
guages. Other works of Masclef are, Ecclesiastical Con - 
ferences of the Diocese of A miens : — Catechism of A miens ; 
— and in manuscript, Courses of Philosophy and Divin- 
ity ; not printed because it is thought to contain Jansen- 
istic opinions. — English Cyclop, s. v. 

Mash (Heb. id. TL ;, 2, signif. unknown; Sept. Mo<r6y, 
Vulg, Mes'), the last named of the four sons of Aram 
(B.C. post 2513), and a tribe descended from him, who 
gave their name to a region inhabited by them (Gen. x, 
23); probably, therefore, to be sought in Syria or Meso- 
potamia. In the parallel passage (1 Chron. i, 17) the 


MASHAL 


858 


MASON 


name of Mesiiecii has been erroneously substituted. 
Josephus (An?. i, G, 4) understands the Mesancei (Mtj- 
( Tctnuoi ), and states that their locality “is now called 
Charax of Spasimis ,” evidently the same place (X«- 
11 amvov, Ptol. vi, 3, 2), situated, according to others, 
at the junction of the Tigris and Euphrates (Plin. vi, 
26, and 31, ed. Ilardouin). Most interpreters, however, 
following Boehart {Phaleg, ii, 11), understand to be 
meant the inhabitants of Mount J Justus, which lies 
north of Nesibis, and forms part of the chain of Taurus 
separating Media from Mesopotamia (Strabo, xi, 527 ; 
Ptol. v, 13, 2), of which latter the Shemites occupied the 
southern part (Michaelis, Spicileg. ii, 140 sq.). — Winer. 
“ Ivnobel ( Volkertafel , p. 237) seeks to reconcile this 
view with that of Josephus by the supposition of a mi- 
gration from the north of Mesopotamia to the south of 
Babylonia, where the race may have been known in 
later times under the name of Mesheeh: the progress 
of the population in these parts was, however, in an op- 
posite direction, from south to north. Kalisch {Comm, 
on Gen. p. 28G) connects the names of Mash and My sin : 
this is, to say the least, extremely doubtful; both the 
Mysians themselves and their name {Mcesui) were prob- 
ably of European origin” (Smith). “It is remarkable 
that among the Asiatic confederates of the Kheta or 
Sheta, i. e. Hittites, who are enumerated as conquered 
by Kameses II at Kedesli on the Orontes, is found the 
prince of Metso or Masci (Brugsch, Hist, de VEgypte , i, 
140, 142)” (Kitto). See Ethnology. 

Ma'shal (1 Cliron. vi, 74 [59]). See Misiial. 

Masham, Lady Damakis, a lady celebrated for her 
attainments in divinity, daughter of the celebrated Cud- 
worth, was born at Cambridge, England, in 1658. Her 
father, perceiving the bent of her genius, took particular 
care of her education, so that she was early distinguish- 
ed for piety and uncommon learning. She became the 
second wife of Sir Francis Masham, of Oates, in Essex ; 
and repaid her father’s care of her in the admirable 
pains she took in the education of her only son. In 
the study of divinity and philosophy she was greatly 
assisted by Locke, who lived in her family most of his 
last years, and who died in her house. She died in 
1708. Lady Masham wrote a discourse concerning the 
Love of God (1G91, 12mo); and Occasioned Thoughts in 
reference to a Virtuous or Christian Life (1700, 12mo); 
and drew up the account of Mr. Locke published in the 
great Historical Dictionary. See Lord King, Life of 
Locke ; Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and Amer. A nth. s. v. 

Masi'as (M«er/«c v. r. Mierat'ag), one of the “ser- 
vants of Solomon” whose descendants returned with Zo- 
robbabel from Babylon (1 Esdr. v, 34). Nothing corre- 
sponding to the name is found iu the Ileb. text (Ezra v, 
55 sq.). 

Masius, Andre, a very learned Orientalist, was born 
near Brussels in 151 G. He was a man of excellent parts, 
an accomplished lawyer, and counsellor to the duke of 
Cleves. He died in 1573. 

Masius translated a variety 
of articles from the Syriac, 
which may be found in the 
Supplement to the Critica 
Sacra, compiled a Syriac 
Lex-icon and Grammar , and 
a learned Commentary on 
Joshua and part of Deuter- 
onomy. The former con- 
tains the readings of the 
Syriac Hexaplar version. 

See Iloefer, A 'our. Biog. 

Generate, s. v. 

Mask, or Notcii-iikad, 
is the technical term in ec- 
clesiastical arcliitecture for 
a kind of corbel, the shadow 

of which bears a close re- Corbel, West Claudon,Sur- 
semblance to that of the hu- rey. 



man face. It is common in some districts in work of the 
13th and 14th centuries, and is usually carved under the 
eaves as a corbel-table. A good example oeeurs in Ports- 
mouth Church, where it is mixed with the tooth-orna- 
ment. It is a favorite ornament in Northamptonshire 
in the corniees of the broad spire, and under the para- 
pet of the chancel ; but it is by no means confined to 
any particular district. — Parker, Glossary of A rchitect- 
ure, s. v. 

Mas'man (Mao/iar v.r. Maaffpctv), a eorrupt read- 
ing (1 Esdr. viii, 43 ; compare Yapaiag, ver. 14) for the 
Suemaiaii (q. v.) of the Ileb. text (Ezra viii, 1G). 

Mason (“i’ll »,goder', a icall-builder, 2 Kings xii, 12; 
xxii,G; “repairer,” Isa. 1 viii, 12; 22“in,c//otee6', 1 Cliron. 
xxii, 2; 2 Cliron. xxiv, 12; Ezra iii, 7; a “ heicer ” of 
wood, Isa. x, 15; or a stone-cutter, 2 Kings xii, 13; or 
of both, 1 Kings v, 15 ; ‘j!lX 113 jH, charash ' e'ben, 2 Sam. 

v, 1 1, a “ carver or worker of stone," as in 1 Cliron. xxii, 
15; '"PjD 123 charash' kir, 1 Cliron. xiv, 1, a wall- 
workman ), a stone-mason or artificer in stone. From 2 
Sam. v, 1 1 , which states that “ Hiram, king of Tyre, sent 
messengers to David, and cedar-trees, and carpenters, 
and masons, and they built David a house,” we may 
infer that the Hebrews were not so skilful in architec- 
ture as the Tyrians, though they had long sojourned in 
Egypt, where that art attained a high degree of perfec- 
tion at a very early period. The ruins of immense tem- 
ples and palaees at the present day fill the traveller in 
Egypt with wonder and astonishment. The sculptures 
on the granite, basalt, and hard limestone still remain 
undefaced. Upon the ancient monuments of Egypt the 
various processes of the building art are very numerous. 
Masons, carpenters, blacksmiths, briekmakers, etc., may 
be seen hard at work, and appear to be depicted with 
minute fidelity, and some of these seem to explain to us 
a curious circumstance mentioned by the sacred histo- 
rian in the account of the erection of Solomon’s Temple : 
“And the house, when it was in building, was built of 
stone made ready before it was brought thither ; so that 
there was neither hammer, nor axe, nor any tool of iron 
heard in the house whilst it was in building” (1 Kings 

vi, 7). This previous squaring and preparation of the 
stones is frequently delineated; they are accurately 
measured under the superintendence of a principal archi- 
tect, the shape marked on the rough block with a dark 
line, so as to determine the course of the stone-eutter 
accurately, and a mark or number is fixed to the finish- 
ed stone so as to point out its plaee in the building. 
Masons’ and earpenters’ tools have frequently been found 
in the tombs. Most of the blades have been attached 
by linen bandages and an adhesive composition. On 
the blades of the larger, and handles of the smaller tools, 
is generally inscribed a line of hieroglyphics. Some of 
them are of remote antiquity, bearing the prrenomen of 
Thothmes III. (See Wilkinson, A ncient Egyptians, ii, 
305-315.) The peculiar bevelled edges and immense 



Masonry of Harain Wall at Ilebron. (From Photograph 
122 of the “Palestine Exploration Fund.”) 


MASON 


859 


MASON 


size of the lower courses of the walls of Jerusalem aucl 
other cities of Palestine attest the antique art of Solo- 
mon’s day. Similar advancement in the art of stone- 
cutting is evident from the ruins discovered by Botta 
and Lavard in Assyria. See Handicraft; Sculpture. 

Mason, Erskine, D.D., a Presbyterian minister, 
son of Dr. John 31. Mason, was born in New York City 
April 1 6, 1805 ; was educated at Dickinson College (class 
of 1823); was ordained in October, 182G; installed over 
the Church at Schenectady in May, 1827; pastor of 
Bleeeker Street Church, New York, from 1830 to 1851 ; 
and also professor of ecclesiastical history in Union The- 
ological Seminary, New York, from 183G to 1842. lie 
died in May, 1851. His memoir, by Rev. Wm. Adams, 
is prefixed to his sermons on practical subjects, entitled 
A Pastors Legacy (1 853, 8 vo). See also Drake, Diet, of 
Amer. Blog. s. v. 

Mason, Francis (1), B.D., an English divine, 
was born in the county of Durham in 15GG; was edu- 
cated at Merton College, Oxford, about 1583, where he 
was chosen probationer fellow; became rector of Ox- 
ford, Suffolk, and chaplain to king James I, and arch- 
deacon of Norfolk in 1G19. lie died in 1621. He pub- 
lished Sermons (Loud. 1G07, 4to; Oxford, 1634, 4to): — 
Viiuliciie Ecclesice Anglicance (1G13, fol. ; published in 
an English dress, entitled A Vindication of the Church 
of England , and of the Lawful Ministry thereof etc. ; 
greatly enlarged by Rev. John Lindsay, with additions, 
1728, fol. ; 1778, fol.). This book contains a complete 
refutation of the Nag’s Head story: — Two Sermons 
(1621, 8 vo) : — The Lawfulness of the Ordination of Min- 
isters of the Reformed Churches beyond the Seas (Ox- 
ford, 1641, 4to). See Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and Amer. 
Authors, s. v. ; Darling, Cyclop. Bibliog. vol. ii, s. v. 

Mason, Francis (2), D.D., a Baptist minister, 
noted as a missionary, was born at York, England, in 
1799. lie was a shoemaker’s apprentice; emigrated to 
Philadelphia in 1818; settled at Canton, Mo., in 1825; 
studied at the Theological Seminary, Newton, Mo., in 
1827 ; and in May, 1830, having been ordained, sailed 
with his wife for Calcutta as a missionary to the Karens. 
After acquiring the language, he wrote The Sayings of 
the Elders, which was the first printed book in the Ka- 
ren language, lie prepared Pali and Burmese gram- 
mars, and acquired many of the Oriental languages. He 
also published a Karen translation of the Bible. He 
was medical adviser to this people, having studied med- 
icine, and published a small work on materia mediea 
and pathology in one of the Karen dialects, lie also 
edited for many years the Morning Star, a Karen 
monthly, in both the Sgan and Pwo dialects, and was 
member of a number of literary and scientific bodies, i 
His English writings ar e, Report of the Tiovay Mission I 
Society : — Life of Kothabyn, the Karen Apostle: — Me- 
moir of Mrs. Helen M. Mason (1817) : — Memoir of Sun 
Quala (1850) : — and Burmah, its People and Natural 
Productions (1852; enlarged edition, 1861). See Drake, i 
Diet. A mer. Biog. s. v. 

Mason, John (l),an English dissenting divine, was 
born in Essex in 1705 or 1706; became pastor of a con- 
gregation at Dorking, Surrey, in 1730, and at Chestnut, i 
Hertfordshire, in 1746. lie died in 1763. Mr. Mason 
published, besides a number of Sennons, various theo- 
logical treatises and other works. The best known are j 
Self-Knowledge (1754; new edition and life of the author j 
by John Mason Good, 1811, 12mo ; new edition by Tegg, 
1847, 32mo; with Molmoth’s Importance of a Christian ' 
Life , published by Scott, 1855, 24mo) ; this work was 
very popular for a long time, and was translate^, into 
several languages: — The Lord's Day Evening Entertain- 
ments, 52 practical discourses (1751-52, 4 vols. 8vo; 2d 
ed. 1754, 4 vols. 8vo): — The Student and Pastor (1755, 
8vo ; new edition by Joshua Toulmin, D.D., 1807, 12mo) : 
— Fifteen Discourses (1758, 8vo): — Christian Morals 
(1761, 2 vols. 8vo). See Allibone, Diet. Brit, and Amer. 
Authors , s. v. ; Hook, Eccles. Biog. s. v. 


Mason, John (2), D.D., a minister of the Associate 
Reformed Church, father of the celebrated John 31. 31a- 
son, was born near 3Iid-Calder, in Linlithgowshire, Scot- 
land, in 1734. The great ecclesiastical agitation within 
the Church of Scotland occurred in his early days, and, 
favoring the Anti-Burgher party, he identified liirhself 
with this branch of the “ Secession Church,” pursued 
his theological studies at Abernethy, and later became 
an assistant professor of logic and moral philosophy at 
the theological school. In 1761 he was ordained for the 
office of the ministry, and sent to this country as pastor 
of t lie then Cedar Street Church, New York. Believing 
that the causes which divided the Presbyterians of Scot- 
land did not exist here, he labored, from the moment of 
his arrival in the States, for the union of all PresbyterL 
ans, and, though his course displeased his brethren at 
home, and the synod suspended him, he pushed his proj- 
ect, and on June 13, 1782, a general union of the Re- 
formed Presbyterians was held as “the Associate Re- 
formed Church.” Dr. 3Iason had the honor to be the 
first moderator of this body. Untiring in his services 
to the cause of the Church of Christ, and his own branch 
of it, he died April 19, 1792. “His death, like his life, 
was an honorable testimony to his Redeemer’s power 
and grace.” The degree of D.D. was conferred upon 
him by New Jersey College, of which he was a trustee 
from 1779 to 1785. Dr. 3Iason “was a man of sound 
and vigorous mind, of extensive learning, and fervent 
piety. As a preacher, he was uncommonly judicious 
and instructive, and his ministrations were largely at- 
tended. As a pastor, he w r as specially faithful and dili- 
gent. To great learning there were united in him meek- 
ness, prudence, diligence, knowledge of the world, and an 
affectionate superintendence of the interests, temporal 
and spiritual, of his flock” (Dr. John B. Dales, iu Annals 
of the A mer. Pulpit, ix, 4 sip). 

Mason, John Mitchell, D.D., a distinguished 
Presbyterian divine and noted American pulpit orator, 
was born in the city of New York 3Iarch 19, 1770. He 
was educated at Columbia College, class of 1789, and 
having decided to devote his life to the service of the 
Church, went abroad, and studied theology at the Uni- 
versity of Edinburgh. While at the “ Northern Athens” 
young 3Iason became noted for piety and an exemplary 
life. In 1792 he was unexpectedly recalled by the sud- 
den decease of his father, and, after his return to New 
York, was established in the ministry over the same 
Church which his father had served so long. The As- 
sociate Reformed Church, to which lie belonged at this 
time, had been wont to celebrate the Lord’s Supper but 
once or twice annually. 3Iason believed in more fre- 
quent communion, and both by his pen and his tongue 
went forward to advocate reform in this respect. A 
pamphlet, consisting of “Letters on Communion,” which 
lie published, brought him prominently before the relig- 
ious world, and thereafter John 3Iitchell 3Iason was not 
an uncommon name in the assembly of American Chris- 
tians. lie also served his day and generation in many 
other ways. The Associate Reformed Church had al- 
ways depended upon foreign institutions for the educa- 
tion of her ministry. 3Iason advocated the establish- 
ment of a school of the prophets on American soil, and 
thus became instrumental in founding the institution 
known as the “Union Theological Seminary.” He was 
appointed its first professor at the opening in 1804. In 
1806 he projected the “ Christian’s 3ragazine,” the pages 
of which are filled with a controversy he had with bish- 
op Hobart on the claims of the episcopacy. In 1810 he 
resigned his pastoral charge, for the purpose of forming 
a new congregation. The intimate relations he now es- 
tablished with the Presbyterians were objected to by 
many of his own denomination, and in 1811 a charge 
was brought against him, but the synod had sense 
enough to refuse all censure. 3Iason, however, im- 
proved the opportunity to push his favorite object, the 
Plea for Sacramental Communion on Catholic Principles 
(published in 1816). In this year (1811) he was also 


MASON 


8G0 


MASORAII 


honored with the provostship of Columbia College, and, 
though already employed as preacher and professor, ac- 
cepted the position, “and by his talents and energy 
raised that institution to a higher character than it had 
ever before possessed.” In 1JS16 failing health admon- 
ished him of the magnitude of the work he had under- 
taken, and he resigned his connection with the college, 
and went to Europe. On his return in 1817 he again 
devoted himself to Gospel labors, but in 1821 exchanged 
the pulpit for the rostrum, as president of Dickinson 
College, Pa. In 1822 he transferred his ecclesiastical re- 
lation to the Presbyterian Church. In 1824 he resign- 
ed his position at college, and returned to New York to 
recuperate his health, but he was never again permitted 
to assume any official connection. lie died Dec. 26, 
1829. Ilesides the literary enterprises already men- 
tioned, Dr. Mason wrote a number of essays, reviews, 
orations, and sermons, published at different times. 
They were collected by his son, the Iiev. Kbenezer Ma- 
son, and published in 4 vols. 8vo, in 1832 (new cd., with 
many additions, J 849). A memoir, with some of his cor- 
respondence, was published by his son-in-law, J. Van 
Vechten, D.l)., in 1856, 2 vols. 8vo. The mind of Dr. 
Mason was of the most robust order, liis theology Cal- 
vinistic, and his style of eloquence powerful and irresist- 
ible as a torrent. When liobert Hall first heard him 
deliver before the London Missionary Society, in 1802, 
his celebrated discourse on “ Messiah’s Throne,” he is said 
to have exclaimed. “ I can never preach again !” (Fisk’s 
Pulpit Eloquence , 1857, p. 486, q. v.). “ Taken altogeth- 

er, no American preacher has combined more impressive 
qualities. His aspect was on a scale of grandeur corre- 
sponding to the majesty of mind within. Tall, robust, 
straight, with a head modelled after neither Grecian 
nor 1 toman standard, vet symmetrical, combining the 
dignity of the one and the grace of the other; with an 
eye that shot fire, especially when under the excite- 
ment of earnest preaching, yet tender and tearful when 
the pathetic cord was touched; with a forehead broad 
and high, running up each side, and slightly parted in 
the middle bv a graceful pendant of hair; a mouth and 
chin expressive of firmness and decision. . . . Dr. Mast mi 
stood before you the prince of pulpit orators” (A”. Y. Ob- 
server, Nov. 1860). See also Post. Christ. Disciple, iii, 
475; Dr. Spring, Power of the Pulpit; Duyckinek, Cy- 
clop. A mer. Lit. (see Index in vol. i); Alii bone, Diet, of 
Brit, and Amer. Auth. ii, 1237 ; Princet. Review, 1856, 
p. 318. (J.I1.W.) 

Mason, Lowell, doctor of music, a celebrated 
American composer of music, was born at Medfield, 
Mass., Jan. 8, 1792. When but a child be exhibited ex- 
traordinary love and capacity for music, and began to 
teach early in life. In 1812 he removed to Savannah, 
Ga., and there compiled his first book of Psalmody, the 
celebrated Iliindel and Haydn collection, the success of 
which eliciting much persuasion of his musical friends 
in Massachusetts to settle in his native state, he re- 
moved to Host on in 1827, devoted himself to the musical 
instruction of children and the introduction of vocal mu- 
sic into the public schools of Now England; caused tlic 
Iioston Academy of Music to be established, and also 
“Teachers’ Institutes” for the training of teachers and 
leaders of choirs, lie visited Europe in 1837, and ac- 
quainted himself with all the improvements in the mu- 
sical teaching on the Continent. In 1855 the Univer- 
sity of New York conferred on him the degree of doctor 
of music, the first ever conferred by an American col- 
lege. In the later years of bis life he gave much atten- 
tion to congregational singing in churches, and did 
much to advance the interests of Church music in gen- 
eral. lie died at his residence, Orange, N. J., in May, 
1872. Ilis publications of interest to us are Juvenile 
Psalmist . Juvenile Lyre, etc. (Iioston, 1829,' ’30, ’34, ’35, 
’36. ’37, ’39, ’40, ’45, ’’ J 6 ; New York, 1856; Phila. 1843; 
Loud. 1838); — several sacred and Church music-books: 
— The Boston Handel ami Haydn Collection of Church 
Music (1822): — The Choir , or Union Collection (1833, 


etc.) ; etc. Dr. Mason was the author and compiler of 
more musical works than any other American, and con- 
tributed much towards making the Americans a nation 
of “singing men and singing women.” See Allibone, 
Diet. Brit, and A mer. A uthors , s. v. ; Drake, Diet. A mer . 
Blog. s. v. 

Mason, William, an English divine of some note, 
son of the vicar of St. Trinity llall, was born in 1725; 
was educated at St. John’s College, Cambridge, and 
made fellow of Pembroke College in 1747. In 1754 he 
took holy orders, became rector of Aston, Yorkshire, 
chaplain to the king, and was for thirty-two years pre- 
centor and canon residentiary of York, lie died in 
1797, His published works, both secular and religions, 
are chiefiv in poetry, among which are Essays, Histor- 
ical and Critical, on English Church Music (1795, 12mo). 
l ie also published Memoirs of Thomas Gray (1775, 4to). 
Mason was regarded by his contemporaries as a poet of 
more than ordinary genius, but the lack of classical cult- 
ure prevented his rise. There is a tablet to his mem- 
ory in Poet’s Corner, in Westminster Abbey. Ilis style 
is. to a great extent, that of an imitator of Gray; and, 
not being so perfect an artist in language as his master, 
he has been proportionally less successful. In addition 
to bis poetical reputation, he possessed considerable skill 
in painting and music, and on the latter subject enter- 
tained opinions not at all consonant with those of musi- 
cians in general. He wished to reduce Church music 
to the most dry and mechanical style possible, exclud- 
ing all such expression as should depend on the powers 
and taste of the organist (Mason’s Compendium of the 
History of Church Music). See Memoir of Mason in 
Johnson and Chalmcr’s English Poets (1840, 21 vols. 
8vo ) ; Chalmer’s Blog. Diet. s. v. ; Blackwood's Mag. 
xxx. 482; xxvi, 553; Allibone, Diet. Brit, and Amer. 
A uthors, s. v. 

Masorah, Masoreth, or Massoretli (rnb“ 2 ? 
r**D*2, UTS'S), the technical term given to a gram- 
matico-critieal commentary on the O. Test., the design 
of which is to indicate the correct reading of the text 
with respect to words, vowels, accents, etc., so as to pre- 
serve it from all corruption, putting an end to the ex- 
ercise of unbounded individual fancy. In the He- 
brew Masorah denotes tradition , from “sD -, which is 
used in Chaldaie in the sense of to give over, to commit 
(corresponding to the Hebrew T3 *}!*:, TD, T^CPt; 
comp. Tory, on 1 Sam. xvii,46; xxiv, 11 ; 1 Kings xx, 
13 ; Exod. xxi, 3 ; Amos vi, 8) ; and hence, by the rab- 
binical writers, in the sense of to deliver, with reference 
to the oral communication of doctrine, opinion, or fact. 
The derivation, from "1SX, to bind, to fix within strict 
limits, seems to have been an afterthought, suggested by 
the sentiment that the Masorah is a hedge to the To- 
rah. The Masorah, however, is not confined to what is 
communicated by ored tradition ; in the state in which 
it has come down to us it embraces all that has been 
delivered traditionally, whether orally or in writing. 
Its correlate is !“tbsp {Kabbalah), reception ; and as the 
latter denotes whatever has been received traditionally, 
the former embraces whatever has been delivered tradi- 
tionally; though in usage Kabbalah is generally restrict- 
ed to matters of theologic and mystic import [see Ca- 
ijai.a], while Masorah has reference rather to matters 
affecting the condition of the text of Scripture. It takes 
account not only of various readings, but also contains 
notes of a grammatical and lexicographical character. 
(The article here given is substantially adopted from that 
in Kitto’s Cyclopcedia, which is based upon the article in 
H erzog's Rea l-En'eyklop adi e.) 

I. Origin of the Masorah* — The Masorah is the work 
of certain Jewish critics, who from their work have re- 
ceived the title of TTO -!“l "'bn {Baali Hammetso- 
reth ), masters of the Masorah, or, as they are generally 
designated, Masoretc-s. Who they were, and when or 


MASORAIi 


861 


MASORAH 


where their work was accomplished, are points involved 
in some uncertainty. According to Jewish tradition, 
the work began with Moses; from him it was commit- 
ted to the wise men till Ezra and the great Synagogue, 
and was then transferred to the learned men at Tiberias, 
by whom it was transmitted to writing and called the 
Masorah (El. Levita, Masoreth Ilammasoreth , Pref. p. 2). 
Some even claim Ezra as the author of the written col- 
lection (Buxtorf, Tiberius, c. 11, p. 102; Leusden, Philol. 
Heb. Dias. 25, see. 4 ; Pfeiffer, De Masorct, cap. ii, in Opp. 
p. 801, etc.) ; but the arguments which have been ad- 
duced in support of this opinion are not sufficient to sus- 
tain it. Aben-Ezra says expressly, “ So was the usage 
of the wise men of Tiberias, for from them were the 
men the authors of the Masoreth, and from them have 
we received the whole punctuation” ( Zachuth , cited by 
Buxtorf, Tib. c. 3, p. 9) ; and even Buxtorf himself un- 
consciously gives in to the opinion he opposes by the 
title he has put on his work. That various readings 
had been noted before this, even in pre-Talmudic times, 
is not to be doubted. In the Talmud itself we have not 
only directions given for the correct writing of the Bib- 
lical books, but references to varieties of reading as then 
existing ( Uierosol ., tr. Taanith , f. G8, c. 1 ; comp. Kenni- 
cott, Diss. Gen. sec. 34 ; De Wette, Einleit. ins A. T. sec. 
89; Iliivernick, Introduct. p. 280); especial mention is 
made of the Ittur Sopherim (C"H£C mm, Ablatio 
Scribarum; tract Nedarim , f. 37, c. 2), of the Keri ve-lo 
Ketkib, the Kethib ve-lo Keri , and the Keri ve-lcethib (Ac— 
darim, 1. c. ; tract Sofa, v, 5 ; Joma , f. 21, c. 2), and of the 
puncta extraordinaria , which, however, are not properly 
of critical import, but rather point to allegorical expla- 
nations of the passage (tr. Nasir, f. 23, c. 1 ; comp. Je- 
rome, Quasi, in Gen. xviii, 35) ; and already the mid- 
dle consonant, the middle word, and the middle verse of 
the Pentateuch are noted as in the Masorah. In the 
tract Sopherim, written between the Talmud and the 
Masorah, there are also notes of the same kind, though 
not exactly agreeing with those in the Masorah. But 
those variants had not before been formally collected 
and reduced to order in writing. This was the work of 
the Jewish scholars who, from the 6th century after 
Christ, nourished in Palestine, and had their principal 
seat at Tiberias (Zunz, Gottesdienstliche Vortrage der Ju- 
de n, p. 309). 

II. Contents of the Masorah. — These are partly paleo- 
graphic, partly critical, partly exegetical, partly gram- 
matical. They embrace notes concerning — 

1. The Consonants of the Hebrew Text . — * Concerning 
these, the Masoretes note about thirty letters which are 
larger than the others, about thirty that are less, four 
which are suspended or placed above the line of the oth- 
ers in the same word, and nine which are inverted or 
written upside down ; to these peculiarities reference is 
made also in the Talmud, and the use of them as merely 
marking the middle of a book or section indicated (tr. 
Kiddushin , f. 30, c. 1 ; Iliivernick, 1. c., p. 282). The Ma- 
soretes also note a case in which the final D is found in 
the heart of’ a word (nmcb, Isa. ix, C) ; one iu which 
the initial 12 is found at the end ( .n, Xeh. ii, 13); and 
one in which the initial 2 occurs at the end (2C.Job 
xviii, 1) — irregularities for which no reason can be as- 
signed (comp. Leusden, Phil. Heb. Diss. x). They have 
noted how often each letter occurs ; and they signalize 
the middle of each book, the middle letter of the Penta- 
teuch (the 1 in "pm, Lev. xi, 42), the middle letter of 
the Psalter (the C* in "imc, Psa. Ixxx, 14), the number 
of times each of the five letters which have final forms 
occurs in its final and in its initial form. 

2. The Vowel-points and Accents in the Hebrew Text. 
— Here the Masoretes note the peculiarities or anoma- 
lies in the use of the vowel-points, of the dagesh and 
mappik, and of the accents in the text— a fact to which 
Buxtorf appeals with considerable force, as proving that 
the authors of the Masorah, as we have it, were not the 


inventors of the diacritical marks by which vowels and 
accents are indicated in the Hebrew text ; for, had they 
been so, they would not have confined themselves to la- 
boriously noting anomalies into which they themselves 
had fallen, but would at once have removed them. See 
Vowel-points. 

3. Words. — With regard to these, the Masoretes note 
(1) the cases of Scriptio plena (D^xhc) and defection 
(C-non) ; (2) the number of times in which certain 
words occur at the beginning of a verse (as, e. g., Dlpj 
which they say is nine times the first word of a verse), 
or the end of a verse (as p"iXPf, which they say occurs 
thrice as the final -word of a verse) ; (3) words of which 
the meaning is ambiguous, and to which they affix the 
proper meaning in the place where they occur; (4) 
words which have over them th c puncta extraordinaria ; 
and (5) words which present anomalies in writing or 
grammar, and which some have thought should be alter- 
ed, or peculiarities which need to be explained (*pmCD). 

4. Verses. — The Masoretes number the verses in each 
book of the O. Test., as well as in each of the larger sec- 
tions of the Pentateuch, and they note the middle verse 
of each book of the O. T. ; they also note the number of 
verses in which certain expressions occur, the first and 
last letters of each verse, and in many cases the number 
of letters of which it is composed ; and, in fine, they have 
marked twenty-five or twenty-eight places where there 
is a pause in the middle of a verse, or where a hiatus is 
supposed to be found in the meaning (as, e. g., in Gen. iv, 
8, where, after the words “PriX bcm>X *pp “OX’ilj 
there is in rabbinical editions of the O. Test, a space left 
vacant [XpOS, piska~\ to indicate that something is 
probably omitted). 

5. Tikkun Sopherim (cmc s D "ppP, ordinatio, sive 
corredio Scribarum ). — On the word DTOC (Psa. evi, 
20) the Masorah has this note : the word DT03 is one 
of eighteen ivords in Scripture which are an ordination 
of the Scribes. These eighteen words are also enumera- 
ted in a note at the beginning of Numbers. The pas- 
sages where they occur are presented in the following 
table : 



Tikkun Sopherim. 

Erroneous Reading. 

Gen. xviii, 22, 

mm ^:sb . . . 

emex ^:cb 


erre 

x mm 

Nnmb. xi, 15, 

wo 

erme 

Numb, xii, 12, 

1CX 

irex 


Tim 

mm 

1 Sam. iii, 13, 

cnb 

^b 

2 Sam. xvi, 12, 


i-:m 

1 Kings xii, 16, > 

2 Chron. x, 16, / 

■pbnxb 

rnbxb 

Ezek. viii, 17, 

csx bx 

“ox bx 

II ab. i, 12. 

mca xb 

men xb 

Mai. i, 13, 

mx 

■mx 

Zech. ii, S, 


mm 

Jer. ii, 11, 

icics 

mice 

llos. iv, 7, 

C TO 3 

1T133 

Psa. evi, 20, 

ernes 

imes 

Job vii, 20, 

mx 


Job xxxii, 3, 

cmx rx 

rn rx 

Lam. iii, 20, 

ib3 

Vbr 


Charges have been rashly advanced against these 
Sopherim of having corrupted the sacred text (Galatin, 
De A rcunis Cathol. Per. lib. i, c. 8), but for this there is 
no foundation (see ben-Chajim’s Introduction to the Rab- 
binic Bible, translated by Ginsburg, p. 21). Eiclihorn 
concludes from “ the characrer of the readings” that 
‘‘ this recension took note only of certain errors which 
had crept into the text through transcribers, and which 


MASORAH 


362 


MASREIvAH 


wore corrected by collation of MSS.” ( Einleit. ins . A. T. 
sec. 110). Bleek, however, thinks that this is affirmed 
without evidence, and that in some eases the rejected 
reading is probably the original one, as, e. g., in Gen. 
xviii, ‘22, and llab. i, 12 ( Einleit . ins A, T. p. 803). 

0. Ittur Sopherim (D“’"i£'iO “ilL-S", ablatio Scriba - 
rum). — The Masoretes have noted four instances in 
which the letter 1 has been erroneously prefixed to "inx 
— viz. Gen. xviii, 5; xxiv, 55; Numb. xii, 14; and Psa. 
lxviii, 20; they note also that it has been erroneously 
prefixed to the word in Psa. xxxvi, 7. Of 

these passages, the only one in which the injunction of 
the Sopherim to remove the 1 has been neglected is 
Numb, xii, 14 — a neglect at which Buxtorf expresses 
surprise (Lex. Talmud , s. v. ^-2). 

7. Keri and Kethib. — But not all the dicta of the Mas- 
oretes are of equal sterling value ; they are not only 
sometimes utterly superfluous, but downright erroneous. 
Of its “ countings” we may adduce that it enumerates in 
the Pentateuch 18 greater and 43 smaller portions, 1534 
verses, 63,467 words, 70,100 letters, etc. — a calculation 
which is, however, to a certain degree at variance with 
the Talmud. See the article Keiu and Kethib in this 
work. 

III. Form of the Masorah. — The language of the Ma- 

sorak is Chaldee; and, besides the difficulty of this idiom, 
the obscure abbreviations, contractions, symbolical signs, 
etc., with which the work abounds, render its study ex- 
ceedingly difficult. In all probability it was composed 
out of notes that had been made from time to time on 
separate leaves, or in books, as occasion demanded. Af- 
terwards they were appended as marginal notes to the 
text, sometimes on the upper and lower margin, some- 
times in a more brief form on the space between the 
text and the Chaldee version, where, from scarcity of 
room, many abbreviations and symbols were resorted to, 
and considerable omissions were made. Hence arose a 
distinction between the iTHO'E, the Masora 

J fagna, and the "O, the J f. Parva— the former 

of which comprehends the entire body- of critical re- 
mark on the margins, the latter the more curt and con- 
densed notes inserted in the intermediate space. The 
latter has frequently been represented as an abbreviated 
eompend of the former; but this is not strietly correct, 
for the lesser Masorah contains many things not found 
in the greater. At an early period the scribes intro- 
duced the practice of adorning their annotations with 
all manner of figures, and symbols, and caligraphic inge- 
nuities; and from this, as well as from causes connected 
with their method of selection and arrangement, the 
whole came into such a state of confusion that it was 
rendered almost useless. In this state it remained until 
the publication of Bomberg’s Rabbinical Bible (Yenetia, 
1526: the second Bomberg Biblia Rabbin ., not the first, 
as is sometimes stated), for which the learned R. Jacob 
ben-Chajim, with immense labor, prepared and arranged 
the Masorah. See Jacob bex-Ciiajim. To facilitate 
the use of the Greater Masorah, he placed at the end of 
his work what has been called the Masora maxima or 
finally and which forms a sort of Masoretic Concord- 
ance in alphabetic order. 

IV. Value of the Masorah . — While there is much in 
the Masorah that can be regarded in no other light than 
as laborious trilling, it is far from deserving the scorn 
which has sometimes been poured upon it. There can 
be no doubt that it preserves to us much valuable tradi- 
tional information concerning the constitution and the 
meaning of the sacred text. It is the source whence 
materials for a critical revision of the O.-Test. text can 
now alone be derived. It is a pity that it is now impos- 
sible to discriminate the older Trom the more recent of 
its contents. We would earnestly reiterate the wish of 
Eichhorn, that some one would undertake the “bitter 
task” of making complete critical excerpts from the Ma- 
sorah. 


V. Literature. — Elias Levita, JYVlG- (Ven. 

1538; German transl. by Sender, Ilallc, 1770; English 
transl. by Ginsbnrg, Lond. 18G7) ; Buxtorf, Tiberias , sire 
Comment . Masoreth. triplex histor. didact. crit. (Basle, 
1G20, 4to) ; Cappell, Crit. Sac. lib. iii ; Olaus Celsius, De 
Masora Disput. ; Leusden, Philol. lleb ., Diss. xxii-xxv *, 
Walton, Prolegg. in Polyglott. No. viii ; Carpzov, Crit. 
j Sacr. p. 283; Wahner, Antiq. Ilebr. sec. 1, c. 3G; Abr. 
Geiger, Zur Gesch. der Masorah (in the 3d vol. of his 
Jiid. Zeitschr. fur Wissensch. n. Leben ) ; Frensdorff, I)as 
Buch “ Ochlach W'ocJtlach” (Massora) (Hamburg. 1864, 
8vo); Hupfeld, Ueber eine bisher unbehannt gebliebene 
JIandschrift der Masorah (in Zeitschr. d. deutsch. mor- 
genl. Gesellsch. xxi, 201 sq.) ; Eichhorn, Einleit. ins A . T. 
vol. i, sec. 140-158; De Wette, Einleit. see. 90-92; Ilii- 
vernick, Introd. to the O. T. p. 279 sq. ; Bleek, Einleit. ins 
A.T. p. 803 sq. ; Ginsbnrg, Introduction to the Rabbinic 
Bible by J. ben-Chajim , transl. in the Journal of Sacred 
Literature for July, 18G3. See Criticism, Biblical. 

Mas'pha, the name of two places mentioned in the 
Apocrypha. 

1. (M aacnjtpdS v. r. Maaarjtpd.) A place opposite to 
( Kartvavrt ) Jerusalem, at which Judas Maccakeus and 
his followers assembled themselves to bewail the deso- 
lation of the city and the sanctuary, and to inflame their 
resentment before the battle of Emmaus, by the sight 
not only of the distant city, which was probably visible 
from the eminence, but also of the book of the law mu- 
tilated and profaned, and of other objects of peculiar 
preciousness and sanctity (1 Mace, iii, 4G). As the pas- 
sage contains an allusion to similar acts of devotion 
“aforetime in Israel,” there is no doubt that it is iden- 
tical with Mizpeii (q. v.) of Benjamin, the ancient 
sanctuary at vTiieh Samuel had convened the people on 
an occasion of equal emergency (1 Sam. vii, 5). In 
fact, Maspha, or, more accurately, Massepha, is merely 
the form in which the Sept, uniformly renders the He- 
brew name Mizpeh, the modern Nebi-Samwil. a high 
range in the neighborhood of Jerusalem (Robinson, Re- 
searches) ii, 143). — Smith. 

2. (A1 aatpet.) One of the cities which were taken 

from the Ammonites by Judas Maecabreus in his cam- 
paign on the east of Jordan (1 Macc. v, 35). It is un- 
certain whether the ancient city of Mizpeh of Gilead 
(.1 udg. xi, 29, etc.) or Mizpeh of Moab (1 Sam. xxii, 3) 
is meant. The Syriac has the curious variation of 
Olim, “ salt,” and one Greek MS. has tig "A\tpa, another 
tig SctXepa, another tig Atpa: but this seems to be a 
mere arbitrary correction from ver. 26 by some one who 
thought that the place mentioned in both verses should 
be the same. Michaelis, however, would combine both 
readings, and make the place Mizpeh-Elim. Perhaps 
Josephus also reads “salt,” as he reads I WdWij 

(Ant. xii, 8, 3), which Grimm thinks has arisen from 
transposition of letters ( Ifandb . z. a. Apolcr. ad loc.). 

Mas'rekall (lleb. MasreTcah Jlp’Yw'C, vineyard ; 
Sept. Marro-ford, Matreord), a place apparently in Idu- 
maea, the native place of Samlah, one of the Edomitish 
kings (Gen. xxxvi, 3G; 1 Chron. i, 47). “The student 
will observe that while some of these kings are men- 
tioned with the addition, ‘and the name of his town 
was,’ others are introduced as ‘coining from’ some other 
place. Kaliscli (ad loc.) remarks that the former seems 
to comprise native Iduma\ans, the latter foreigners. Eu- 
sebius and Jerome, however ( Onomast . s. v. Masraca), 
locate Masrekah in Gebalene, a province embracing the 
northern part of Edom” (Kit to). “ Interpreted as He- 
brew, the name refers to vineyards — as if from Sarah , 
a root with which .we are familiar in the ‘vine of So- 
rek,’ that is, the choice vine; and, led by this, Knobel 
( Genesis , p. 257) proposes to place Masrekah in the dis- 
trict of the Idumaan mountains north of Petra, and 
along the Haj route, where Burckhardt. found ‘exten- 
sive vineyards,’ and ‘great quantities of dried grapes,’ 
made by the tribe of the Refaya for the supply of Gaza 


MASS 


863 


MASS 


and for the Mecca pilgrims (Burckhardt, Syria , p. 418). 
But this is mere conjecture, as no name at all corre- 
sponding with Masrekah has been yet discovered in 
that locality” (Smith). According to Schwarz (Palest. 
p. 215), there is still a town, eight miles south of Petra, 
called En-Masrcik ■, which he thinks may be the locality. 
He probably refers to the place marked A in Mafrah on 
Palmer’s Map, and Ain el-Usdaka on Kiepcrt’s. 

Mass (Latin Missd) is the technical term by which 
the Church of Pome designates the Eucharistic service 
which in that Church, as well as in the Greek and other 
Oriental churches, is held to be the sacrifice of the new 
law — a real though unbloody offering, in which Christ 
is the victim, in substance the same with the sacrifice 
of the cross. It is instituted, Romanists further teach, 
in commemoration of that sacrifice, and as a means of 
applying its merits through all ages for the sanctifica- 
tion of men. 

Origin and Meaning of the Word . — “ The first names 
given to the administration of the sacrament of the body 
and blood of Christ,” says Walcott (s. v.), ‘‘were the 
Breaking of Bread (Acts xx, G, 7), the Lord's Supper (1 
Cor. ii, 20), or Communion (1 Cor. x, 18). It was also 
called, by way of eminence, the mystery, the sacrament, 
the oblation or prosphora, the sacrifice, Dominicnm (the 
Lord’s), agenda (the action), synais and eolleeta (the 
assembly), the solemnities, the service, the supplication, 
the mystical or divine Eucharist or eulogy (the thanks- 
giving), the office, the spectacle, the consecration, the 
unbloody sacrifice, the supper, the table, the latria (wor- 
ship), the universal canon ; and, by the Greeks, also the 
hierurgia (sacred action), and the good by excellence, 
metalepsis (the communion), in the Apostolical Canons. 
These terms served either to explain to the faithful the 
meaning of the service, or, in times of persecution, to 
conceal its real nature from the profane and persecutors. 
In Acts xiii, 2, it is spoken of as the liturgy.” 

The term Mass is ancient, having been used by Cle- 
ment I, Alexander, Telesphorus, Soter, and Felix (cir. 
100-275). In a letter of St. Ambrose to his sister Mar- 
cellina (of the 4th century), we have this passage : “Ego 
mansi in muncre, missam lacerc coepi, dum offers, rap- 
tum cognovi” (Ep. xxxiii). Its origin and use, howev- 
er, have given much trouble. There are at present three * 
principal derivations of the word : (1.) From the Anglo- 
Saxon meese, a feast, in which sense the word is of 
more ancient date than the Eucharist. It seems proba- 
ble that the ancient word is embodied in such names 
as Christmas, Miehael/w/s, Martinmas; but it is very 
doubtful whether the suffix, as thus used, has any refer- 
ence at all to the holy Eucharist, and it is much more 
probable that the coincidence of the Anglo-Saxon word 
for feast, wit h mass and missa, the holy Eucharist, is pure- 
ly accidental. (2.) From the Hebrew ilSfia, miss ah', 
which signifies an oblation, as in Deut. xvi, 10. This 
derivation would tend to show an association between 
the original idea of the Eucharist and the oblations of 
the Jewish ritual; but it is extremely improbable that 
the Jewish word should have found its way into every 
language of Europe, and yet be entirely absent from the 
liturgical vocabulary of the Oriental churches. (3.) 
From the “ I te, missa est ” of the ancient liturgies of the 
West, which was equivalent to the ’Ey f ipijvy Xpiarov 
7rop6u3wjufr,“Let us depart in peace,” of the Greek litur- 
gies. But the words “Ite, missa est,” have two senses 
given to them by ancient writers ; thus, in Micrologus, 
it is said, “In festivis diebus ‘Tte, missa est’ dicitnr, quia 1 
tunc generalis eonventns celebrari solet, qui per lnijus- 
modi denuntiationem lieentiam discendi aecipore solet” 

( Microlog . xlvi). St. Thomas Aquinas, on the other 
hand, explains the phrase as meaning that the sacrifice 
of the Eucharist has been sent up to God by the admin- 
istration of angels (Thomas Aquinas, iii, qu. 83, art. iv). 
Both these meanings are combined in a very ancient 
exposition of the mass, printed by Ilittorpins : “Tunc 
demum a diacona dicitur, Ite, missa est, id est, ltc cum 


pace in domns vestras, quia transmissa est pro vobis ora- 
tio ad dominum ; et per angclos, qui nuncii dicunter, 
allata est in divinre conspectum majestatis” (Expos. 
Miss, ex vetust. cod. in Ilittorp. p. 587). 

The proper technical sense of the word undoubtedly 
is the one in which it is employed by the early Church 
— that of “offering” or “oblation,” which, as we have 
seen above, are ancient names for the Lord’s Supper. 
In such a sense the English Church used the word, and 
it thus occurs in the first vernacular liturgy of the 
Church of England (A.D. 1549): “The Supper of the 
Lord, and the holy Communion, commonly called the 
Mass.” Indeed it was only abandoned by the Anglican 
clergy when it was found that Romanists attached to 
the word mass a perverted sense. It was first dropped 
in the revised Prayer-book of 1552. In Germany the 
Reformers hesitated not to protest against the accusa- 
tion that they opposed mass. Thus, e. g., the Augsburg 
Confession “ protests against any notion that it abolishes 
mass” (comp. Schott, A ngsburgische Confession , p. 137, 
141). The doctrine of the mass, as interpreted by Ro- 
man Catholics, presupposes the Eucharist, and involves 
the notion of a sacrifice. On the latter point hinges the 
controversy between Romanists and Protestants : the 
question being whether it is a positive sacrifice, renew- 
ed at every celebration, or only a solemn feast on a sac- 
rifice once offered by Jesus Christ ; whether Christ in 
body and blood is absolutely and corporally, or only 
spiritually and really present in the elements. Sec Real 
Presence ; Teansubstantiatiox. 

By primitive use, the communion of the faithful ap- 
pears always, unless in exceptional cases, to have form- 
ed part of the Eucharistic service ; but afterwards it 
came to pass that the officiating priest only communi- 
cated, whence arose, especially in the AVestcrn Church, 
the practice of “private masses,” which has been in 
later times a ground of complaint with dissentients from 
Home — even those who in other respects approach close- 
I ly to the Roman doctrine. In the ancient writers a 
, distinction is made between the “mass of the eateehu- 
I mens” and the “ mass of the faithful ;” the former in- 
cluding all the preparatory prayers, the latter all that 
directly regards the consecration of the elements and 
the communion, at which the “ discipline of the secret” 
forbade the presence of the catechumens. AAJth the 
cessation of this discipline the distinction of names has 
ceased, but the distinction of parts is still preserved, the 
mass of the catechumens comprising all the first part of 
the mass as far as the “ preface.” 

The mass is now in general denominated according 
to the solemnity of the accompanying ceremonial — a 
“low mass,” a “chanted mass,” or a “high mass.” In 
the first, a single priest simply reads the service, at- 
tended bv one or more acolytes or clerks. The second 
form differs only in this, that the service is chanted in- 
stead of being read by the priest. In the high mass 
the service is chanted in part by the priest, in part by 
the deacon and subdeacon, by whom, as well as by sev- 
eral ministers of inferior rank, the priest is assisted. In 
all these, however, the service, as regards the form of 
prayer, is the same. It consists of (1) an introductory 
prayer composed of the 41st Psalm, together with the 
“general confession;” (2) the introit, which is followed 
by the thrice -repeated petition, “Lord, have mercy,” 
“ Christ, have mercy,” and the hymn “ Glory to God 
on high (3) the collect, or public and joint prayers of 
priest and people, followed by a lesson either from the 
Epistles or some book of the Old Testament, and by the 
Gradual (q. v.) ; (4) the Gospel, which is commonly fol- 
lowed by the Nieene Creed ; (5) the Offertory (q. v.), 
after the reading of which comes the preparatory offer- 
ing of the bread and wine, and the washing of the 
priest’s hands in token of purity of heart, and the “ se- 
cret,” a prayer read in a low voice by the priest ; (G) 
the preface, concluding with the trisagion, or “ thrice 
holy,” at which point, by the primitive use, the cate- 
chumens and penitents retired from the church ; (7) 


MASS 


SG4 


MASS 


the “ canon,” which is always the same, and which < 
contains all the prayers connected with the consecra- i 
tion. the elevation, the breaking, and the communion of 
the host and of the chalice, as also the commemorations 
both of the living and of the dead 5 (8) the “commun- 
ion,” which is a short scriptural prayer, usually appro- 
priate to the particular festival ; (9) the “ post-eommun- 
ion,” which, like the collect, was a joint prayer of 
priest and people, and is read or sung aloud ; (10) the 
dismissal with the benediction; and, finally, the first 
chapter of John’s Gospel. A great part of the above 
prayers are fixed, and form what is called the “ordo” or 
“ ordinary” of the mass. The rest, which is called the 
“ proper of the mass,” differs for different occasions, 
many masses having nothing peculiar but the name: 
such are the masses of the saints — that of St. Mary of 
the Snow, celebrated on the 5th of August ; that of St. 
Margaret, patroness of lying-in women; that at the 
feast of St. John the Baptist, at which are said three 
masses; that of the Innocents, at which the Gloria in 
Excels is and Hallelujah are omitted, and, it being a day 
of mourning, the altar is of a violet color. As to ordi- 
nary masses, some are for the dead, and, as is supposed, 
contribute to release the soul from purgatory. At these 
masses the altar is put in mourning, and the only deco- 
rations are a cross in the middle of six yellow wax 
lights; the dress of the celebrant, and the very Mass- 
book, are blaek ; many parts of the office are omitted, 
and the people are dismissed without the benediction. 
If the mass be said for a person distinguished by his 
rank or virtues, it is followed with a funeral oration: 
they erect a chapelle anlente , that is, a representation of 
the deceased, with branches and tapers of yellow wax, 
either in the middle of the church or near the deceased’s 
tomb, where the priest pronounces a solemn absolution 
of the deceased. There are likewise private masses 
said for stolen or strayed goods or cattle, for health, for 
travellers, etc., which go under the name of votive masses. 
There is still a further distinction of masses, denomina- 
ted from the countries in which they were used : thus 
the Gothic mass, or miss a Mosarabum , is that used 
among the Goths when they were masters of Spain, 
and is still kept up at Toledo and Salamanca ; the 
Ambrosian mass is that composed by St. Ambrose, and 
used only at Milan, of which city he was bishop; the 
Gallic mass, used by the ancient Gauls; and the Bo- 
man mass, used by almost all the churches in the 
Bomish communion. The mass of the presanetified 
(inissa prevsanctificatorum ) is a mass peculiar not only 
to the Boman, but also to the Greek Church. In the 
latter there is no consecration of the elements ; but, after 
singing some hymns, the bread and wine, which were 
consecrated on the preceding day, are partaken of. This 
mass is performed in the Greek Church not only on 
Good Friday, but on every day during all Lent, except 
on Saturdays, Sundays, and the Annunciation. The 
priest counts upon his fingers the days of the ensuing 
week on which it is to be celebrated, and cuts off as 
many pieces of bread at the altar as he is to say masses, 
and. after having consecrated them, steeps them in wine 
and puts them in a box, out of which, upon every occa- 
sion, lie takes some of it with a spoon, and, putting it on 
a dish, sets it on the altar. 

Ceremony. — -The following offiec of the mass is ex- 
tracted from the Garden of the Soul, prepared by the late 
bishop Challoncr, and may be accepted, therefore, as the 
authorized rite of the English Boman Gatholies: “At 
the beginning of the mass, the priest at the foot of the 
altar makes the sign of the cross, ‘In t lie name of the 
Father, and of the Son, and of the Ilolv Ghost; amen,’ 
and then recites with the clerk the T2d Psalm — ‘ Judica 
me, ]Jeus ,’ etc. Then the priest, bowing down, says the 
Cnnfteor . by way of a generaF confession to God, to the 
whole court of heaven, and to all the faithful there pres- 
ent, of his sins and unworthiness, and to beg their pray- 
ers to God for him. And the clerk, in the name of the 
people, prays for the priest, that God would have mercy 1 


on him, and forgive him his sins, and bring him to ev- 
erlasting life. Then, in the name of all there present, 
the clerk makes the like general confession to God, to 
the whole court of heaven, and to the priest, and begs 
his prayers. And the priest prays to God to show mercy 
to all his people, and to grant them pardon, absolution, 
and remission of all their sins. Which is done to the 
end that both priest and people may put themselves in 
a penitential spirit, in order to assist worthily at this 
divine sacrifice. After the Confiteor the priest goes up 
to the altar, saying, ‘Take away from us, we beseech 
thee, O Lord, our iniquities, that we may be worthy to 
enter with pure minds into the holy of holies, through 
Christ our Lord ; amen,’ and kisses the altar as a fig- 
ure of Christ, and the seat of the sacred mysteries. 
When the priest is come up to the altar, he goes to the 
book, and there reads what is called the introit or en- 
trance of the mass, which is different every day, and is 
generally an anthem taken out of the Scripture, with 
the first verse of one of the Psalms, and the Glory be to 
the Father, etc., to glorify the blessed Trinity. The 
priest returns to the middle of the altar, and says alter- 
nately with the clerk the Kyrie eleison, or Lord have 
mercy on us, which is said three times to God the Fa- 
ther ; three times Christe eleison , or Christ have merey 
on us, to God the Son ; and three times again Kyrie elei- 
son, to God the Iloly Ghost. After the Kyrie eldson, 
the priest recites the ‘ Gloria in Excelsis,' or Glory be to 
God on high, etc., being an excellent hymn and prayer 
to God, the beginning of which was sung by the angels 
at the birth of Christ. But this, being a hymn of joy, 
is omitted in the masses of requiem for the dead, and in 
the masses of the Sundays and ferias of the penitential 
times of Advent and Lent, etc. At the end of the Glo- 
ria in Exeelsis the priest kisses the altar, and, turning 
about to the people, says, ‘ Domiuus vobiseum’ (The 
Lord be with you). Answer : ‘ Et cum spiritu tuo’ 
(And with thy spirit). The priest returns to the book, 
and says, ‘ Orcmus’ (Let us pray), and then reads the 
collect or collects of the day, concluding them with 
the usual termination, ‘Per Dominum nostrum,’ etc. 
(Through our Lord Jesus Christ, etc.), with which the 
Church commonly concludes all her prayers. The col- 
lects being ended, the priest lays his hands upon the 
book and reads the epistle or lesson of the day, at the 
end of which the clerk answers, * Deo gratias’ (Thanks 
be to God) — viz., for the heavenly doctrine there deliv- 
ered. Then follow some verses or sentences of Scrip- 
ture, called the gradual , which are every day different. 
After this the book is removed to the other side of the 
altar, in order to the reading of the Gospel for the day; 
which removal of the book represents the passing from 
the preaching of the old law, figured by the lesson or 
epistle, to the Gospel of Jesus Christ published by the 
preachers of the new law. The priest, before he reads 
the Gospel, stands awhile bowing down before the mid- 
dle of the altar, begging of God in secret to eleanse his 
heart and his lips, that he may be worthy to declare 
those heavenly words. At the beginning of the Gospel 
the priest greets the people with the usual salutation — 
‘Domiuus vobiseum’ (The Lord be with you), and then 
tells out of which of the evangelists the Gospel is taken, 
saying, ‘ Sequentia S. Evan gel ii secundum,’ etc. (What 
follows is of the holy Gospel, etc.). At these words both 
priest and people make the sign of the cross: 1st. upon 
their foreheads, to signify that they are not ashamed 
of the cross of Christ and his doetrine ; 2d, upon their 
mouths, to signify they will ever profess it in words; 
3d, upon their breasts, to signify that they will always 
keep it in their hearts. The clerk answers, ‘ Gloria tibi, 
Domine’ (Glory be to thee, O Lord). At the Gospel the 
people stand up, to declare by that posture their readi- 
ness to go and do whatsoever they shall be commanded 
by the Saviour in his Gospel. At the end of the Gospel 
the clerk answers, ‘ Laus tibi, Christe’ (Braise be to thee, 
() Christ), and the priest kisses the book in reverence to 
1 those sacred words he has been reading out of it. Then 


MASS 


865 


MASS 


upon all Sundays, and many other festival days, stand- 
ing in the middle of the altar, he recites the Nicene 
Creed, kneeling down at the words ‘ He was made man,’ 
in reverence to the great mystery of our Lord’s incarna- 
tion. Then the priest turns about to the people and 
says, ‘Dominus vobiscum’ (The Lord be with you). 
Having read in the book a verse or sentence of the 
Scripture, which is called the offertory , and is every’’ day 
different, he uncovers the chalice, and, taking in his 
hand the paten, or little plate, offers up the bread to 
God ; then, going to the corner of the altar, he takes the 
wine and pours it into the chalice, and mingles with it 
a small quantity of water, in remembrance of the blood 
and water that issued out of our Saviour’s side ; after 
which he returns to the middle of the altar and offers 
up the chalice. Then, bowing down, he begs that this 
sacrifice, which he desires to offer with a contrite and 
hnmble heart, may find acceptance with God; and, 
blessing the bread and wine with the sign of the cross, 
he invokes the author of all sanctity to sanctify this of- 
fering. At the end of the offertory, the priest goes to 
the corner of the altar and washes the tips of his fingers, 
to denote the cleanness and purity of soul with which 
we ought to approach to these divine mysteries, saying, 
4 Lavabo,’ etc. (1 will wash my hands among the inno- 
cent, and I will encompass thy altar, O Lord, etc.), as in 
the latter part of the 26th Psalm. Then returning to 
the midtile of the altar, and there bowing down, he begs 
of the blessed Trinity to receive this oblation in memo- 
ry of the passion, resurrection, and ascension of our Lord 
Jesus Christ, and for an honorable commemoration of 
the blessed Virgin and of all the saints, that they may 
intercede for us in heaven, whose memory we celebrate 
upon earth. Then the priest, kissing the altar, turns to 
the people and says, 1 Orate, fratres,’ etc. (Brethren, pray 
that my sacrifice and vours may be made acceptable to 
God the Father Almighty). Then the priest says in a 
low voice the prayers called secretci , which correspond 
to the collects of the day, and are different every day. 
The priest concludes the secreta by saying aloud, ‘Per 
omnia soecula steculorum’ (World without end). An- 
swer : Amen. Priest : ‘ Dominus vobiscum’ (The Lord 
be with you). Answer: ‘Et cum spiritu tuo* (And 
with thy spirit). Priest : ‘ Snrsnm corda’ (Lift up your 
hearts). Answer : ‘ Habemus ad Dominum’ (We have 
them lifted up to the Lord). Priest: ‘Gratias agamus 
Domino Deo nostro’ (Let us give thanks to the Lord 
our God). Answer : ‘ Dignum et justum est’ (It is meet 
and just). Then the priest recites th e preface (so called 
because it serves as an introduction to the canon of the 
mass). After the preface follows the canon of the mass, 
or the most sacred and solemn part of this divine serv- 
ice, which is read with a low voice, as well to express 
the silence of Christ in his passion, and his hiding at 
that time his glory and his divinity, as to signify the 
vast importance of that common cause of all mankind, 
which the priest is then representing, as it were, in se- 
cret to the ear of God, and the reverence and awe with 
which both priest and people ought to assist at these 
tremendous mysteries. The canon begins by invoking 
the Father of mercies, through Jesus Christ his Son, to 
accept this sacrifice for the holy Catholic Church, for 
the pope, for the bishop, for the king, and for all the 
professors of the orthodox and apostolic faith through- 
out the whole world. Then follows the memento , or 
commemoration of the living, for whom in particular 
the priest intends to offer up that mass, or who have 
been particularly recommended to his prayers, etc. To 
which is subjoined a remembrance of all there present, 
followed by a solemn commemoration of the blessed 
Virgin, of the apostles, martyrs, and all the saints — to 
honor their memory by naming them in the sacred 
n^steries, to communicate with them, and to beg of 
God the help of their intercession, through Jesus Christ 
our Lord. Then the priest spreads his hands, accord- 
ing to the ancient ceremony of sacrifices, over the bread 
and wine which are to be consecrated into the body and 
V.— 1 1 1 


blood of Christ, and begs that God would accept of this 
oblation which he makes in the name of the whole 
Church, and that he would grant us peace in this life 
and eternal salvation in the next. After which he sol- 
emnly blesses the bread and wine ’with the sign of the 
cross, and invokes the Almighty that they may be made 
to us the body and blood of his most beloved Son, our 
Lord Jesus Christ. And so he proceeds to the conse- 
cration, first of the bread into the body of our Lord, and 
then of the wine into his blood ; which consecration is 
made by Christ’s own words, pronounced in his name 
and person by the priest, and is the most essential part 
of this sacrifice, because thereby the body and blood of 
Christ are really exhibited and presented to God, and 
Christ is mystically immolated. Immediately after the 
consecration follows the elevation, first of the host, then 
of the chalice, in remembrance of Christ’s elevation upon 
the cross. At the elevation of the chalice the priest re- 
cites those words of Christ, ‘As often as you do these 
things, you shall do them for a commemoration of me.’ 
Then he goes on, makiug a solemn commemoration of 
the passion, resurrection, and ascension of Christ, and 
begging of God to accept this sacrifice, as he was pleased 
to accept the oblation of Abel, Abraham, and Melchise- 
dek ; and to command that it may, by his holy angel, 
be presented upon the altar above, in presence of his di- 
vine Majesty, for the benefit of all those that shall par- 
take of these mysteries here below. Then the priest 
proceeds to the memento, or commemoration of the 
Mead, saying, ‘ Remember also, O Lord, thy servants N. 
and N., who are gone before us with the sign of faith, 
and repose in the sleep of peace;’ praying for all the 
faithful departed in general, and in particular for those 
for whom he desires to offer this sacrifice. After this 
memento or commemoration of the dead, the priest, 
raising his voice a little, and striking his breast, says, 
‘Nobis quoque peccatoribus,’etc. (And to us sinners, etc.), 
humbly craving mercy and pardon for his sins, and to 
be admitted to some part and society with the apos- 
tles and martyrs through Jesus Christ. Then kneeling 
down, and taking the sacred host in his hands, he makes 
the sign of the cross with it over the chalice, saying, 
‘ Through him, and with him, and in him, is to thee, O 
God, the Father, in the unity of the Holy Ghost, all 
honor and glory ;’ which last words he pronounces, ele- 
vating a little the host and chalice from the altar, and 
then kneels down, saying, with a loud voice, ‘ Per omnia 
srecula sreculorum” (Forever and ever). Answer, Amen. 
After which he recites aloud the Pater Noster, or Lord’s 
Prayer, the clerk answering at the end, ‘ Sed libera nos 
a ihalo’ (But deliver us from evil). After this the priest 
breaks the host over the chalice, in remembrance of 
Christ’s body being broken for us upon the cross; and 
he puts a small particle of the host into the chalice, 
praying that the peace of the Lord may be always with 
us. Then kneeling down, and rising up again, he says, 
‘ A gnus Dei ,’ etc. (Lamb of God, who takest away the 
sins of the world, have mercy on us). He repeats this 
thrice ; but at the third time, instead of ‘Have mercy on 
us,’ he says, ‘ Grant us peace.’ After the Agnus Dei , the 
priest says three short prayers, by way of preparation 
for receiving the blessed sacrament; then kneeling down, 
and rising again, he takes up the host, and, striking his 
breast, he says thrice, ‘Domine, non sum dignus,’ etc. 
(Lord, I am not worthy that thou shonldest enter under 
my roof; speak only the word, and my soul shall be 
healed). After which he makes the sign of the cross 
upon himself with the host, saying, ‘The body of our 
Lord Jesus Christ preserve my soul to life everlasting. 
Amen.’ He so receives it. Then, after a short pause in 
mental prayer, he proceeds to the receiving of the chal- 
ice, using the like words, ‘The blood of our Lord Jesus 
Christ preserve my soul to life everlasting. - Amen.’ 
Then follows the communion of the people, if any are to 
receive. After the communion, the priest takes the lo- 
tions, or ablutions, of wine and water in the chalice, in 
order to consummate whatever may remain of the con- 


MASS 


8G6 


MASS 


secrated species. Then covering the chalice, he goes 
to the book and reads a versiele of holy Scripture, called 
the communion ; after which he turns about to the peo- 
ple with the usual salutation, Dominus vobiscum, and, re- 
turning to the book, reads the collects or prayers called 
the post-communion. After which lie again greets the 
people with Dominus vobiscum, and gives them leave to 
depart with Jte , missa est ; the clerk answering, ‘Deo 
gratias’ (Thanks be to God). Then the priest, bowing 
down before the altar, makes a short prayer to the 
blessed Trinity; and then, turning about to the people, 
gives his blessing to them all, in the name of the blessed 
Trinity; and so concludes the mass, by reading the be- 
ginning of the Gospel according to St. John, which the 
people liear standing, till these words, ‘Et verbum caro 
factum est’ (And the Word was made flesh) ; when both 
priest and people kneel down, in reverence to the mys- 
tery of Christ’s incarnation. At the end the clerk an- 
swers, ‘Deo gratias’ (Thanks be to God). And so the 
priest returns from the altar to the sacristy, and tm vests 
himself, reciting in the meantime the Ilenedicite, or the 
canticle of the three children, inviting all creatures in 
heaven and earth to praise and bless the Lord. As the 
mass represents the passion of Christ, and the priest 
there officiates in his person, so the vestments in which 
he officiates represent those with which Christ was ig- 
nominiously clothed at the time of his passion. Thus 
the amice represents the rag or clout with which the 
Jews muffled our Saviour’s face, when at every blow 
they bid him prophesy who it was that struck him’* 
(Luke xxii, G4). The alb represents the white garment 
with which he was vested by Herod; the girdle, mani- 
ple, and stole represent the cords and bands with which 
he was bound in the different stages of his passion. The 
chasuble, or outward vestment, represents the purple 
garment with which he was clothed as a mock king; 
upon the back of which there is a cross, to represent 
that which Christ bore on his sacred shoulders; lastly, 
the priest’s tonsure or crown, is to represent the crown 
of thorns which our Saviour wore. Moreover, as in the 
old law, the priests, that were wont to officiate in sacred 
functions, had, by the appointment of God, vestments 
assigned for that purpose, as well for the greater decency 
and solemnity of the divine worship, as to signify and 
represent the virtues which God required of his minis- 
ters, so it was proper that in the Church of the New 
Testament Christ’s ministers should in their sacred func- 
tions be distinguished in like manner from the laity by 
their sacred vestments, which might also represent the 
virtues which God requires in them: thus the amice, 
which is first put upon the head, represents divine lulfie, 
which the apostle calls the helmet of salvation ; the alb, 
innocence of life ; the girdle, with which the loins are 
begirt, purity and chastity; the maniple, which is put 
on the left arm, patient suffering of the labors of this 
mortal life; the stole, the sweet yoke of Christ, to be 
borne in this life, in order to a happy immortality; in 
fine, the chasuble, which is uppermost, and covers all the 
rest, represents the virtue of charity. In these vest- 
ments the Church makes use of five colors, viz. the white 
on the feasts of our Lord, of the blessed Virgin, of the 
angels, and of the saints that were not martyrs; the red 
on the feasts of Pentecost, of the invention and exalta- 
tion of the cross, and of the apostles and martyrs; the 
violet , which is the penitential color, in the penitential 
times of Advent and Lent, and upon vigils and ember 
days; th e green on most of the other Sundays and ferias 
throughout the year; and the black on Good Friday, 
and in the masses for the dead. We make a reverence 
to the altar upon which mass is said, because it is the 
seat of these divine mysteries, and a figure of Christ, 
who is not only our priest and sacrifice, but our altar too, 
inasmuch as Ave offer our prayers and sacrifices through 
him. Upon the altar we always have a crucifix, that, 
as the mass is said in remembrance of Christ’s passion 
and death, both priest and people may have before their 
eyes, during this sacrifice, the image that puts them in 


mind of his passion and death. And there are ahvavs 
lighted candles upon the altar during mass, as well to 
honor the victory and triumph of our Great King (which 
is there celebrated) by these lights, which are tokens of 
our joy and of his glory, as to denote the light of faith, 
with which we are to approach to him. 

“ The priest who is to celebrate mass must previously 
confess all his mortal sins, in order that he may feel 
morally sure that he is in a state of grace, since for the 
recovery of that state by such as have once fallen from 
it, confession, or contrition, if confession cannot be ob- 
tained, is absolutely necessary. Confession is unattain- 
able when there is no confessor, or when there is none 
but an excommunicated person, or one whose powers 
have expired, or whose powers do not extend to absolu- 
tion from the particular sins of which the penitent is 
guilty, or one who is justly suspected of having betrayed 
the secrets of confession, or who requires an interpreter, 
or when it is impossible to go to confession without 
manifest inconvenience from distance, badness of the 
roads, inclemency of the season, or the murmurs of the 
congregation impatient for mass. Even if any of these 
reasons can be pleaded, no unconfessed priest ought to 
celebrate mass unless he be compelled by menaces of 
death, or through fear that a sick person may die with- 
out receiving the viaticum , or to avoid scandal when a 
congregation is waiting, or to finish a mass in which 
another priest has been accidentally interrupted. If a 
priest, during the celebration of mass, should recollect 
that lie is in a state of mortal sin, excommunicated or 
suspended, or that the place in which he is celebrating 
it is interdicted, he must quit the altar, unless he has 
already consecrated the host; and even if he has done 
so, or any fear of scandal induces him to proceed (as it 
is morally impossible but that some such fear must 
arise), he must perform an act of contrition, and make a 
firm resolution to confess, if in his power, on the very 
same day. No priest, without committing venial or 
perhaps mortal sin, can celebrate mass before he has re- 
cited matins and lauds, unless from the necessity of ad- 
ministering the viaticum to the dying, or of exhorting 
such a one during the night, from pressure of confes- 
sions on a holiday, or to quiet murmurs among the con- 
gregation. It is a mortal sin for a priest intending to 
say mass to taste food, drink, or medicine after the pre- 
ceding midnight. Even an involuntary transgression 
of such rides is a mortal sin; so that a priest offends in 
that degree if he celebrates mass after having been 
forced to eat or drink the smallest morsel or drop while 
the hour of midnight is striking, or a single moment af- 
terwards. The exceptions are — 1. To save the profa- 
nation of the host ; thus, if a heretic is about to profane 
the host, and there be no one else by who can otherwise 
prevent it, a priest, although not fasting, may swallow 
it without sin. 2. When a priest has so far proceeded 
in mass that he cannot stop, as when water has been 
accidentally put into the chalice instead of wine, and he 
does not perceive it till he has swallowed it, or when he 
recollects after consecration that he is not fasting. 3. 
When, after having performed the larubo, he perceives 
any scattered fragments of hosts, provided he be still at 
the altar, these he may eat. 4. To prevent scandal, 
such as a suspicion that he had committed a crime the 
night before. 5. To administer the viaticum. t>. To 
finish a mass commenced by another priest, and acci- 
dentally interrupted. 7. When he is dispensed. It is 
very probably a mortal sin, by authorities, to celebrate 
mass before dawn. So also mass must not be celebrated 
after noon, and never, unless for the dying, on Good 
Friday. It is a mortal sin to celebrate mass without 
the necessary vestments and ornaments, or with uncon- 
seerated vestments, etc., unless in cases of the uttermost 
necessity. These vestments lose their consecration if 
any portion has been torn off and sewed on again, not 
if they are repaired before absolute disjunction, even if 
it be by a downright patch. No worn-out consecrated 
vestment should be applied to any other purpose ; but it 


MASS 


S67 


MASS 


should be burned, and the ashes thrown in some place 
in which they will not be trampled on. But, on the 
other hand, with a very wise distinction, the precious 
metals which have served profane uses may be applied 
to sacred purposes, after having been passed through 
the lire, which changes their very nature by fusion. No 
dispensation has ever yet been granted by any pope to 
qualify the rigid precept enjoining the necessity of an 
altar for mass ; and this must have been consecrated by 
a bishop, not by a simple priest, unless through dispen- 
sation from the" holy father himself. Three napkins are 
strictly necessary ; two may suffice if such be the com- 
mon usage of the country— one in very urgent cases; 
and even that, provided it be whole and clean, may be 
unconsecrated ; but a lighted taper must not on any ac- 
count be dispensed with, even to secure the receipt of 
the viaticum by a dying man. Mass must stop if the 
taper be extinguished and another cannot be obtained. 
On that account a lamp should be kept burning day and 
night before every altar on which the host is deposited ; 
and those to whom the care of this lamp appertains com- 
mit a mortal sin if they neglect it for one whole day. 
In no case must a woman be allowed to assist a priest 
at the altar. Certain prevalent superstitions during the 
celebration of mass are forbidden— such as picking up 
from the ground, during the scinctus of the mass on Palm 
Sunday, the boxwood consecrated on that day, infusing 
it for three quarters of an hour, neither more nor less, 
in spring water, and drinking the water as a cure for 
the colic; keeping the mouth open during the sanctus 
in the mass for the dead, as a charm against mad dogs; 
writing the sanctus on a piece of virgin parchment, and 
wearing it as an amulet; saying mass for twenty Fri- 
days running as a security against dying without con- 
fession, contrition, full satisfaction, and communion, and 
in order to obtain admission into heaven thirty days af- 
ter decease; ordering a mass of the Holy Ghost to be 
said in certain churches by way of divination. If a fly 
or a spider fall into the cup before consecration, a fresh 
cup should be provided ; if after consecration, it should 
be swallowed, if that can be done without repugnance 
or danger, otherwise it should be removed, washed with 
wine, burned after mass, and its ashes thrown into the 
sacristy. There are some nice precautions to be ob- 
served in case of the accidental fall of a host among the 
clothes of a female communicant; if the wafer fall on a 
napkin, it suffices that the napkin be washed by a sub- 
deacon ; but if it be stained b} r no more than a single 
drop of wine, the office must be performed by a priest. 

In the celebration of mass the priest wears peculiar 
vestments, five in number — two of linen, called “amice” 
and “ alb ;” and three of silk or precious stuffs, called 
“maniple.” “stole,” and “chasuble,” the alb being girt 
with a cincture of flaxen or silken cord. The color of 
these vestments varies with the occasion, five colors be- 
ing employed on different occasions — white, red, green, 
purple or violet, and black ; and they are often richly 
embroidered with silk or thread of the precious metals, 
and occasionally with precious stones. The priest is 
required to celebrate the mass fasting, and, unless by 
special dispensation, is only permitted to offer it once in 
tlie day, except on Christmas day, when three masses 
may be celebrated. 

In the Greek and Oriental churches, the Eucharistic 
service, called in Greek Theta Lcitouryia (The Divine 
Liturgy), differs in the order of its parts, in the wording 
of most of its prayers, and in its accompanying ceremo- 
nial, from the mass of the Latin Church [see Liturgy] ; 
but the only differences which have any importance as 
bearing upon doctrine, are their use of leavened bread 
instead of unleavened ; their more frequent celebration 
of the “ Mass of the Presanctified,” to which reference 
has already been made; the Latin use of private mass- 
es, in which the priest alone communicates; and, in gen- 
eral, the much more frequent celebration of the mass in 
the Latin Church. The sacred vestments, too, of the 
Greek and Eastern rites differ notably from those of the 


Latin; and in some of the former — as, for example, the 
Armenian— a veil is drawn before the altar during that 
part of the service in which the consecration takes place, 
which is only withdrawn at the time of the communion. 
The service sometimes used on shipboard, and improp- 
erly called Missa Sicca (Dry Mass), consists simply of 
the reading of the prayers of the mass, but without any 
consecration of the elements. It was resorted to with a 
view to avoiding the danger of spilling the sacred ele- 
ments, owing to the unsteady motion of the ship. It is 
sometimes also called Missa Xautica (Ship Mass). (For 
detailed information on the practices of the Russo-Greek 
Church, see John Glen King, Rites and Ceremonies of the 
Greek Church in Russia [London, 1772, 4to], For the 
Eastern Church generally, see Neale, Eastern Church: 
Introduction.') 

Frequency of the Mass. — “At first,” says "Walcott (p. 
366), “celebration occurred only on Sundays (1 Cor. xvi, 
1); and in the time of Justin Martyr, after the 2d cen- 
tury, the Western Christians communicated on Sundays, 
and Wednesdays, and Fridays. In the 4th century the 
Greek Church added Saturday; now it maintains daily 
celebration. St. Augustine says that the practice dif- 
fered in various countries; in some celebration was daily, 
in others on Saturdays and Sundays, but in some on 
Sunday only ; the daily celebration was practiced in Af- 
rica, Spain, and at Constantinople; in the 6th century it 
was general. St. Ambrose mentions three celebrations 
in the week, St. Francis one daily mass at Rome. After 
the 5th century priests were allowed on certain days, 
called Polylitnrgic, to celebrate twice. Pope Deusde- 
dit first enjoined a second mass in a day; Alexander I 
permitted a priest to celebrate only once a day; Leo IV 
forbade private masses, but still there were several fes- 
tivals besides Christmas when the priest said mass three 
times in a day; Leo III sometimes celebrated seven or 
eight times in twelve hours, and it was not until the 
close of the llth century that Alexander III directed 
that the same priest should say no more than one mass 
on the same day, Christmas excepted. The Council of 
Seligenstadt forbade a priest to exceed saying more 
than three masses in a day. From the 6tli century 
these repeated masses said by some priest may be dated, 
when private masses were not in common use, and were 
permitted (as St. Leo says) in order to satisfy the need 
of crowds of communicants, and he calls it a form of 
tradition from the fathers. At length, when the press- 
ure no longer existed in the 8th century, there were 
four masses at Christmas, two ou the Circumcision, and 
three on SS. Peter and Paul’s day, and on Maundy- 
Thursday. In France every priest was allowed to say 
two masses a day in Holy Week. Three masses were 
said on St.John Baptist’s day : one in the eve, in com- 
memoration of his being the Lord’s messenger; a second on 
his feast, in memorial of the baptism in the Jordan; and 
the third because he was a Nazarite from his birth. In 
1222, in England, mass might be said by a priest twice 
on the same day, at Christmas, Easter, and in the offices 
of the dead. The three Christmas masses were in hon- 
or of Christ, as the only-begotten of the Father, his 
spiritual birth in Christians, and his nativity of a wom- 
an. A restriction by the Council of Antiin (613) was 
in force until the 10th century, against celebration by a 
priest at the same altar twice in one day, or where pon- 
tifical mass had been said. Priests who celebrated more 
than once collected all the ablutions of their fingers in 
one chalice, and the contents being emptied into a cup, 
were drank at the last mass by a deacon, clerk, or lay- 
man in a state of grace or innocent. The day when no 
mass was offered, except that of the Mass of the Pre- 
sanctified, was called a liturgie. The Holy Commu- 
nion was celebrated at first at night, or, as Pliny says, 
before daybreak, and Tertullian calls the meeting the 
Night Convocation, or that before light. But in time 
the Church prescribed the mass to be said in tierce of 
festivals, but always after tierce in England in 1322; on 
common days at sexts; in Lent and on fasts at nones, 


MASS PENNY 


868 


MASSALIANS 


or 3 P.M. In the 3W iildlc Ages the nightly celebrations 
were permitted on Christmas eve, on Easter eve, on St. 
John Baptist’s, principal^ in France, and Saturdays in 
Ember weeks, when ordinations were held; and Easter 
and Pentecost on the hallowing of the candle. In 1483 
archbishop Bourchier, from regard to his infirmity, re- 
ceived permission to celebrate in the afternoon. Belith 
says each day had its mass, commencing on Sunday; 
those of Holy Trinity, Charity, Wisdom, the Holy Ghost, 
Angels, Holy Cross, and St. Mary, and that at Rome. In 
the province of Ravenna the mass of Easter eve was 
not said until after midnight. He adds that the Greek 
Church excommunicated all who failed to partake of 
the Eucharist for three Sundays. See Invitatory. 

Literature. — The most noted writers on this subject 
are Bona, Gerbert, Gavanti, Binterim, Augusti. Be- 
sides these, see Bochart. Trade de sacrifice de la Messe; 
Derodon, he Tombeau de la Messe ; Du Moulin, Pra- 
tique des ceremonies de la Messe ; Fechtins, I)e orig. et 
superstitione Miss arum ; Jaeger, Suppositio misses sa- 
crificio ; Killian, Tenet, de sacrifcio missatico (Roman 
Cath.) ; Kosling, Lithurg. Yorles. it. d. keil Messe (2d 
ed.) ; Micbaelis, Frohnleichnah m it. Messopfer ; Griiser, 
Die rom.-Kathol. Lit. (Halle, 1829) ; Hirscher, Misses 
genuina notio (Tub. 1821) ; Morn ay, De doctrieie de I'Eu- 
charistie quand etpar quels degres la messe s’est introduite 
a sa place; Bauer, Priifung der Griinde; Baur, Gegen- 
satz dcs Katholicismus u. Protestantismas (Tub. 1836, 2d 
edit.); Baier, Symbolik der rom.-Kathol. Kirche (Leip- 
sic, 1854) ; Anderson, The Mass (Lond. 1851, 12mo); Ma- 
guire, One Hundred Defects of the Mass ; 31 eager, Popish 
Mass celebrated by Heathen Priests ; Whitby, A bsurdity 
and Idolatry of the Mass ; Bible and Missal, ch. iv; Bos- 
suet’s Variations, vol. i; Siegel, Ghristliche Alterthiimer 
(see Index in vol. iv, s. v. Messe) ; Riddle, Christian An- 
tiquities; Walcott, Sac. ri rchceol. s. v.; Coleman, Christ. 
Antiq. ; Willct, Synop . Pap. (ed. Gumming, Lond. 1852) ; 
Forbes, Considerations, ii, 562 ; English Per. x, 344 ; Ret- 
rospectice Rev. xii, 70; 1 Vestm. Rev. 1SCG (July), p. 95; 
Christian Ch. Rev. 18G6 (April), p. 15 sq. ; Evangel. Qu. 
Rev. 18G9 (Jan.), p. 8G ; Christian Remembrancer , 18GG 
(Jan.), p. 63; Xeiv Englander , 1869, p. 525; Haag, Les 
Dogmes Chretiennes (see Index) ; llagenbach, Hist, of 
Doctrines (see Index, vol. ii) ; Cramp, Text-Book of Pope- 
ry ; Blunt, Diet, of Hist, and Doctr. Theol. s. v. ; Eadie, 
Ecclesiast. Diet. s. v. ; Aschbach, Kirchen-Lexikon , s. v. 
Messe. 

Mass Penny, a conventional name for the offering 
made by a chief mourner at a funeral. 

Mass Priests, mercenaries hired at a certain sum, 
who undertook an immoderate number of annals or tren- 
tals, and were unable to say them, and sold them to be 
offered by others. This abuse was forbidden in 1236 by 
archbishop Edmund's Constitutions (2). In 9G0 the 
mass priest was the secular, and the minister priest the 
conventual, and this is the earliest meaning of the term. 
— Walcott, Eac. A rchceol. s. v. 

Mas'sa (II eb. Massa', a lifting up, as often ; 

Sept. Morrcri/), one of the sons of Ishmael (B.C. post 
2061), who became the progenitor of an Arabian clan 
(Gen. xxv, 14; 1 Cliron. i, 30). The tribe is usually, 
and not improbably, compared with the Masani (Ma- 
fff'j-ni. Ptol. v, 19, 2), inhabiting the Arabian desert to- 
wards Babylonia, doubtless the same as the Masai, a 
nomad tribe of Mesopotamia (Plinv, II. X. vi, 30). This 
v.u dd confirm Forster’s theory that the twelve sons of 
Ishmael peopled the whole of the Arabian peninsula 
( Geugr . of Arabia , i, 284). As Dumah is named in con- 
nection with Seir (Isa. xxi, 11), there ‘is some founda- 
tion for the opinion that Massa was a kingdom of con- 
siderable size, possibly reigned over by king Lemuel 
(Prov. xxx, 1, “ the- prophecy”).. See Lemuel. 

Hitzig arbitrarily locates Dumah in wady cl-Kora, 
about fifty miles south-east of Akabah, and then places 
Massa between it and Mount Seir (Zeller’s Jahrbuch , 
lb'l l, p. 288). See Dumah. 


Massa Candida, the name given to 300 Chris- 
tians who, during the persecution of Valerian, and in 
the time of bishop Cyprian, were put to death by being 
burned in a lime-kiln. The name Massa, says Augus- 
tine, was given them “ob numeri multitudinem,” and 
that of Candida “ob causae fulgorem.” Baronius re- 
marks : “ Dicti sunt hi Massa Candida , eo quod in for- 
nace calcaria martyrium consumarint.” Vincentius Bel- 
lovacensis, on the other hand, designates the* Massa 
Candida as “ locus apud Carthaginem, in quo sub Impe- 
ratoribus gentilibus et in Christianos saevientibns fovea 
erat calce plena, in quam Christiani gentilium Diis sa- 
crificare rennentes paecipitabantur.” Augustine also uses 
the expression, “ Uticensis Massa Candida,” which Baro- 
nius explains : “ Uticre prrecipue agebatur liorum solem- 
nitas, atque ea de causa S. Augustinus Massam candi- 
dam Uticensem dictam esse refert.” Aurelius Pruden- 
tius Clemens refers to the Massa Candida in his hymn 
on St. Cyprian (Lib. Persistephanon, Hymn xiii) in the 
following glowing description: 

“ Fama refert foveam campi in medio patere jussarn, 
Calce vaporifera Summos prope margines refertam 
Sasa recocta vomunt iguem niveusque pulvis ardet, 
Urere tacta potcus ; et mortifer ex odore flatus. 
Appositam memorant aram, fovea stetisse summa, 

Lege sub hac salis nut micain, jecur aut suis litarent 
Christicolae, ant media sponte irruerent in ima fossse. 
Prosiluere alacres cursu rapido simul trecenti. 

Gurgite pulvereo mersos liquor aridus voravit, 
Praecipitemque globum fundo tenns implicavit imo. 
Corpora candor habet, candor vehit ad superna meutes. 
Caudida Massa dehinc did meruit per omne saeclum.” 

The festival is commemorated Aug. 24. — Herzog, Reap 
Encyklopddie, ix, 142. 

Massagetae, an ancient nomadic people, who in- 
habited the broad steppes on the north-east of the Cas- 
pian Sea, to the northward of the river Araxes or Jax- 
artes. Herodotus says that they had a community of 
wives; that they sacrificed and devoured their aged peo- 
ple ; that they worshipped the sun, and offered horses 
to him ; that they lived on the milk and flesh of their 
herds, and on fish ; and fought on horseback and on foot 
with lance, bow, and double-edged axe. Cyrus is said 
to have lost his life in fighting against them, B.C. 530. 
Niebuhr and Bockh are of opinion that they belonged 
to the Mongolian, but Humboldt and others, to the Indo- 
Gcrmanic or Aryan family. — Chambers, Cyclop, s. v. 

Mas'sah (Heb. Massah', trial, as often ; Sept. 
7 Tfzpo<T/toc, TTt/pa ; Yulg. tentatio ), a name given to the 
spot in Ilephidim where the Israelites provoked Jeho- 
vah by murmuring for want of water; otherwise called 
Meribaii (Exod. xvii, 7 ; Deut. vi, 16; ix, 22; xxviii, 
8). The name also occurs (in the Heb.), with mention 
of the circumstances which occasioned it, in Psa. xcv, 8, 
9, and its Greek equivalent in Heb. iii, 8. 

Massalians (from ‘pbli'2) or Messalians, also 
called Enthusiasts, were a sect which sprung up about 
the year A.D. 360, in the reign of the emperor Constan- 
tius. They were mainly roaming mendicant monks, 
and flourished in Mesopotamia and Syria. They main- 
tained that men have two souls, a celestial and a dia- 
bolical; and that the latter is driven out by prayer. 
They consequently conceived the Christian life as an 
unintermitted prayer, despised the moral law and the 
sacraments, and claimed to enjoy perfection. The Gos- 
pel history the}' declared a mere allegory. But they 
coneealed'their pantheistic mysticism and antinomian- 
ism under external conformity to the Catholic Church. 
From those words of our Lord, “Labor not for the meat 
that perisheth,” it is said that they concluded they ought 
not to do any work to get their bread. Wc may sup- 
pose, says Dr. Jortin, that this sect did not last long; 
that these sluggards were soon starved out of the world; 
or, rather, that cold and hunger sharpened their wits, 
and taught them to be better interpreters of Scripture. 
Towards the close of the 4th century the Church dis- 
covered the real tendency of the Massalians, and they 
were sorely persecuted; hut, notwithstanding all oppo- 


MASSARIUS 


869 


MASSILLON 


sition, they perpetuated themselves to the 7th century, 
and reappeared in the Euchites and Bogomiles (q. v.) of 
the Middle Ages. See Buck, Theol. Diet. s. v. ; Nean- 
der, Ck. Hist . ii, 240-247 ; Sehaff, Ch. Hist, ii, 199. 

Massarius, a chamberlain of the massa communis , 
which was the common fund of a cathedral. 

Masseketh. See Talmud. 

Massi'as (Mamria? v. r. ’Aooei ciq), given (1 Esdr. 
ix, 22) in place of the Maasseiah (q. v.) of the Heb. 
list (Ezra x, 22). 

Massie, James William, D.D., LL.D., a minister 
of the English Independents, for some time engaged in 
the missionary field, was born in Ireland in 1799. He 
was educated for the ministry by Dr. Bogue, and went 
out as a missionary to India. After laboring there a few 
years he returned to Great Britain, was pastor for a time 
at Perth, Scotland, and subsequently at Dublin, Ireland, 
and Salford, England, from which latter place he re- 
moved to London, to act as secretary of the Home Mis- 
sionary Society. Deeply interested in all the public 
movements of the day, he took a prominent part in the 
anti-slavery movement, and was an active member of 
the Union and Emancipation societies formed during 
the late war in the United States. He visited this 
country several times, and was twice delegated from the 
Independents to our Congregationalists and Presbyte- 
rians. He died at Kingston, Ireland, May 8, 1869. Dr. 
Massie was the author of several works, among which 
were Continental India (1839, 2 vols. 8vo; 1840, 2 vols. 
8vo) : — Recollections , illustrating the Religion , etc., of the 
Hindus (2 vols.) : — The Nonconformists' 1 Plea for Free - 
dom of Education (1847) : — The Evangelical Alliance, its 
Origin and Development (1847) : — Liberty of Conscience 
illustrated , etc. (1847) : — Social Improvement among the 
Working Classes affecting the entire Body Politic (1849) : 
— Slavery the Crime and Curse of America (1852) : — 
The Contrast — War and Christianity: Martial Evils 
and their Remedy (1855) : — Christ a Learner (1858) : — 
Revivals in Ireland : Facts , Documents , and Correspond- 
ence (1859-60) : — Revival Work (1860) : — The American 
Crisis in Relation to the Anti-slavery Cause (1862): — 
America, the Origin of her present Conflict ; her Pros- 
pect for the Slave, and her Claim for Anti-slavery Sym- 
pathy, illustrated by Incidents of Travel during a Tour 
in the Summer of 1863 throughout the United States 
(1864) ; etc. 

Massieu, Guillaume, a learned French writer, 
was born April 13, 1665, at Caen, where he finished his 
classical studies. At sixteen he began a course of phi- 
losophy at the college of the Jesuits. As he proved 
himself an apt pupil, the Jesuits desired to attach him to 
their order, and seut him to Rennes to teach rhetoric, de- 
signing him ultimately for the professorship of theology; 
but his studies were not congenial to his tastes, and, his 
love for belles-lettres far exceeding that for theology, 
he forsook the society after he had actually joined it, 
and returned to the world. Ilis remarkable gifts soon 
gained him friends, and he found work as an instructor. 
While at Paris he made the acquaintance of the abbot 
De Tourreil, whom he aided in translating the works of 
Demosthenes; through his influence also he became a 
pensioner of the Academy of Inscriptions in 1705, and 
in the same year was eleeted professor royal of the Greek 
language in the College of France, where he distin- 
guished himself during the twelve years that he held 
the position by his profound knowledge and a pure and 
delieate taste. In 1714 the French Academy was opened 
to him. His oration delivered on this occasion is printed 
in the collections of the academy. Having translated 
Pindar, he naturally defended the writers of antiquity 
against the attacks of Pcrrault and of Lamothe. The 
Memoires de VAcademie des Inscriptions (vol. i, ii, and 
iii) contain a great number of dissertations from the 
abbe Massieu. They are still read with pleasure, al- 
though they are more distinguished for delicacy of finish 
than for profound erudition ; the principal are, Les 


Graces , Les Hesperides, Les Boucliers votifs , Les Ser- 
ments chez les Anciens, and a Par allele entre Homere et 
Platon. His most valuable work is L'Histoire de la 
Poesie Fran poise, a partir du onzieme siecle . Massieu 
was one of the many distinguished literary men who 
are obliged all through life to maintain an incessant 
struggle with poverty. In his old age he suffered many 
bodily grievances, and two cataracts deprived him of 
his sight. He rendered valuable service to Biblical lit- 
erature by his edition of the New Testament in Greek 
(printed at Paris, 1715, in 2 vols. 12mo). He died Sept. 
26, 1722, at Paris. — Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate , vol. 
xxxiv, s. v. 

Massilians, a school of theologians in Southern 
Gaul, who, about the year 425, with John Cassian of 
Marseilles (Massilia), a pupil of Chrysostom, at their 
head, asserted the necessity of the eo-operation of divine 
grace and the human will, maintained that God works 
differently in different men, and rejected the doetrine 
of predestination as a vain speculation of mischievous 
tendency. They were called at first Massilians ; after- 
wards, by scholastic writers, Semi-Pelagians; although, 
far from taking that name themselves, they rejected all 
connection with Pelagianism. Cassian recognised the 
universal corruption of human nature as a consequence 
of the first transgression, and recognised grace as well 
as justification in the sense of St. Augustine, whom he 
opposed on the question of election. See Riddle, Eccl. 
Citron.; Eden, Theol. Diet. ; Neander, Hist, of the Chris- 
tian Religion and Church , ii. 261, 627-630; Sehaff, Ch. 
Hist, iii, 859 sq. ; Wiggers, Gesch. des Semi-Pelagianis- 
mus, ii, 7 sq. ; Guericke, Ch. Hist, i, 391 sq. ; Neandcr, 
Hist, of Christian Dogmas, ii, 375 ; Hagenbach, Hist, of 
Doctr. vol. i. See Semi-Pelagians and Cassiaxus. 

Massillon, Jean Baptiste, prominent among the 
most eloquent divines of the French Roman Catholic 
Church, was born at Hieres, in Provence, June 24, 1663. 
His father was a notary in moderate circumstances, 
and at first intended his son for the same profession, 
but subsequently allowed him to receive the instruc- 
tions of the Fathers of the Oratory, and when eigh- 
teen years of age the young man joined that order. 
Soon after, forsaking the world altogether, lie entered 
an abbey under the rule of La Trappe. Here, however, 
his talents attracted the attention of the bishop, after- 
wards cardinal de Noailles, who induced him to re-enter 
the Oratory, in which he soon achieved great eminence. 
Yet his success was more the fruit of labor than of spon- 
taneous genius, and his last efforts are much superior to 
his first. In 1696 he went to Paris as principal of the 
Seminary of St. Magloire, the renowned school of the 
Oratory. Here, in the midst of the prevailing laxity of 
morals, he commenced his career as a pulpit orator, the 
delivery of his “ Ecclesiastical conferences” to ecclesias- 
tical students affording him an opportunity of developing 
his talent. He admired the austere eloquence of Bour- 
daloue, but chose for himself a different style, character- 
ized by profound pathos, and an insight into the most 
secret motives of the human heart. He was shortly 
noted as the preacher of repentance and penitence; and 
it was declared by able contemporaries of his sermons 
that “ they reach the heart, and produce their due ef- 
fects with much more certainty than all the logic of 
Bourdaloue.” He delivered the customary Lent ser- 
mons at Montpellier in 1698, and the following year at 
Paris. The latter were warmly applauded, and induced 
the king to invite Massillon to preach the “Advent” at 
court. On this occasion king Louis XIV paid him the 
highest compliments. lie said, “ I have heard many 
talented preachers in my chapel before, and was much 
pleased with them ; but every time I hear you, I feel 
much displeased with myself.” He again preached the 
Lent sermons before the court during the years 1701 to 
1704, but afterwards he received no calls to appear be- 
fore them until the death of the king : so fearless and 
plain-spoken a preacher would have been ill suited to 


MASSILLON 


870 


MAST 


the gallant and profligate court of “ the great king.” At 
the death of Louis XIV, Massillon was requested to 
preach his funeral sermon ; in other words, to pronounce 
a eulogy of this prince. This was an arduous task for 
the uncourtierlike preacher; yet he undertook it, and in 
his discourse lauded the fame and piety of the king, yet 
deplored the evils suffered by the nation in consequence 
of the wars and the looseness of morals. Invited now 
to preach the Lent sermons before the young king, 
Louis XV, then but eight years of age, he took advan- 
tage of the occasion to censure the manners of the court ; 
and morality, rather than the passion of Christ, formed 
the subject of his sermons. These are ten in number, 
and being short, to accommodate them to the youth of 
his royal hearer, are known under the name of Le petite 
eureme . In 1717 Massillon became bishop of Clermont, 
and in 1719 member of the French Academy. Two 
years after he preached at St. Denis the funeral sermon 
of the duchess Elizabeth Charlotte of Orleans, daughter I 
of the elector of Palatinate, and mother of the regent. 
This is considered one of the best of his six Oraisons 
Fn mires. Thereafter he remained quietly in his diocese, 
diligently fulfilling his pastoral duties until his death. 
Less ambitious than Bossuet, lie did not wish to remain 
connected with the court, or in any way to take part in 
temporal affairs. His life was a model of Christian vir- 
tue and gentleness; he never disputed against any but 
infidels, and the Roman Catholics will not forgive him 
for having, in his eulogy of Louis XIV, after praising 
this monarch for his efforts to destroy heresy, alluded to 
the massacre of St. Bartholomew’s eve and pronounced 
it a hloody wrong , to be ever condemned in the name of 
religion as well as of humanity. Preaching from the 
fulness of his heart, he did not consider the rank of 
those he addressed, but spoke to them with nobleness of 
purpose in all simplicity and fervor. lie carefully in- 
structed the clergy of his diocese by holding numerous 
conferences and by synodal discourses. He died Sept. 
18, 1742. D’Alembert pronounced his eulogy before the 
French Academy. 

The fame of this celebrated man stands perhaps higher 
than that of any preacher who has preceded or followed ) 
him, by the number, variety, and excellence of his pro- 
ductions, and their eloquent and harmonious style, i 
Grace, dignity, and force, and an inexhaustible fecun- 
dity of resources, particularly characterize his works. ! 
Ilis .1 cent et Ca rente. consisting of six volumes, may be 
justly considered as so many “ chef-d’oeuvres.” Ilis 
mode of delivery contributed not a little to his success. 
‘•We seem to behold him still in imagination,” said 
they who had been fortunate enough to attend his dis- 
courses, "with that simple air, that modest carriage, 
those eyes so humbly directed downwards, that unstud- 
ied gesture, that touching tone of voice, that look of a 
man fully impressed with the truths which he enforced, 
conveying the most brilliant instruction to the mind, 
and the most pathetic movements to the heart.” The 
famous actor, Baron, after hearing him, told him to 
continue as he had begun. “ You,” said he. “ have a 
manner of your own ; leave the rules to others.” At | 
another time he said to an actor who was with him, | 
‘‘My friend, this is the true orator; we are mere play- 
ers.” Voltaire is said to have kept a volume of Massil- 
lon's sermons constantly on his desk, as a model of elo- 
quence. He thought him “the preacher who best un- 
derstood the world — whose eloquence savored of the 
courtier, the academician, the wit, and the philosopher.” 
Massillon's works, consisting mainly of sermons, have 
been collected and published under the title (Forres 
completes (Paris, 1770, 15 vols. 12mo). In English we 
have, Sermons on the Duties of the ( ireat , translated j 
from the French; preached before Louis XV during 
his minority; by William Dodd, LL.D. (Loud. 1770, 2d 
ed. sm. 8vo) : — Sermons , selected and translated by Wil- 
liam Dickson (Lond. 1820. 8vo) : — ( 'harg<s, with two Fs - 
says, translated by Theophilus St. John [the Rev. S. 
Clapham] (Lond. 1805, 8vo) : — Sermons on Death , Psa. 


Ixxxix , 47, translated (T.Wimbolt, Sermons) : — Ecclesi- 
astical Conferences , Synodical Discourses , and Episcopal 
Jfandates , etc., translated by C. II. Boylan, of Mav- 
nooth College (1825, 2 vols. 8vo). See La Ilarpe, Cours 
de Litter at.; Maury, Eloquence de la Chaire; F. There- 
min, Demosthenes und Massillon (1845) ; D’Alembert, 
Eloge de Massillon; Sainte-Bcuve, Causer ies de Lundi; 
Talbert, Eloge de Massillon (1773) ; 1 Ioefer, Four. Diog. 
Generale, s. v. ; Christian Remembrancer , 1854 (Jan.), p. 
104 ; Presb. Rev. 1868 (April), p. 295. (J. II. W.) 

Masson, John, a minister of the Reformed Church, 
who was a native of France, whence he emigrated to 
England after the revocation of the Edict of Nantes. 
He then settled in Holland, and assisted in a critical 
journal entitled Ilistoire Critique de la Republique de 
Lettres from 1712 to 1721. He also wrote lives of Hor- 
ace, Ovid, and Pliny the Younger, in Latin; and Ilis- 
toire de Pierre H nyle et de ses Ouvrages (12mo). lie 
died in England about 1760. 

Masson, Philip, a relative of the preceding, who 
assisted in the same journal, and was also the author of 
a critical dissertation designed to show the utility of the 
Chinese language in explaining various passages of the 
Old Testament. 

Masson, Samuel, brother of John, was pastor of 
the English Church at Dort, and conductor of the above 
journal. 

Massorah. See MASor.Aii. 

Massuet, RiLni2, a French Benedictine monk of the 
Congregation of St. Maur, was bom at St. Ouen, in Nor- 
mandy, in 1G65. He studied philosophy and theology 
in different Benedictine convents; was made liccntiatus 
juris at Caen ; and came to the abbey of St. Germain des 
Pres, at Paris, in 1703. Here he commenced his scien- 
tific labors, which secured him a distinguished place in 
that learned congregation. After the death of Ruinart, 
Massuet was intrusted with the continuation ol the an- 
nals of the order, and he furnished the fifth volume. 
The principal work from his pen is an edition of the 
works of Ircnaens. published under the title Saneti Ire- 
nad, cpiscopi Lugdunensis , contra I/ccreses Libri v (Paris, 
1710, fob); considered as having been the best edition 
of this Church father that had appeared up to Massuet’s 
time. He prefaced the works of Irenreus by three dis- 
sertations, which give good proof of the editor’s pene- 
tration and judgment. In the first dissertation the per- 
son, character, and condition of lremvus are considered, 
setting forth particularly the writings and heretics lie 
encountered; in the second, the life, actions, martyrdom, 
and writings of this saint are treated of; and in the 
third his sentiments and doctrines are reviewed. Mas- 
suet took an active part in the Jansenistic controversies. 
Having undertaken to defend the edition of the works 
of St. Augustine against the attacks of the Jesuit Lan- 
glois. he wrote Lettre d'un Ecclesiastique au R. P. E. L. 
sar cellc gu'il a ecrite aux R. P. Benedictins de la Cong, 
de Saint-Maur (Osnabruck, 1G99). He is also the au- 
thor of a Lettre a M. Vercqne de Bayeux,svr son mamle- 
ment du 5 Mai 1707 (La Have, 1708, 12mo); and a book 
entitled A 2 /gust in us Graeus, in which he defends the 
opinions of his order on grace and free agency, but 
which was never published, lie died at Parisian. 1 1, 
1710. See Hist. Litter, clc la Cong, de St. Maur. p. 375 ; 
1 Ioefer, Xouv. Biog. Generale, xxxiv, 217 ; Herzog, Real- 
Encyldop. ix, 145, 

Mast is the rendering in the Auth.Yers. of two lleb. 
words, ban (< rhibheV , so called from the ropes and stays 
with which it is fastened), occurs only in Prov. xxiii, 
34, “Thou (that tarriest long at the wine) shalt be as he 
that licth down in the midst of the sea, or as he that 
lieth upon the top of the mast” (Sept, ioa-tp k-vfitpi'/)- 
Tf](j iv 7 roWp AftWi, Yulg. quasi sopitus gubirnator 
umisso clano). doubtless correctly as referring to an in- 
toxicated sailor falling asleep at the mast-head in a 
storm at sea. (to'ren, prob. i. q. a pine-tree'), 


MASTER 871 MASTIC 


the mast of a ship (Isa. xxiii,23; Ezek. xxvii, 5; Sept, 
i aroc, Yulg. malus ); also a signal-pole set up on moun- 
tains for an ensign (Isa. xxx, 17 ; Sept. (’<Tro£,Yulg. ma- 
lus, Auth.Yers. “beacon”). Ancient vessels had often 
two or three masts (see Smith’s Did . oj Class. Antiq . s. 

v. Malus). See Ship. 

Master is the rendering in the A. Y. of the follow- 
ing Heb. and Greek words: adon', Kvptog , prop- 
erly lord , as usually rendered ; ba'al, an owner , 

hence master in the prevalent sense, howoT^g ; also 
rab, great or chief, usually in combination; 
sar, prince or captain, i ttigtcitiiq ; linally IiddotcaXog , 
teacher. On “ masters of assemblies” (Eccl. xii, 11), see 
Assembly. For master of the feast, see Architricli- 
nus. 

MASTER, in a Christian point of view, is a person 
who has servants under him ; a ruler or instructor. r I he 
duties of masters relate, 1. To the civil concerns of the 
family . They are to arrange the several businesses re- 
quired of servants; to give particular instructions for 
what is to be done, and how it is to be dene ; to take 
care that^no more is required of servants than they are 
equal to ; to be gentle in their deportment towards them: 
to reprove them when they do wrong, to commend them 
when they do right; to make them an adequate recom- 
pense for their services, as to protection, maintenance, 
wages, and character. 2. A s to the morals of servants. 
Masters must look well to their servants’ characters be- 
fore they hire them ; instruct them in the principles and 
confirm them in the habits of virtue; watch over their 
morals, and set them good examples. 3. As to their re- 
ligious interests. They should instruct them in the 
knowledge of divine things (Gen. xiv, 14: xviii, 19); 
pray with them and for them (Josh, xxiv, 15) ; allow 
them time and leisure for religious services, etc. (Eph. 

vi, 9). See Stennett, On Domestic Duties , ser. 8 ; Paley’s 
Moral Philosophy , i, 233, 235 ; Beattie’s Elements of 
Moral Science, i, 150, 153 ; Doddridge’s Lectures , ii, 26G. 
— Henderson’s Buck. 

Masters of the Church, a name given (1) to the 
learned clergy who sat as advisers of the bishops in syn- 
ods; (2) also to the residentiaries in a minster, as master 
of the lad} r chapel, being its keeper ; master of the chor- 
isters, master of the common hall, califactory, or par- 
lor; master of converts, the superintendent of lay-broth- 
ers ; the master of the novices, always an elderly monk ; 
master of the song-school, master of the shrine, masters 
of the order or custodcs, the great officers of the monas- 
tery. — Walcott, Sacred Archceol. s. v. 

Mastiaux, Caspar Anton von, a Roman Catholic 
theologian, was born at Bonn, Germany, March 3, 17GG. 
He became a canon at Augsburg in 178G, and was or- 
dained to the priesthood, and appointed preacher at the 
cathedral of Augsburg, three years later. After filling 
several subordinate positions, he was made privy-coun- 
cillor to the king of Bavaria in 180G. He received the 
degree of master of philosophy in 1784, doctor of laws 
in 1786, doctor of divinity in 1790, and was admitted as 
an honorary member to several academies and learned 
societies. His published works embrace De veterum 
Ripuariornm statu civili et ecclesiastico commentatio lns- 
torica (Bonn, 1784): — A Historical and Geographical De- 
scription of the Archbishopric of Cologne : — On the neg- 
ative Character of Religious Principle among the Mod- 
ern French : — .4 Sketch of Borromeo, A rchbishop of Mi- 
lan and Cardinal in the Romish Church: — The Passion- 
week, according to the Ritual of the Roman Church : — An 
Essay on Chorals and Hymns for the Church: — Several 
Collections of Hymns, and of Ancient and Modern Tunes: 
— A number of Sermons, and of miscellaneous Speeches 
in German and Latin. He served for a time as editor 
of Felder’s Liter at urzeitnng, for teachers of the Roman 
Catholic faith, and was noted for his pointed and satiri- 
cal style. The year of his death, which occurred at 
Munich, is not exactly known ; it is supposed to have 


been 1828. — Wetzer und Welte, Kirchen-Lex. vi, 921. 
(G.M.) 

Mastic ((Txirog, Yulg. lentiscus , A.Yers. “mastick- 
tree”) occurs but once, and that in the Apocrypha (Su- 
san. v, 54), where there is a happy play upon the word. 
“Under what tree sawest thou them? . . . under a 
mastic-tree (i >7 ro ofivov). And Daniel said . . . the 
angel of God hath received the sentence of God to cut 
thee in two (<tx<<t« as fiifrov).” This is unfortunately 
lost in our version; but it is preserved by the Yulgate, 
“sub schino . . . scindet te;” and by Luther, “ Linde . . . 
finden.” A similar play occurs in ver. 58, 59, between 
irpivov and 7 rptoai at. For the bearing of these and 
similar characteristics on the date and origin of the 
book, see Susanna. 

There is no doubt that the Greek word is correctly 
rendered, as is evident from the description of it by 
Theophrastus {Hist. Plant, ix, i, § 2, 4, § 7, etc.), Pliny 
(A 7 . II. iii, 3G; xxiv, 28), Dioscorides (i, 90), and other 
writers. Herodotus (iv, 177) compares the fruit of the 
lotus (the Rhamnus lotus, Linn., not the Egyptian Ne- 
Imnbium speciosum) in size with the mastic berry, and 
Babrius (3, 5) says its leaves are browsed by goats. The 
fragrant resin known in the arts as “mastic,” and which 
is obtained by incisions made in the trunk in the month 
of August, is the produce of this tree, whose scientific 
name is Pistacia lentiscus. It is used with us to st rength- 
en the teeth and gums, and was so applied by the an- 
cients, by whom it was much prized on this account, 
and for its many supposed medicinal virtues. Lucian 
( Lexiph . 12) uses the term ox^vorpMurgg of one who 
chews mastic wood in order to whiten his teeth. Mar- 
tial ( Ep. xiv, 22) recommends a mastic toothpick {den- 
tiscalpiuni). Pliny (xxiv, 7) speaks of the leaves of 
this tree being rubbed on the teeth for toothache. Di- 
oscorides (i, 90) says the resin is often mixed with other 
materials and used as tooth-powder, and that, if chewed, 
it imparts a sweet odor to the breath. It is from this 
use as chewing-gum that we have the derivation of 
mastic, from paartx^h ^ ie g um of the an( l l ta ~ 

orali, pctOTixao), paoaopca, “to chew,” “to masticate. 
Both Pliny and Dioscorides state that the best mastic 
comes from Chios, and to this day the Arabs prefer that 
which is imported from that island (comp. Niebuhr, 
Beschr. von A rab. p. 144 ; Galen, Defac. Simpl. 7, p. 69). 
Toumefort (Voyages, ii. 58-G1, transl. 1741) has given a 
full and very interesting account of the Lentisks or 
Mastic plants of Scio (Chios) : he says that “ the towns 
of the island are distinguished into three classes, those 
del Campo, those of Apanomeria, and those where they 
plant Lentisk-trees , whence the mastic in tears is pro- 
duced.” Tournefort enumerates several lentisk-tree vil- 
lages. Of the trees he says, “These trees are very wide 



Mastic {Pistacia Lentiscus). 


MASUDI 


872 


MATERIALISM 


spread and circular, ten or twelve feet tall, consisting 
of several branchy stalks which in time grow crooked. 
The biggest trunks are a foot diameter, covered with a 
bark, grayish, rugged, chapt . . . the leaves are dis- 
posed in three or four couples on each side, about an 
inch long, narrow at the beginning, pointed at their 
extremity, half an inch broad at the middle. From the 
junctures of the leaves grow flowers in bunches like 
grapes; the fruit, too, grows like bunches of grapes, in 
each berry whereof is contained a white kernel. These 
trees blow in May; the fruit does not ripen but in au- 
tumn and winter.” This writer gives the following de- 
scription of the mode in whieh the mastic gum is pro- 
cured. “ They begin to make incisions in these trees 
in Scio the first of August, cutting the bark crossways 
with huge knives, without touching the younger branch- 
es; next day the nutritious juice distils in small tears, 
which by little and little form the mastic grains; they 
harden on the ground, and are carefully swept up from 
under the trees. The height of the crop is about the 
middle of August, if it be dry, serene weather, but if it 
be rainy the tears are all lost. Likewise towards the 
end of September the same incisions furnish mastic, but 
in lesser quantities.” Besides the uses to which refer- 
ence has been made above, the people of Seio put grains 
of this resin in perfumes, and in their bread before it 
goes to the oven. Mastic is one of the most important 
products of the East, being extensively used in the 
preparation of spirits, as juniper berries are with us, as 
a sweetmeat, as a masticatory for preserving the gums 
and teeth, as an antispasmodie in medicine, and as an 
ingredient in varnishes. The hardened mastic, in the 
form of roundish straw-colored tears, is much chewed 
by Turkish women. It consists of resin, with a minute 
portion of volatile oil. The Greek writers occasionally 
use the v'ord < jx iv °£ for an entirely different plant, viz. 
the Squill ( Scilla maritima ) (see Aristoph. Pint. 715; 
Sprengel, Flor. Ilippoc . 41; Thcophr. Hist. Plant, v, 6, 
§ 10). The Pistacia lentiscus is common on the shores 
of the Mediterranean. According to Strand {Flor. Pa- 
Icest. No. 559), it has been observed at Joppa, both by 
Kauw'olf and Poeoeke. The mastic-tree belongs to the 
natural order Anacai’diacece. — Smith, s. v. See Tris- 
tram, Xat. Hist, of Bible, p. 362 ; Buxtorf, Lex. Chald. 
col. 1230; Belon, Observ. ii, 81. 

Masudi, Abu’l Hasan ( All ben-IIusein ben- A li), 
one of the most celebrated Arabian savants, an early 
waiter in the department of comparative religion, from 
the Mussulman stand-point, was bom, according to his 
own statement, at Bagdad in the 3d century of the He- 
gira, or the 9tli of the Christian a?ra, and v r as the de- 
scendant of an illustrious family, who were among the 
early and devout followers of the Prophet of Mecca. 
Masudi was gifted with great talents, which he applied 
at an early age to learned pursuits. lie gathered an im- 
mense stoek of knowledge in all branches of science ; 
and his learning was not mere book learning, but he im- 
proved it in his long travels through all parts of the 
East, Turkey, Eastern Russia, and Spain. In A.H. 303 
he visited India, Ceylon, and the coast of China, where 
the Arabs had founded numerous small colonies ; thence 
he went to Madagascar and Southern Arabia; thence 
through Persia to the Caspian ; he also visited the Kha- 
zors in Southern Russia. In A.II. 314 he was in Pales- 
tine ; from 332 to 334 in Syria and Egypt; and he says 
in 345, when he wrote his last book, the second edition 
of his Golden Meadows, he was in Egypt, and had been 
a long time absent from his native country, Irak, lie 
says he travelled so far to the west (Morocco and Spain) 
that he forgot the east, and so far east that he forgot 
the west. Masudi died probably at Kahirah (Cairo), 
A.H. 345 (A.D. 956); and, since he visited I-ndia as 
early as A.H. 303, it is evident that those who say he 
died young are mistaken. 

No Arabian writer is quoted so often, and spoken of 
with so much universal admiration. The variety of 
subjects on which he wrote astonishes even the learned, 


and the philosopher is surprised to see this Arab of the 
Middle Age resolving questions which remained prob- 
lems to Europeans for many centuries after him. Ma- 
sudi knew not only the history of the Eastern nations, 
but also ancient history, and that of the Europeans of 
his time. He had thoroughly studied the different re- 
ligions of mankind — Mohammedanism, Christianity, the 
doctrines of Zoroaster and Confucius, and the idolatry of 
barbarous nations. No Arabian miter can boast, like 
him, of learning at once profound and almost universal. 
Unfortunately, however, Masudi wanted method in ar- 
ranging the prodigious number of facts which a rare 
memory never failed to supply him with while he -was 
writing. He illustrates the history of the geography 
of the West with analogies or contrasts taken from Chi- 
na or Arabia; he avails himself of his knowledge of 
Christianity to elucidate the creeds of the different Mo- 
hammedau sects ; and, while he informs the reader of the 
mysteries of the extreme North, he will all at once for- 
get his subject, and transfer him into the Desert of Sa- 
hara. For a list of his works, which are mostly extant 
only in MS., see the English Cyclopaedia, s. v. 

Matali, in Hindi! mythology, is the charioteer of 
Indra. See Williams, Translation of Sakuntala, Act VI. 

Mater Dolorosa, or Lady of Sori'oic, is the tech- 
nical term given to such portraits of the Virgin Mary 
as represent her alone, weeping or holding the crown of 
thorns. “ She appears alone,” says Mrs. Jameson {Le- 
gends of the Madonna, p. 36), “ a seated or standing fig- 
ure, often the head or half-length only, the hands clasp- 
ed, the head bowed in sorrow, tears streaming from the 
heavy eyes, and the whole expression intensely mourn- 
ful. The features are properly those of a woman in 



Representation of the Mater Dolorosa. (Afier Murillo.) 


middle age ; but in later times the sentiment of beauty 
predominated over that of the mother’s agony, and I 
have seen the sublime Mater Dolorosa transformed into 
a merely beautiful and youthful maiden, with such an 
air of sentimental grief as might be felt for the loss of a 
sparrow.” It is common also to represent the Virgin 
with a sword in her bosom, and even with seven swords, 
in allusion to the seven sorrows (Luke ii, 35) — a version 
of the allegorical prophecy which the Romanists have 
found quite profitable for the interests of the hierarchy. 
There arc few Roman Catholic churches without this 
representation of Mary. See Stabat Mater. 

Mater Speciosa, or Lady of Joy , the counterpart 
of the hymn of u Mater Dolorosa .” See Stabat Ma- 
ter. 

Materialism may be defined as that system of 
philosophy which considers matter as the fundamental 
principle of all things, and consequently denies abso- 
lutely the independence and autonomy of the spirit. It 


MATERIALISM 


873 


MATERIALISM 


is sometimes considered as synonymous with Natural- 
ism , yet this is erroneous, for there is a difference be- 
tween the notions of nature and matter. It is also called 
bv some Sensualism , which is more correct, yet only ex- 
presses one of the characteristics of the theory of mate- 
rialism. In a more extended sense, the expression ma- 
terialism is made to signify the whole of the practical 
results which, consciously or unconsciously, flow from 
such philosophy, and whose final object, although some- 
times restrained by considerations of prudence or expe- 
diency, is sensual enjoyment in its fullest sense. 

Materialism, strictly viewed, is the doctrine that all 
spirit, so called, is material in its substance, and is subject 
to the laws which govern the composition of material 
particles and the activity of material forces. Strictly 
construed, it is a psychological doctrine or theory; but, 
as it implies certain philosophical assumptions or princi- 
ples, it makes a place for itself in the domain of specu- 
lative philosophy. Its assumptions and conclusions are 
also fundamental to theology. If its positions are tena- 
ble, theology is impossible. If the human soul is but 
another name for an aggregation of material particles, it 
cannot exist when these particles are sundered. Al- 
though it is conceivable that these particles may be so 
minute as not necessarily to be disturbed by the dissolu- 
tion of the larger particles which constitute the body, 
yet this is too improbable to relieve the materialistic 
theory from the charge of being inconsistent with the 
possibility of a future life. The moral relations of the 
soul must be entirely inconsistent with its subjection 
to the laws which govern matter and its activities, and 
these moral relations give to theology — certainly to 
Christian theology — all its interest. If the assumptions 
of materialism are correct, there can be no intelligent 
and personal Creator. Creation itself is inconceivable, 
and therefore impossible. 

A significant fact, which strikes one at first on the 
study of the history of materialism, is that it never ap- 
pears as a power among the masses in the early stages 
of civilization. On the contrary, we find that in all na- 
tions a more or less perfect spiritual contemplation of 
nature forms the first step towards religious conscious- 
ness. This fact is a sufficient answer in itself to the as- 
sertion that materialism is the original and true form 
of human consciousness. On the other hand, we find 
materialism spreading among the masses in the nations 
which have attained the culminating point of their civ- 
ilization. It becomes, then, the premonitory sign of 
their downfall, being already an evidence of their moral 
and spiritual decay. 

The materialistic theory was in some sense sanctioned 
by those earlier Greek philosophers who referred the or- 
igin of all things — the spirit of man included— to some 
attenuated form of matter, as water, air, or fire. From 
these rude speculations philosophy emerged by succes- 
sive effurts, till in the Socratic school the soul of man 
was held to be distinct in its essence from matter, to be 
superior to matter, and indestructible by the dissolution 
of the body. The Socratic school also emphasized the 
doctrine that mind has infused order into the universe. 
The Platonic philosophy enforced these doctrines with 
glowing appeals to the nobler sentiments, and embel- 
lished them with a great variety of mythological repre- 
sentations. Aristotle, more cautious and exact in his 
statements, asserted for the higher forms of intellectual 
activity an essence distinct from matter. The philoso- 
phers of the Epicurean school were avowed materialists. 
They taught explicitly and earnestly the doctrine that 
what is called the soul is composed of atoms, and must 
necessarily be dissipated at death. The universe itself 
likewise consists of atoms, and all its phenomena are 
the results of fortuitous combinations of atoms. Sensa- 
tion, intelligence, and desire are the effects of the action 
and reaction of the atoms within and the atoms with- 
out the body. These doctrines are elaborately set forth 
by the celebrated Lucretius (B.C. 95-44) in his poem De 
rerum natura. The Atomic Materialism of Epicurus, 


and the Imaginative and Rational Spiritualism of Plato 
and Aristotle, separated the Greek philosophers into two 
leading divisions, with various unimportant subordinate 
sections. Among the Jews, the Saddueees denied that 
there was either angel or spirit, or existence after 
death ; but there is no evidence that they supported 
these doctrines by any philosophical materialistic theo- 
ries. The Christian philosophy was necessarily auti- 
materialistic. With the revival of learning and of the 
ancient philosophies, the Epicurean materialism found 
many adherents, against whose influence the pronounced 
spiritualism of Descartes furnished a positive and most 
efficient check. Hobbes was the opponent of Descartes, 
and all his conceptions of the soul and of the laws of its 
activity are materialistic, reducing all spiritual phenom- 
ena to bodily motions. Spinoza made spiritual beings 
to be modes of the universal substance which is God 
— every spiritual operation being the necessary counter- 
part of some materialistic phenomenon. But the rise 
of the mechanical or new philosophy of nature, to which 
Descartes incidentally contributed, and which Sir Isaac 
Newton so triumphantly established, had no little influ- 
ence in developing the materialism of modern philoso- 
phy. The speculations of Locke indirectly furthered 
this tendency ; although, with Descartes, he asserted the 
authority of consciousness for the reality of spiritual 
phenomena. But still he contended, as against Descar- 
tes, that no man has the right to affirm that God could 
not endow matter with the capacity to think. The 
free-thinking Deists of England, who called themselves 
the disciples of Locke, were in many cases materialists, 
and advanced their speculations against the possibility 
of a separate existence of the soul in connection with 
their attacks upon the Christian doctrine of the resur- 
rection. There were few advocates of philosophical 
materialism among the English writers of the 18th cen- 
tury. David Hartley (1701-1757) made many phenom- 
ena of the soul to depend on vibrations of the brain, but 
expressly denied the inference that the soul is mate- 
rial in its substance. Joseph Priestley (1733-1801) was. 
led, in the course of his speculations, to assert that the 
sold is nothing but the organized body, and that this 
doctrine is essential to the rational acceptance of the 
Christian system (. Disquisitions relating to Matter and 
Spirit , London, 1777, 2 vols. 8vo). In France the influ- 
ence of the spiritualistic doctrines of Descartes was grad- 
ually displaced in the schools by the system of Condil- 
lac, which found its logical termination in the extreme 
materialism of La Mettrie (1709-1751), V Homme ma- 
chine ; Ilistoire naturelle de Vame, and of baron Holbach 
(1723-1789), Syst'eme de la Nature , in which all spirit- 
ual essence and activity are resolved into matter and 
motion. Here the Encyclopaedists Diderot (q. v.) and 
D’Alembert (q. v.) deserve special mention ; nor should 
the noted Helvetius (q. v.) be forgotten. 

In more recent times, materialism has been both 
metaphysical and physiological. Metaphysical mate- 
rialism has resulted in some cases by logical deduc- 
tion, or, rather, a logical tendency, from the idealistic 
assumption that matter and spirit are identical. The 
argument which seeks to make matter and spirit one, 
lends plausibility to the conclusion that it is indifferent 
whether matter should be resolved into spirit, or spirit 
resolved into matter. The extreme idealism of some of 
the German schools has prepared the way for the mate- 
rialism with which they would seem to have had the 
least possible sympathy. The real pantheism of Spinoza 
and the logical pantheism of llegel have furnished ax- 
ioms and a method, which have been applied in the serv- 
ice of materialism. It is in physiology, however, that 
modern materialism has found its most efficient ally. 
Physiology has renewed the previously-exploded doc- 
trine of vibrations, which again has found confirmation 
in that view of the correlation of forces which resolves 
every agency of nature into some mode of motion. If 
heat, and light, and electriciti' are but modes of motion, 
why not nervous activity ? and if nervous activity, why 


MATERIALISM 


874 


MATHER 


riot vital energy? and if vital energy, why not spiritual 
judgments and emotions? This argument has been 
urged with great earnestness and pertinacity by certain 
physiologists both of the German and English schools. 
Conspicuous among them are Carl Vogt, Physiologische 
Briefe fiir Gebihlete; Kbhler-Glaube und Wissenschaft, 
185.3 ; J. Moleschott, Physiologie des Stofficcchsels ; Der 
Kreislauf des Lebens , etc.; Louis IVuchner, Kraft und 
Stoff (1855) ; Katur u. Geist , etc.; lliickel, Naturlich- 
Sch vpfun gsgesch ich te ; Ueber die Entstchung und den 
Staumbau des M cnschengeschlechts, etc. T. II. Huxley, 
On the Physical Bases of Life, edit. 18G8 (compare J. II. 
Sterling, As regards Protoplasm, etc., edit. 1869-72), 
and II. Maudsley, Physiology and Pathology of the Hu- 
man Mind (Loud, and N. Y. 1807), approximate to the 
same opinions among the English. Alexander Bain 
{The Senses and the Intellect, Lond. 1855, 1864); The 
Emotions and the Will, 2d ed. 1865; Mental and Moral 
Science , Lond. 1807) sympathizes with these tendencies, 
treating the soul in the main as though it were but 
a capacity in the nervous system for special functions 
which obey physiological laws. The doctrine of evo- 
lution by natural selection in the struggle for existence, 
which has been derived by the celebrated Darwin from 
a limited cycle of physiological facts, and extended 
by him to explain the production of all complex forms 
of being, inorganic and organic, is materialistic in its 
assumptions and its conclusions, even if neither of these 
are recognised or confessed by its advocates. The met- 
aphysical doctrine of development by successive pro- 
cesses of differentiation and integration, which has been 
hardened into an axiom by Herbert Spencer, and ap- 
plied to the explanation of all forms of being, and even 
of the primal truths of metaphysical science itself, can 
lead to no other than a materialistic psychology. The 
doctrine of unconscious cerebration, which is taught 
more or less explicitly by Dr. W. B. Carpenter and other 
eminent physiologists, though not necessarily involving 
the materialistic hypothesis, is yet materialistic in its 
tendencies and associations. The positive school of 
Comte teaches directly that the brain is the only sub- 
stance of the soul, and that what are usually called spir- 
itual activities are simply biological phenomena. J. S. 
Mill, though not avowedly a materialist, follows Hume 
in reducing matter and mind to idealistic formula?, 
which, as conceived by him, arc not distinguishable 
from physiological phenomena or products. 

According to the materialistic philosophy, as devel- 
oped by whatever writer, but especially in its once pop- 
ular form of Epicureanism, the perception of our senses 
is the only source of all human knowledge. The re- 
membrance of many previous perceptions of the same 
nature gives rise to general views, and the comparison 
of these to judgments. Ethics are thus but the doc- 
trine of happiness, and its highest maxim: Seek joy, 
avoid pain! Yet Epicurus sought to give a certain 
moral tendency to this fundamental axiom of his s} f s- 
tem, by declaring every pleasure objectionable which is 
followed by a greater unpleasantness, and every pain is 
desirable which is followed by a greater pleasure; ac- 
cording to which principle freedom from care and in- 
sensibility to bodily pain become the highest aim of 
man. See Lutterbeck, Xeutestamentliche Lehrbegriffe 
(Mainz, 1852), i, 38-58 ; 1 1. Hitter, Gesch. d. Philosophic ; 
Fries, Gesch. d. Philosophic, vol. i. See Epicurean Phi- 
losophy. In Boston a paper entitled The fnrestiyator 
is now published in the interests of materialism. The 
German-Americans are also quite active in this work. 
They have two papers- — the Pionier (Boston) and the 
Keue Zeit (New York). The editor of the former, Karl 
lleinzen, is frequently before the public all over the 
country to press the interests of his abominable work. 



Schmidt, 1871, 12mo) to controvert llurtmann’s PhiJos- 
ophy of the Unknown. 

The defects of the materialistic hypothesis are mani- 


fold. It considers only the similarities, and overlooks the 
differences of two classes of actual phenomena. Through 
its overweening desire of unity, it becomes one-sided 
and imperfect in all its conceptions and conclusions, 
and fails to do justice to the peculiarities of spiritual 
experiences, which are as real as the more obtrusive 
and palpable phenomena of matter. Moreover, it fails 
to discern that the intellectual and moral functions not 
only have a right to be recognised in their full import, 
but that they have a certain supremacy and authority 
over all others, inasmuch as the agent which knows 
must furnish the principles and axioms which all science 
assumes and on which all science must rest. If the 
soul is only a function of matter, then to know is one of 
the functions of matter. It follows that the authority 
of knowledge itself may be as changeable and uncer- 
tain as the changes of form, the varieties of motion, 
the manifold chemical combinations, or the more or less 
complex developments of which matter is capable. The 
materialistic hypothesis not only overlooks and does in- 
justice to the facts which are open to common appre- 
hension, but it is a suicidal theory, which destroys, by 
its own positions and its method, the very foundations 
on which any science can stand — even the scientific the- 
ory of materialism itself. See Soul. 

Literature. — Lange (Erdr. A.), Gesch. des Materiedis- 
mus, etc. (Iserlohn, 18G7, 8vo); Schaller, Leib. v. Seele 
(3d. ed. 1858); Wagner, Kampf nm die Seele (1857); 
Frauenstadt, Der M aterialismus ; Fabri (Dr. Friedrich), 
Brief e gegen den M aterialismus (Stuttg. 1856; 2d ed. 
18G4, 8vo ; comp. Bibl. Sac. 18G5, p. 525); Janet, The 
Materialism of the Present Day (a critique of Dr. Biich- 
ner, Lond. and N. Y. 186G, 12mo) ; Lotze, Medicinische 
(Leipsic, 1852) ; also his Mikrokosmus (Leipsic, 1856) ; 
Ulrici, Gott und die Katur (Leipsic, 1862) ; also his Gott 
und der Mensch (Leipsic, 1866) ; Fichte, Zur Scelevfrage 
(Leipsic, 1859) ; Seelenfortdauer, etc. (Leipsic, 1867) ; 
Psychologic (Leipsic, 1864) ; Trendelenburg, in the Denk- 
schriften d. K. A had. (1849) ; also Hist. Beitrage (1855) ; 
Jahr, Die icichtigsten Zeitfragen ; Die Katur, der Men - 
schengeist und sein Gottesbegriff (Leipsic, 1869, 8vo) ; 
Weiss (Dr. L.), Anii-M aterialismus ; Yortrage aus dem 
Gebiete der Philosophic (Berlin, 1869, 1871, 2 vols. 8vo); 
Hagenbach, Hist, of Doctrines, ii, 222, 475; Pearson, On 
Infidelity ; Farrar, Crit. Hist, of Free Thought; Buckle, 
Hist, of Civilization ; Limits of Religious Thought, 

Lect. v; Porter, Human Intellect, p. 18 sq. ; Liddon, Our 
Lord's Divinity, p. 451 ; Cudworth, Intellectual System 
of the Universe; Leckey, llist. of Rationalism; Hamil- 
ton, Discussions ; Fichte, in the Zeitschr.J. die Philoso- 
phie. 1860 ; Christ. Exam. 1859 (Nov.) ; Korth Brit. Rev. 
1860 (Nov.) ; A mer. Presb. Rev. 1869, p. 193 ; 1872, p. 194 ; 
Blbl. Sac. 1860, p. 201 ; 1865 (July) ; Theol. EclectASGd 
(Nov.), p. 55; Princet. Rev. 1869 (Oct.), p. GIG; Kitto, 
Journ. Sac. Lit. xxv, 25; Westminster Rev. 1864 (July), 
p. 90; 1S70 (Oct.), p. 225; Rosenkranz, in Zeitschr.fiir 
wissenschaftl . Theol. 1864, vol. iii, art. i : Journ. Specul. 
Phil. vol. i, No. 3, art. vi; Catholic World, 1870 (Aug.). 
See Matter. (N. P.) 

Maternus. See Firmicus. 

Maternus I, bishop of Cologne. See Colognhe. 

Mather, Alexander, one of Mr. Wesley’s most 
useful preachers, was born at Brechin, North Britain, in 
Feb. 1733. When a boy lie had some instruction at a 
Latin school, and afterwards ran away with the rebels, 
and was in the battle of Culloden. On account of this 
lie was treated with great harshness by bis father, and 
deprived of all educational advantages. In 1<51 he left 
home and went to Perth, and in 1752 to London, to earn 
his living as a mechanic. Here, in 1<53, lie married, 
lie had been religiously inclined from boyhood, and had 
long followed his convictions in many moralities and 
means of grace; finally converted under a sermon of 
John Wesley’s, April 14, 1754, he soon became very use- 
ful as a band and class leader and local preacher. In 
1757 he began itinerating under Mr. Wesley, and with 


MATHER 


875 


MATIIER 


great success, though often in peril from mobs stirred up 
by the Establishment. Sometimes he was beaten near- 
ly to death, and often stoned, but grace triumphed, and 
so much the more grew the word of God and multiplied. 
In 1757 he experienced the blessing of “the great sal- 
vation,” or perfect love, and from that time labored with 
increased unction and usefulness. He was persecuted 
by some of his brethren on this account, but Mr. Wes- 
ley defended him and held him up. He travelled on 
nearly all the circuits of England, and, during forty- 
three" years, was present at thirty -nine Conferences. 
Most of the time he was in prominent relations in the 
Church, and active in all its interests. lie was the 
principal member of Mr. Wesley’s select committee, and 
his clear, strong sense and judgment were of great 
weight in all things. “ His disinterestedness was shown 
in the fact that, though ordained by Wesley as a super- 
intendent or bishop, and an advocate of the claim of the 
people for the sacraments, he made no attempt to secure 
any defence for liis peculiar office, but even opposed the 
immediate adoption of Coke’s episcopal scheme, as pro- 
posed at the Litchtield meeting” (Stevens). He died at 
London, Aug. 2*2, 1800 (?). — Jackson, Early Methodist 
Preachers , i, 3G9 ; Stevens, Hist, of Methodism, ii, 14*2 ; 
iii, 27, 40, 155 sq. 

Mather, Cotton, a very celebrated American di- 
vine of colonial days, the most noted of the Mather fam- 
ily, the grandson of Kichard Mather and son of Increase, 
is one of the trio spoken of in the old doggerel tomb- 
stone inscription : 

“Under this stone lies Richard Mather, 

Who had a son greater than liis father, 

And eke a grandson greater than either.” 

Cotton Mather was born at Boston Feb. 12, 1GG2-63. 
His early education be received under the eye of his fa- 
ther, and as a lad of twelve he entered at Harvard. At 
this time he is spoken of as a tine classical scholar. 
Four years afterwards, when he graduated, Dr. Oakes, the 
president of the college, addressed him in a Latin speech, 
lauding in glowing terms his past conduct and attain- 
ments, and predicting a glorious future. But it was not 
in worldly knowledge only that he was so advanced a 
student. The descendant of a line of ministers, he 
seemed to be himself, by his aptness in learning and 
early seriousness, specially marked out for the minis- 
try. When only in his fourteenth year, Cotton Mather’s 
mind had begun to be greatly exercised with religious 
thoughts. He at this time laid down a system of rigid 
fasts, which lie continued to practice monthly or week- 
ly, and sometimes oftener through the rest of his life, 
of strict and regular self-examination, and of prolonged 
times of prayer, to which he afterwards added frequent 
nightly vigils. It is necessary to mention these things 
in order to understand some points in Iris character and 
conduct in future years. For awhile he was diverted 
from his purpose of becoming a minister by a growing 
impediment in liis speech, and he began to study medi- 
cine. But being shown how by a “ dilated deliberation” 
of speecli be might avoid stammering, he returned to 
his theological studies, and commenced preaching when 
scarcely eighteen years old. In 1G80 he received a 
unanimous call from Iris father’s congregation, then the 
largest in Boston, to become assistant pastor, and in 
January, 1082, was settled as a colleague of his father. 
His labors in the ministry were characterized by great 
zeal and earnestness, and he soon came to be considered 
a prodigy of learning and ability, lie was not only a 
most attentive pastor, but a superior preacher, and 
withal found time for a large amount of literary labors: 
he published three hundred and eighty-two distinct 
works, most of them of course small, consisting, besides 
his sermons, of devotional works, and other contributions 
to practical religion. In addition to all these labors he 
was engaged in the accumulation of material for greater 
works. Nor did he any more than his father shrink 
from the political duties which the ministerial office had 
been supposed to cast upou those who held it. “New 


England,” he wrote, “being a country whose interests are 
remarkably inwrapped in ecclesiastical circumstances, 
ministers ought to concern themselves in politics.” 
When, therefore, Iris father was sent to England to seek 
relief from the arbitrary proceedings of Charles II and 
James II, Cotton Matlicr regarded himself as the nat- 
ural leader of the citizens, and on their seizing and im- 
prisoning the obnoxious governor, he drew up their dec- 
laration justifying that extreme measure. 

The freedom of thought in politics, however, made 
its inroads into the Church also, and fearing a falling 
away from the purity of the- old faith, and fancying that 
he saw the evil one busy in turning away the hearts of 
the people, he was led to a life of asceticism, which in- 
volved him in religious controversies. 

The daughter of one Goodwin, a respectable mechanic 
of Boston, accused a laundress of having stolen some of 
the family linen. The mother of the suspected person, 
an Irish emigrant, expostulated in no very gentle terms 
against such a charge, and, as was averred, not content 
with abuse, cast a spell over the accuser. The younger 
children soon began to suffer similarly, and the poor 
Irishwoman was denounced as a witch. Cotton Mather, 
fearing that the excesses of superstition would have a still 
more derogatory effect on the religious life of the col- 
onists, determined to investigate this case of witchcraft. 
He took the eldest girl, then about sixteen years old, into 
Iris house, and her vagaries soon left on his mind no 
doubt that she was really under the influence of an evil 
spirit. The poor Irishwoman was tried, condemned, 
and executed; and Mather printed a relation of the cir- 
cumstances, and an account of such influences in other 
places. The book, which was published with the rec- 
ommendation of all the ministers of Boston and Charles- 
town, was entitled Memorable Providences relating to 
Witchcraft and Possessions , with Discoveries and Ap- 
pendix (Lond. and Bost. IG89, Svo; 2d edit. 1G91, 12mo; 
Edinb. 1G97, I2mo). Both in the colony and in Eng- 
land the book was read by everybody. In the old coun- 
try it had the honor to be introduced by the eminent 
divine, Dr. Richard Baxter, who wrote a preface for the 
work, and argued that it was “sufficient to convince all 
but the most obdurate Sadducees.” The question here 
arises whether or not Cotton Mather was himself a be- 
liever in witchcraft, and whether or not he wrote the 
book simply to explode the “ delusion” which was fast 
making converts, especially in and about Massachusetts. 
Even to our day this question has not been satisfactorily 
solved. 

Mr. Bancroft, our great historian, has treated Cotton 
Mather as guilty of having provoked the excitement 
known as the “ Salem witchcraft delusion.” Within the 
last few years, however, one of our ablest writers. Mr. 
Poole, formerly librarian of the “ Boston Library,” has 
come forward to dear Cotton Mather of any and all in- 
sinuations, holding that “the opposite” of what is gener- 
ally charged against Mr. Mather “ is the truth.” “ His 
gentler treatment,” we are told, “cured and Christian- 
ized them [the believers of witchcraft]. He opposed, 
with his father and the rest of the clergy — with but 
three exceptions — the course of the judges in deeming 
every possessed person guilty, the ministry holding that 
the devil might enter innocent persons, and that the 
fact of tlreir improper conduct was no ground for ad- 
judging them criminals. He also opposed taking spec- 
tral testimony, or the words of a confessed witch. It 
must be ordinary legal witnesses and testimony that 
could alone convict. lie also offered to take six of the 
accused persons into his own house, at liis own expense, 
and to make upon them the experiment of prayer and 
fasting which had been so successful with the Goodwin 
children of his own congregation.” Mr. Poole also 
proves or makes it quite credible that it was Matlicr and 
not Mr. Willard who wrote the most vigorous tract of 
the times against the Salem movements, and who made 
the Boston and Salem treatment noted for their differ- 
ence even at that day. See Salem ; Witchcraft. 


MATIIER 


8 16 


MATHER 


There can hardly be any question about the faet that 
Cotton Mather is, in a measure at least, responsible for 
the blood that Avas shed at Salem between 1G85 and 
1692. But it is folly indeed to question his goodness, 
as some have done, or even to bring charges against his 
sincerity because of his fanatical treatment of the deluded 
Salemites. We need only remember that even the very 
men who built up the Church of Protestantism in the 
16th century were not entirely free from mistakes, and 
failed in a manner very much like their good Puritan 
descendant. Sublimely ridiculous, then, appears the 
judgment pronounced by a writer in a late number of 
Zion's Herald (May 20, 1869) : “At twenty-three he was 
in the midst of this terrific panic of mortal fear and its 
fatal results; and, even at this boyish age, bore himself 
with such manly courage, prudence, and coolness that 
he was the only minister, and even the only person, ex- 
cept his father, who may have been said to have stood 
solidly on his feet, and who won from his contemporary 
the praise that ‘ had his notions been hearkened to and 
followed, these troubles would never have grown unto 
that height which they now have.’ ” The quotation is 
from Poole’s article in the North American Review of 
April, 1869. While we would not forget the merits 
of our ancestors, but would rather extol them and laud 
them for their virtues, we cannot afford to be blind to 
their faults and mistakes. Salem witchcraft persecu- 
tion certainly must not find an advocate in the nine- 
teenth century, surely not at the expense of the truths 
of history. But to turn to the brighter side of Mather’s 
life. Says a writer in delineating his character, while 
acknowledging the failing we have felt constrained to 
condemn: “It was the great ambition of his whole life to 
do good. II is heart was set upon it; he did not there- 
fore content himself with merely embracing opportuni- 
ties of doing good that occasionally offered themselves, 
but he very frequently set apart much time on purpose 
to devise good ; and he seldom came into any company 
without having this direetly in his view. It was con- 
stantly one of his first thoughts in the morning, What 
good may I do this day? And that he might more cer- 
tainly attend to the various branches of so large and 
comprehensive a duty, he resolved this general question, 
What good shall I do? into several particulars, one of 
which he took into consideration while he was dressing 
himself every morning, and as soon as he came into his 
study he set down some brief hints of his meditations 
upon it. He had ordinarily a distinct question for each 
morning in the week. His question for the Lord’s-day 
morning constantly was, What shall I do, as pastor of a 
Church, for the good of the flock under my charge? 
Upon this he considered what subjects were most suit- 
able and seasonable for him to preach on; what families 
of his flock were to be visited, and with what particular 
view ; and how he might make his ministry still more 
acceptable and useful.” He died Feb. 13, 1728. 

Though many of Cotton Mather’s productions are in- 
deed but small volumes, as single Sermons , Essays , etc., 
yet there are several among them of a much larger size ; 
as his Magnolia Christ i Americana, or the Ecclesiasti- 
cal History of New England from its first Planting in 
1620 to 1698 (Lond. 1702, folio; Hartford, Conn., 1820, 2 
vols.Svo) ; his Christ. Philosopher (Lond. 1721, 12mo); his 
Ratio Discipline Fratrum Aor-A nglorum ; his Directions 
to a Candidate for the Ministry — a book wliieh brought 
him as many letters of thanks as would fill a volume. 
Besides all these, the doctor left behind him several 
books in manuscript; one of which, viz. his Eiblia A mer- 
icana , or Illustrations of the Sacred Scriptures, was pro- 
posed to be printed in three volumes, folio. The true 
motive that prompted him to write and publish so great 
a number of books, appears from the motto that he wrote 
on the outside of the catalogue which he kept of his own 
works, viz. John xv, 8, “ Herein is my Father glorified, 
that ye bear much fruit.” l)r. Mather was one of the 
most peeidiar men that America has produced. He 
doubtless possessed larger learning than any other min- 


ister of his time, but his mind was better adapted to ac- 
quire than to create. He lacked in strong judgment, in 
original genius, and in sustained power. He had no 
ability to generalize, no wide and penetrating vision. 
The most noted benefaction of his life to the country was 
introducing vaccination for small-pox, which proved a 
great blessing. See his Life , written by his son (Bost. 
1729); also by Enoch Pond and Dr. Jennings; Jones, 
Chris. Biog . s. v. ; Sparks, A mer. Biog. 1st series, vi, 161 
sq. ; Sherman, New England Divines, p. 76 sq.; Duyc- 
kinck, Cyclop, of A mer. Lit. i, 59 ; Allibone, Diet, of Brit, 
and A mer. Auth. vol. ii, s. v. ; Bancroft, Hist, of the U. 
S. iii, 71, 76, 95, 98; North Amcr. Rev. xliii, 519; xlvi, 
477 ; li, 1 ; Meth. Quar. Rev. i, 430 ; Christian Examiner , 
v, 365. (J.H.W.) 

Mather, Eleazer, a Puritan minister of New Eng- 
land, son of IJichard, and brother of Increase Mather, 
was born at Dorchester May 13, 1637 ; graduated at Har- 
vard in 1656; was ordained pastor of the Church at 
Northampton in 1661 ; and there died, July 24, 1699. 
He was a fine scholar, a sound thinker, and a devoted 
and evangelical minister. Many souls were converted 
through his labors, and his early death was much la- 
mented by all the churches. — Sherman, New England 
Divines, p. 107 ; Sprague, Annals of the A mer. Pulpit, i, 
159; Allibone, Diet, of Bnt. and Amer . Auth. s. a'. 

Mather, Increase, D.D., an eminent American 
divine, Avas bom at Dorchester, Mass., June 21, 1639. 
His father, Bichard Mather (q. v.), had emigrated from 
England to Massachusetts in 1635. In early child- 
hood Increase exhibited signs of unusual mental en- 
doAA'ments; he entered Han r ard College at the age of 
twelve, and graduated Avith the class of 1656. Shortly 
after this he Avas converted, and determined to de- 
\ T ote his life to the ministry. In the year folloAving 
that of his graduation lie Avent to Dublin, Avhere his 
brother Avas preaching. There he entered Trinity Col- 
lege, and, after securing the degree of M.A., Avas chosen 
a felloAV of the college, an honor, lioAveA^er, Avhich he 
declined. The climate of Ireland being unfa\*orable 
to his health, he remo\ r ed to England, and preached 
there for a Avhile. At the time of the Bestoration he 
Avas residing in the island of Guernsey, as chaplain to 
an English regiment ; but when, as a commissioned offi- 
cer, he Avas required to sign a paper declaring “ that 
the times then Avere and A\ r ould be happy,” and lie re- 
fused to comply, his salary was so greatly reduced that 
soon after this he returned to his native country, and 
Avas called and settled as pastor of the North Church in 
Boston. In this city he married, in 1662, a daughter 
of the Bev. John Cotton, and from this marriage sprang 
Cotton Mather, one of the most celebrated divines of his 
day. In the controversy as to “ A\ho are the legitimate 
subjects of baptism,” he opposed his father, and likeAvise 
the decision of the synod of 1662, until caused to change 
his vieAVS by the arguments of Mr. Mitchell, of Cam- 
bridge. Largely by his instrumentality the govern- 
ment Avas induced to call the general synod of 1679 from 
the whole colony, for the purpose of “ correcting the 
evils that had provoked God to send judgment on New 
England.” The synod had its second session the fol- 
lowing year, and Mr. Mather acted as moderator. At 
this meeting the Confession of Faith Avas agreed upon, 
and he prepared a preface to it. On the death of presi- 
dent Oakes of IIan T ard UnHersity, Mather temporarily 
supplied the place. By the sudden death of the ap- 
pointee, president Bogers, Mather Avas, in 1684, again 
called to the head of the college. This time he ac- 
cepted, and combined his presidential duties Avith his 
pastoral. In 1692 he was presented with a diploma of 
doctor of divinity, “ the first instance in Avhich such a 
degree Avas conferred in British America.” On the ac- 
cession of Charles II Massachusetts Avas thrown into 
trouble. His majesty required full submission of their 
charter to his pleasure, on pain, in case of refusal, of 
having a quo warranto issued against it. To this op- 


MATHER 


877 


MATHER 


pression Mather was stanch in his opposition, and be- 
fore an assembly in Boston dissuaded his countrymen 
from yielding their liberties tamely. As a result of 
their resistance, judgment was entered against the char- 
ter of the Massachusetts colony. About this time 
Charles died, and James IT, being his successor, pub- 
lished his specious declaration for liberty of conscience. 
This produced temporary relief, and Mather was dele- 
gated to convey to his majesty in England the grateful 
acknowledgment of the churches, and to sue for a fur- 
ther redress of their wrongs. James received him kindly, 
and promised him more than he ever granted. Mather 
remained, however, until the close of the revolution of 
1688, which deposed James and placed William and 
Mary on the throne of England. After much diplomacy 
with the prince of Orange, a new charter was at length 
procured in lieu of the old one, and Mather himself was 
allowed the privilege of nominating the governor, lieu- 
tenant governor, and board of council. After four years 
thus spent among the nobility at Whitehall, Dr. Mather 
returned to Boston with the consciousness of having 
faithfully discharged his duty and rendered his country 
an important service, lie found the Church in great 
excitement about witchcraft, which called forth his work 
entitled Cases of Conscience concerning Witchcraft. He 
retained his natural bodily and mental vigor until past 
his eightieth birthday. After this he endured great 
bodily and consequent mental derangements for four 
years, during all of which time his great burden seemed 
to be, not his suffering, but the painful sense of his ina- 
bility to labor. At last, on Aug. 23, 1723, he died peace- 
fully in the arms of his eldest son. Ilis loss was deeply 
mourned by those for whom he had spent his long and 
laborious life. According to Sprague, “ he was the last 
of more than twenty-two hundred ministers who had 
been ejected and silenced on the restoration of Charles 
II and on the Act of Uniformity.” lie was an indus- 
trious student, and published ninety-two separate works, 
most of which are now very scarce. A noted writer 
thus comments upon him in the North Anier.Rev. 1840 
(July), p. 5: “Increase Mather not only stood most 
conspicuous among the scholars and divines of New 
England, as president of Harvard College and pastor of a 
church in Boston, but by his political influence was sup- 
posed at times to have controlled the administration of 
the government.” He was a learned, earnest, and de- 
voted minister, whose piety was deep, warm, and full of 
love. His sermons were elaborate and powerful, and 
many souls were converted by his labors. He studied 
earnestly for sixty years, and was regarded as the most 
learned American minister of his day. — Sherman, New 
England Divines, p. 57 ; Alii bone, Diet. Brit, and Amer. 
Auth. s. v. ; Bancroft, Hist. U. S. (see Index in vol. iii) ; 
Drake, Did. A mer. Biogr. s.v. ; Duyckinck, Cyclop. A mer . 
Lit. vol. i. 

Mather, Moses, D.D., a Congregational minister, 
was bom at Lyme, Connecticut, in 1719; graduated at 
Yale College in 1739, and soon after was licensed to 
preach by the New London Association. In 1742 he 
commenced preaching in a Congregational church in 
Middlesex, now Darien, Connecticut, and in 1744 was 
ordained pastor of the Congregational Church, and this 
position he held until his death in 1806. Dr. Mather 
was a fellow of Yale College from 1777 to 1790. He 
warmly espoused the cause of the Colonies in the Rev- 
olutionary War, and was twice taken by the British and 
Tories, carried to New York, and confined in the pro- 
vost prison. He published a Reply to Dr. Bellamy on 
the Half -way Covenant: — Infant Baptism Defended 
(1759) : — A Sermon, entitled Divine Sovereignty display- 
ed by Predestination (1763) ; and was the author of a 
posthumous work, A Systematic View of Divinity (1813, 
12mo). See Sprague, Annals of the Amer, Pulpit , i, 425, 
s. v. 

Mather, Nathaniel, an English minister, a broth- 
er of Increase Mather, was born in Lancashire in 1630; 


graduated at Harvard College, 1647, and spent his min- 
isterial life in England and Holland. He died in 1697. 
He published Two Sermo7is (Oxon. 1694, 4to ; Lond. 
1718, 12mo) : — A Discussion on the Lawfulness of a 
Pastor's Officiating in Another Church: — A Fast Ser- 
mon : — and Sermons preached at Pinner's llall and Lime 
Street (1701). “ In his public discourses there was nei- 

ther a lavish display nor an inelegaut penury of orato- 
rical excellence, while the dignity of his subjects su- 
perseded the necessity of rhetorical embellishments.” — 
Calamy, Continuation of the Nonconformists' Memorial; 
Wilson, Dissenters; Allibone, Did. of Brit, and Amer. 
Auth. s. v. 

Mather, Richard, an Episcopal and later a Puritan 
minister, was born at Lowtown, Lancashire, Eng., in 1596 ; 
was converted when a young man ; spent two years at 
Oxford; entered the ministry in 1618, near Liverpool, 
and at the end of fifteen years of devoted and successful 
labor was suspended for nonconformity. He then emi- 
grated to Massachusetts, and became pastor of a congre- 
gation at Dorchester. There he died, April 22, 1669. 
He was a sound and earnest preacher, not captivating, 
but solid, pious, and very useful. He was an active the- 
ologian, and a member of every synod in New England 
after his arrival. He was studious, a good scholar, and 
a very able and valuable man. Richard Mather assist- 
ed Eliot in the New England version of the Psalms, and 
furnished the synod of 1648 a model of Church Disci- 
pline. He published a discourse on the Church Cove- 
nant (1639), a treatise on Justification (1652), and an 
elaborate defence of the churches of New England. See 
Increase Mather, Life and Death of Robert Mather (1670, 
4 to) ; Drake, Cyclop, of A mer. Biog. s. v. ; Allibone, Did. 
of Brit, and A mer. A uth. vol. ii, s. v. ; Roger, New Eng- 
land Divines ; Sherman, New England Divines, p. 26. 

Mather, Samuel (1), brother of Increase Mather, 
was bom in Lancashire, England, in 1 626 ; graduated 
at Harvard College in 1643; was for some time assist- 
ant pastor to Rev. Mr. Rogers, in Rowley; and was pas- 
tor of the North Church, Boston, in 1649. In 1650 he 
returned to England, and was appointed chaplain of 
Magdalen College, Oxford ; preached in Scotland and 
Ireland; went to Dublin in 1655, and became senior 
fellow of Trinity College, Dublin, and minister of the 
Church of St. Nicholas. Soon after the Restoration he 
was suspended on a charge of sedition, but afterwards 
continued to preach to a small congregation privately. 
He died in 1671. Mr. Mather held the first rank as a 
preacher. He published Sermons and Tracts: — Old 
Testament Types Explained a?id Improved (Lond. 1673, 
4to) ; rewritten by Caroline Fry, as Gospel of the Old 
Testament (1833, 1851): — Life of Nathaniel Mather 
(1689). See Drake, Did. of A mer. Biog. s. v. ; Darling, 
Cyclop. Bibliog. vol. ii, s. v. 

Mather, Samuel (2), D.D., minister of the Trin- 
itarian Congregational Church, son of Cotton Mather, 
was born in Boston in 1706; graduated at Harvard 
College in 1723, having studied theology probably un- 
der the direction of his father; was licensed to preach, 
and in 1732 became colleague-pastor with the Rev. Mr. 
Gee, of the Second Church in Boston, and was ordained 
in the same year. In 1741 a dissatisfaction arose against 
him in this church, partly from the charge of looseness 
of doctrine, and also of impropriety of conduct, and he, 
with the smaller part of his membership, withdrew, and 
established a separate Church in Hanover Street, on the 
corner of North Bennet. “ The fact,” says Robbins, in 
his History of the Second Church, “ that so many per- 
sons of good character supported Mr. Mather, affords 
good reason to doubt whether the charges of improprie- 
ty were well founded.” He sustained his relation as 
pastor of Hanover Street Church until his death in 1785. 
Dr. Mather published A Sermon on the Death of Cotton 
Mather (1728) : — Life of Cotton Mather (1729) : — An Es- 
say concerning Gratitude (1732): — Vita A. II. Franckii, 
cui adjeda est narratio rerum memorabilium in Ecclesiis 


MATHESIUS 


878 


MATHILDA 


Evangelicis per Germaniam , etc. (1733): — An Apology 
for the Liberties of the Churches in Xew England (1738) : 
—and Sermons on various Subjects (1738, ’39, ’40, ’51, 
’53, ’GO, ’62, ’60, and ’G8. Also a Poem, in five parts, 
The Sacred Minister , by Aurelius Prmlentius America- 
nos (1773): — Answer to a Pamphlet entitled Salvation 
for all Men (1782). — Sprague, Annals Atner. Pulpit, i, 
371. 

Mathesius, Johann, a German Protestant theolo- 
gian, was a native of Saxony. He studied at 'Witten- 
berg in 1528, and was there for a while Luther’s fellow- 
boarder. lie was appointed rector of Joachimsthal in 
1532, pastor in 1545, and died in 1564. lie had wit- 
nessed many abuses resulting from the misconception 
of the doctrine of salvation by grace: we learn from him 
that there were parties in the Church who claimed, on 
the strength of it, that faith alone was necessary, and 
that works were of no importance whatever, so that it 
did not matter whether the actions of believers were 
good or bad. Mathesius strongly opposed such hereti- 
cal views, and thus became involved in controversies 
which embittered the end of his life. He is especially 
known by seventeen sermons on the doctrine, the con- 
fession, and the death of Luther (Nuremberg, 1588; in 
recent times the biographical portions were collected 
and published under the title, J. Mathesius, d. Leben el. 
Dr. Martin Luther, mit einer Yorrede ron G. II. v. Schu- 
bert, Stuttgart). He wrote also various other sermons, 
a tract on justification, a catechism, and several hymns. 
His biography was published by Balthasar Mathesius 
in 1705. See Jdcher, Gelehrten-Lcxikon , and Dbllinger, 
Die Deformation, ii, 127 ; Herzog, Deal- Encyklopddie, ix, 
160; Winkworth, Christian Singers of Germany, p. 140 
sq. (J.N.P.) 

Mathetce (NaSnjrai, disciples ) is one of the names 
by which the early followers of our Lord were known 
among their contemporaries. All the common appella- 
tions of the professors of the Christian religion which 
occur in the N. T. were expressive of certain dispositions 
and privileges belonging to the sincere professor of the 
Gospel, feee Christians; Disciple. 

Mathew, Father Theouald. the celebrated apostle 
of temperance, a Catholic priest, was born in the county 
of Tipperary, Ireland, in 1814; was educated at the Ko- 
man Catholic seminary in Mavnooth ; was appointed, 
after his ordination, to a missionary charge at Cork, 
where he established a charitable association on the 
model of that of St. Vincent de Paul. About 1838 he 
became president of a temperance society, and in a few 
months administered the pledge to 150,000 persons in 
Cork alone. He afterwards visited different parts of 
Ireland, the cities of London, Manchester, and Liverpool, 
and the United States of America, and was everywhere 
received with enthusiasm. For these eminent services 
in the cause of religion and morality, queen Victoria be- 
stowed upon father Mathew an annuity of £500. He 
died Dec. 6, 1856, at Queenstown, Ireland. See Ma- 
guire, Father Mathew, a Biography (Loud. 1863) ; Mor- 
ris, Memoirs of the Life of Theobald M athew (New York. 
1841); Ilcnshaw, Life of Father Mathew (New York, 
1849), s. v. ; Harriet Mart mean, Biographical Sketches 
(1869); Fraser's Magazine for January, 1841 ; Thomas, 
Diet. Biog. and My t hoi. s. v. 

Mathews, James M., D.D., a minister of the 
(Dutch) Keformed Church, was born in Salem, N. Y.. in 
1785; graduated at Union College in 1803; at the Sem- 
inary of the Associate Keformed Church in 1807 ; was 
licensed to preach the Gospel by the Associate Keformed 
Presbytery in New York in 1807 ; became assistant pro- 
fessor in the theological seminary of his great preceptor, 
Kev. Dr. John M. Mason, in 1809, and continued there 
until 1818. After supplying the South Du.tch Church 
in Garden Street, New York, for one year, he became its 
pastor in 1812, and retained that relation until 1810. 
Thereafter he never again took a pastoral charge, lie 
was the principal founder of the University of the City 


of New York, and was its first chancellor — 1831 to 1839. 
The elegant marble edifice of the university and the ad- 
joining Keformed church on Washington Square are 
monuments of his architectural taste and liberal proj- 
I ccts. Dr. Mathews published, in addition to various 
occasional pamphlets, a book of Autobiographical Decol- 
lections, a volume of lectures On the Relations of Science 
to Christianity, and another on The Bible and Men of 
Learning (1855). He was a man of noble presence and 
courtly manners, scholarly in his tastes and habits, a 
powerful preacher, and fertile in large plans of Christian 
usefulness. His last labors were given for many months 
before his decease to preparations for an evangelical 
council, held in New Y'ork, composed of representatives 
from most of the American churches, and over which he 
presided, in October, 1869. He was a zealous advocate 
of the Evangelical Alliance, and of other forms of Chris- 
tian union; and it is believed that his latest efforts in 
this cause exhausted his strength and hastened his end. 
Dr. Mathews was naturally a leader of men. His learn- 
ing was extensive, his tact and skill were great, and his 
zeal was ardent. Associated with prominent men and 
events for more than threescore years, he bore an active 
part in nearly all of the great religious and philanthropic 
movements of our country during this period. He died 
January, 1870, after a brief illness, in the city of New 
York, where his life was speut. (W. J. K. T.) 

Mathilda, a Homan Catholic saint, and queen of 
Germany, was born in Westphalia, towards the close of 
the 9th century. She was the daughter of Thcodoric, 
count of Oldenburg, a descendant of the famed Witti- 
kind, and of a princess of Denmark. She was educated 
by her grandmother, abbess of the convent of Herword. 
in 909 she was married to Henry, afterwards king of 
Germany. On the throne she preserved the piety and 
simplicity which distinguished her from her youth. 
A great part of her time was spent in prayer. She 
gave liberally to the poor, whom she often nursed her- 
self. She had three sons : the emperor Otho the Great; 
Henry, duke of Bavaria; and Bruno, archbishop of Co- 
| logne. One of her daughters, Hedwige, was married to 
Hugh the Great, duke of France, and became mother 
of Hugh Capet. After the death of her husband, Otho 
and Ilenrv of Bavaria quarrelled concerning the crown 
of Germany. Henry, for whom his mother showed 
great partiality on this occasion, having subsequently 
become reconciled with Otho, joined him in despoiling 
Mathilda of her dowry and of all her possessions, under 
j pretence that she was squandering the money of the 
state in giving alms to the poor. Her property was, 
however, subsequently returned to her through the in- 
terference of Edith, wife of Otho. The remainder of 
her life was passed in meditation and works of charity. 
She founded several convents, and died at Quedlinburg, 
March 14, 968. See Acta Sanctorum, March 14; Bail- 
let, Vie des Saints ; Mabillon, Swculu Ordinis Benedicto- 
ntm ; Schwarz, De Mathilda, abbatissa Quedlimburgensi 
' (Altdorf, 1736, 4to) ; Breitcnbauch, Leben d. Kaiserin 
Mathilde (Keval. 1780, 8vo); Treitschke, Heinrich 1 uml 
Mathilde (Lpz. 1814, 8vo); Mathilde Gemahlin Hein- 
richs I (Augsburg, 1832, 8vo). — Herzog, Deal- Encyklo- 
pddie , ix, 161; Hoefer, Four. Biog. Generate, xxxiv, 
250. (J.N. IV) 

Mathilda, countess of Tuscany, well known in 
history through her close political connection with pope 
Gregory YTI (q. v.), was a daughter of Boniface, count 
of Tuscany, and was born in 1046. She is said to have 
married Godfrey (smnamed II Gobbo, or the ‘‘Hunch- 
back”), duke of Lorraine, in 1069, by procuration ; but, 
if so. her husband did not make his appearance in Italy 
until four years after the wedding ceremony, and the 
two, if they were ever united, soon afterwards separated. 
Godfrey went back to bis duchy, and became a supporter 
of the emperor Henry IV, while Mathilda made herself 
conspicuous by t lie yeal with which she espoused the 
cause of Gregory YII. She became his inseparable as- 


MATHURINS 


879 


MATRIMONY 


sociate, was ever ready to assist him in all he under- 
took, and to share every danger from which she could 
not protect him. In 1077, when Henry had suddenly 
made his appearance in Italy, and Gregory was fearing 
for his safety, she gave the pontiff shelter in her own 
castle. This intimacy of Mathilda with the pope has 
given rise to much scandal, though ever} 7 unprejudiced 
mind will clear both of the guilt they stand accused of. 
Both the countess ami the vicar were pure in character, 
if their correspondence may serve as an index of their 
thoughts. (See on this point Neander, Ch. Hist, iv, 1 IB, 
80.) In 1*070 Mathilda made a gift of all her goods and 
possessions to the Church. In 1081 she alone stood by 
the pope, when Henry poured his troops into Italy, 
burning to avenge his humiliation at Canossa; she sup- 
ported him with money when he was besieged in Rome; 
ami after his death at Salerno boldly carried on the war 
against the emperor. She died at the Benedictine mon- 
astery of Polirone in 1 1 15. Iler death gave rise to new 
feuds between the emperor and pope Paschal III on ac- 
count of her gift to the Church, which finally resulted 
in the former wresting from the latter a portion of Ma- 
thilda’s possessions, but even what remained constituted 
nearly the whole of the subsequent “ Patrimony of Pe- 
ter.” See Patrimonium Petri. (J. H.W.) 

Mathurins, or Brethren of the Holy Trinity, 
an order of monks which arose at the end of the I2th 
century, and got this name from having a church at 
Paris which claims St. Matliurin for its patron saint. 
All their churches were dedicated to the Holy Trinity. 
Sometimes they are called Brethren of the Redemption 
of Captives, because, originating at the period of the 
Crusades, they gave their labor and a third of their rev- 
enue to liberate Christian captives from Mohammedan 
masters. Their founders were two French recluses in 
the diocese of Mcaux — Jean de Mattia and Felix de 
Valois. By some they seem to have been called the 
Order of Asses, as they were permitted to use those an- 
imals only, and were debarred from riding on horses. A 
similar order was founded in Spain in 1228, and there 
called the Order of St. Mary. — Eadie, Eccles. Diet. s. v. 
See also Trinitarians. 

Mathmists. See Trinitarians. 

Mathu'sala (Luke iii,37). See Methuselah. 

Matins, or Matutina, the “neiv morning service,” 
or the first of the morning services, and so called in con- 
tradistinction from the “old morning service,” which was 
before day, whereas this was after day began. Cassian 
says this was .first set up in Bethlehem, for t ill that time 
the old morning service used to end with the nocturnal 
psalms, and prayers, and daily vigils ; after which they 
used to betake themselves to rest till the third hour, 
which was the first hour of diurnal prayer. The name 
for morning prayer, in more modern Church-language, 
is matins. Before the Reformation the hours of prayer 
were seven in number, namely, matins, the first or prime, 
the third, sixth, and ninth hours, and vespers, and com- 
pline. The office of matins in the Church of England 
is an abridgment of her ancient services for matins, 
lauds, and prime. Ritualists divide the office of mat- 
ins, or morning prayers, into three parts : first, the in- 
troduction, which extends from the beginning of the 
office to the end of the Lord’s Prayer ; secondly, the 
psalmody and lessons, extending to the end of the Apos- 
tles’ Creed ; thirdly, the prayers and colleets, which oc- 
cupy the remainder of the service. See Farrar, Eccles. 
Diet. s. v. ; Eadie, Eccles. Diet. s. v. ; Neale, Introd. East. 
Church. See also Hours, Canonical. 

Ma'tred (Ileb. Matred ', 'lip 12, propelling ; Sept. 
M« Varpao), the daughter ofMezahab and moth- 
er of Mehetabel, which last was wife of one of the Edom- 
itish kings (Gen. xxxvi, 39 ; I Chron. i, 50). B.C. prob. 
ante 1619. 

Ma'tri (Ileb. MatrV, 1*11212 [but with the def. art.], 
prob. expectant ; Sept. Marrnpi', Vulg. Metri), a Benja- 


mite, the head of the ancestry of Kish, the father of 
Saul (1 Sam. x, 21). B.C. prob. cir. 1612. • 

Matricula, a list or register of the church, called 
in Greek Kctviov and icardXoyoQ itparucuQ ; in Latin, al- 
bum, matricula, tabula clericorum . The use of the word 
matricula to designate entry at college or university 
record of a new student is due to this early adaptation 
of the word. Because the names of all the clergy and 
other persons ^vere enrolled in the matricula , they were 
called canonici. — F arrar, Eccles. Diet. s. v. ; Eadie, Eccles . 
Diet. s. v. See Canonici ; Diptyciis. 

Matricularii, subordinate servants of the clergy, 
who were intrusted with the care of the church in which 
they were accustomed to sleep: they had also offices to 
perform in public processions. — Farrar, Eccles. Diet. s. v. ; 
Eadie, Eccles. Diet. s. v. See Sacristan. 

It/Eatrimony or Marriage as a Sacrament. 
The Church of Rome regards the act of matrimony not 
only as a religious contract, but also as a sacrament. 
We need hardly step aside to explain the meaning of 
the word sacrament, but it may be proper here to say 
that the Romanists hold seven sacraments as established 
by the Council of Trent, teaching also that “each sac- 
rament confers grace peculiar to itself, so that it has the 
special effect of conferring grace subservient to that end.” 
This distinction is called by the divines “ sacramental 
grace.” See Sacrament. The clergy of the Church 
of England of High-Churcli tendency incline to hold a 
like view on this point, but there is certainly nothing 
in the XXXIX Articles to warrant any such interpreta- 
tion of the marriage-contract. The Roman view of mar- 
riage is based by the schoolmen on the expression of Paul 
in writing to the Ephesians (v, 32), to pvort)piov tovto 
peya larii 1 , or, as it runs in the Vulgate, “ Sacramen- 
tum hoc magnum est.” “Thus viewed, the extenial 
part or sign, the 4 pars sensibilis,’ is the expression of a 
mutual consent involving, as is necessary in all sacra- 
mental ordinances, a real present intention ; and the in- 
ward part or gift is the grace which unites the hearts, 
or, according to another view, the grace to resist concu- 
piscence, sometimes entirely, judging by St. Thomas 
Aquinas’s remark that carnal intercourse is not a neces- 
sary part of marriage, because there was none in Para- 
dise.” The following more general considerations are 
also urged from Scripture in favor of the sacramental 
theory: “The union between the husband and wife is 
spoken of as analogous to the union between Christ and 
the Church. The husband is the head of the wife even 
as Christ is the head of the Church ; therefore, as the 
Church is subject unto Christ, so let the wives be to 
their own husbands in everything (Epli. v, 23, 24). 
Now if this figure has any meaning it must be this, that 
the external sign of alliance between bride and bride- 
groom signify that there should henceforth exist be- 
tween them a union as holy, as close, and as indissoluble 
as that between Christ and the Church, a union which 
could not be maintained without a special gift from 
God. That such a gift exists is made evident by Paul, 
who says, while drawing a comparison between mar- 
riage and celibacy, 4 Every man hath his proper gift of 
God, one after this manner and another after that’ (I 
Cor. vii, 7) ; and what would the gift be which is alluded 
to in the case of married persons hut the grace which 
unites their hearts, and enables them to be fitting em- 
blems of Christ and the Church? Again, the presence 
of our Lord at the marriage in Cana of Galilee (John ii, 
1-11) is sometimes referred to as having elevated the 
ceremony into the dignity of a sacrament” (Blunt, Diet, 
of Theol. s. v.). 

Those who regard marriage as a sacrament are not 
themselves agreed as to what is the essential part of 
matrimony constituting it a sacrament. The prevailing 
opinion we take to be that the essential part, as well as 
the efficient cause, is the consent of the two parties, 
which must be expressed in words as the “ pars sensi- 
bilis” of the sacrament, and must imply a real present, 


MATRIMONY 


880 


MATRIMONY 


and not a future consent. There are others who would 
make the words of the priest the essential element 
whereby the marriage union is created, “Ego vos in 
matrimoninm conjungo,” etc.; in the English office, 

“ Those whom God has joined together let no man put 
asunder,” followed by the declaration of complete union, 

*• T pronounce that they be man and wife together, in 
the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy 
Ghost.” If the previous consent had made the two per- 
sons man and wife, these words on the priest s lips would 
seem to be, strictly speaking, superfluous. From primi- 
tive times it has been the custom to acquaint the Church 
beforehand with an intended marriage, which is evident 
from the passages above quoted. The object was to 
prevent unlawful marriage; not that the Church claimed 
any absolute power to grant or refuse leave to marry, 
but that in case a person was about to marry a Jew, or 
a heathen, or a heretic, or one within the forbidden de- 
grees of consanguinity, etc., the marriage might be pre- 
vented, or at least not obtain the sanction of the Church. 
The earliest allusion to the necessity of such notice in 
England is contained in the eleventh canon of the Synod 
of Westminster (A.D. 1200), which enacts that no mar- 
riage shall be contracted without banns thrice published 
in church (Johnson, Canons , ii, 91). See Bank. The 
existing law of the Church of England is expressed in 
the sixty-second canon: “No minister, upon pain of 
suspension ‘per triennium ipso facto,’ shall celebrate 
matrimony between any persons without a faculty or 
license granted by some of the persons in these our con- 
stitutions expressed, except the banns of matrimony 
have been first published three several Sundays or holy- 
days in the time of divine service in the parish churches 
and chapels where the said parties dwell, according to 
the book of Common Prayer.” The only substitute for 
banns recognised by the Church of England is an ordi- 
nary or special license. The power of granting the for- 
mer has belonged to English bishops from a very early 
date, being confirmed to them by 25 Henry VIII, c. 21. 
The right to grant special licenses, which are free from 
nil restrictions as to time or place, was originally a priv- 
ilege of the archbishop of Canterbury, as “legatus na- 
tus.” The ritual of the Church of Borne teaches that 
“ the end of the sacrament of marriage is that man and 
wife may mutually help and comfort each other, in or- 
der that they may spend this life in a holy manner, and 
thereby gain a blessed immortality ; and to contribute 
to the edification of the Church by the lawful procrea- 
tion of children, and by the care of procuring them a 
spiritual regeneration, and an education suitable to it. 
Every person, before entering into wedlock, is required 
to beseech God to join him with such a person as he 
may work out his salvation with, and examine whether 
or no the person he has fixed his affections on has the 
fear of God before her eyes; is prudent, discreet, and 
able to take care of a family.” 

The Council of Trent, at its twenty- fourth session, 
held Nov. 11, 1563, legislated upon the subject of matri- 
mony in twelve canons, as follows : 

“ Canon 1. Whoever shall affirm that matrimony is not 
truly and properly one of the seven sacraments of the 
evangelical law, instituted by Christ our Lord, but that it 
is a numan invention, introduced into the Church, and 
does not confer grace: let him be accursed. 

“ 2. Whoever snail affirm that Christians may have more 
wives than one, and that this is prohibited by no divine 
law ; let him he accursed. 

“3. Whoever shall affirm that only those degrees of 
consanguinity or affinity which are mentioned in the 
book of Leviticus cau hinder or disannul the marriage- 
contract; and that the Church has no power to dispense 
with some of them, or to constitute additional hinder- 
ances or reasons for disannulling the contract ; let him 
be accursed. 

“4 Whoever shall affirm that the Church cannot con- 
stitute any impediments, with power to disannul matri- 
mony, or that m constituting them she has erred ; let him 
be accursed. 

“5. Whoever shall affirm that the marriage-bond may 
be dissolved by heresy, or mutual dislike, or voluntary 
absence from the husband or wife ; let him be accursed. 

“6. Whoever shall affirm that a marriage solemnized 


but not consummated is not disannulled if one of the par- 
ties enters into a religious order; let him be accursed. 

“7. Whoever shall affirm that the Church has erred in 
teaching, according to the evangelical and apostolic doc- 
trine, that the marriage-bond cannot he dissolved by the 
adultery of one of the parties, and that neither of them, 
not even the innocent party, who has given no occasion 
for the adultery, can contract another marriage while the 
other party lives ; and that the husband who puts away 
his adulterous wife, and marries another, commits adul- 
tery, and also the wife who puts away her adulterous hus- 
band, and marries another (whoever shall affirm that the 
Church has erred in maintaining these sentiments) ; let 
him be accursed. 

“8. Whoever shall affirm that the Church has erred in 
decreeing that for various reasons married persons inny 
he separated, as far as regards actual cohabitation, either 
for a certain or an uncertain time; let him be accursed. 

“9. Whoever shall affirm that persons in holy orders, or 
regulars, who have made a solemn profession of chastity, 
may contract marriage, aud that the contract is valid, not- 
withstanding any ecclesiastical law or vow; and that to 
maintain the contrary is nothing less than to condemn 
marriage ; and that all persons may marry who feel that, 
though they should make a vow of chastity, they have 
not the gift thereof; let him be accursed; for God does 
not deny his gifts to those who ask aright, neither does 
he suffer us to be tempted above that we are able. 

“ 10. Whoever shall affirm that the conjugal state is to 
be preferred to a life of virginity, or celibacy, and that it 
is not better and more conducive to happiness to remain 
in virginity, or celibacy, than to be married ; let him be 
accursed. 

“11. Whoever shall affirm that to prohibit the solemni- 
zation of marriage at certain seasons of the year is a ty- 
rannical superstition, borrowed from the superstition of 
the pagans ; or shall condemn the benedictions and other 
ceremonies used by the Church at those times ; let him be 
accursed. 

“12. Whoever shall affirm that matrimonial causes do 
not belong to the ecclesiastical judges ; let him be ac- 
cursed.” 

Marriage as a Sacrament unbiblical. — 1 . In many most 
important points respecting marriage, Protestants and 
Roman Catholics agree ; yet, when the Church of Rome 
advances matrimony to a sacrament instituted by Christ, 
and endows it with sacramental qualities, there are sev- 
eral points of considerable importance to Christianity in 
which Protestant and Romanist must disagree. The 
latter asserts that matrimony as a sacrament was insti- 
tuted by Christ, and confers grace, and supports this 
dogma by quoting Ephesians v, 32: “This is a great 
fworiipiov ; but I speak in Christ and in the Church,” 
where the Douay translation renders by sacrament the 
word iAvari]piov , which we Protestants prefer to trans- 
late mystery . “ Or, indeed, if we render the word 1 sac- 

rament,’ still they have no advantage, inasmuch as the 
original word fivoTppiov, ‘mystery,’ which they read 
‘ sacrament,’ is employed on other subjects — as ‘ myste- 
ry of godliness’ (1 Tim. iii, 16), ‘a mystery, Babylon tbe 
great’ (Rev. xvii, 5). Papists must know that there is 
no force in their argument. The text, as found in their 
version, can only influence the minds of ignorant per- 
sons, who know not the Scriptures. The apostle does 
not say that marriage is a mystery, for he speaks con- 
cerning Christ and the Church. It is acknowledged 
that marriage is instituted of God, and is a sign of a 
holy tiling, yet it is no sacrament ; the Sabbath was 
ordained of God, and signified the rest in Christ (Ileb. 
iv, 8), yet it was no sacrament. All significant and mys- 
tic signs arc not necessarily sacraments” (Elliott, Ro- 
manism, p. 428). “ Romanists,” says the same able po- 

lemic whom we have just had occasion to cite, “ further 
quote the following passage to support their doctrine: 
‘ She shall be saved in childbearing, if they continue in 
faith and love ’ (1 Tim. ii, 15), inferring that the grace 
of sanctification is given to the parties married. To 
this we answer : (1.) We deny that any sacraments give 
or confer grace ; they are only means or instruments of 
its communication. (2.) It is allowed that God does 
give to pious married persons grace to live in piety and 
holiness; but it is unnecessary to constitute marriage 
into a sacrament for this purpose. (3.) Those who are 
not married may possess the sanctifying grace of God, 
which is sufficient to preserve all in a state of inward 
as well as outward holiness.” 


MATRIMONY 


881 


MATT AN I AH 


2. That marriage is no sacrament of the Gospel, speak- 
ing of such an institution in its proper scriptural accep- 
tation, may be proved by the following arguments : (1.) 
Matrimony was instituted in Paradise long before sin 
had entered, therefore it cannot be a sacrament of the 
Gospel ; marriage is observed among infidels and wick- 
ed persons, who are incapable of receiving worthily the 
sacraments of the Church. (2.) Papists arc inconsistent 
with themselves in calling marriage a profanation of 
orders ; some with consummate effrontery assert that to 
live in a state of concubinage is more tolerable for a 
priest than to marry. Can they really believe marriage 
to be a sacrament, which they contemn as vile and pol- 
luted ? Pope Siricius applied the words of St. Paul, 
44 They that are in the flesh cannot please God ,” in favor 
of the celibacy of the clergy — thus proving that this 
pope, in common with many other pontiffs, knew but 
little of scriptural interpretation, seeing the reference is 
plainly to deep human depravity and wickedness, but 
not to the marriage state. (3.) In every sacrament there 
must be an external sensible sign as the matter, and an 
appropriate order of words as the form ; but in matri- 
mony there is neither, therefore it is no sacrament. (4.) 
Again, none but pious persons can be partakers of the 
sacraments of the Church ; but piety is not a necessary 
condition of marriage, therefore marriage is not a sacra- 
ment. The conditions of confession and absolution, 
which are sometimes enjoined in the Church of Rome, 
cannot be pleaded as teaching that piety is required of 
those who arc to be married ; for confession and absolu- 
tion are no proper concomitants of true piety, seeing the 
greatest part of those who confess and receive absolu- 
tion are no otherwise religious than as members of the 
Church of Rome, and membership in that community is 
rather a presumption against, than in favor of true re- 
ligion. It does not alter the case to introduce the dis- 
tinctions which have been made by their theologians, 
namely, that marriage is often a civil or natural con- 
tract, and not a sacrament. This distinction is founded 
on mere technicalities, and not on any scriptural author- 
ity, either direct or inferential. 

3. It is necessary, as they acknowledge, that a sac- 
rament should be instituted by Christ; but matrimony 
was not instituted by him, therefore, according to their 
own rule, it is no sacrament. It is in vain for them to 
say that Christ instituted the sacrament of marriage, 
when they are unable to produce the words of institu- 
tion, or to adduce a single circumstance connected with 
its institution. It is true, the Council of Trent most 
positively, in their first canon, affirm that Christ did in- 
stitute,the sacrament of matrimony; but then neither 
chapter nor verse is given to prove the fact. Indeed, 
so divided among themselves are they respecting the 
time in which Christ converted matrimony into a sac- 
rament, that the most discordant opinions exist. Let 
the Roman Catholic Dens speak on the subject: 44 Some,” 
says he, “say that it was instituted when Christ was 
present at the marriage in Cana of Galilee, which he is 
said to honor with his presence and bless it (John ii) ; 
according to others, when Christ, revoking matrimony 
to its primeval unity and indissolublcness, rejecting the 
bill of divorce, said, 4 What God hath joined together, let 
not man put asunder’ (Matt, xix) ; but others refer its 
institution to the time of the forty da}*s between the 
resurrection and ascension, during which Christ often 
t&ught his apostles concerning the kingdom of God, or 
his Church ; others say the time is uncertain.” Thus the 
institution of marriage as a sacrament cannot be discov- 
ered by their ablest divines. The Council of Trent is 
unable to find the place where Christ established it ; 
the Roman Catechism adroitly evades this point, and 
leaves the matter in the same uncertainty as it fonnd it. 
We therefore hesitate not to affirm that, although mar- 
riage was originally instituted by Almighty God, recog- 
nised by Christ, and its duties explained and enforced 
by the apostles, nevertheless its institution as a sacra- 
ment cannot be found in any part of the New Testa- 

V.— K K K 


ment. Sec, besides, Elliott’s Delineation of Romanism , 
ch. xvi ; Ilagenbaeh, Hist, of Doctrines (see Index, vol. 
ii) ; Wetzer u. Welte, Kirchen-Lexikon , art. Ehe ; Her- 
zog, Real- Encyklopddie, art. Ehe. See also Celibacy ; 
Dispensation; Divorce; Marriage; Sacrament. 

Matrmas. See Godmothers. 

Matrix Ecclesia. See Ecclesia. 

Matsya, a Sanscrit word, signifying a flsh, and form- 
ing the name, in Hindu mythology, of the first avatar 
of Vishnu. On that occasion the preserving deity is 
said to have assumed the form of a great fish shining 
like gold, and, according to one account, 44 extending a 
million leagues,” that he might protect the ark which 
contained Satyavrata and the seven Rhisis with their 
wives, all the rest of the human race having been de- 
stroyed by the deluge. See Moor, Hindu Pantheon , s. v. ; 
Thomas, Diet, of Biog. awl Mythol. s. v. 

Mat'tan (Heb. Mattan ', ‘Jfr'E, a gift, as in Gen. 
xxxiv, 12, etc.), the name of two men in the Old Testa- 
ment and one ill the New. See also Mitiinite. 

1. (Sept. Ma3’dp,Mar.$«F v. r. Mayhap and May«p.) 

The priest of Baal slain before his idolatrous altar during 
the reformation instituted by Jehoiada (2 Kings xi, 18; 
2 Chron. xxiii, 17). B.C. 876. 44 He probably accom- 

panied Athaliah from Samaria, and would thus be the 
first priest of the Baal-worship which Jehoram, king of 
Judah, following in the steps of his father-in-law Ahab, 
established at Jerusalem (2 Chron. xxi, 6, 13). Josephus 
(Ant. ix, 7, 3) calls him M«a3rip” (Smith). 

2. (Sept. Na3-«p v. r. M«3«p.) The father of the 
Shcphatiah who was one of the nobles that charged Jer- 
emiah with treason (Jer. xxxviii, 1). B.C. ante 589. 

3. (Markup, Anth. Vers. 44 Matthan”.) The son of 
Eleazar and father of Jacob, which last was father of 
Joseph, the husband of the Virgin Mary (Matt, i, 15). 
According to tradition he was a priest (which disagrees 
with his tribal descent), and father of Anna, the mother 
of the same Mary (Niceph. Hist. Ee. ii, 3). B.C. con- 
siderably ante 40. See Genealogy of Jesus Christ. 

Mat'tanah (Ileb. Mattanah il3ln*2, a gift , as in 
Gen. xxv, 6, etc. ; Sept. MavSavaetv), the fifty-third sta- 
tion of the Israelites on the south-eastern edge of Pales- 
tifte, between the well (Beer) in the desert and Nahaliel 
(Numb, xxi, 18, 19). It was no doubt a Moabitish, or 
rather Ammonitish city, and is placed by Eusebius and 
Jerome ( Onomast . s. v.) in the region of Arnon, twelve 
miles eastward of Medebah, which Hengstenberg cor- 
rects to 44 southward” ( Bileam , p. 240), i. e. apparently in 
the plain of Ard Ramadan, perhaps between the branches 
of wady Wfileh. Leclerc (ad loc.) suggests that Mat- 
tanah may be the same with the mysterious word Yaheh 
(ver. 14; A.V. “what lie did”), since the meaning of 
that word in Arabic is the same as that of Mattanah in 
Hebrew. This is nearly the same with the explanation 
of the Targums of Onkelos and Pseudo-Jonathan, who 
make it an appellative for the well or Beer just men- 
tioned, as being a gift of God (see Kennicott, Remarks 
on 0. T. p. 60). See Exode. 

Mattani'ah (Heb. Matt any ah', of Je- 

hovah, also in the prolonged form Mattanya'hu , 

1 Chron. xxv, 4, 16; 2 Chron. xxix, 13; Sept. MarSa- 
viag or MarS’oiJa v. r. MaS-Sr/p and BarSaviag'), the 
name of several men. 

1. A Levite, one of the sons of Heman, appointed by 
David Temple singers, and head of the ninth class of 
musicians (1 Chron. xxv, 4, 16). B.C. 1014. He is pos- 
sibly the same with the father of Jeiel, and ancestor of 
the Jahaziel who predicted Jehoshaphat’s victory over 
the Moabites (2 Chron. xx, 14). 

2. A Levite of the descendants of Asaph, who assist- 
ed in purifying the Temple at the reformation under- 
taken by Hezekiah (2 Chron. xxix, 13). B.C. 726. 

3. The original name of Zedekiah (q. v.), the last 
king of Judah (2 Kings xxiv, 17). In like manner Pha- 


MATTATHA 


882 


MATTER 


raeh had changed the name of his brother Eliakim to 
Jehoiakim on a similar occasion (2 Kings xxiii, 31), ! 
when he restored the succession to the elder branch of 
the royal family (comp. 2 Kings xxiii, 31, 3G). 

4. An Israelite of the “ sons” (residents) of Elam, who 
divorced his Gentile wife after the captivity (Ezra x, 
26). B.C. 159. 

5. Another Israelite of the “sons” (residents) of Zat- 
tu, who did the same (Ezra x, 27). B.C. 459. 

6. Another Israelite of the “sons” (i. e. inhabitants) 
of Pakath-Moab, who did likewise (Ezra x, 30). B.C. 
459. 

7. Another Israelite of the descendants (or residents) 
of Bani, who acted similarly (Ezra x, 37). B.C. 459. 

8. A descendant of Asaph (but named as one of “ the 
priests’ sons,” i. e. perhaps assistants, for Asaph was only 
a Levite), and great-grandfather of the Zechariah who 
assisted in celebrating upon trumpets the completion of 
the walls of Jerusalem (Neh. xii, 35). B.C. much ante 
416. His father’s name, Michaiali, and grandfather’s, 
Zaecur, present features of identity with Nos. 9 and 10, 
but in other respects the notices are different. Some 
interpreters suspect a corruption of the text, and in that 
case all discrepancies may be removed. 

9. A Levite, son of Micah, of the family of Asaph, 
resident in the neighborhood of Jerusalem after the ex- 
ile (1 Chron. ix, 15). B.C. cir. 410. He is evidently the 
same with the leader of those who offered prayer and 
praise in the Temple after the captivity (Neh. xi, 17 ; 
xii, 8), and also guarded the gates (Neh. xii, 25). lie 
also appears to be the same with the father of Hasha- 
biah and great-grandfather of Uzzi, mentioned as one 
of the chief Levites in the same connection (Neh. xii, 
22), but in that case he must have been a very aged 
man at the time. See also No. 8. 

10. A Levite, father of Zaccur, and grandfather of 
the Ilanan whom Nehemiah set over the distribution 
of the tithes (Neh. xiii, 13). B.C. considerably ante 410. 
See also No. 8. 

Mat'tatha (Luke iii, 31). See Mattatiiaii, 1. 

Mat'tathah (Heb. Mattathuh ', probably a 

contraction of Mattathiah), the name of a person in the 
Old Test, and of another in the New. 

1. (xMarroS’d, Auth. Vers. “Mattatha.”) The son 
of Nathan and grandson of David, among Christ’s ma- 
ternal ancestry (Luke iii, 31). B.C. post 1014. 

2. (Sept. Ma3’3 , a3 , rt v. r. M arSaira.) An Israelite 
of the “ sons” (i. e. inhabitants) of Hashun, who divorced 
his Gentile wife after the return from Babylon (Ezra x, 
33). B.C. 458. 

Mat'tathias (MarraSlac), the Greek form of 
Mattatiilaii (q. v.), and standing for several persons 
in the Apocrypha and New Test. 

1. One who supported Ezra in reading the law (1 
Esdr. ix, 13), the Mattitiiiaii of Neh. viii, 4. 

2. The father of the Maccabrean brothers (1 Macc. ii, 
1, 11, 16, 17, 19, 21, 27, 39, 15, 49; xiv, 29). See Mac- 

CAI1EE. 

3. The son of Absalom and brother of the Maccaba?an 
Jonathan, the high-priest (1 ]\Iacc. xi,70; xiii, 1 1). In 
the battle fought by the latter with the forces of Deme- 
trius on the plain of Nasor (the old Ilazor), his two gen- 
erals Mattathias and Judas alone stood by him when 
his army was seized with a panic and tied, and with 
their assistance the fortunes of the day were restored. 

4. The son of Simon Maccabeus, who was treacher- 
ously murdered, together with his father and brother, in 
the fortress of Docus, by Ptolemams, the son of Abubus 
(1 Macc. xvi, 11). See Maccabek. 

5. One of the three envoys sent by Nicanor to treat 
with Judas Maccabams (2 Macc. xiv, 19). Se’e Macca- 
bee. 

6. Son of Amos, in the genealogy of Jesus Christ 
(Luke iii, 25). 

7. Son of Semei, in the same catalogue (Luke iii, 26). 
For both these last, see Mattithiaii, 5, 6. 


Mattei, Marius, a noted Eoman Catholic prelate, 
lately the presiding officer of the College of Cardinals at 
Lome, and in ecclesiastical dignity ranked next to the 
pope himself, was born at Pergola, States of the Church, 
Sept. 6, 1792; was educated at Borne, and entered the 
priesthood in 1811. In 1832 he received his appointment 
as cardinal. In December, 1860, he became the bishop 
of Ostia and legate of Velletri. Among other eminent 
distinctions, he held the post of “archpriest” to the 
Church of the Vatican, and was the prefect of the com- 
mission for the preservation of St. Peter’s Church. He 
died Oct. 8, 1870. Cardinal Mattei was a great favorite 
of pope Pius IX, and owed most of his distinctions to 
his friend “ the infallible.” 

Matteis (or Mattei), Paolo, an Italian painter 
and engraver, was born near Naples in 1662, and died 
in 1728. Among his masterpieces are the pictures of 
the “ Saviour and St. Gsetano,” in the church of St. Paul 
at Pistoia, and the “Meeting of Erminia and the Shep- 
herds,” in the Museum of Vienna. See Lanzi, History 
of Painting in Italy. 

Mat'teuai (Heb. Mattenay *’3PTe, prob. contract- 
ed for Alattaniah; Sept. MeiSSravat, MarSauat), the 
name of three men after the exile. 

1. An Israelite of the “ sons” (citizens) of Hashun, 
who divorced his Gentile wife after the return from 
Babylon (Ezra x, 33). B.C, 459. 

2. Another Israelite of the “ sons” (or inhabitants) of 
Bani, who did the same (Ezra x, 37). B.C. 459. 

3. A priest, “ son” (descendant or representative) of 
Joiarib, among those last registered in the Old Test. 
(Neh. vii, 19). B.C. post 536. 

Matter, as opposed to mind or spirit (q. v.), is that 
which occupies space, and with -which we become ac- 
quainted by means of our bodily senses or organs. Ev- 
erything of which we have any knowledge is either 
matter or mind, i. e. spirit. Mind is that which knows 
and thinks. Matter is that which makes itself known, 
to mind by certain properties. “The first form which 
matter assumes is extension, or length, breadth, and 
thickness; it then becomes body. If body were infinite 
there could be no fyure, which is body bounded. But 
body is not physical body, unless it partake of or is con- 
stituted of one or more of the elements, fire, air, earth, 
or water” (Monboddo, A ncient A/etaphys. b. ii, c. 2). Ac- 
cording to Des Cartes the essence of mind is thought , 
and the essence of matter is extension. He said, Give 
me extension and motion, and I shall make the world. 
Leibnitz said the essence of all being, whether mind or 
matter, is force. Matter is an assemblage of simple 
forces or monads. His system of physics may he called 
I dynamical, in opposition to that of Newton, which may 
be called mechanical ; because Leibnitz held that the 
monads possessed a vital or living energy. We may 
explain the phenomena of matter by the movements of 
ether, by gravity and electricity; but the ultimate rea- 
son of all movement is a force primitively communicated 
at creation, a force which is everywhere, but which, 
while it is present in all bodies, is differently limited; 
and this force, this virtue or power of action, is inherent 
in all substances material and spiritual. Created sub- 
stances received from the creative substance not only 
the faculty to act, but also to exercise their activity each 
after its own manner. See Leibnitz, De Primer Philos- 
ophic Emendatione et de Notione Substantia* . or Nouveau 
I Systeme de la Nature ct de la Communication des Sub- 
stances, in the Journal des Savans, 1695. ( )n the vari- 

ous hypotheses to explain the activity of matter, see 
Stewart (Outlines, pi. ii, ch. ii, sect. 1, and A ct. and Mor. 
Pou \ last edit., vol. ii, note A). See also Perception. 

The properties which have been predicated as essen- 
tial to matter are impenetrability, extension, divisibility, 



discovered to possess elasticity, electricity, magnetism, 
etc. Metaphysicians have distinguished the qualities 


MATTER 


883 


of matter into primary and secondary, and have said 
that onr knowledge of the former, as of impenetrability 
and extension, is clear and absolute ; while our knowl- 
edge of the latter, as of sound and smell, is obscure and 
relative. This distinction taken by Des Cartes, adopted 
by Locke and also by Reid and Stewart, was rejected by 
Kant, according to whom, indeed, all our knowledge is 
relative. Others who do not doubt the objective reality 
of matter , hold that our knowledge of all its qualities is 
the same in kind. See the distinctions precisely stated 
and strenuously upheld by Sir William Hamilton (Reid’s 
1 Vorks, note D), and ingeniously controverted by Mons. 
Emilie Saisset, in Diet, des Sciences Philosoph. art. “Ma- 
ture.” See Materialism. 

The metaphysical history of this term, like that of 
most others, begins with Aristotle ; its theological sig- 
nificance may be said to begin with the first two verses 
of Genesis. Three questions of theological as well as 
philosophical interest grow out of this subject. 

I. Popular language, in spite of Berkeley’s own appeal 
to popular opinion, must be admitted to be framed oil the 
hypothesis that matter exists in itself, independently of 
any mind perceiving it ; and theologians have in general 
been content to accept popular language on the point, 
so that the language of theologians represents the popu- 
lar opinion. But as Berkeley’s system does not, when 
understood, contradict any of the ordinary facts of expe- 
rience, so the language of theologians, like that of other 
non-Berkelevans, does not become meaningless in con- 
sequeuce of the system being accepted. For a system 
invented or advanced from a theological motive, it af- 
fects theology singularly little. 

It can hardly be denied, that a belief in the reality of 
matter, however reality may be defined, is necessary to 
orthodox Christianity. The narrative of the Creation 
becomes meaningless, or at least deceptive, if the things 
created be no more than “permanent possibilities of 
sensation,” things that would be perceived, or rather 
groups of phenomena that would make impressions, if 
there were any minds placed ready to observe them, 
which there are not; and, to tell the truth, even Berke- 
ley’s system confuses or obscures the notion of creation. 
The existence of a material substance means, according 
to him, that some mind or minds are affected with cer- 
tain sensations, from a cause external to themselves. 
Now in this there is nothing to conflict with Christian 
doctrine; when we say that God created all material 
substances, we shall mean, on this hypothesis, that he is 
the sole and ultimate cause of the laws, external to cre- 
ated minds, whereby their consciousness is modified in 
the various ways which we ascribe to the presence of 
matter. 

So far, then, all is clear. If Berkeley has not yet 
given any support to the doctrines of religion, he cer- 
tainly has not assailed them. But when we come to 
the part of his theory which was to confute atheism, it 
is more possible to bring him into collision with that 
Revelation which he undertakes to defend. Matter, it 
is said, exists in virtue of being perceived by a mind : 
e. g. “ my inkstand exists,” means “ my mind has a 
group of sensations, simultaneous or successive, which I 
describe as seeing and feeling a glass inkstand, hearing 
it ring when struck or thrown down, etc., or otherwise 
as being conscious of the presence of a hard, smooth, 
round, hollow body, of a heavy, grayish, transparent sub- 
stance.” But if 1 go out of the room. I believe that my 
inkstand still exists, though no longer perceived by me. 
What do I mean by this, on the idealistic hypothesis? 
We have rejected the answer, “ You mean that you be- 
lieve that, if you went into the room again, you would 
again experience the same sensations.” In the first 
place, I do mean more than that, though I am unable to 
prove that anything more than that is true. And fur- 
ther, as has been said above, unless the inkstand exists 
when not seen, how is it true that the Creator caused 
the flint, sand, alkali, copper and zinc ore, etc., of which 
it is made, to exist ages before they were discovered 


MATTER 

and used, and sustains the manufactured product of his 
works in being now? 

To these objections the sensationalist has no answer t 
the Berkeleyan has. “ When you say that the inkstand 
exists in your absence, you mean that when it is not 
perceived by your mind, it is perceived by some mind 
or other. Your only notion of existence (except the 
existence of a mind, a conscious subject) is of existence 
as the object of consciousness of a mind. If you be- 
lieve, as you doubtless do, that matter exists absolutely, 
not only in relation to the finite minds that perceive it. 
you are bound to admit that there is an infinite mind, 
which always perceives all matter existent, even what 
is perceived by no other mind.” 

Injustice is done to Berkeley by a sensationalist phi- 
losopher, if he regards the negative part of his system, 
the denial of an objective substratum to material phe- 
nomena, as separate from this, its positive part. Berke- 
ley was a real idealist, uot a mutilated or inconsistent 
sensationalist; and any one who denies an objective 
substratum to matter, but does not recognise its absolute 
existence as an object of consciousness to a necessarily 
existing mind, is not taking half Berkeley’s system and 
leaving the other half, but framing a new one, suggest- 
ed, it may be, by Berkeley’s, but essentially different 
from it. His religious philosophy was not an amiable 
excrescence on his metaphysical, but an essential cor- 
relative to it; and therefore his system has no sceptical 
tendency. Neither does it seem fair to charge it with a 
tendency to pantheism (Mansel’s Prolegomena Logica , 
App. B) ; for God is distinguished adequately, on the 
one hand, from the created objects, i. e. groups of ideas, 
which he perceives; on the other, from the created minds 
which he causes to perceive the same objects. But it 
seems doubtful whether the system, sublime as is the 
picture it gives of the Creator’s relation to his universe, 
does not really, by implication, lower our view of his na- 
ture and his dealings with it. 

What, on this hypothesis, do we mean when we say 
that God made the material world ? That he caused, 
and, having begun, continues to cause, created intelli- 
gences to receive certain impressions, under certain laws 
of sequence and coexistence. But more than this. We 
mean also that God himself, when he created, began to 
perceive certain ideas as real. Now this is almost shock- 
ingly contradictory to the generally-received notion of 
an eternal present in the divine mind; and it is hard 
to see that it does not contradict the doctrines of his 
eternal foreknowledge and immutability. Doubtless 
God began (on this hypothesis) to be conscious of the 
world at his own mere will, and not, as we do, from an 
external cause. But his nature seems lowered, if we 
confess that by his creating we mean that he caused 
certain ideas to become present to his mind, which there- 
fore were not present to it before. We have, in fact, a 
curious converse of pantheism. Pantheism (as the term 
is commonly used) merges the personal God in union 
with the universe, a universe consisting of matter, or 
spirit, or both. Here the personality as well as the spir- 
ituality of the Eternal is preserved; but instead of his 
being so merged in the world as to deify it, the world is 
so merged in him as to introduce its own finite and mu- 
table qualities into his nature. 

Creation is a mystery on any hypothesis. On any 
hypothesis. God, at some finite time, came into new re- 
lations with things that are not God. He assumed new 
characters (as those of Creator, Preserver, Ruler, Judge) 
which he had not before ; and we must believe this to 
be without any change in his nature, or even in his pur- 
pose. Whether this necessary difficulty is aggravated 
by the above form of stating it ; whether the theory of 
creation in the divine mind implies more of a change of 
nature than that of a creation of things external to it, 
may be a question. It is one that at least deserves to be 
stated. If it be admitted that idealism is not logically 
opposed to Christianity on this ground, there remain 
only two slighter objections to it. 


MATTER 


884 


MATTER 


Existence has, on this hypothesis, a twofold aspect. 
Tiling’s material exist, absolutely as being perceived by 
God, relatively as being caused by God to be perceived 
by his sensitive creatures. Now if, to avoid the objec- 
tion above stated, it be said that while creation existed 
eternally in the purpose of God, so that bis works were 
always known to him, yet it may be said that crea- 
tion had a beginning in time, when God first made it 
known to other intelligences than his own. In itself, 
no doubt, this would be inadequate as an account of 
creation, however fair a defence it might be against the 
charge of introducing change into the divine purpose or 
thought. And it just stops short of making the world 
eternal, though it comes dangerously near to it. It may 
be added that the hypothesis of a subjective creation is 
not invented on behalf of this system. One of the rec- 
ognised explanations of the double account of the crea- 
tion in Genesis is that the former or Elohistic narrative 
describes the order in which God’s purpose was made 
known to the holy angels, the second that in which it 
was executed. 

But the reality (in whatever sense) of the material 
universe is presupposed, hot only in the doctrine of the 
creation, but in that of the sacraments, insomuch that 
*• matter” is used as a teclmioal term in relation to them, 
describing one of their essential requisites. Speaking 
generally, any hypothesis that allows the reality of mat- 
ter would be sufficient, and therefore the idealistic, since 
it does make matter, in an intelligible sense, real. The 
command to use certain material substances, and the 
promise of certain spiritual effects to follow on their use, 
is not evacuated if we describe their use as “taking the 
known means to occasion, to our own mind and others, 
including the divine, certain states of consciousness.” 
But it seems hard to see how the theory can fail to af- 
fect the doctrine of the holy Eucharist. If the pres- 
ence of a body means the fact that its bodily properties 
are manifest to all intelligences capable of observing 
them, then a presence of a body, real but not sensible, 
becomes self-contradictory. If, however, the point be 
urged with sufficient boldness, that absolute truth is not 
-truth relative to all intelligences,” but truth relative 
to the Infinite intelligence, then it is of course possible 
to believe that God regards that as present which man 
does not recognise as present by the ordinary test of 
manifesting the properties, in manifesting which bodily 
presence consists; and this will, by an adherent of the 
system, be regarded as constituting a real but not sensi- 
ble presence. 

11. Whether matter exists only in virtue of minds to 
which it bears relation, or whether it exists in itself, 
the source of its being must be determined. For not 
even, if it be said that matter is a mode of the mind of a 
spirit, is it yet proved that matter is not self-caused or 
eternal: it might be a necessary mode of an eternal 
Spirit’s thought, and so coeternal with his being. How- 
ever, the motives that have led to the belief in the eter- 
nity of matter have been, in general, such as would in- 
volve a belief in its independence. It is conceding 
either too much or too little to make matter merely 
the thought of God, yet a thought which he never was 
without, and without which he could not have existed. 
Eternal matter was usually conceived as an antithetic 
power, whether active or passive; sometimes so passive 
as to be no more than an imperfect medium for the di- 
vine operation. It is hardly worth while to frame a 
system in which matter should have a subjective eter- 
nity, since such a system has never yet been received. 
It has already been pointed out, however, that such a 
system is a conceivable corollary of Berkeley’s. But, 
supposing matter to be something external to the di- 
vine mind which (all theists will probably admit)'knows 
or contemplates it, what is tlve relation between the 
two? Is one the work of the other, or arc they both 
independent? 

Strictly speaking, there are three possible answers to 
this question, viz. that matter is the product of mind, 


that mind is the product of matter, and that the two are 
independent. But the second, in this exact form, has 
probably never been maintained. Matter, being inact- 
ive, cannot be conceived as producing, unless it be first 
personified. Materialism, however, or regarding mind 
as a mode of matter, is a fair representative of this view. 
Setting this on one side, we come to the choice between 
the two other alternatives, that matter is the work of 
mind, and that it is coeternal with mind — between the- 
ism and dualism. 

The Jewish and Christian religions are theistic : most 
other religions of any claim to depth or speculative value 
arc dualistic. Attempts to import dualism into Chris- 
tianity have been numerous, but it has in every age 
been so obvious that the hybrid system was inconsist- 
ent — for if Christianity was a coherent system, its au- 
thoritative documents denounced dualism, and its in- 
stinctive consciousness rejected it — that it is unnecessary 
to reopen a question which is practically closed. All 
who claim to be, strictly speaking, theists, would now 
admit the prerogative of creation to belong to God in 
the fullest sense. It will be enough here to classify the 
forms of dualism which have either been opposed to the 
theistic doctrine of Christianity, or which it has been 
sought to amalgamate with it, as they refer to the sub- 
ject before us, all of them being separately and fully 
noticed elsewhere. See Dualism. 

1. The Buddhistic dualism assumes two eternal and 
impersonal principles, matter and spirit. Finite and 
(eminently) human nature exists in virtue of the union 
or collision of the two; the}' are not only the good and 
evil, but the positive and negative elements of exist- 
ence : existence consists in partaking of both, as the 
Hegelian system makes it consist in the union of being 
and nothing. The victory of the human spirit is to be 
free from matter, and one with all pure spirit ; but since 
matter as well as spirit is necessary to existence, this 
pure being, though not conceived as nothingness, is un- 
clistinguishable from it. 

2. The Manicha?an dualism (to use the name of its 
most famous and permanently vital form, for a system 
not confined to the Manichtean sect, or those affiliated to 
it) assumes two eternal principles, matter and spirit, of 
which both are more or less distinctly jwrsonified. The 
strange and grotesque mythology by which the Mani- 
clueans (in the stricter sense) accounted for the inter- 
mixture of good and evil in the world, may have been 
meant to be understood allegorically; but this is hardly 
likely — the allegory is too vivid to have been less than 
a myth, in the minds of its hearers, if not of its invent- 
ors. Two powers which make war on each other, which 
devour and assimilate from each others’ substance, or 
create and beget from their own, are strangely personal 
if regarded as abstractions: indeed, the best reason for 
thinking them so is that, if the Manicliaxm cosmogony 
be taken literally, the eternal Spirit is wonderfully car- 
nal. But because a system is unphilosophical or incon- 
sistent, if understood in the natural way, it does not fol- 
low that it ought to be understood otherwise : there be- 
ing such things as inconsistent systems. It, however, 
is to be remembered that Maniclia?anism always main- 
tained an esoteric doctrine, which may have allegorized 
the known gross one. 

3. The piatoniG dualism (if one may take a title from 
a single enunciation of it — it does not appear to have 
been a consistent or permanent conviction with Tlato) 
assumes an eternal personal Spirit, acting on an eternal 
impersonal matter. Out of this he produces all things 
that are : not deriving them from his own being, lest he 
should impoverish himself, yet being in a real ‘sense 
their author. Matter is conceived as negatively but 
not positively evil— unable to be made entirely good, 
even by the entirely good Spirit— and passively but not 
actively resisting his will. 

4. The general character of Gnostic systems was not 
strictly dualistic. They assumed two eternal principles 
of spirit and matter, of which the first at least was con- 


MATTER 


885 


MATTHiEUS 


ceived, more or less distinctly, as personal : but matter 
was made into finite beings, not by the action of the 
eternal Spirit, but of a created or generated one; who, 
though not eternal, held a place so exalted as tQ be prac- 
tically a third God ; and usurped, more or less, the bad 
eminence of the eternal matter, since, in opposition to 
orthodox Christians, it was necessary to distinguish him 
from the eternal Spirit. See Demiurge. 

The most ancient form of dualism, the Persian, does 
not come in for consideration here, as its antithesis is not 
between spirit and matter, but between light and dark- 
ness. Owing to its antiquity, the distinction between 
personal and impersonal principles is not formulated in 
it. 

III. Has matter ever existed abstracted from those 
conditions of concrete form in which we meet with it? 
The third and fourth of the forms of dualism just enu- 
merated make their cosmogony depend on the distinc- 
tion devised by Anaxagoras, and formulated by Aristo- 
tle, between matter and form. If matter be conceived 
as eternal, and yet a creation by a spiritual Being be in 
some sense admitted, this is necessary. If matter be 
believed to be itself the work of a Spirit, it is possible, 
but by no means necessary, still to believe that he first 
created matter, and then formed it. Such was, perhaps, 
the general view of the scholastic period in the widest 
sense of the term : the belief recognised absolute crea- 
tion by God out of nothing, while it left a meaning for 
the Aristotelian distinction which was familiar. It 
seemed to derive direct support from the narrative of 
the creation in Gen. i, 2. But it is evident that the 
word “without form,” in this passage, is not to be 
pressed in so strict a philosophical sense : if the mean- 
ing of the word were less general, it would still follow 
from the fact that the “formless” matter is already called 
(not the universe merely, but) “ the earth.” It there- 
fore follows that the scriptural or Christian doctrine of 
creation admits, but does not require, the complication 
of this intermediate step. It probably is ignored by al- 
most all modern thought on the subject : in the last age 
of scholasticism, Sir Thomas Browne still continued to 
assume it, and his critic Digby thought it needless. — 
Blunt, Diet . of Theol. s. v. See Creation. 

Matter, Jacques, a noted French historian and 
philosopher, was born in Alt-Eckendorf, Alsace, May 31, 
1791. His parents were Germans, and, though living 
under French rule, remained true to the fatherland. 
Jacques, however, was taught French from his child- 
hood, as he was expected to take a position under the 
French government. He was intended for the legal 
profession, and, after enjoying the best educational ad- 
vantages of private instructors, was sent to the gymna- 
sium at Strasburg, and then entered as a student at the 
University of Gottingen, Germany, where he enjoyed 
the instruction and association of Heeren, the noted his- 
torian, and Eichhorn, the celebrated Orientalist. He re- 
moved to Paris with a diplomatic career in view, at- 
tended the lectures of the Faculty of Letters, and wrote 
his Essai historique sur Vecole iV Alexandrie (published 
in 1820), which, crowned by the academy in 181 G, gave 
him a reputation among those French scholars who 
were interested in German erudition. By favor of 
Royer-Collard and Guizot, he received in 1819 a profess- 
orship in the College of Strasburg, which he exchanged 
two years afterwards for the directorship of the gymnasi- 
um and the professorship of ecclesiastical history in the 
Protestant academy of the same city. Applying him- 
self to the study of ecclesiastical history and philosophy, 
he wrote llistoire critique du Gnosticisme (Paris, 1828, 2 
vols. 8vo ; 2d ed. 1843-44, 3 vols. 8vo), and llistoire uni - 
verselle de CEglise Chretienne (1829-32, 3 vols.; 2d edit. 
1838). In 1828 he was appointed inspector of the Acad- 
emy of Strasburg, and, in 1831, corresponding member 
of the Academy of Inscriptions. His treatise De V influ- 
ence des vioeurs sur les iois et des his sur les moeurs (Par- 
is, 1832) received from the academy the extraordinary 
prize of 10,000 francs. In 1832 he was appointed by 


Guizot general inspector of the University of Paris, and 
removed to that city. Among his later productions are, 
llistoire des doctrines morales et politiques des trois der- 
nie?'s siecles (1836-37, 3 vols.) : — De V uffaiblissement des 
ulees et des etudes morales (18-11) : — Schelling et la philo- 
sopkie de la nature (1842) : — De Vetat morale politique 
et litteraire de V Allemagne (1847, 2 vols.) : — llistoire de 
la philosophie dans ses rapports avec la religion (1884): 
— Philosophie de la religion (1857, 2 vols) : — Morale. phi- 
losophie des moeurs (1860) : — St. Martin, philos. inconnu 
(1862): — Emmanuel de a Swedenborg (1863): — Le Mgsti- 
cisme en France aux temj)s de Fenelon (1864). He has 
also written occasional treatises concerning schools and 
education, and numerous articles in the Dictionnaire de 
la conversation and other cyclopaedias. He died at 
Strasburg June 23, 1864. 

Matthai, Christian Friedrich von, a noted Ger- 
man theologian, was born in Thuringia in 1744; was 
educated at the University of Leipsic, and immediately 
upon the completion of his studies became rector of the 
Gymnasium at Moscow. While here he devoted him- 
self to a critical study of the Greek fathers of the Church, 
and published editions of the writings of Chrysostom, 
Basil the Great, and others. He was promoted to a 
professorship in the university about 1776, but in 1785 
gladly accepted the position of rector at Meissen — this 
affordinghim an opportunity to return to his fatherland. 
In 1789 he was called to the University of Wittenberg, 
whence he again returned to Moscow in 1805. He died 
in Russia Sept. 26, 1811. Matthai, besides patristic stud- 
ies, devoted himself largely to exegesis. He edited 
the commentary of Euthymius Zigabenus on the Gos- 
pels, with notes, and Nemesius of Emesa on the Nature 
of Man. But his most celebrated critical labor is his 
edition of the Greek Testament, for -which he made an 
extensive collation of manuscripts; though, as he chiefly 
followed the authority of one class, the Byzantine, his 
edition is less valuable in itself than as a collection of 
materials for the further labors of the critical editor. A 
second edition of this Testament appeared in 1803-7, in 3 
vols. 8vo. The work is entitled Novum Test. Greece et La- 
tine : Textum denuo recensuit, varias Lectiones numquam. 
anteavulgatas collegit, scholia Grceca addidit, animadver - 
siones criticas adjecit , etc. (Riga}, 1782-88, 12 vols. Svo). 
The competent judgment of Michaelis pronounces its 
great value in few words. He says: “He has made 
his collection of various readings with great labor and 
diligence; he found in his MSS. a confirmation of many 
readings, which I should have hardly expected, because 
they are found in MSS. of a different kind and of a dif- 
ferent country from those which he used ; nay, even 
those of the Western edition, of which he speaks with 
the utmost contempt, he has corroborated by the evi- 
dence of his Moscow MSS. This edition is absolutely 
necessary for every man who is engaged in the criticism 
of the Greek Testament.” See Dciring, Gelehrte Theol. 
Deutschhmds d. 18‘ £n u. 19 l ‘ ea Jarh. vol. ii, s. v. ; Horne, 
Ditrod. to the Crit. Studg of the Scriptures ; Kitto, Cyclop. 
Bibl. Lit. vol. iii, s. v. 

Matthaeus, Cantacuzenus, co- emperor of Con- 
stantinople, was the eldest son of the far-more illustri- 
ous John V Cantacuzenus (Johannes VI). At twenty- 
one, four years before he was of age, he was associated 
by his father in the supreme government as a means of 
checking the rebellion of John Palaeologus. This meas- 
ure of Cantacuzenus. however, owing to the popularity 
of Rakvologus, failed in its design, and in 1355 the asso- 
ciate emperors, father and son, were compelled to abdi- 
cate the throne in favor of their rival. Matt hams now 
retired with his father to a monastic life in the convents 
of Mount Athos. lie married Irene Palamlogina, and 
became the father of six children. His death, preceding 
that of his father, occurred towards the end of the 14th 
century. He was a man of much learning, and the au- 
thor of various works, mostly Biblical commentaries, 
several of which are still extant in MS. The one enti- 
tled Commentarii in Cantica Canticorum has been pub- 


MATTIIAN 


886 


MATTHEW 


lDhed. See Smith, Diet, of Greek and Roman Biogra- 
phy and Mythology , s. v. 

Mat'tlian (Matt, i, 15). See Mattan. 

Mat'that (MarScZr, prob. some form of the name 
Matthau), the name of two men mentioned only in the 
Xew Test, as maternal ancestors of Jesus. See Gene- 
alogy of Jesus Christ. 

1. The son of Levi and father of Jorim, of the pri- 
vate line between David and Zerubbabel (Luke iii, 29). 
II. C. post 623. 

2. The son of another Levi, and fath’er of the Eli who 
was the father of the Virgin Mary (Luke iii, 21). B.C. 
considerably ante 22. 

Mattlie'las (M«37/Xac v. r. M«tjXac,Yulg. M are- 
as'), a corrupt Greek form (1 Esdr. ix, 19) of the Ma- 
aseiah (q. v.) of the Hebrew text (Ezra x, 8). “The 
reading of the Sept., which is followed in the A.V., might 
easily arise from a mistake between the uncial 0 anil 2 
(C)” (Smith). 

Matthes, Karl, a Lutheran minister in the duchy 
of Altenburg, in Germany, was born Dec. 2G, 1811, at 
Eisenbcrg. His early studies were pursued at the Ivce- 
um of his native town, and in 1830 he entered the Uni T 
versity of Jena as a student of theology. After com- 
pleting his studies in 1833, he spent several years in the 
capacity of family tutor and as a teacher, and finally, in 
1843, became the pastor of Ober-Arnsdorf. In 1SG4 he 
was transferred to Bornshain, where lie died suddenly 
July 3, 18G5. Matthes possessed in a rare degree the 
love and esteem of his acquaintances, who applied to 
him the saying of Luther, “He lined what we preach.” 
His ripe culture, theological knowledge, and penetrating 
judgment find expression in his works, which comprise 
a Leben Philip Mdancthon's (of which a second edition 
appeared in 184G) and a Vergleichende Symbolik (pub- 
lished in 1854). In the latter year he assumed the pub- 
lication of the AUgemeine kirchliche Chronil: , a brief but 
comprehensive annual, reviewing important matters in 
the field of Church and theology. (G. M.) 

Mat'thew (Mar^aioc v. r. Ma3&aToff), one of the 
apostles and evangelists. In the following account of 
him and his Gospel we freely use the articles in Kitto’s 
and Smith’s Dictionaries. 

I. Ills Name. — According to Gesenius, the names 
Matthaus and Matthias arc both contractions of Mat- 
tathias (H^rri “gift of Jehovah Of uewpog, Gfoeo- 
rou), a common Jewish name after the exile. See Mat- 
TiTin aii. Matthew had also the name of Levi (Mark 
ii, 14; Luke v, 27). In the catalogues — Mark iii, 18; 
Luke vi, 15 — he is coupled with Thomas, which has 
given rise to the not altogether unfounded conjecture 
that Matthew was the twin brother of Thomas (01 NH, 
a ticifi), whose real name, according to Eusebius, II. E. 
i, 13, was Judas, and that they were both “brethren of 
our Lord” (Donaldson, Jashar , p. 10; comp. Matt. xiii. 
55; Mark vi, 3). This last supposition would account 
for Matthew’s immediate obedience to the call of Christ, 
but is hardly consistent with the indetiniteness of the 
words with which he is introduced — dv^ponrov MarS. 
\ty6p. (Matt. ix. 9); TtXuunjv bropari Atvtu (Luke v, 
27) — or the unbelief of our Lord’s brothers (John vii, 5). 
Ileraoleon, as quoted by Clem. Alex (Strom, iv, 1 1), men- 
tions Levi as well as Matthew among the early teachers 
who did not suffer martyrdom. Origen also ( Contr . 
Cels, i, sec. G2 [48]) speaks of o Af/b/c TtXwrijQ tucoXov- 
Sijcrac T<y ’ 1 ))(toT> , together with “Matthew the publi- 
can;” but the names Af/3 i)g and Afirft* are by no means 
identical, and there is a hesitation about his language 
which shows that even then the tradition wgis hardly 
trustworthy. The attempt of Theod. 1 base (Bibl. Brem. 
v, 475) to identify Levi with'tlic apostle hebbtetis is an 
example of misapplied ingenuity which deserves little 
attention (comp. Wolf. Cur. ad Mare, ii, 14). The dis- 
tinction between Levi and Matthew has. however, been 
maintained by Grotius (though he acknowledges that the 


voice of antiquity is against him, “ et sane eongruunt cir- 
cumstantial), Michaelis, De Wette, Sieffert, Ewald, etc. 
But it is in the highest degree improbable that two 
publicans should have been called by Christ in the same 
words, at the same place, and with the same attendant 
circumstances and consequences; and that, while one be- 
came an apostle, the other dropped entirely out of mem- 
ory. Still less can we acquiesce in the hypothesis of Sief- 
fert ( Urspr. d. erst. Kanon. Ev. p. 59) and Ewald (Drei 
Erst. Ev. p. 344: Christus, p. 289, 321) that the name 
“Matthew” is due to the Greek editor of Matthew’s Gos- 
pel, who substituted it by an error in the narrative of 
the call of Levi. On the other hand, their identity was 
assumed by Eusebius and Jerome, and most ancient 
writers, and has been accepted bv the soundest com- 
mentators (Tisehendorf, Meyer, Neander, Lardner, Elli- 
cott, etc.). The double name only supplies a difficulty 
to those who are resolved to find such everywhere in 
the Gospel narrative. It is analogous to what we find 
in the case of Simon Peter, John Mark, Paul, Jude, etc., 
which may all admit of the same explanation, and be 
regarded as indicating a crisis in the spiritual life of the 
individual, and his passing into new external relations. 
He was no longer but -•ri’C, not Levi but Theodore 
| — one who might well deem both himself and all his 
i future life a veritable “gift of God” (Ellicott, JEist. Led. 
p. 172; compare Meyer, Comment, i, 2; Winer, R. lT r . B. 
s. v. Matthiius, Name). See Michaelis, Einldt. ii, 934 ; 
Kraft, Observ. sacr. v, 3 ; Biel, in the Bibl. Brem. vi, 

I 1038; Heumann, Erklar. d. N. T. i, 538; Frisch, Diss. 

I de Levi c. Matth. non conf undendo (Leips. 174G) ; Thiers, 
Krit. Comment, i, 90 ; Sieffert, Urspr. d. Kanon. Evang. 

1 p. 54. See Name. 

II. Scripture Statements respecting him. — His father’s 
name was Alphnens (Mark ii, 14), probably different 
from the father of James the son of Mary, the wife of 

\ Clcophas, who was a “sister” of the mother of Jesus 
(John xix, 25). See Alpileus. His call to be an 
apostle (A.D. 27) is related by all three evangelists in 
I the same words, except that Matthew (ix, 9) gives the 
usual name, and Mark (ii, 14) and Luke (v, 27) that of 
Levi. Matthew's special occupation was probably the 
; collection of dues and customs from persons and goods 
i crossing the Lake of Gennesareth. It was while he was 
actually engaged in his duties, Ka^rjpevoi^ tVi to rtXtb- 
viov, that he received the call, which he obeyed with- 
| out delay. Our Lord was then invited by him to a 
“great feast” (Luke v, 29), to which perhaps, as Nean- 
der lias suggested ( Life of Christ, p. 230, Bohn ; comp. 
Blunt, Undes. Coincid. p. 257), by way of farewell, his old 
associates, ityXog rfXw vtov TroXt'f, were summoned. The 
! publicans, properly so called (publican!), were persons 
who farmed the Homan taxes, and they were usually, 
in later times, Roman knights, and persons of wealth 
and credit. They employed under them inferior offi- 
cers. natives of the province where the taxes were col- 
lected, called properly portitores , to which class Mat- 
thew no doubt belonged. These latter were notorious 
for impudent exactions everywhere (Plautus. Mcnach. 
i i, 2, 5 ; Cie. ad Quint. Fr. i, 1 : Pint. Be Curios, p. 518 
'e); but to the Jews they were especially odious, for 
they were the very spot where the Roman chain galled 
them, the visible proof of the degraded state of their 
1 nation. As a rule, none but the lowest would accept 
i such an unpopular office, and thus the class became 
more worthy of the hatred with which in any case the 
Jews would have regarded it. The readiness, however, 

, with which Matthew obeyed the call of Jesus seems to 
show that his heart was still open to religious impres- 
sions. We find in Luke vi, 13, that when Jesus, before 
delivering the Sermon on the Mount, selected twelve 
disciples, who were to form the circle of his more inti- 
mate associates, 31 at the w was one of them. On a sub- 
sequent occasion (Luke v, 294, 31 at t hew gave the part- 
ing entertainment to his friends. After this event he 
is mentioned only in Acts i, 13. A.D. 29. 

III. Traditionary Xotices. — According to a statement 


MATTHEW 


887 


MATTHEW 


in Clemens Alexandrinus (Pcedagog. ii, 1), Matthew ab- 
stained from animal food. Hence some writers have 
rather hastily concluded that he belonged to the sect 
of the Essenes. It is true that the Essenes practiced 
abstinence in a high degree, but it is not true that 
they rejected animal food altogether. Admitting the 
account in Clemens Alexandrinus to be correct, it proves 
only a certain ascetic strictness, of which there occur 
vestiges in the habits of other Jews (comp. Josephus, 
Life, 2 and 3). Some interpreters find also in Rom. xiv 
an allusion to Jews of ascetic principles. 

According to another account, which is as ohl as the 
first century, and which occurs in the K i]pvyga II trpov 
in Clemens Alexandrinus (Strom, vi, 15), Matthew, after 
the death of Jesus, remained about fifteen years in Je- 
rusalem. This agrees with the statement in Eusebius 
( Hist . Eccles. iii, 24), that Matthew preached to his own 
nation before he went to foreign countries. Rufinus 
(Hist. Eccles. x, 9) and Socrates (Hist. Eccles. i, 19) state 
that he afterwards went into Ethiopia (Meroe); but 
Ambrose says that God opened to him the coimtry of 
the Persians (In /’s. 45); Isidore, the Macedonians (Isi- 
dore IJisp. De Sunct. 77) ; and others the Parthians, the 
Medes, the Persians of the Euphrates (comp. Florini 
Exercit. hist. phil. p. 23; Credner, Einl. ins N. T. I, i, 
58). There also he probably preached specially to the 
Jews. See Abdiai, Ilistor. Ajmst. vii, in Fabrieii Cod. 
apocr. i, 636; Perionii 1 It. A post. p. 114; eomp. Mur- 
tyrol. Rom. Sept. 21. According to Ileraeleon^about 
A.D. 150) and Clemens Alexandrinus (Strom, iv, 9), 
Matthew was one of those apostles who did not suffer 
martyrdom, which Clement, Origen, and Tertullian seem 
to accept: the tradition that he died a martyr, be it 
true or false, came in afterwards (Nieeph. II. E. ii, 41). 
Tisehendorf has published the apocryphal “Acts and 
Martyrdom of Matthew” (Acta Apocrypha , Lips. 1841). 
See Acts, Spurious. 

MATTHEW, Gospel of, the first of the four me- 
moirs of our Lord in all the arrangements. See Ne%v 
Testament. 

I. Author. — There is no ancient book with regard to 
the authorship of which we have earlier, fuller, and 
more unanimous testimony. From Papias, almost if 
not quite contemporary with the apostles, downwards, 
we have a stream of unimpeachable witnesses to the 
fact that Matthew w'as the author of a gospel; while 
the quotations which abound in the w r orks of the fathers 
prove that at least as early as Irenams — if we may not 
also add Justin, whose “ "Memorabilia of Christ” we can- 
not but identify with the “Gospels” he speaks of as 
in public use — the Gospel received by the Church un- 
der his name was the same as that which has reached 
us. As in the case of the other synoptists, a subsidiary' 
argument of no small w'eiglit in favor of the correctness 
of this assignment may be drawn from the comparative 
insignificance of Matthew' among the twelve. Any one 
desirous of imposing a spurious gospel on the Church 
would naturally have assumed one of the principal apos- 
tles as its author, instead of one whose name could add 
but little w'eight or authority to the composition. 

Nevertheless a number of alleged circumstances have 
led Strauss and others to consider the Gospel of Matthew | 
as an unapostolieal composition, originating perhaps at j 
the conclusion of the first century ; while some consider 
it a production of the Aranuean Matthew, augmented , 
by some additions; others call it a historical commenta- 
ry of a later period, made to illustrate the collection of 
the sayings of Christ which Matthew had furnished 
(comp. Sieffert, Ueher die Aechtheit und den Unsprung des 
ersten Ecangelii , 1832; Sclineekenburger, Ueher den Ur- 
sprung des ersten Ecangelii , 1834 ; Schott, Ueher die .la- | 
thenticitdt des Ec.AJatt. 1837). 

(1st.) The representations of Matthew (it is said) 
have not that vivid clearness which characterizes the 
narration of an eye-witness, and which we find, for in- 
stance, in the Gospel of John. Even Mark and Luke 
surpass Matthew in this respect. Compare, for exam- 


ple, Matt, iv, 18 with Luke v, 1 sq. ; Matt, viii, 5 sq. 
with Luke vii, 1 sq. This is most striking in the his- 
tory of his own call, where we should expect a clearer 
representation. To this it may be replied that the gift 
of narrating luminously is a personal qualification of 
which even an apostle might be destitute, and which is 
rarely found among the lower orders of people ; this ar- 
gument, therefore, has recently been given up altogether. 
In the history of his call to be an apostle, Matthew has 
this advantage over Mark and Luke, that he relates 
the discourse of Christ (ix, 13) with greater complete- 
ness than these evangelists. Luke relates that Matthew 
prepared a great banquet in his house, while Matthew 
simply mentions that an entertainment took place rf be- 
cause the apostle could not well write that he himself 
prepared a great banquet. 

(2d.) lie omits some facts which every apostle cer- 
tainly knew. For instance, he mentions only one jour- 
ney of Christ to the Passover at Jerusalem, namely, the 
last ; and seems to be acquainted only with one sphere 
of Christ’s activity, namely, Galilee. He even relates 
the instances of Christ’s appearing after his resurrection 
in such a manner that it might be understood as if he 
showed himself only to the women in Jerusalem, and to 
his disciples nowhere but in Galilee (Matt, xxvi, 32, and 
xxviii, 7). But an argumentum a silentio must not be 
urged against the evangelists. The raising of Lazarus 
is narrated only by John, and the raising of the youth 
at Nain only by Luke ; the appearance of five hundred 
brethren after the resurrection, which, according to the 
testimony of Paul (1 Cor. xv, 6), was a fact generally 
known, is not recorded by any of the evangelists. The 
apparent restriction of Christ’s sphere of activity to Gal- 
ilee, we find also in Mark and Luke. This peculiarity 
arose perhaps from the circumstance that the apostles 
first taught in Jerusalem, where it was unnecessary to 
relate what had happened there, but where the events 
which had taken place in Galilee were unknown, and 
required to be narrated: thus the sphere of narration 
may have gradually become fixed. At least it is gener- 
ally granted that hitherto no satisfactory explanation 
of this fact has been discovered. The expressions in 
Matt, xxvi, 32, and xxviii, 7, perhaps only indicate that 
the Lord appeared more frequently and for a longer pe- 
riod in Galilee than elsewhere. In Matt, xxviii, 16, we 
are told that the disciplesjn Galilee went up to a moun- 
tain, whither Christ had appointed them to come ; and, 
since it is not previously mentioned that any such ap- 
pointment had been made, the narrative of Matthew 
himself here leads us to conclude that Christ appeared 
to his disciples in Jerusalem after his resurrection. 

(3d.) He relates unchronologieaUy, and transposes 
events to times in which they did not happen ; for in- 
stance, the rejection at Nazareth, mentioned in Luke iv, 
14-30, must have happened at the commencement of 
Christ’s public eareer, but Matthew relates it as late as 
xiii, 53 sq. But, on the other hand, there is no reason 
to suppose that the evangelists intended to write a 
chronological biography. On the contrary, we learn 
from Luke i, 4, and John xx, 31, that their object was of 
a more practical and apologetic tendency. With the 
exception of John, the evangelists have grouped their 
communications more according to subjects than accord- 
ing to chronological succession. This fact is now gen- 
erally admitted. As to the particular event above re- 
ferred to, namely, the rejection of Christ at Nazareth, 
it appears to have occurred twice ; Luke (iv. 14-31) giv- 
ing the earlier, and Matthew (xiii, 53-58) the later in- 
stance. See Strong's Harmony of the Gospels , § 32, 60. 
and notes. 

(4th.) lie emhodies in one discourse several sayings 
of Christ which, according to Luke, were pronounced at 
different times (eomp. Matt, v-vii, and xxiii). But if 
the evangelist arranges his statements according to sub- 
jects, and not chronologically, we must not be surprised 
that he connects similar sayings of Christ, inserting 
them in the longer discourses after analogous topics had 


MATTHEW 


888 


MATTHEW 


been mentioned. These discourses are not, in fact, com- 
piled by the evangelist, but always form the fundament- 
al framework to which sometimes analogous subjects 
are attached. Moreover, it can be proved that several 
savings are more correctly placed by Matthew than by 
Luke (compare especially Matt, xxiii, 37-39 with Luke 
xiii, 34, 35). 

(5th.) lie falls, it is asserted, into positive errors. In 
ch. i and ii he seems not to know that the real dwelling- 
place of the parents of Jesus was at Nazareth, and that 
their abode at Bethlehem was only temporary (compare 
Matt, ii, 1, 22, 23 with Luke ii, 4, 39). According, to 
Mark xi, 20, 21, the tig-trec withered on the day after it 
was cursed ; but according to Matt, xxi, 19, it withered 
immediately. According to Matt, xxi, 12, Christ puri- 
fied the Temple immediately after his entrance into Je- 
rusalem ; but according to Mark he on that day went 
out to Bethany, and purified the Temple on the day fol- 
lowing (Mark xi, 11-15). Matthew says (xxi, 7) that 
Christ rode on a she-ass and on a colt, which is impossi- 
ble ; the other Gospels speak only of a she-ass. But it 
depends entirely upon the mode of interpretation wheth- 
er such positive errors as are alleged to exist are really 
chargeable on the evangelist. The difference, for in- 
stance, between the narrative of the birth of Christ, as 
severally recorded by Matthew and Luke, may easily be 
solved without questioning the correctness of either, if 
we suppose that each of them narrates what he knows 
from his individual sources of information. The history’ 
of Christ’s childhood given in Luke leads us to conclude 
that it was derived from the acquaintances of Mary, 
while the statements in Matthew seem to be derived 
from the friends of Joseph. As to the transaction re- 
corded in Matt, xxi, 18-22, and Mark xi, 11, 15,20,21, 
it appears that Mark describes what occurred most 
accurately; and yet there is nothing in Matthew’s 
account really inconsistent with the true order of 
events. 

On the other hand, some of the most beantiful and 
most important sayings of our Lord, the historical credi- 
bility of which no sceptic can attack, have been pre- 
served by Matthew alone (Matt, xi, 28-30; xvi, 16-19; 
xxviii, 20; compare also xi, 2-21 ; xii, 3-6, 25-29; xvii, 
12, 25, 26; xxvi, 13). Above all, the Sermon on the 
Mount, although containing some things apparently not 
coincident in time (for instance, the Lord’s prayer), is 
yet far more complete and systematic than the compar- 
atively meagre report of Luke. It may also be proved 
that in many particulars the reports of several discourses 
in Matthew are more exact than in the other evangel- 
ists, as may be seen by comparing Matt, xxiii with the 
various parallel passages in Luke. See, generally, Kern, 
Ucber den Unsprung des Evangelii Matthcei (Tubingen, 
1834); Olshausen, Drei Programme , 1835; and the two 
Lucubrations of Ilarlcs, 1840 and 1843. 

II. Time and Place of its Composition . — There is little 
in the Gospel itself to throw any light on the date of its 
composition. In xxvii, 7,8: xxviii. 15, we have evi- 
dences of a date some years subsequent to the resurrec- 
tion ; but these may well be additions of a later hand, 
and prove nothing as to the age of the substance of the 
Gospel. Little trust can be placed in the dates given 
by some late writers — e. g. Theophylact, Euthymius 
Zigabcnus, Eusebius’s Citron., eight years after the As- 
cension ; Nicepb., Callist., and the Citron. Pasch ., A. I). 
45. The only early testimony is that of Irenams (Hen-. 
iii. 1, p. 171), that it was written “ when Peter and Paul 
were preaching in Borne, and founding the Church.” 
This would bring it down to about A.I>. 63 — probably 
somewhat earlier, as this is the latest date assigned for 
Luke's Gospel ; and we have the authority of a tradition, 
accepted by Origen, for the priority of that of Matthew 
(h> 7rapaCo(Ui paciov .... bTi^TCpiorov pin yeype(7rrcn 
to Kara rbv rrort rdabvijv vartpov ft ctT?i>or. I. \p. 
M«r3«7or, Eusebius, II. E. vi, 25). On the supposition 
of a Hebrew original, we may presume that that would 
have been written the first of all the Gospels, or soon 


after the Ascension — i. e. about A.D. 31 ; and then the 
present Greek edition may have been issued not much 
later, or shortly before Matthew's removal from Ju- 
dina, i. e. about A.D. 47. Tillemont maintains A.D. 33 ; 
Townson, A.D. 37 ; Owen and Tomline, A.D. 38 ; David- 
son, Introd. X. Test., inclines to A.D. 4 1—43 ; while* Hug, 
Eichhorn, Credncr, Bertholdt, etc., identifying “Zacha- 
rias the son of Barachias” (xxiii, 35) with Zacharias the 
son of Baruch, whose murder is recorded by Josephus 
(Bar, iv, 6, 4), place its composition shortly after the 
fall of Jerusalem, a theory which is rejected by De 
Wctte and Meyer, and may safely be dismissed as un- 
tenable. 

With regard to the place, there is no difference of 
opinion. All ancient authorities agree that Matthew 
wrote his Gospel in Palestine, and this has been as 
unanimously received by modern critics. 

III. For what Readei-s was it Written? — The concur- 
rent testimony of the early Church that Matthew drew 
up his Gospel for the benefit of the Jewish Christians of 
Palcstiue (rolg enro ’lovdaiopov iciartvaaen, Orig. ap. 
Eusebius, II. E. vi, 25), has been accepted without ques- 
tion, and may be regarded as a settled point. The state- 
ment of Eusebius is that, “haviug previously preached 
to the Hebrews, when he was about to go to others also, 
he committed to writing in his native tongue his Gos- 
pel (to Kar avrbv evayyiXiov), and so filled up by his 
writing that which was lacking of his presence to those 
whonjrlie was departing from” (Eusebius, II. E. iii, 24). 
The testimony of Jerome, frequently repeated, is to the 
same effect ( Preef ad Matt . ; I)e Vir. III. ; Comm, in 
IIos. set). The passages quoted and referred to above, 
it is true, have reference to the supposed Aramaic orig- 
inal, and not to the present Greek Gospel. But what- 
ever conclusion may be arrived at on the perplexed 
question of the origin of the existing Gospel, ]\Ir. West- 
cot t has shown (Introd. to Gospels, p. 208) that “ there 
is no sufficient reason to depart from the unhesitating 
habit of the earliest writers who notice the subject, in 
practically identifying the revised version with t lie 
original text,” so that whatever lias been stated of the 
purpose or characteristics of the one may unhesitatingly 
be regarded as applicable to the other also. 

Looking, therefore, to our present Gospel for proofs of 
its original destination, wc find internal evidence tend- 
ing to confirm the traditional statement. The great 
object of the evangelist is evidently to prove to his 
countrymen that Jesus of Nazareth was the promised 
Messiah, the antitype of the figures of the old covenant, 
and the fulfilment of all prophecy. The opening words 
of his Gospel declare his purpose, Jesus Christ is set 
forth as “ the son of David” and “the son of Abraham,” 
fulfilling “ the promises made to the fathers,” and re- 
viving the faded glories of the nation in the heir of Da- 
vid’s roval line, Abraham’s promised seed (comp. Iren. 
Fragm. xxix ; liar, iii, 9, 1 ; Orig. in Joann, iv, 4). In 
the symmetrical arrangement of the genealogy also — 
“ its divisions,” as dean Goodwin has remarked (Comm, 
in St. Matt., Introd.), “ corresponding to the two great 
crises in their national life, the maximum and minimum 
points of Hebrew prosperity” — we have an accommoda- 
tion to Jewish prejudices and Jewish habits of thought, 
in marked contrast with the continuous order of the 
universalistic Luke. As we advance, we find that the 
accomplishment of the promises, the proof that .lesus 
Christ is he of whom “Moses in the law and the proph- 
ets did write,” is the object nearest to his heart. Thus 
lie is continually speaking of the necessity of this or 
that event happening, in order that a particular proph- 
ecy might be fulfilled (iva 7rX)}pit)$7j to piftiv vttu tov 
k vpiov [or Bfoe] Ctd rob TpoQijrov, i, 22 ; ii, 15; xxi, 4; 
xxvi. 56 ; comp. ii,. 17 ; iii, 3 ; iv, 14 ; viii, 17. etc.), while 
his whole Gospel is full of allusions to those passages 
and sayings of the O. Test, in which Christ was predict- 
ed and foreshadowed. As Da Costa has remarked (Four 
]Vitn<sses, p. 20), he regards the events he narrates as 
“realized prophecy,” and everything is recorded with 


MATTHEW 


889 


this view, that he may lead his countrymen to recognise 
in Jesns their promised Deliverer and King. 

It is in keeping with the destination of his Gospel 
that we tind in Matthew less frequent explanations of 
Jewish customs, laws, and localities than in the other 
Gospels. Knowledge of these is presupposed in the 
readers (Matt.xv, 1,2 with Mark vii, 1-4 : Matt.xxvii, 
G2 with Mark xv, 42; Luke xxiii, 54 ; John xix, 14, 31, 
4*2, and other places). Jerusalem is the holy city- (see 
below, Style and Diction ). Jesus is of the elect line (i, 
1 ; ix, 27 ; xii. 23 ; xv, 22 ; xx, 30 ; xxi, 9, 15) ; is to be 
born of a virgin in David’s place, Bethlehem (i, 22 ; ii, 
G); must flee into Egypt and be recalled thence (ii, 15, 
19); must have a forerunner, John the Baptist (iii, 3; 
xi, 10) ; was to labor in the outcast Galilee that sat in 
darkness (iv, 14— 1G) ; his healing was a promised mark 
of his office (viii, 17 ; xii, 17), and so was his mode of 
teaching by parables (xiii, 14) ; he entered the holy city 
as Messiah (xxi, 5-1G) ; was rejected by the people, in 
fulfilment of a prophecy (xxi, 42), and deserted by his 
disciples in the same way (xxvi, 31, 56). The Gospel 
is pervaded by one principle, the fulfilment of the law 
and of the Messianic prophecies in the person of Jesus. 
This at once sets it in opposition to the Judaism of the 
time, for it rebuked the Pharisaic interpretations of the 
Law (v, xxiii), and proclaimed Jesus as the Son of God, 
and the Saviour of the world through his blood, ideas 
which were strange to the cramped and limited Juda- 
ism of the Christian ce ra. In the Sermon on the Mount 
Christ is introduced declaring himself not as the de- 
stroyer but the fulfiller of the Mosaic law. When the 
twelve are sent forth they are forbidden to go “into the 
way of the Gentiles” (x, 5 ; comp, xv, 24). In the same 
passage — the only one in which the Samaritans are men- 
tioned — that abhorred race is put on a level with the 
heathen, not at once to be gladdened with the Gospel 
message. 

But while we keep this in view, as the evangelist’s 
first object, we must not strain it too narrowly, as if he 
had no other purpose than to combat the objections 
and to satisfy the prepossessions of the Jews. No evan- 
gelist expresses with greater distinctness the universal- 
ity of Christ’s mission, or does more to break down the 
narrow notion of a Messiah for Israel who was not one 
also for the whole world ; none delivers stronger warn- 
ings against trusting to an Abrahamic descent for ac- 
ceptance with God. It is in Matthew that we read of 
the visit of the magi (ii, 1 sq.), symbolizing the mani- 
festation of Christ to the Gentiles; it is he that speaks 
of the fulfilment of Isaiah’s prophecy, when “the na- 
tions that sat in darkness saw a great light” (iv, 15, 1 G), 
and adds to the narrative of the cure of the centurion’s 
servant what is wanting to the universalistic Luke, that 
“many should come from the East and West,” etc. (viii, 
1 1). The narrative of the Syro-Phoenician woman, omit- 
ted by Luke, is given by Matthew, in whom alone we 
also find the command to “ make disciples of all nations” 
(xxviii, 19), and the unrestricted invitation to “ all that 
labor and are heavy laden” (xi, 28). Nowhere are we 
made more conscious of the deep contrast between the 
spiritual teaching of Christ and the formal teaching of 
the rulers of the Jewish Church. We see also that oth- 
ers besides Jewish readers were contemplated, from the 
interpretations and explanations occasionally added, e. g. 
Immanuel, ii, 23 ; Golgotha, xxvii, 33 ; Eli, lama sabach- 
thani, ver. 46. 

IV. Original Language. — While there is absolutely 
nothing in the Gospel itself to lead us to imagine that 
it is a translation, and, on the contrary, everything fa- 
vors the view that in the present Greek text, with its 
perpetual verbal correspondence with the other synop- 
tists, we have the original composition of the author 
himself; yet the unanimous testimony of all antiquity 
affirms that Matthew wrote his Gospel in Hebrew, i. e. 
the Aramaic or Syro-Chaldee dialect, yvhich was the 
vernacular tongue of the then inhabitants of Palestine. 
The internal evidence, therefore, is at variance with the 


MATTHEW 

external, and it is by no means easy to adjust the claims 
of the two. 

1. External Evidence . — The unanimity of all ancient 
authorities as to the Hebrew origin of this Gospel is 
complete. In the words of the late canon Cureton ( Syr - 
iac Recension, p. lxxxiii), “no fact relating to the his- 
tory of the Gospels is more fully and satisfactorily es- 
tablished. From the days of the apostles down to the 
end of the 4th century, every writer who had occasion 
to refer to this matter has testified the same thing. 
Papias, Ireuteus, Pantamus, Origen, Cyril of Jerusalem, 
Athanasius, Epiphanius, Jerome, all with one consent 
affirm this. Such a chain of historical evidence appears 
to be amply sufficient to establish the fact that Matthew 
wrote his Gospel originally in the Hebrew dialect of 
that time, for the benefit of Jews who understood and 
spoke the language.” To look at the evidence more 
particularly — (1.) The earliest witness is Papias, bishop 
of Hierapolis, in Phrygia, in the beginning of the 2d 
century; a hearer of the apostle, or more probably of the 
presbyter John, and a companion of Polycarp (Iren® us, 
llcer. v, 33, 4). Eusebius describes him (II. E. iii, 36) 
as “a man of the widest general information, and well 
acquainted with the Scriptures” (dvgp rd iraVTCi on 
pdXiara Xoytibraro g Kai ypaipijg tilrjp wr); and, though 
in another place he depreciates his intellectual power 
(< Ttyoepa (TfUKpbg wv toi> vovv , //. E. iii, 39), this unfa- 
vorable view seems chiefly to have reference to his mil- 
lennarian views (comp. Iren® us, Hair, v, 33, 3), and can 
hardly invalidate his testimony on a matter of fact. 
Papias says, it would seem on the authority of John the 
Presbyter, “Matthew compiled his Gospel (or ‘the ora- 
cles’) in the Hebrew dialect ; while each interpreted 
them according to his ability” (MarSaTop piv ovv 
'E/3p«'tt>i StaXeKTip rd \6yta avveypctipaTO : i)ppi]vev(T£ 
S’ avret cog ip* Ivvarbg tKaorog). In estimating the 
value of this testimony, two important points have to be 
considered — the meaning of the term Adyta, and wheth- 
er Papias is speaking of the present or the past. On 
the latter point there can be little doubt. His use of 
the aorist, gppgvtm rf, not ippgvevet, evidently shows 
that the state of things to which he or his original au- 
thority referred had passed away, and that individual 
translation was no longer necessary. It would seem, 
therefore, to follow, that “an authorized Greek repre- 
sentative of the Hebrew Matthew” had come into use 
“in the generation after the apostles” (V r estcott,/«?roc/. 
p. 207, note). The signification of A uyia has been much 
controverted. Schleiermacher (Stud. u. Krit. 1832, p. 
735) was the first to explain the term of a supposed 
“collection of discourses” which is held to have been 
the basis that, by gradual modification and interpola- 
tion, was transformed into the existing Gospel (Meyer, 
Comm, i, 13). This view has found wide acceptance, and 
has been strenuously maintained by Lachmann (Stud, 
n. Krit. 1835), Meyer, De Wette, Credner, Wieseler, B. 
Crusius, Ewald, Renan, etc., but has been controverted 
by Lucke (Stud. u. Krit. 1833), Hug, Ebrard, Bauer, De- 
litzsch, Ililgenfeld, Thiersch, Alford, Westcott, etc. But 
Xoyia, in the N. T., signifies the whole revelation made 
by God, rather than the mere words in which that rev- 
elation is contained (Acts vii, 38; Rom. iii, 2; Ilcb. v, 
12 ; 1 Pet. iv, 1 L) ; and, as has been convincingly shown 
by Hug and Ebrard, the patristic use of the word con- 
firms the opinion that, as used by Papias, both in this 
passage and in the title of his own work (Xoyiiov Kvpi- 
aicaj v i&iyging ), it implies a combined record of facts 
and discourses corresponding to the later use of the word 
gospel. (2.) The next witness is Iremeus, who, as quoted 
by Eusebius (II. E. v, 8), says that “ Matthew among 
the Hebrews published also a written Gospel in their 
own language” (rj/ ilia aunov eiaXirrip). Hug and 
others have attempted to invalidate this testimony, as a 
mere repetition of that of Papias, whose disciple, accord- 
ing to Jerome, Iren® us was; but we may safely accept 
it as independent evidence. (3.) Pantamus, the next 
witness, cannot be considered as strengthening the case 


MATTHEW 


890 


MATTHEW 


for the Hebrew original much ; though, as far as it goes, 
his evidence is definite enough. His story, as reported 
by Eusebius, is that “ he is said to have gone to the In- 
dians (probably in the south of Arabia), where it is re- 
ported that the Gospel of Matthew had preceded him 
among some who had there acknowledged Christ, to 
whom it is said the apostle Bartholomew had preached, 
and had left with them the writing of Matthew in He- 
brew letters ('E fipaUov ypdppaoi riju tov MarS'fliou 
KaraXthpai ypaipljv), and that it was preserved to the 
time mentioned.” Jerome tells the same tale, with the 
addition that Pantamns brought back this Hebrew Gos- 
pel with him (De Vir. Ill . 3G). No works of Pan teen us 
have been preserved, and we have no means of confirm- 
ing or refuting the tale, which has somewhat of a myth- 
ical air, and is related as a mere story (Xkyerai, Xoyo£ 
evpeiv avrov), even by Eusebius. (4.) The testimony 
of Origen has already been referred to. It is equally 
definite with those quoted above on the fact that the 
Gospel was “ published for Jewish believers, and com- 
posed in Hebrew letters” (bcdtCioKOTa avrb roi£ envo 
'lovla'iopov 7TioTtvoaot, ypdpgaoiv 'Efipancolg crvvrs- 
rayph'ov, Eusebius, II. E. vi, 25). There is no reason 
for questioning the independence of Origen’s evidence, 
or for tracing it back to Papias. He clearly states what 
w'as the belief of the Church at that time, and without 
a doubt as to its correctness. (For a refutation of the 
objections brought against it by Masch and Hug, etc., 
see Marsh’s J Iichaelis, iv, 128, 135 sq.) (5.) We have 
already given the testimony of Eusebius (II. E. iii, 24), 
to which may be added a passage (ad Marin, queest. ii, 
p. 941) in which he ascribes the words oxf/e tov oaf 3- 
f3drov to the translator (napa tov ipppvivoavroQ ti)i> 
ypafyijv ) , adding, “ For the evangelist Matthew delivered 
his Gospel in the Hebrew tongue.” This is \ery impor- 
tant evidence as to the belief of Eusebius, which was 
clearly that of the Church generally, that the Gospel 
was originally composed in Hebrew. (G.) Epiplianius 
(IRer. xxix, 9, p. 124) states the same fact without the 
shadow of a doubt, adding that Matthew was the only 
evangelist who wrote l Ef3pdiori Kid * Ej3pctiKoXg ypcippa- 
oiv. The value of his evidence, however, is impaired 
by his identification of the Hebrew original with that 
employed by the Nazarenes and Ebionites, by whom he 
asserts it was still preserved (tri ow^srai). (7.) The 
same observation may also be made concerning the tes- 
timony of Jerome, whose references to this subject are 
very frequent, and who is the only one of the fathers 
that appears to have actually seen the supposed Hebrew 
archetype (Pnpf. ad Matt. ; De Pir. Ill 3 and 3G ; in 
Qnat. Ev. ad Dam.prirf. ; Ep. Dam. de Osanna ; Ep. ad 
Iledib. qurest. viii ; Comm, in IIos. xi). A perusal of 
these passages shows that there was a book preserved 
in the library collected by Pampliilns at Csesarea, which 
was supposed to be the Hebrew original (“ ipsum Ilebra- 
icuni"), and was as such transcribed and translated into 
Greek ami Latin by Jerome, about A.D. 392, from a copy 
obtained from the Nazarenes at the Syrian city of Beroea. 
Afterwards, about A.D. 398 (Comm, in Matt, xii, 13), he 
speaks more doubtfully of it, “quod vocatur a plerisque 
Matt, authenticum.” Later on. A.D. 415 ( Contr . Pelag. 
iii, 1), he modifies his opinion still further, and describes 
the book used by the Nazarenes, and preserved in the 
library at Caesarea, as “ Ev. juxta Ilcbneos. . . . secun- 
dum Apostolos, sive ut pleriqite autumant juxta Mat- 
tlnetim” (comj\ Edinb. Rev. July, 1851, p. 39 ; De Wette. 
Einl. p. 100). While, then, we may safely accept .Jerome 
as an additional witness to the belief of the early Church 
that Matthew’s Gospel was originally composed in He- 
brew (Aramaic), which he mentions as something uni- 
versally recognised without a hint of a doubt, we may 
reasonably question whether the book he translated had 
any sound claims to be considered the genuine work of 
Matthew, and whether Jerome himself did not ultimate- 
ly discover his mistake, though he shrunk from openly 
confessing it. We may remark, in confirmation of this, 
that unless the Aramaic book had differed considerably 


from the Greek Gospel, Jerome would hardly have taken 
the trouble to translate it ; and that while, whenever he 
refers to Matthew, he cites it according to the present 
text, he never quotes the Nazarene Gospel as a work of 
canonical authority, but only in such terms as “quo 
utuntur Nazareni,” “ quod lectitaut Nazanei,” *■ quod 
juxta Heb. Nazar, legere consueverunt,” and still more 
doubtingly, “ qui crediderit evangelio, qnox\ secundum He- 
braos editum miper transtulimus;” language inconsist- 
ent with his having regarded it as canonical Scripture. 
(8) The statements of later writers, Cyril of Jerusalem, 
Athanasius, Chrysostom, Augustine, Gregory Nazianzen, 
etc., merely echo the same testimony, and need not be 
more particularly referred to. 

An impartial survey of the above evidence leads to 
the conclusion that, in the face of so many independent 
witnesses, we should be violating the first principles of 
historical criticism if we refused to accept the fact that 
Matthew wrote his Gospel originally in Hebrew. But 
whether this original was ever seen by Jerome or Epi- 
plianius is more than questionable. 

2. Internal Evidence . — What, then, is the origin of 
our present Gospel? To whom are we to ascribe its 
existing form and language? What is its authority? 
These are the questions which now meet us, and to 
which it must be confessed it is not easy to give a sat- 
isfactory answer. We may at the outset lay down as 
indisputable, in opposition to Cureton (who asserts, ut 
sup., that “a careful critical examination of the Greek 
text will afford very strong confirmation of the Hebrew 
original), that the phenomena of the Gospel as we have 
it — its language, its coincidences with and divergences 
from the other synoptists, the quotations from the Old 
Test, it contains, and the citations made from it by an- 
cient writers, all oppose the notion of the present Greek 
text being a translation, and support its canonical au- 
thority. (1.) An important argument may be drawn 
from the use made of the existing Gospel by all ancient 
writers. As Olshausen remarks (Clark's ed., i, xxviii), 
while all the fathers of the Church assert the Hebrew 
origin of the Gospel, they without exception make us? 
of the existing Greek text as canonical Scripture, and 
that without doubt or question, or anything that would 
lead to the belief that they regarded it as of less author- 
ity than the original Hebrew, or possessed it in any 
other form than that in which we now have it. (2.) 
Another argument in favor of the authoritative charac- 
ter of our present Gospel arises from its universal diffu- 
sion and general acceptance, both in the Church and 
among her adversaries. Had the Hebrew Gospel been 
really clothed with the authority of the sole apostolic 
archetype, and our Greek Gospel been a mere transla- 
tion, executed, as Jerome asserts, by some unknown in- 
dividual (“quis postea in Gnecum transtulerit non satis 
certum est,” De Vir. III. 3), would not, as Olshausen re- 
marks, ut sup., objections to it have been urged in some 
quarter or other, particularly in the country where 
Matthew himself labored, and for whose inhabitants 
the Hebrew was written? Would its statements have 
been accepted without a cavil by the opponents of the 
Church? No trace of such opposition is, however, to 
be met with. Not a doubt is ever breathed of its ca- 
nonical authority. (3.) Again, the text itself bears no 
marks \>f a translation. This is especially evident in 
the mode of dealing with the citations from the Old 
Test. These are of two kinds: (a) those standing in 
the discourses of our Lord himself, and the interlocu- 
tors; and (b) those introduced by the evangelist as 
proofs of our Lord’s Messiahship. Now if we assume, 
as is certainly most probable (though the contrary has 
been maintained by Hug. the late duke of Manchester, 
and more recently by the II ev. Alexander Huberts, whose 
learned and able ■* Discussions on the Gospels” demand 
attentive consideration from every Biblical student), 
that Aramaic, not Greek, was the language ordinarily 
used by our Lord and his Jewish contemporaries, we 
should certainly expect that any citations from the Old 


MATTHEW 


891 


MATTHEW 


Test., made by them in ordinary discourse, would be 
from the original Hebrew or its Aramaic counterpart, 
not from the Septuagint version, and would stand as 
such in the Aramaic record; while it would argue more 
than the ordinary license of a mere translator to substi- 
tute the Sept, renderings, even when at variance with 
the Hebrew before him. Yet what is the case? While 
in the class (5), due to the evangelist himself, which 
may be supposed to have had no representative in the 
current Greek oral tradition which we assume as the 
basis of the synoptical Gospels, we find original render- 
ings of the Hebrew text; in the class (a), on the other 
hand, where we might, a priori, have looked for an even 
closer correspondence, the citations are usually from the 
Sept., even where it deviates from the Hebrew. In («) 
we may reckon iii, 3 ; iv, 4, G, 7, 10 ; xv, 4, 8, 9 ; xix, 5, 
18; xxi, 13, 42; xxii, 39, 44; xxiii, 39; xxiv, 15; xxvi, 
31 ; xxvii, 4G. In ( b ), called by Westcott ( Introd . p. 
208, note 1) 11 Cyclic quotations,” i, 23; ii, G, 15, 18; iv, 
15, 1G; viii, 17; xii, 18 sq. ; xiii, 35; xxi, 5; xxvii, 9, 
10). In two cases Matthew's citations agree with the 
synoptic parallels in a deviation from the Sept., all being 
drawn from the same oral groundwork. Matthew's quo- 
tations have been examined by Credner, one of the 
soundest of modern scholars, who pronounces decidedly 
for their derivation from the Greek ( Einleit . p. 94 ; comp. 
De Wette, Eial. p. 198). We may therefore not unwar- 
rantably find here additional evidence that in the exist- 
ing Greek text we have the work, not of a mere trans- 
lator, but of an independent and authoritative writer. 
(4.) The verbal correspondences between Matthew and 
the other synoptists in their narratives, and especially 
in the report of the speeches of our Lord and others, are 
difficult to account for if we regard it as a translation. 
As Alford remarks ( Gr . Test. Proleg. i, 28), “ The trans- 
lator must have been either acquainted with the other 
two Gospels, in which ease it is inconceivable that, in 
the midst of the present coincidences in many passages, 
such divergences should have occurred, or unacquainted 
with them, in which case the identity itself would be 
altogether inexplicable.” Indeed, in the words of Cred- 
ner ( Einleit . p. 94, 95), “ the Greek original of this Gos- 
pel is affirmed by its continual correspondence with 
those of Mark and Luke, and that not only in generals 
and important facts, but in particulars and minute de- 
tails, in the general plan, in entire clauses, and in sepa- 
rate words — a phenomenon which admits of no expla- 
nation under the hypothesis of a translation from the 
Hebrew.” (5.) This inference in favor of an original 
Greek Gospel is strongly confirmed by the fact that all 
versions, even the Peshito Syriac, the language in which 
the Gospel is said to have been originally written, are 
taken from the present Greek text. It is true that 
canon Cureton ( Syriac Recens. p. lxxv sq.) argues with 
much ability against this, and expends much learning 
and skill in proof of his hypothesis that the Syriac ver- 
sion of Matthew published by him is more ancient than 
the Peshito, and may be regarded as, in the main, iden- 
tical with the Aramaic Gospel of Matthew ; which he 
also considers to have been identical with the Gospel ac- 
cording to the Hebrews , used by the Nazarenes and 
Ebionitcs, “ modified by some additions, interpolations, 
and perhaps some omissions.” II is statement (p. xlii) 
that “there is a marked difference between the recen- 
sion of Matthew and that of the other Gospels, proving 
that they are by different hands — the former showing 
no signs, as the others do, of translation from the Greek” 
— demands the respect due to so careful a scholar; but 
he fails entirely to explain the extraordinary fact that, 
in the very country where Matthew published his Gos- 
pel, and within a comparatively short period, a version 
from the Greek was substituted for the authentic orig- 
inal ; nor have his views met with general acceptance 
among scholars. 

3. Having thus stated the arguments in favor of a 
Hebrew and Greek original respectively, it remains for 
us to inquire whether there is any way of adjusting the 


claims of the two. Were there no explanation of this 
inconsistency between the external assertions and the 
internal facts, it would be hard to doubt the concurrent 
testimony of so many old writers, whose belief in it is 
shown by the tenacity with which they held it in spite 
of their own experience. 

(1.) But it is certain that a Gospel, not the same as 
our canonical Matthew, sometimes usurped the apostle’s 
name ; and some of the witnesses we have quoted ap- 
pear to have referred to this in one or other of its vari- 
ous forms or names. The Christians in Palestine still 
held that the Mosaic ritual was binding on them, even 
after the destruction of Jerusalem. At the close of the 
first century one party existed who held that the Mosaic 
law was only binding on Jewish converts ; this was the 
Nazarenes. Another, the Ebionites, held that it was of 
universal obligation on Christians, and rejected Paul’s 
Epistles as teaching the opposite doctrine. These two 
sects, who differed also in the most important tenets as 
to our Lord’s person, possessed each a modification of 
the same Gospel, which no doubt each altered more and 
more, as their tenets diverged, and which bore various 
names — the Gospel of the twelve Apostles, the Gospel 
according to the Hebrews, the Gospel of Peter, or the 
Gospel according to Matthew. Enough is known to 
decide that the Gospel according to the Hebrews was 
not identical with our Gospel of Matthew; but it had 
many points of resemblance to the synoptical Gospels, 
and especially to Matthew. What was its origin it is 
impossible to say: it may have been a description of the 
oral teaching of the apostles, corrupted by degrees ; it 
may have come in its early and pure form from the hand 
of Matthew, or it may have been a version of the Greek 
Gospel of Matthew, as the evangelist who wrote espe- 
cially for Hebrews. Now this Gospel, “the Proteus of 
criticism” (Thiersch), did exist; is it impossible that 
when the Hebrew Matthew is spoken of, this question- 
able document, the Gospel of the Hebrews, was really 
referred to? Observe that all accounts of it are at sec- 
ond hand (with a notable exception) ; no one quotes it ; 
in cases of doubt about the text, Origen even does not 
appeal from the Greek to the Hebrew. All that is cer- 
tain is, that Nazarenes or Ebionites, or both, boasted 
that they possessed the original Gospel of Matthew. 
Jerome is the exception, and him we can convict of the 
very mistake of confounding the two, and almost on his 
own confession. “At first he thought,” says an anony- 
mous writer (Edinburgh Review, 1851, July, p. 39), “that 
it was the authentic Matthew, and translated it into 
both Greek and Latin from a copy which he obtained 
at Bcrcea, in Syria. This appears from his De, Vir. III., 
written in the year 392. Six years later, in his Com- 
mentary on Matthew, he spoke more doubtfully about 
it — ‘Quod vocatur a plerisque Matthau authentieum.’ 
Later still, in his book on the Pelagian heresy, written 
in the year 415, he modifies his account still further, de- 
scribing the work as the ‘Evangelium juxta Hebraos, 
quod Chaldaico quidem Svroque sermone, sod Hebraicis 
Uteris conscription est, quo utuntur usque hodic Naza- 
reni secundum Apostolos, sive ut plerique autumant 
juxta Matthamm, quod et in Csesariensi habetur Bibli- 
otheca.’ ” There have pronounced for a Greek original 
— Erasmus, Calvin, Leclerc, Fabricius, Light foot, Wet- 
stein, Paulus, Lardner, Iley, Hales, Hug, Schott, De 
Wette, Moses Stuart, Fritzsche, Credner, Thiersch, and 
many others. Great names are ranged also on the other 
side, as Simon, Mill, Michaelis, Marsh, Eichhorn, Storr, 
Olshausen, and others. May not the truth be that Pa- 
pias, knowing of more than one Aramaic Gospel in use 
among the Judaic sects, may have assumed the exist- 
ence of a Hebrew original from which these were sup- 
posed to be taken, and knowing also the genuine Greek 
Gospel, may have looked on all these, in the loose, un- 
critical way which earned for him Eusebius’s descrip- 
tion, as the various “interpretations” to which he al- 
ludes? It is by no means improbable that after several 
inaccurate and imperfect translations of the Aranuean 


MATTHEW" 


892 


MATTHEW 


original came into circulation, Matthew himself was 
prompted by this circumstance to publish a Greek trans- 
lation, or to have his Gospel translated under his own 
supervision. It is very likely that this Greek translation 
did not soon eome into general circulation, so that it is 
even possible that Papias may have remained ignorant 
of its existence. See Stuart, in the Amer. Bib. Repos. 
1838, p. 130-179, 315-356. 

(*2.) We think that Mr. Westeott — to whom the study 
of the Gospels owes so much — has pointed out the road 
to a still better solution. Not that the difficulties which 
beset this matter ean be regarded as eleared up, or the 
question finally and satisfactorily settled, but a mode of 
reconciling the inconsistency between testimony and 
fact has been indicated, which, if pursued, may, we 
think, lead to a decision. “It has been shown,” says 
Mr. Westeott ( Introd . p. 20S, note), “that the oral Gos- 
pel probably existed from the first both in Aramaic and 
in Greek, and in this way a preparation for a fresh rep- 
resentative of the Hebrew Gospel was at once found. 
The parts of the Aramaic oral Gospels which were 
adopted by Matthew already existed in the Greek coun- 
terpart. The change was not so much a version as a 
substitution ; and frequent coincidence with common 
parts of Mark and Luke, which were derived from the 
same oral Greek Gospel, was a necessary consequence. 
Yet it may have happened that, as long as the Hebrew 
and Greek churches were in close connection, perhaps 
till the destruction of Jerusalem, no authoritative Greek 
Gospel of Matthew — i. e. sueh a version of the Greek 
oral Gospel as would exactly answer to Matthew’s ver- 
sion of the Aramaic — was committed to writing. When, 
however, the separation between the two sections grew 
more marked, the Greek Gospel was written, not indeed 
as a translation, but as a representation of the original, 
as a Greek oral counterpart was already eurrent.” This 
theory of the origin of the Greek Gospel, it appears to 
us, meets the facts of the ease, and satisfies its require- 
ments more fully than any other. We have seen above 
that the language of Papias indicates that, even in his 
day, the Gospel of Matthew existed substantially in 
Greek, and its universal diffusion and general authority 
in the earliest ages of the Church prove that its compo- 
sition cannot be plaeed much after the times of the 
apostles. May it not have been then that the two — 
the Aramaic and the Greek Gospel — existed for some 
time in their most important portions as an old tradition 
side by side — that the Aramaic was the first to be com- 
mitted to writing, and gained a wide though temporary 
circulation among the Hebrew Christians of Syria and 
Palestine? that when, as would soon be the case, the 
want of a Greek Gospel for the use of the Hellenistic 
Jews was felt, this also was published in its written 
form, either bv Matthew himself (as is maintained by 
Thiersch, Olshausen, and Lee), or by those to whom, 
from constant repetition, the main portions were famil- 
iar; perhaps under the apostle’s eye, and with the vir- 
tual, if not the formal sanction of the Chureh at Jeru- 
salem ? As it supplied a need widely felt by the Gentile 
Christians, it would at once obtain currency, and as the 
Gentile Church rapidly extended her borders, while that 
of the Jewish believers was continually becoming eon- 
fined within narrower limits, this Greek Gospel would 
speedily supplant its Hebrew predecessor, and thus fur- 
nish a fresh and most striking example of what Mr. 
Westeott, in his excellent work on The Bible in the 
Church (Introd. p. viii), ealls “that doctrine of a divine 
providence separating (as it were) and preserving spe- 
cial 1 >ooks for the perpetual instruction of the Chureh, 
which is the true correlative and complement of every 
sound and reverend theory of inspiration.” No other 
hypothesis, as Dr. Lee has satisfactorily shown .(Inspir. 
of II. Be. Appendix 31), than the Greek Gospel being 
cither actually or substantially the production of- Mat- 
thew himself, “accounts for the profound silence of an- 
cient writers respecting the translation ... or for the 
absence of the least trace of any other Greek translation 


of the Hebrew original.” The hypotheses which assign 
the translation to Barnabas (Isid. Hispal.,C4ron.p,272), 
John (Theophyl., Euthym. Zigab.), Mark (Greswell), 
Luke and Paul conjointly (Anastas. Sinaita), or James 
the brother of our Lord (Syn. Sacr. Scr. apud Athanas. 
ii, 202), are mere arbitrary assertions without any foun- 
dation in early tradition. The last named is the most 
ingenious, as we may reasonably suppose that the bishop 
of Jerusalem would feel solicitude for the spiritual wants 
of the Hellenistic Christians of that city. 

Those who desire to pursue the investigation of this 
subject will find ample materials for doing so in the In- 
troductions of Hug, De Wette, Credner, ete. ; Marsh’s 
Michaelis , vol. iii, pt. i, where the patristic authorities 
are fully discussed ; and they will be found, for the most 
part, in Kirchhofer, Quellensammlung , where will also be 
found the passages referring to the Gospel of the He- 
brews, p. 448 ; also in most of the commentaries. The 
following have written monographs on this point : Sonn- 
tag (Altorf, 1696), Schroder (Yiteb. 1699, 1702), Maseh 
(Halle, 1755), Williams (Lond. 1790), Eisner (F. ad V. 
1791), Buslaw (Yratisl. 1826), Stuart (Bibl. Repos. 1838), 
Harless (Erlang. 1841, also 1842, the latter tr. in Bibl . 
Repos . 1844), Tregelles (Kitto’s Journ . 1850, and sepa- 
rately), Alexander (ibid. 1850), Roberts (Lond. 1864). 
More general discussions may be found in Lardner’s 
Credibility , vol. v; Reuss’s Gesch. d. Kanon; Tregelles 
on The Oriyinal Language of St. Mattheio ; Rev. A. Rob- 
erts’s Discussions on the Gospels ; the commentaries of 
Olshausen, Meyer, Alford, Wetstein, Kuinol, Fritzsehe, 
Lange, ete. ; and the works on the Gospels of Norton 
(Credibility), Westeott, Baur, Gieseler (Entstehung) , Ilil- 
genfeld, etc. ; Cureton’s Syriac Recension , Preface ; and 
Dr. W. Lee on Inspiration, Appendix 31 ; Jeremiah 
Jones’s Vindication of St. Matthew ; Ewald, Die drei 
Erst. Ev. ; and Jahrbuch d. Bibl. Wissensch . 1848-49. 

V. Characteristics. — 3Iatthew’s is emphatically the 
Gospel of the Kingdom. The main object of the evan- 
gelist is to portray the kingly character of Christ, and 
to show that in him the ideal of the King reigning in 
righteousness, the true Heir of David’s throne, was ful- 
filled (comp. Augustine, De Consens. Ev. passim). Thus 
the tone throughout is majestic and kingly. He views 
things in the grand general aspeet, and, indifferent to 
the details in which Mark loves so much to dwell, he 
gathers up all in the great result. His narrative pro- 
ceeds with a majestic simplicity, regardless of time and 
place, according to another and deeper order, ready to 
sacrifice mere chronology or locality to the develop- 
ment of this idea. Thus he brings together events sep- 
arated sometimes by considerable intervals, according to 
the unity of their nature or purpose, and with a grand 
but simple power accumulates in groups the discourses, 
parables, and miraeles of our Lord (1. 3Villiams, Study 
of Gospels, p. 28). From the formation and objects of 
the Gospels, we should expect that their prevailing char- 
acteristics would be indicated rather by a general tone 
and spirit than by minute peculiarities. Not, however, 
that these latter are wanting. It has already been re- 
marked how the genealogy with which 3Iatthew’s Gos- 
pel opens sets our Lord forth in his kingly character, as 
the heir of the throne of David, the representative of 
the royal line of which he was the true successor and 
fulfilment. As we advance we find his birth hailed, not 
by lowly shepherds as in Luke, but by wise men coming 
to wait on him with royal gifts, inquiring, “ Where is 
lie that is bom king of the Jews.” In the Sermon on 
the 3Iount the same majesty and authority appear. We 
hear the Judge himself delivering his sentence; the 
King laying down the laws of his kingdom, “ I say unto 
you,” and astonishing his hearers with the “authority” 
with which he speaks. The awful majesty of our Lord’s 
reproofs in his teaching in the Temple, and his denunci- 
ations of the Scribes and Pharisees, also evidence the 
authority of a king and lawgiver — “one who knew the 
mind of God and could reveal it;” which may also be 
noticed in the lengthened discourses that mark the close 


MATTHEW 


893 


MATTHEW 


of his ministry, in which “ the king’' and “ the kingdom 
of heaven” come forward with so much frequency (xxi, 
31,43; xxii, 2 sq. ; xxiii, 14; xxiv, 14; xxv, 1, 34,40). 
Nor can wc overlook the remarkable circumstance that, 
in the parable of the marriage-feast, so similar in its 
general circumstances with that in Luke (xiv, 16), in- 
stead of “ a certain man,” it is “ a king” making a mar- 
riage for his son, and in kingly guise sending forth his 
armies and binding the unworthy guest. The addition 
of the doxology also to the Lord’s Pra} r er, with its as- 
cription of “ the kingdom, the power, and the glory,” is 
in such true harmony with the same prevailing tone as 
to lead many to see in this fact alone the strongest ar- 
gument for its genuineness. 

Hut we must not in this, or in any of the Gospels, di- 
rect our attention too exclusively to any one side of our 
Lord’s character. “ The King is one and the same in 
all, and so is the Son of Man and the Priest. ... He 
who is the King is also the Sacrifice” (Williams, ut sup. 
p. 32). The Gospel is that of the King, but it is the 
King “ meek” (xxi, 5), “ meek and lowly of heart” (xi, 
29); the kingdom is that of “the poor in spirit,” “the 
persecuted for righteousness’ sake” (ver.3, 10), into which 
“ the weary and heavy laden” are invited, and which 
they enter by submitting to the “yoke” of its king. 
He, it tells us, was to be one of ourselves, “ whose broth- 
erhood with man answered all the anticipations the 
Jewish prophets had formed of their king, and whose 
power to relieve the woes of humanity could not be sep- 
arated from his participation in them, who 1 himself took 
our infirmities and bare our sicknesses’ ” (viii, 17) (Mau- 
rice, Unity of N. T. p. 190). As the son of David and 
the son of Abraham, he was the partaker of the sorrows 
as well as the glories of the throne — the heir of the curse 
as well as the blessing. The source of all blessings to 
mankind, fulfilling the original promise to Abraham, the 
curse due to man’s sin meets and centres in him, and is 
transformed into a blessing when the cross becomes his 
kingly throne ; and from the lowest point of his degra- 
dation he reappears, in his resurrection, as the Lord and 
King to whom “ all power is given in heaven and earth.” 
He fulfils the promise, “ In thy seed shall all families of 
the earth be blessed;” in the command to “go and make 
disciples of all nations,” he “ expands the I am, which 
was the ground of the national polity, into the name of 
1 the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost’ ” (Maurice, 
ul suj). p. 221). 

Once more, the kingdom he came to establish was to 
be a fatherly kingdom. The King he made known was 
one reigning in God’s name, and as his representative. 
That God was the father of his people, as of him, in and 
through whom human beings were to be adopted as the 
children of God. This characteristic of the Gospel is 
perpetually meeting us. At every turn Matthew repre- 
sents our Lord bringing out the mind of God and show- 
ing it to be the mind of a Father. The fatherly rela- 
tion is the ground of all his words of counsel, command, 
warning, comfort. Especially is this the case in the 
Sermon on the Mount. Every command, as to good 
works (v, 16, 45, 48), almsgiving (vi, 1,2), prayer (vi, G, 
8\ forgiveness (vi, 14, 15), fasting (vi, 18), trust and faith 
(vi, 26; vii, 11), is based on the revelation of a Father. 
The twelve are sent forth in the same name and strength 
(x, 20, 29). The kingdom Christ came to establish is 
not so much a kingdom as a family — the Ecclesia , a 
word found only in Matthew (xvi, 18; xviii, 17) — “ held 
together by the law of forgiveness and mutual sacrifice, 
with their elder Brother in the midst of them, and their 
will so identified with that which rules heaven and 
earth, that whatever they shall agree to aSk shall be 
clone by their Father.” This characteristic of Matthew 
is remarkably evidenced by a comparative survey of 
the usage of the evangelists. In Mark we find our Lord 
speaking of or to God, as his Father, three times, in 
Luke twelve times, in Matthew twenty-two times; as 
the Father of his people, in Mark twice, in Luke five 
times, in Matthew twenty-two times. 


Another minor characteristic which deserves remark, 
is Matthew's use of the plural, where the other evangel- 
ists have the singular. Thus, in the temptation, we 
have “stones” and “loaves” (iv, 3), two demoniacs (viii, 
28), rovg yoprouc (xiv, 19), two blind men (xx,30; comp, 
ix, 27), the ass and her colt (xxi, 2), servants (xxi, 34, 
36), both thieves blaspheming (xxvii,44). This is in- 
geniously accounted for by Da Costa ( Four Witnesses , p. 
322), though this is not universally applicable, on the 
idea that “ his point of view — regarding the events he 
narrates as fulfilled prophecies — leads him to regard 
the species rather than the individual ; the entire plen- 
itude of the prophecy rather than the isolated fulfil- 
ment.” 

VI. Relation to Mark and Luke. — In the article on 
Mark we have expressed our opinion that, while his 
Gospel is probably in essence the oldest, there is nothing 
seriously to invalidate the traditional statement that 
Matthew’s was the earliest in composition — the first 
committed to writing. Neither does a careful review 
of the text of the Gospel allow ns to accept the view 
put forth by Ewald with his usual dogmatism, and de- 
fended with his wonted acuteness, that, as we have it, it 
is a fusion of four different elements — (1.) An original 
Greek Gospel of the simplest and briefest form ; (2.) An 
Aramaic “ collection of sayings” ( rd \6yta) ; (3.) the 
narrative of Mark ; and (4.) “ a book of higher history.” 
That our Gospel is no such curious mosaic is evident 
from the unity of plan -and unity of language which 
pervades the whole, and to an unprejudiced reader Ew- 
ald’s theory refutes itself. 

Comparing Matthew’s Gospel with those of Mark and 
Luke, we find the following passages peculiar to him : 
chap, i (with the exception of the great central fact), 
and chap, ii entirely. The genealogy, the suspicions of 
Joseph, the visit of the magi, the flight into Egypt and 
return thence, the massacre of the innocents, and the 
reason of the settlement at Nazareth, are given by Mat- 
thew alone. To him we owe the notice that “ the Phar- 
isees and Sadducees” came to John’s baptism (iii, 7) ; 
that John was unwilling to baptize our Lord, and the 
words in which Jesus satisfied his scruples (ver. 13-15); 
the Sermon oil the Mount in its fullest form (ch. v, vi, 
vii) ; the prediction of the call of the Gentiles, appended 
to the miracle of the centurion’s servant (viii, 11, 12); 
the cure of the two blind men (ix, 27-30) ; and that 
memorable passage by which, if by nothing else, Mat- 
thew will forever be remembered with thankfulness — 
which, as perhaps the fullest exposition of the spirit 
of the Gospel anywhere to be found in Holy Scripture, 
taught Augustine the difference between the teaching 
of Christ and that of the best philosophers (xi, 28-30) ; 
the solemn passage about “ idle words” (xii, 36, 37) ; 
four of the parables in ch. xiii, the tares, the hid treas- 
ure, the pearl, and the draw-net ; several incidents re- 
lating to Peter, his walking on the water (xiv, 28-31), 
the blessing pronounced upon him (xvi, 17-19), the trib- 
ute-money (xvii, 24-27) ; nearly the whole of ch. xviii, 
with its lessons of humility and forgiveness, and the 
parable of the unmerciful servant; the lessons on volun- 
tary continence (xix, 10, 12); the promise to the twelve 
(ver. 28); the parables of the laborers in the vineyard 
(xx, 1-16), the two sons (xxi, 28-32), the transference 
of the kingdom to the Gentiles (ver. 43); the parable 
of the marriage of the king’s son (xxii, 1-14) ; nearly 
the whole of the denunciations against the Scribes and 
Pharisees in ch. xxiii; the parables of the last things 
in ch. xxv. In the history of the passion the peculiar- 
ities are numerous and uniform in character, tending to 
show how, in the midst of his betrayal, sufferings, and 
death, our Lord’s Messiahship was attested. It is in 
Matthew alone that we read of the covenant with Judas 
for “ thirty pieces of silver” (xxvi, 15) ; his inquiry “ Is 
it I ?” (xxvi, 25), as well as the restoration of the money 
in his despair, and its ultimate destination in uncon- 
scious fulfilment of prophecy (xxvii, 3-10) ; the cup “ for 
the remission of sins” (xxvi, 28) ; the mention of the 


MATTHEW 


894 


MATTHEW 


“twelve legions of angels” (ver. 52-54); Pilate’s wife’s 
dream (xxvii, 19), his washing his hands (ver. 24), and 
the imprecation “ flis blood be on us,” etc. (verse 25); 
the opening of the graves (ver. 52, 53), and the watch 
placed at the sepulchre (ver. G2-G6). In the account of 
the resurrection we tind only in Matthew the great 
earthquake (xxviii, 2), the descent of the angel, his 
glorious appearance striking terror into the guards (ver. 
2-4), their flight, and the falsehood spread by them at 
the instigation of the priests (ver. 11-15); our Lord’s 
appearance to the women (ver. 9, 10) ; the adoration 
and doubt of the apostles (ver. 17); and, finally, the 
parting commission and promise of his ever-abiding 
presence (ver. 18-20). 

This review of the Gospel will show us that of the 
matter peculiar to Matthew, the larger part consists of 
parables and discourses, and that he adds comparatively 
little to the narrative. Of thirty-three recorded mira- 
cles eighteen are given by Matthew, but only two, the 
cure of the blind men (ix, 27-30) and the tribute money 
(xvii, 24-27), are peculiar to him. Of twenty-nine par- 
ables Matthew records fifteen; ten, as noticed above, 
being peculiar to him. Reuss, dividing the matter con- 
tained in the synoptical Gospels into 100 sections, finds 
73 of them in Matthew, 63 in Mark, in Luke, the rich- 
est of all, 82. Of these, 49 are common to all three; 9 
common to Matthew and Mark; 8 to Matthew and 
Luke ; 3 to Mark and Luke. Only 7 of these arc pecul- 
iar to Matthew; 2 to Mark; -while Luke contains no 
less than 22. 

Matthew’s narrative, as a rule, is the least graphic. 
The great features of the history which bring into prom- 
inence our Lord’s character as teacher and prophet, the 
substance of type and prophecy, the Messianic king, are 
traced with broad outline, without minute or circumstan- 
tial details. 4Ye are conscious of a want of that pictu- 
resque power and vivid painting which delight us in 
the other Gospels, especially in that of Mark. This 
deficiency, however, is more than compensated for by 
the grand simplicity of the narrative, in which every- 
thing is secondary to the evangelist’s great object. The 
facts which prove the Messianic dignity of his Lord are 
all in all with him, the circumstantials almost nothing, 
while he portrays the earthly form and theocratic glory 
of the new dispensation, and unfolds the glorious con- 
summation of the “kingdom of heaven.” 

VII. Arrangement and Contents. — Matthew’s order, 
we have already seen, is according to subject-matter 
rather than chronological sequence, which in the first 
half is completely disregarded. More attention is paid 
to order of time in the latter half, where the arrange- 
ment agrees with that of Mark. The main body of his 
Gospel divides itself into groups of discourses collected 
according to their leading tendency, aud separated from 
each ot her by groups of anecdotes and miracles. 4Ve may 
distinguish seven such collections of discourses — (1.) The 
Sermon on the Mount, a specimen of our Lord’s ordinary 
didactic instruction (ch. v-vii) ; divided by a group of 
works of healing, comprising no less than ten out of eigh- 
teen recorded miracles, from (2.) the commission of the 
twelve (ch. x). The following chapters (xi, xii) give 
the result of our Lord’s own teaching, and, introducing 
a change of feeling towards him, prepare us for (3.) his 
first open denunciation of his enemies (xii. 25-45), and 
pave the way for (4.) the group of parables, including 
seven out of fifteen recorded by him (ch. xiii). The 
next four chapters, containing the culminating point of 
our Lord’s history in Peter’s confession (xvi, 13-20), and 
the transfiguration (ch. xvii), with the first glimpses of 
the cross (xvi, 21 ; xvii, 12), arc lxnind together by his- 
torical sequence. In (5.), comprising ch. xviii, we have 
a complete treatise in itself, made up of fragments on 
humility and brotherly lover The counsels of perfec- 
tion, in xix, 1-xx, 10, arc followed by the disputes with 
the Scribes and Pharisees (xxi, 23-xxii, 4G), which sup- 
ply the ground for (G.) the solemn denunciations of the 
hypocrisies and sophisms b} r which they nullified the 


spirit of the law (ch. xxiii), followed by (7.) the proph- 
ecy of the last tilings (ch. xxiv, xxv). 

More particularly its principal divisions are — 1. The 
introduction to the ministry (ch. i-iv). 2. The laying 
down of the new law for the Church in the Sermon on 
the Mount (ch. v-vii). 3. Events in historical order, 
showing Jesus as the worker of miracles (ch. viii, ix). 
4. The appointment of apostles to preach the kingdom 
(ch. x). 5. The doubts and opposition excited by his 

activity in divers minds — in John’s disciples, in sundry 
cities, in the Pharisees (ch. xi, xii). G. A series of par- 
ables on the nature of the kingdom (ch. xiii). 7. Sim- 
ilar to 5. The effects of his ministry on his country- 
men, on Herod, the people of Gennesaret, Scribes and 
Pharisees, and on multitudes, whom he feeds (xiii, 53- 
xvi, 12). 8. Revelation to his disciples of his sufferings. 
His instructions to them thereupon (xvi, 13-xviii, 35). 
9. Events of a journey to Jerusalem (ch. xix, xx). 10. 
Entrance into Jerusalem and resistance to him there, 
and denunciation of the Pharisees (ch. xxi-xxiii). 11. 
Last discourses; Jesus as lord and judge of Jerusalem, 
and also of the world (ch. xxiv, xxv). 12. Passion and 
resurrection (ch. xxvi-xxviii). 

The view that Matthew’s Gospel is arranged chrono- 
logically was revived by Eichhorn, who has been fol- 
lowed by Marsh, De Wette, and others. But it has been 
controverted by llug, Olshausen, Greswell, Ellicott, and 
others, and is almost universally held to be untenable. 

VIH. Style and Diction . — The language of Matthew 
is less characteristic than that of the other evangelists. 
Of the three synoptical Gospels it is the most decidedly 
Hebraistic, both in diction and construction, but less so 
than that of John. Creilner and others have remarked 
the following: (1.) i) fiaatXtia twv o vpavuiv, which oc- 
curs thirty-two times in Matthew and not once in the 
other evangelists, who use instead t) fiaa. r. Stov, em- 
ployed also by Matthew (vi, 33; xii, 28; xxi, 31, 43). 
(2.) 6 7mn)p o iv rolg ovpavolg (6 ovpdviog , four times), 
sixteen times, only twice in Mark, not at all in Luke. 
(3.) Yiog /Xafitd, to designate Jesus as the Messiah, 
seven times, three times each in Mark and Luke. (4.) 
'H ctyia TrbXig, and 6 ctytog Toitog, for Jerusalem, three 
times; not in the other evangelists. (5.) i) ai’vrtXtia 
rov aitbvog, “the consummation of the age”=“the end 
of the world,” is found five times in Matthew, nowhere 
else in the New Test, except Hcb. ix, 26, in the plural, 
aitoviov. (G.) 'tv a (ottwc) 7rX}]pu>Sr?j to pifiiv, eight 
times, nowhere else in the New Test. John uses Vm 
7 rXijp. 6 Aoy., or i) ypacf).; Mark once (xiv, 49), 7m 
7 rXijp. at ypatp. (7.) to pifiiv (always used by Mat- 
thew when quoting holy Scripture himself, in other ci- 
tations ytypairrat, with the other evangelists), twelve 
times; 6 pifitic, once (iii, 3). He never uses the sin- 
gular, ypatpij. Mark once uses ro pjfitv (xiii, 14). (8.) 
iSvacug, twice; nowhere else in the New Test. (9.) 
npvvttv iv, seven times; not elsewhere, save Rev. x, 6. 
(10.) teat ibov , in narrative, twenty-three times: in 
Luke sixteen times; not in Mark, icov, after a geni- 
tive absolute, nine times. (11.) 7rpo<Tfpy£(73’a< and tto- 
ptvtaSat, continually used to give a pictorial coloring 
to the narrative (c. g. iv, 3; viii, 5, 19, 25; ix, 14, 20, 
etc. ; ii, 8 ; ix, 1$ ; xi, 4, etc.). (12.) Xiytov, absolutely, 
without the dative of the person (e. g. i, 20; iii, 2, 13, 
20; iii, 2. 14, 17 ; v, 2; vi, 31, etc.). (13.) 'UpoanXvfta 
is the name of the holy city with Matthew always, ex- 
cept xxiii. 37. It is the same in Mark, with one (doubt- 
ful) exception (xi, 1). Luke uses this form rarely; ‘lc- 
povtraXt'ifi frequently. 

Other peculiarities, establishing the unity of author- 
ship, may be noticed : (1.) The use of rorf, as the ordi- 
nary particle of transition, ninety times; six times in 
Mark, and fourteen in Luke. (2.) koi iyivero ote, five 
times; Luke uses ote ce iyevETo, or teat ote iyivtro. 
(3.) twf ov, seven times. (4.) iv iKtivtp Ttp tccuptjj , tv 
~y (opgt Ik., and «7ro r. top. Ik., scarcely found in Mark 
or Luke. (5.) dmywptw, “ to retire,” ten times. (G.) 
tear vvetp , six times. (7.) ttoihv u>g, wcnrtp, icaStog, 


MATTHEW 


895 


MATTHEW 


oKravrojg ; Luke, not. opoiuig. (8.) rcapog, six times; 
only Rom. iii, 13- besides in the N. T. (9.) otpodpa, and 
other adverbs, after the verb, except ovrto, always be- 
fore it. (10.) TrpoGKvvcXv, with the dative, ten times; 
twice in Mark, three times in John. 

Other words which are found either only or more 
frequently in Matthew are, fjaSrjrevttv, oeXipuafyuSai, 
typoviyog, oiKiaKOQ, vortpov , ticaS'ci', haraZ>uv, Kara - 
novri&vSaL, ptraiptiv, cvvaipiiv Xoyov , avpfiovXtov 
Xapfidveiv, paXaKia — koq , etc. (see Creduer, Einleit. p. 
G3 sq. ; Gersdorf, Beitraye z. Sprachcharact . d. N. T.). 

IX. Citations from the Old Testament . — Few facts are 
more significant of the original purpose of this Gospel, 
and the persons for whom it was designed, than the fre- 
quency of citations from and references to the O.-Test. 
Scriptures. While in Luke and Mark, the Gentile Gos- 
pels, we have only twenty -four and twenty-three re- 
spectively, Matthew supplies no less than fifty- four. 
The character of the quotations is no less noticeable 
than the number. In Matthew the Old Test, is cited 
verbally no less than forty- three times, many of the 
quotations being peculiar to this evangelist ; in Luke 
we have not more than nineteen direct citations, and 
only eight quotations (in Mark only two), which are 
not found elsewhere. The two classes into which these 
citations are distinguished — those more or less directly 
from the Sept., and those which give an original render- 
ing of the Hebrew text — have been alluded to above. 
The citations peculiar to Matthew arc marked with an 
asterisk (*), and those which he quotes as having been 
fulfilled in our Lord’s life with (a). 


* 

(«) i,‘23 

. .Isa. vii, 14. 

xv, 4 

, .Exod. xxi,lG. 

* 

(«) ii, 6 


S,9. . , 

..Isa. xxix, 13. 

* 

(a) 15 


* xviii, 10. . 

.Dent, xix, 15. 


(«) 18 


xix, 4 

.Gen. i, 27. 


iii, 3 — 

. .Isa. xl, 3. 

5.... 

, .Geu. ii, 24. 


iv, 4 . . . . 


7 

.Deut. xxiv, 1. 


6 

..Psa. xci, 11, 

xix, IS, 19. Exod. xx, 12- 



12. 


16. 


7 .... 


* (a) xxi, 5 

.Zeeh. ix, 9. 


10 .... 


9..., 

. . Psa. cxviii, 

* 

(a) 14-10.. 

. .Isa. ix, 12. 


25, 2G. 

* 

v, 5 


13..., 

..Isa. lvi, 7 ; 



11,29. 


Jer. vii, 11. 

* 

21 

. .Exod. xx, 13. 

* 1G... 

..Psa. viii, 2. 

* 

Of 


42..., 

..Psa. cxviii, 


31 



22. 



(Lev. xix, 12; 

xxii, 24 . , 

. .Dent, xxv, 5. 

* 

33 

< Deut. xxiii, 

32 ., 

, .Exod. iii, 6. 



( 23. 

37 .. 

, .Deut. vi, ft. 

* 

3S 


39 .. 

, . Lev. xix, 18. 


43 


44 .. 

. . Psa. cx, 1. 


viii, 4. . . 


xxiii, 38. . 

.Hag. i, 9 (?). 

* 

(a) 17... 

. .Isa. liii, 4. 

39., 

. .Psa. cxviii, 

* 

(a) ix, 13. . . 



20. 

* 

x, 35, 30. 

..Mic. vii, G. 

xxi v, 15., 

..Dan. xii, 11 ; 


xi, 5 . . . . 

. .Isa. xxxv, 5 ; 


ix, 27. 



xxix, IS. 

29., 

. .Isa. xlii, 10 ; 


10 

. .Mai. iii, 1. 


Joel ii, 10. 

* 

(«) xii, 7 

..11 os. vi, 0. 

xxvi, 31. , 

,.Zcch. xiii, 7. 

* 

(a) 18—21 . 

..Isa. xlii, 1^. 

04., 

. .I)an. vii, 13. 


xni, 14, 15. Isa. vi, 0, 10. 

* (a) xxvii, 10 

. .Zech. xi, 13. 

* 

(a) 35.. 

..Psa. lxxviii, 

* (a) 35 , 

. .Psa. xxii, 18. 



2. 

* 43 , 

, .Psa. xxii, 8. 


xv, 4 


40, 

. .Psa. xxii, 1. 


To these may be added (ii, 23), “ He shall be called a 
Nazaronc ;” and the appeal to the words of the prophets 
generally (xxvi, 54, 56). 

References to the O. Test, which are not direct cita- 


tions, 

are as under : 



xi, 14, 


xvii, 11 . . . 

. .Mai. iv, 6. 

xii. 3 . 

1 Sam. xxi, 3-0. 

xxi, 44..., 

...Dan. ii, 44. 

5 , 



(Geu. iv, S; 

40 , 


xxiii, 35 . . 

< 2 Chron. xxiv, 

42 , 



( 21. 


X. Genuineness. — Notwithstanding the doubts that 
have been thrown upon it, the genuineness of Matthew 
is as satisfactorily established as that of any ancient 
book whatever. See Davidson’s Introd . to the N. Test ., 
vol. i. From the days of Justin we find perpetual quo- 
tations corresponding with the existing text of the Gos- 
pel, which prove that the book then in circulation, as of 
canonical authority, was the same as that we now have. 
Of the various recensions by which we are invited by 


Marsh, Hilgenfeld, Schleiermacher, Ewald, etc., to be- 
lieve that the Gospel assumed its present form, there is 
absolutely no external evidence; while the internal, 
arising from style and diction, are entirely in favor of 
the whole having substantially proceeded from one hand. 
Other supposed internal evidence varies so much, ac- 
cording to the subjective position of critics, and leads 
them by the same data to such opposite results, as to be 
little worth. 

1. Some critics, admitting the apostolic antiquity of 
a part of the Gospel, apply to Matthew, as they do to 
Luke, the gratuitous supposition of a later editor or 
compiler, who, by augmenting and altering the earlier 
document, produced our present Gospel. Hilgenfeld (p. 
106) endeavors to separate the older from the newer 
work, and includes much historical matter in the for- 
mer ; since Schleiermacher, several critics, misinterpret- 
ing the \oyia of Rapias, consider the older document to 
have been a collection of “discourses” only. We are 
asked to believe that in the 2d century, for two or more 
of the Gospels, new works, differing from them both in 
matter and compass, were substituted for the old, and 
that about the end of the 2d century our present Gos- 
pels were adopted by authority to the exclusion of all 
others, and that henceforth the copies of the older works 
entirely disappeared, and have escaped the keenest 
research ever since. Eichhorn’s notion is that “the 
Church” sanctioned the four canonical books, and by its 
authority gave them exclusive currency ; but there ex- 
isted at that time no means for convening a council, 
and if such a body could have met and decided, it would 
not have been able to force on the churches books dis- 
crepant from the older copies to which they had long 
been accustomed, without discussion, protest, and resist- 
ance (see Norton, Genuineness , chap.i). That there was 
no such resistance or protest we have ample evidence. 
1 renieus knows the four Gospels only {liter, i-ii, chap. i). 
Tatian, who died A.D. 170, composed a Gospel harmony, 
lost to ns, under the name of Diatessaron (Eusebius, 
Hist . Eccles . iv, 29). Theophilus, bishop of Antioch, 
about 168, wrote a commentary on the Gospels (Jerome, 
Ad A lyasiam, and De Vir. ill.). Clement of Alexandria 
(flourished about 189) knew the four Gospels, and dis- 
tinguished between them and the uncanonical gospel 
according to the Egyptians. Tertullian (born about 
160) knew the four Gospels, and was called on to vindi- 
cate the text of one of them against the corruptions of 
Marcion. See Luke. Origen (born 185) calls the four 
Gospels the four elements of the Christian faith ; and it 
appears that his copy of Matthew contained the gene- 
alogy {Comm, in Joan.). Passages from Matthew are 
quoted by Justin Martyr, by the author of the letter 
to Diognetus (see in Otto’s Justin Martyr , vol. ii), by 
llegesippus, Irenauis, Tatian, Athenagoras, Theophilus, 
Clement, Tertullian, and Origen. It is not merely from 
the matter, but the manner of the quotations, from the 
calm appeal as to a settled authority, from the absence 
of all hints of doubt, that we regard it as proved that 
the book we possess had not been the subject of any 
sudden change. Was there no heretic to throw back 
with double force against Tertullian the charge of alter- 
ation which he brings against Marcion ? Was there no 
orthodox Church or member of a Church to complain 
that, instead of the Matthew and the Luke that had 
been taught to them and their fathers, other and differ- 
ent writings were now imposed on them? Neither the 
one nor the other appears. 

The citations of Justin Martyr, very important for 
this subject, have been thought to indicate a source dif- 
ferent from the Gospels which we now possess; and by 
the word dnropvijpovtvftara (memoirs), he has been 
supposed to indicate that lost work. We have not space 
here to show that the remains referred to are the Gos- 
pels which we possess, and not any one book ; and that 
though Justin quotes the Gospels very loosely, so that 
his words often bear but a slight resemblance to the 
original, the same is true of his quotations from the 


MATTHEW 


806 


MATTHEW 


Septuagint. He transposes words, brings separate pas- 
sages together, attributes the words of one prophet to 
another, and even quotes the Pentateuch for facts not 
recorded in it. Many of the quotations from the Sep- 
tuagint tire indeed precise, but these are chiefly in the 
Dialogue with Trvpho, where, reasoning with a Jew on 
the O. T., he does not trust his memory, but consults the 
text. This question is disposed of in Norton's Genuine- 
ness, vol. i, and in Hug’s Einleitung. 

2. The genuineness of the first two chapters has been 
called in question, but on no sufficient grounds. Sec 
Meyer's note, Comment . i, 65, who adduces as arguments 
for their genuineness, that — (1.) they are found in all 
MSS. and ancient versions, and arc quoted by the fa- 
thers of the 2d and 3d centuries, lrenauis, Clem. Alex., 
etc., and are referred to by Celsus (Orig. C. Cels, i, 38 ; 
H, 32). (2.) The facts they record are perfectly in keep- 
ing with a Gospel written for Jewish Christians. (3.) 
The opening of chap, iii, iv be rate; i)p. Ik., refers back, 
by its construction, to the close of chap, ii ; and iv, 13 
would be unintelligible without ii, 23. (4.) There is no 

difference between the diction and constructions and 
those in the other parts of the Gospel. 

The opponents of these two chapters rest chiefly on 
their alleged absence from the Gospel of the Hebrews in 
use among the Ebionites (Epiphanius, Hcer. xxx, 13). 
Hut Epiphanius describes that book as “incomplete, 
adulterated, and mutilated;” and as the Ebionites re- 
garded Jesus simply as the human Messiah co-ordinate 
with Adam and Moses, the absence of the two chapters 
may readily be accounted for on doctrinal grounds. The 
same explanation may be given for the alleged absence 
from the Diatessaron of Tatian of these chapters, and 
the corresponding parts of Luke containing the geneal- 
ogy, and all the other passages which show that the 
Lord was born of the seed of David “ according to the 
flesh” (Tbeodoret, Hcer. fab. i, 20). The case must be a 
weak one which requires us to appeal to acknowledged 
heretics for the correction of our canon. The supposed 
discrepancy between the opening chapters of Matthew 
and Luke, which has led even professor Norton to fol- 
low Strauss, Paulus, Schleiermacher, etc., in rejecting 
them, has been abundantly discussed in all recent com- 
mentaries, and by Wiescler (Synopsis), Neander (Life of 
Christ), Mill (Pantheism), Kern (Unsprung d. Er. Mat.), 
etc., as well as in the various answers to Strauss. It is 
sufficient here to note the following points in reply : (1.) 
Such questions are by no means confined to these chap- 
ters, but are found in places of which the apostolic ori- 
gin is admitted. (2.) The treatment of Luke’s Gospel 
by Mareion suggests how the Jewish Christians dropped 
out of their version an account which they would not 
accept. (3.) Prof. Norton stands alone, among those 
who object to the two chapters, in assigning the gene- 
alogy to the same author as the rest of the chapters 
(llilgenfeld, p. 46, 47). (4.) The difficulties in the har- 

mony are all reconcilable, and the day has passed, it 
may be hoped, when a passage can be struck out, against 
all the MSS. and the testimony of early writers, for sub- 
jective impressions about its contents. 

XL Commentaries. — The following are the special cx- 
egetical helps on the whole of Matthew’s Gospel, a few 
of the most important of which we indicate by an aster- 
isk prefixed : Origen. Commentaria (in Opp. iii, 440 sq., 
*30 sq.) ; also Scholia (in Galland, Hibl, Patr. xiv) ; 
Athanasius, Fragmenta (in Opp. i, pt. 2; also iii, 18); 
llilarius Pictavicnsis, Commentarii (in Opp. i,669); Je- 
rome, Comment arii (in Opp. v, 1); Faustus Rhegicnsis, 
Super ev. Matt, (in Jerome, Opp. xi, 77, 204. 365) ; Chry- 
sostom, llomiliie (in Opp. [£/?i/r*a], vi, 73 1-980 ; also ed. 
Field, Cantab. 1839, 3 vols. 8vo; in English, in Lib. of 
Fathers, Oxf. 1843-51, vols. xi, xv, xxxiv) ; Cyril of Al- 
exandria, Fragmenta (in Mai, Sadpt. vet. viii, pt. ii, 142) ; 
Pascliasins Ratbcrtus, Commentaria (in Opp. i ; also in 
Hibl. Max. Patr. xiv) ; Chromatius Aquiliensis, Tracta- 
tes (in Galland, Hibl. Patr. viii, 333); Bede, Expositio 
(in Opp. v, 1) ; Anselm, Enarrationes (in Opp. ed. Pi- 


card) ; Rupertus Tuiticnsis, Super Matthceum (in Opp. 
ii, 1) ; Aquinas, Commentarii (in Opp. iii) ; Druthmar, 
Expositio (in Hibl. Max. Patr. xv, 86) ; Albertus Mag- 
nus, Commentarii (in Opp. ix) ; Mclancthon, Commen- 
tarii (Argent. 1523, 8 vo ; also in Opp. iii); Munster , A n- 
notationes (Basil. 1537, fol.; also in Critici Sact'i); Lu- 
ther, A dnotationes [on ch. i-xviii] (Vitemb. 1538, 8vo; 
also in IForfo?, both Lat. and Germ.) ; Sarcer, Scholia 
(Frcft. 1538; Basil. 1540, 1541, 1544, 1560, 8vo); Bul- 
linger, Commentarius (Tigur. 1542, fol.) ; Titclmann.CoM- 
mentarius (Antw. 1545, 8vo; 1576; Par. 1546; Lugd. 
1547, 1556, 1568, fol.) ; Musculus, Commentarius [includ. 
Mark and Luke] (Bash. 1548, 1556, 1566, 1578, 1591, 1611, 
fol.) ; Bredembrach, Commentaria (Colon. 1550, fol.) ; 
Zwingle, A nnotationes (in Opp. iv, 1 ; in Germ, by Ivlis- 
ter, Halle, 1783, 8vo) ; Chy trams, Commentarius (Vitemb. 
1555, 1566, 8vo) ; Ferus, Enarrationes (Mogunt. 1559, 
fol.; Antw. and Lugd. 1559; Par. and Ven. 1560; Com- 
plut. 1562; Par. 1564; Antw. 1570; Rom. 1577; Lugd. 
1604, 1610, 8vo) ; Hersel, Commentarius (Lovan. 1568, 
1572, 8vo) ; Marloratus, Exposition (from the Lat. by 
Tvmme, Lond. 1570, fol.); Junius, Expositio (in Opp. ii, 
1893); Brentz, Commentarii (in Opp.r); Aretius, Com- 
mentarius (Morg. 1580, 8vo) ; Tyndale, Notes [on i-xxi] 
(in Expositions, p. 227) ; Gualther, Homilice (Tigur. 1590- 
96, 2 vols. fol.) ; De Avendano, Commentarius (Madrid, 
1592, 2 vols. fol.) ; Danieus, Commentarius (Genev. 1593, 
8vo) ; Kirsten, Notce (Vratisl. 1611, fol.) ; Pelargus, lllus- 
trationes (Frcft. 1612, 1617,2 vols. 4to); Tostatus, Com- 
mentarii (in Opp.) ; Scultetus, Exercitationes (Amst. 1624, 
4 to) ; Novarinus, Notce (Ven. 1629; Lugd. 1642, fol.); 
Goniar, Explicatio (Groning. 1631, 8vo) ; (Ecolampadius, 
Enarrationes (Basil. 1636, 8vo) ; Possinus and Corderius, 
Symbolce (Tolos. 1646, 2 vols. fol.) ; Episcopius, Notce [on 
i-xxiv] (in Opp. II, i, 1) ; Dickson, Exposition (Lond. 
1651, 12mo); De Aponte, Commentarii (Lugd. 1651, 2 
vols. fol.); Bertram, Enucleatio (Arnst. 1651, 4to); Mat- 
thias, Analysis (Amst. 1652, fol.) ; Wandalin, Paraphra- 
\ sis (Slesw. 1654. 4to); De Pise, Commentaria (Lugd. 1656, 
fol.) ; Parens, Commentarius (in Opp. ii) ; Cocceius, Notce 
(in Opp. xii,3); Lightfoot, Exercitations (in J 1 ~orks, xi) ; 
Blackwood, Exposition [on i-x] (Lond. 1659. 4to); A. 
Lapide, In Matth. (Antw. 1660, fol.) ; Leighton, Lectures 
[on i-ix] (in lForfc?, iii, 1) ; Winstrup, PandccUe (Lund. 
Scan. 1660, 1674 ; Hafn. 1699, 2 vols. fol.) ; Gerhard, Ad- 
notationes (Jen. 1663, 1696, 4to) ; Spanheim, Vindicice (i, 
ii, 1 Ieidclbi 1663; iii, L. B. 1685, 4to); Meisuer, Exercita- 
tiones (Vitemb. 1664, 4to); Hartsoecker, Aanteheningen 
(Amst. 1668, 4to) ; Saubert, Varies Lectiones, etc. (Ilelmst. 
1672, 4to); De Veil, Explicatio [includ. M ark] (Lond. 
1678, 8vo) ; Van Til, Notes (in Dutch, Amst. 1683 ; Dort, 
1687, 1695; in German, Cassel, 1700; Frcft. 1705, 4to); 
Iluysing, Exposition (in Dutch, Hague, 1684, 4to ; in 
German, Cassel, 1710, fol.); Crell. Commentarius [on i-v] 
(in Opp. i, 1); Frzipcovius, Cogitationes (Eleuth. 1692, 
fol.) ; Wegner, A dnotcita (Regiom. 1 699, 1 7 05, 4to) ; 1 1 i- 
devger, Labores [includ. some other books] (Tigur. 1700, 
4 to); Olearius.O&serixtfiOttes (Lips. 1713, 1743, 4to); Pfalf, 
Notce (Tubing. 1721, 4 to); Klemin, Exercitia [on i-v] 
(Tub. 1725, 4 to) ; Vrimoet, Observationes [on i-v] (Fr. 
ad R. 1728, 8vo) ; D. Scott, Notes (Lond. 1741, 4to) ; Eis- 
ner, Commentarius (Zwoll. 1767-9, 2 vols. 4to) ; Wake- 
field, Notes (Lond. 1782, 4to) ; Adam, Exposition (in 
JPorLs, i) ; Goz, Erhlarung (Stuttg. 1785, 8vo) ; Wizen- 
man, Jesus nach Matth. (Basle, 1789, 1864, 8vo) ; Beau- 
sobre, Commentary (from the French, Cam br. 1790, 8vo, 
and often since) ; lleddiins, A nmerkungen (Stuttg. 1792, 
2 vols. 8vo) ; Griesbach, Commentarius (Jen. 1798, 8vo) : 
Porteus, Lectures (Lond. 1802, and since, 2 vols. 8vo) ; 
Scliulthess, Homilien (Winterth. 1805, 2 vols. 8vo) ; Men- 
ken, Hetrachiungen (i, Frckft. 1809 ; ii, Banu. 1822, 8vo) ; 
Lodge, Lectures (Lond. 1818, 8vo) ; Meyer, Heiirage 
(Wien, 1818, 8vo) ; Gratz, Commentar (Tub. 1821-23, 2 
vols. 8vo) ; Binterim, Hemerkungen (i, Mainz, 1823, 8vo) ; 
*Fritzsche, Commentar (Lpz. 1 826, 8vo) ; Harte, Lectures 
(Lond. 1831-34, 2 vols. 12mo) ; Cramer, Jesus nach Mat- 
thaus (Lpz. 1832, 8vo); Penrose, Lectures (Lond. 1832, 


MATTHEW 


897 


MATTHEW 


12mo) ; * Watson, Exposition [includ. Mark] (Lond. 1833 
and since ; N. Y. 1840 and since, 8vo) ; Scholten, Onder - 
socking (Leyden, 1836, Svo) ; Cotter, Paraphrase [in- 
clud. Mark] (Lond. 1840, 12mo) ; Cheke, Notes (Lond. 
1843, 8vo) ; Perceval, Lectures (Lond. 1845,4 vols. 12mo) ; 
Ford, Illustration (Lond. 1848, 8vo) ; Boothroyd, Notes 
(Edinb. 1851, 8vo) ; Overton, Lectures (Lond. 1851, 2 
vols. 8vo) ; Cumming, Readings (Lond. 1853, Svo) ; Ar- 
noldi, Commentar (Trier, 1856, 8vo) ; Goodwin, Commen- 
tary (Carabr. 1857, Svo) ; *Morison, Notes (Bost. 1858, 
1861 ; Edinb. 1870, 8vo) ; Shadwell, Translation (Lond. 
1859, 12mo) ; * Conan t, Notes, etc. (Araer. Bible Union, 
N. Y. 1860, 4to) ; Condcr, Commentary (Lond. 1860, Svo) ; 
Lutteroth, Essai [on i-xiii] (Par. 1860-67, 3 pts. 8vo) ; 
* Alexander, Explanation [on i-xvi] (N. Y. 1861, 12mo); 
*Luthardt, De Compositions Matt. (Lips. 1861, Svo) ; Re- 
ville, Etudes (Par. 1862, 8 vo) ; Gratry, Commentaire (Par. 
1863, 8vo) ; *Nast, Commentary [includ. Mark ] (Cincin- 
nati, 1864, 8 vo); Thomas, Observations (Lond. 1864, 8 vo) ; 
Klofuter , Commentarius (Vien. 1866, 8vo) ; llilgenfeld, 
Untersuchung (in his Zeitschr. 1866, 1867) ; Kelly, Lect- 
ures (Lond. 1870, Svo) ; Adamson, Exposition (Lond. 
1871, 8vo). See Gospels. 

Matthew of Bassi. Sec Capuchins. 

Matthew of Blatares. See Blatares. 

Matthew of Cracow (more accurately of Ivro- 
kow, in Pomerania), a noted German prelate of the 
Church of Rome, and worthy to be counted foremost 
among the forerunners of the great Reformation, was a 
native of Pomerania, and flourished near the opening 
of the 15th century. But little is known of his personal 
history, except that he was made by the emperor Ru- 
pert a professor in the young University of Heidelberg; 
afterwards became chancellor to Rupert, and through 
the latter’s influence became bishop of Worms in 1405, 
and that he attended the Council of Pisa in 1409, and 
died in 1410. But of his labors we know enough to 
award him great praise as an ardent and faithful worker 
for reform among the clergy of his Church. Indeed, 
the corrupt condition of the Romish Church, and espe- 
cially of the ecclesiastical body, seems to have early 
engaged his serious attention. In 1384 he delivered a 
discourse on the improvement of morals, both in priests 
and people, before an archiepiscopal synod in Prague ; 
and, as he began then, so he continued through life to 
battle for reform and the eradication of corruption, aud 
the abandonment of simony and other vile practices. 
Both with his tongue and by his pen he sought to ad- 
vance the interests of the noble cause he had espoused, 
and, as his position secured him great influence, his la- 
bors M r ere certainly not in vain. For his day and gen- 
eration he was no doubt another cardinal Julian (q. v.). 
He desired reform rather than a revolution, and there- 
fore failed to accomplish his mission. 

Matthew left behind him a number of MSS., some 
of which were afterwards printed. Among the most 
noted of his works is a treatise on the pollutions of 
the Romish court, which appears to have been writ- 
ten a little previous to the year 1409, about the pe- 
riod when the schism in the papacy seemed to open a 
door for conscientious minds to cherish doubts, at least 
privately, yet sufficiently to afford a leaven for the 
future, respecting the boasted infallibility of the popes, 
and the degree of implicit faith and obedience due to 
their appointments and decisions. It may be that the 
weakness occasioned by this papal schism furnished 
a reason why the author of so bold an attack on the 
prevailing corruptions did not encounter the hostil- 
ity and persecution of the ecclesiastical powers. II is 
favor with the emperor was an additional source of im- 
punity, and probably also his early death after the pub- 
lication of the work. We have no information of the 
effect immediately produced by the treatise, but it shows 
that the harvest of the 16th century was even then in 
its germ, and it seems like some of the seed towards the 
harvest, sown for a hundred vears, to produce fruit in 
V.-Lll 


the times of Luther and Melancthon. See Ullmann, 
Reformers before the Reformation , vol. i ; Hodgson, Re- 
formers and Martyrs (Phila. 1867, 12mo), p. 118 sq. 
(J. H.W.) 

Matthew (Matthaus) of Paris, an English mo- 
nastic, of great celebrity as a chronicler of England’s 
early history, was born about the end of the 12th cen- 
tury. lie took the religious habit in the Benedictine 
monastery of St. Albans in 1217. Almost the only in- 
cident of his life that has been recorded is a journey he 
made to Norwaj', by command of the pope, to introduce 
some reforms into the monastic establishments of that 
country, which mission he has the credit of having ex- 
ecuted with great ability and success. He is said to 
have stood high in the favor of Henry III, and to have 
obtained various privileges for the University of Ox- 
ford through his influence with that king. His ac- 
quirements embraced all the learning and science of 
his age; besides theology and history; oratory, poetry, 
painting, architecture, and a practical knowledge of 
mechanics, are reckoned among his accomplishments by 
his biographers or panegyrists. His memory is pre- 
served mainly by his history of England, entitled llis- 
toria Major , really a continuation of a work begun at 
St. Albans by Roger of Wendovcr (who died in INI ay, 
1236), and which was subsequently entitled Chronica 
Major , or Chronica Major a Sancti Albani. Roger’s 
name, however, was obscured by that of our subject, 
Matthew of Paris, who, though he adopted the plan of 
Roger’s work, really furnished a most valuable chron- 
icle, especially of mediaeval history. In the British 
Museum, and in the libraries of Corpus Christi and 
Benedict colleges, Cambridge, there are manuscripts of 
an epitome, by Matthew of Paris himself, of his history, 
generally referred to by the names of the Ilistoria Minor , 
or the Chronica , which, bishop Nicholson says, contains 
“ several particulars of note omitted in the larger his- 
tory.” This smaller work was for a long time ascribed 
to a Matthew of Westminster (q. v.). Of late, however, 
the question of authorship has been fairly settled by 
Sir Frederick Madden, who edited and published these 
chronicles. He pronounced the Westminster Matthew 
“ a phantom who never existed,” and observes that even 
the late Mr. Buckle was so deceived by the geueral tone 
of confidence manifested in quoting this writer that he 
characterizes him as, after Froissart, the most celebrated 
historian of the 14th century. “The mystery of the 
‘ phantom historian,’ ” says a writer in the Westminster 
Review (Oct., 1866, p. 238), “has been happily unveiled 
by Sir Frederick Madden, whose correct anticipation is 
unexpectedly confirmed by his discovery of the original 
copy of the work, now in the Chetham Library at Man- 
chester. This manuscript establishes beyond all doubt 
that the largest portion of the Flores IJistoriarum , at- 
tributed to the pseudo Matthew of Westminster, was 
written at St. Albans, under the eye and by direction 
of Matthew of Paris, as an abridgment of his greater 
chronicle ; and the text from the close of the year 1241 
to about two thirds of 1249 is in his own handwriting.. 
This manuscript, continued after his death by another 
hand on the same plan, down to the issue of the battle 
of Evesham in 1265, ceased after that date to be written 
at St. Albans, and passed eventually into the library of 
the Monastery of St. Peter, at Westminster. The au- 
thor of the first continuation, after the manuscript had 
left St. Albans, was, Sir F. Madden thinks, John Bevcre, 
otherwise named John of London. It was brought 
down by Bevere to the year 1306. A special class of 
manuscripts, including the Eton MS. of Matthew of 
Westminster, implicitly follows Bcvere’s chronicle ; but 
in the original copy of the Floi'es Historiarum , after 
it came to Westminster, Bevere’s text is generally 
abridged, although under some years there arc addi- 
tions. The entire work is carried on to the year 1305. 
‘It was,’ says Sir Frederick, ‘no donbt from the fact 
that the latter portion of the Flores Historiarum was 
composed by a Westminster monk, that the entire work 


MATTHEW 


808 


MATTHEWS 


was afterwards attributed to a Matthew of Westmin- 
ster, for the name of Matthew really belonged to Mat- 
thew of Paris, whilst the affix of Westminster was sup- 
plied by conjecture ; and this pseudonym e having been 
recognised by Hale and Joscelin, and adopted by arch- 
bishop Parker, the error has been perpetuated to our 
own time.’” Besides this edition by Madden, entitled 
Matthai Parisiensis , Monachi Sancti Album , Ilistoria 
An forum, sive lit vulgo dicitur , Ilistoria Minor, item, 
(jnsdem abbreviatio Chronicorum Anglice (published by 
the authority of the lords commissioners of her majes- 
ty’s treasury, London, Longmans, I860 sq,), we have one 
by archbishop Parker (London, 1571, folio; reprinted at 
Liguri, Zurich, 1606; London, 1640 [or in some copies 
1641], fol., by Dr. William Watts ; Par. 1644, fol. ; Lond. 
1684, fob). Watts’s edition, which is sometimes divided 
into two volumes, contains, besides various readings and 
copious indexes, two other works of the author never 
before printed, namely, his Duorum Ojfitrum Merciorum 
Regum (S. Albani Fundatornm) Vitae, and his Viginti 
Trium Abbatum S. Albani Vitce, together with what he 
calls his Additamenta to those treatises. “Matthew of 
Paris writes with considerable spirit and rhetorical dis- 
play, and uses remarkable freedom of speech ; and his 
work, which is continued to the death of Henry III 
(1272) by William Pish anger, another monk of the 
same abbey, has been the chief authority commonly re- 
lied upon for the history of that reign. Its spirit, how- 
ever, is somewhat fiercely and narrowly English ; and 
from the freedom with which he inveighs against what 
he regards as the usurpations of the papal see, Romanist 
writers have always expressed strong dissatisfaction es- 
pecially with his accounts of ecclesiastical affairs. With 
Protestant critics, on the other hand, Matthew of Paris 
has been a favorite in proportion to the dislike he has 
incurred from their opponents. At one time it used to 
be affirmed by the Roman Catholics that the printed 
Matthew of Paris was in many things a mere modern 
fabrication of the Reformers; but Watts, by collating 
all the manuscript copies he could find, and noting the 
various readings, proved that there was no foundation 
for this charge” (Engl. Cyclop, s. v,). A translation of 
the History of Matthew of Paris, by I)r. Giles, forms a 
volume of Bohn’s “Antiquarian Library,” and th e Flow- 
ers of History of Roger of Wendover forms two volumes 
of the same series. See Oudin, Scriptures Eccles. iii, 204 
sq. : also Herzog, Rcal-Encyklopddie, ix, 176; Wetzer u. 
Welte, Kirchen-Lexikon, vi, 932 : Xorth British Rev. Oct. 
1869, p. 119. See Roger of Wendover. 

Matthew of Westminster, an early English 
chronicler, flourished in the reign of Edward II. Noth- 
ing whatever is known of his personal history except 
that he was a monk of the Benedictine Abbey of West- 
minster. He is supposed to have died about 1307 or 
1377. His chronicle, written in Latin, is entitled Flores 
Ilistoriarum, per Jfatthanim Westmonasiei'iensem col - 
lecti, pnecipue de Rebus Brittannicis, ab Exordio Miindi, 
usque ad annum 1307 (Lond. 1567; with additions, Frkf. 
1601). Bohn has published an English version (Lond. 
1853, 2 vols. 8vo). Another work formerly ascribed to 
him is now definitely settled to be the production of 
Matthew of Paris (q. v.). 

Matthew of York (Tom as), a noted English prel- 
ate, was born in Bristol in 1546. In childhood he mani- 
fested unusual talent, and was prepared for Oxford when 
only thirteen years of age. 1 le took the bachelor’s degree 
in 1563, and three years after the master’s, and immedi- 
ately entered into “ holy orders” — a young man much 
respected for his great learning, eloquence, sweet con- 
versation, friendly disposition, and the sharpness of his 
wit. In 1566 he was made university orator pin 1570, 
canon of Christ Church and ileacon of Bath; in 1572, 
prebendary of Sarum and president of St. Jolm’s College, 
Oxford, and one of the queen’s chaplains in ordinary. 
In 1583 he was installed dean of Durham, in 1595 he 
was created bishop of Durham, and in 1606 archbishop 


of York. He died at Cawood Castle March 29, 1628. 
The learning and piety of archbishop Matthew have 
been ’warmly eulogized by. Camden. It is to be much 
lamented that his sermons, which are said to have been 
superior productions, were not preserved to us in print. 
The only publication of his is entitled Concia Apologet- 
ica contra Capianum (Oxf. 1581 and 1638, 8vo). In the 
cathedral church at York there is a MS. from his pen 
containing Xotes upon all the Ancient Fathers. See 
Wood, A thence Oxonienses ; Middleton, Ev. Bioyr. ii, 478 
sq. ; Hook, Eccles. Biog. s. v. 

Matthews, Alford A., a minister of the Meth- 
odist Episcopal Church, was born in Mercer County, P,a., 
July 11, 1838; went to Wethersfield, 111., in 1855, and 
was there converted and joined the Missionary Baptist 
Church. In the winter of 1862-63 he joined the Meth- 
odist Episcopal Church, after advising with his pastor 
and members of his own Church. Soon after he re- 
ceived license to preach. In the spring of 1864, the health 
of the pastor of the Buda Circuit failing, the circuit 
was vacated, and Matthews was appointed his successor. 
At the close of the year he was admitted on trial into 
the Illinois Conference, and returned to the Buda charge. 
From the Conference of 1866 to that of 1868 he was in 
charge of the Tiskilwa Station. At the Conference of 
1868 he was appointed to Chillicothe, and there he la- 
bored most acceptably to the people and most success- 
fully for the cause to which he gave his life. He died 
quite suddenly at this place, Aug. 1, 1869. “From his 
boyhood days he was a diligent student ; from his es- 
pousal of the cause of Christ, a devoted Christian ; and 
from the time he received license to preach, a very zeal- 
ous and successful minister of the Gospel. While at 
Buda, his first charge, he sought and found the blessing 
of perfect love, and lived in the enjoyment of the bless- 
ing until the day of his death.” See Coif. Minutes, 1869, 
p. 241. 

Matthews, Henry, a minister of the Methodist 
j Episcopal Church, was bom in Prince George County, 
Md. Blessed with pious and good parents, he was early 
| led to Christ, and connected himself with Asburv Church, 

! in Howard County. In 1849 he moved to Baltimore, 
j and joined the Sharp Street Church. In 1852 he was li- 
1 censed to preach, and in 1857 v'as ordained a local dea- 
con. In 1864 he joined the Washington Conference, 
just then organizing, and was appointed to Gunpowder 
Circuit, where he labored with great zeal for three years; 
was then appointed to West River Circuit, and in 1870 
was stationed at Monocacy; but his health suddenly 
failed, and he was compelled to relinquish his arduous 
labors. He died Dec. 31, 1870. “Brother Matthews 
was a faithful, plodding, deeply conscientious minister. 
Wherever he went his solidity of character was ac- 
knowledged ; and the firm faith which he himself re- 
posed in the doctrines he preached, and liis prayerful 
reliance on God, stamped on his efforts unvaried suc- 
cess.” See Conf Minutes, 1871, p. 28. 

Matthews, John, a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in Beaver Co., Pa., Feb. 7, 1778. He enjoyed the 
advantages of a good parental training, graduated at 
Jefferson College, Canonsbnrg, Pa., in 1807, and studied 
theology under Rev. Dr. John McMillan. He was li- 
j censed in 1809, and in 1810 ordained pastor of Gravel 
Run and Waterford churches; in 1817 he became an 
itinerating missionary, and took charge of the Church 
at Louisiana, Pike Co., Mo., where he continued itinera- 
ting, especially among the destitute of that vicinity, until 
1825. when he settled at Apple Creek Church, in Cape 
Girardeau Co., Mo.; in 1827 he took charge of the Church 
at Kaskaskia, 111., thence went to Missouri, where he la- 
bored till Ills health failed, and then removed to George- 
town. 111., where he died, May 12, 1861, Mr. Matthews 
was characterized by a cheerful and warm-hearted dis- 
position. As a pastor he was faithful and zealous; as 
a friend, kind and affectionate. See Wilson, Presb. Hist, 
A Imanac, 1862, p. 102. (J. L. S.) 


MATTHEWS 


899 


MATTHIAS 


Matthews, William, a Quaker preacher, was 
born in Stafford Co., Va., in 1732. I lis parents died 
when he was quite young, lie entered the ministry at 
twenty-three 3 r ears of age, and gave convincing evi- 
dence of a heavenly call. Matthews was a man of 
sound judgment and great Christian piet}\ He spent 
several years in ministerial work in England, Ireland, 
Scotland, and Wales. The exact date of his death is 
not known. See Janney, Ilist, of Friends, iii, 398, 

Matthew's (St.) Day, a festal day observed in 
the Homan Catholic and the Anglican churches on Sept. 
21, and in the Greek churches on Nov. 16, is mentioned 
in St. Jerome’s Comes , and was tirst generally observed 
in the 11th century. — Walcott, Sac. A rchceol. s. v. 

Matthia, Johann, a noted Swedish prelate, was 
born in Ostrogothia in 1592, and after enjoying the best 
educational advantages of his country, entered the min- 
istry. After filling several important positions, he be- 
came court preacher and almoner to Gnstavus Adol- 
phus. He was next appointed preceptor to Christina, the 
daughter of that monarch, and was created bishop of 
Strengnas in 1643. He died in 1670. Matthia wrote 
several moral and theological works, the most important 
of which are, Opuscula Theolorjica (Strengnas, 1661, 
8vo) : — Sacrce Disqnisit tones ad refutandos Epicuj'eos , 
atheos et fanaticos (Stockholm, 1669, 4to). See Hoefer, 
Xouv. Biog. Gen . vol. xxxiii, s. v. 

Matthi'as (MarSiac, a contraction of Matithiah 
or Matthew , a form frequently met with in Josephus 
[see below]), one of the constant attendants from the 
tirst upon our Lord’s ministry, who was chosen by lot, 
in preference to Joseph Barsabas, into the number of the 
apostles, to supply the vacancy caused by the treachery 
and suicide of Judas (Acts i, 23-26). A.D. 29. We 
may accept as probable the opinion which is shared by 
Eusebius (II. E. lib. i, 12) and Epiphanius (i, 20) that 
he was one of the seventy disciples. He is said to have 
preached the Gospel in /Ethiopia (Niceph. ii, 40; ac- 
cording to Sophronius, “ in altera /Ethiopia,” i. e. Col- 
chis; comp. Cellar. Xotit. ii, 309), or Cappadocia accord- 
ing to Cave, and to have at last suffered martyrdom 
(comp. Menalog. Grcec. iii, 198). According to another 
tradition, he preached iu Jiuhea, and was stoned to death 
by the Jews (see Prionii Vital Apostol , p. 178; Acta 
Sanctorum, Feb. 24; comp. Augusti, Dtnkwiirdigk. iii, 
241). There was early an apocryphal gospel bearing 
his name (Eusebius, II. E. iii, 25, 3; Clemens Alex. 
Strom, ii, 163; vii, 318; Grabii Spicileg. pair . ii, 1, p. 
117 ; Fabric. Cod. apocr. X. T. i, 782 sq.). 

“ Different opinions have prevailed as to the manner 
of the election of Matthias. The most natural con- 
struction of the words of Scripture seems to be this: 
After the address of Peter, the whole assembled body of 
the brethren, amounting in number to about 120 (Acts 
i, 15), proceeded to nominate two, namely, Joseph, sur- 
named Barsabas, and Matthias, who answered the re- 
quirements of an apostle : the subsequent selection be- 
tween the two was referred in prayer to him who, know- 
ing the hearts of men, knew which of them was the fitter 
to be his witness and apostle. The brethren then, un- 
der the heavenly guidance which they had invoked, 
proceeded to give forth their lots, probably by each 
writing the name of one of the candidates on a tablet, 
and casting it into the urn. The urn was then shaken, 
and the name that first came out decided the election. 
Lightfoot {I lor. Heb. Luc. i, 9) describes another way of 
casting lots which was used in assigning to the priests 
their several parts in the service of the Temple. The 
apostles, it will be remembered, had not vet received the 
gift of the Holy Ghost, and this solemn mode of casting 
the lots, in accordance with a practice enjoined in the 
Levitical law (Lev. xvi, 8), is to be regarded as a way 
of referring the decision to God (comp. Prov. xvi, 33). 
Chrysostom remarks that it was never repeated after 
the descent of the Iloly Spirit. The election of Mat- 
thias is discussed by bishop Beveridge ( Works, vol. i, 


serm. 2)” (Smith). It would seem, however, that Paul 
was the divine appointee to fill the vacancy in the col- 
lege of the apostles. Monographs in Latin on his elec- 
tion have been written by Scharff (Yiteb. 1652), Bittel- 
raaier (ib. 1676), and Ilammerschmid (Prag. 1760). 

MATTIIPAS is likewise the name of one person 
mentioned in the Apocrypha (Mrtrra3aac) and of sev- 
eral in Josephus (Marline), especially as Jewish liigh- 
priests. 

1. Given (1 Esdr. ix, 33) in place of the Heb. Mat- 
tathiaii (Ezra x, 33). 

2 . A son of Ananus, made high-priest by Agrippa 
(soon after the appointment of Petronius as president of 
Syria), in place of Simon Cantheras, after that honor 
had been declined by Jonathan as a second term (Jose- 
phus, A rtf. xix, 6, 4). 

3 . Son of Thcophilus of Jerusalem, made high-priest 
by Herod in place of Simon, son of Boethius (Ant. xvii. 
4, 2) ; removed again by Herod to make room for Joaza 
(ib. G, 4, where .Josephus relates his temporary disquali- 
fication on the day of annual atonement), and again re- 
instated by Agrippa in place of Jesus, son of Gamaliel 
(ib. xx, 9, 7). 

Josephus likewise mentions Matthias, son of Boethius 
as “one of the high-priests” betrayed by Simon during 
the last siege of Jerusalem (ITi/r, v, 3, 1), but it does 
not appear whether lie 'was one of the above. See 
HlGII-l’KlEST. 

Matthias, a religious impostor whose real name 
was Robert Matthews, was born in Washington County, 
N. Y., about 1790. He kept a country-store, but failed 
in 1816, and went to New York City. In 1827 he re- 
moved to Albany, wdiere he became much excited by 
the preaching of Messrs, Kirk and Finney; made him- 
self active in the temperance cause; claimed to have re- 
ceived a revelation, and began street-preaching; failing 
to convert Albany, he prophesied its destruction, and 
fled secretly to New York City, where he was tried and 
acquitted on the charge of poisoning a wealthy disciple 
in whose family he had lived. His impositions exposed, 
he soon disappeared from public view. See Matthias 
and his Impostures, by W. L. Stone (New York, 1835); 
Drake, Diet. A mer. Biog. s. v. 

Matthias CorvTnus, king of Hungary, second son 
of John Hunyady (q. v.), was born in 1443, and came to 
the throne in 1458. Jlis accession was hailed with the 
utmost enthusiasm over the whole country. But the 
Hungarian crown at this time was no chaplet of roses; 
two sovereigns, alike formidable, the one, Mohammed 
II, from his military talents and immense resources, the 
other, Frederick III, from his intriguing policy, were 
busily conspiring against the boy-ldng. To meet these 
dangers Matthias rapidly carried out his measures of 
defence, and, scarcely prepared, fell on the Turks, who 
had ravaged the country as far as Temesvar, inflicted 
upon them a bloody defeat, pursued them as far as Bos- 
nia. took the stronghold Jaieza, there liberated 10,000 
Christian prisoners, and then returned to Weisenberg. 
to be crowned with the sacred crown of St. Stephen, in 
1464. He next suppressed the disorders of Wallachia 
and Moldavia; but feeling that. his plans were counter- 
acted by the intrigues of the emperor Frederick III to 
gain possession of Hungary, Matthias besought the as- 
sistance of pope Pius II, but to no purpose. Alter a 
second successful campaign against the Turks, he turned 
his attention to the encouragement of arts and letters, 
and adorned his capital with the works of renowned 
sculptors, in addition to a library of 50,000 volumes, 
lie sent a large staff of literary men to Italy for the pur- 
pose of obtaining copies of valuable MSS. (even now 
the Collectio Corvina is celebrated), anil adorned his 
court by the presence of the most eminent men of Italy 
and Germany. He was himself an author of no mean 
ability, and possessed a delicate appreciation of the fine 
arts. At the same time the affairs of government were 
not neglected. The finances were brought into a flour- 


MATTHIAS 


900 


MATTHIAS 


idling condition, industry and commerce were promoted 
l>v wise legislation, and justice was strictly administered 
to peasant and noble alike. But the promptings of his 
ambition, and the pressure exercised by the Romish 
party, east an indelible blot on Matthias's otherwise 
spotless escutcheon; he wantonly attacked Podiebrad, 
bis father-in-law, the Hussite king of Bohemia, to wrest 
from Podiebrad the sceptre which lie was holding by the 
declared will of the people. In this action Matthias was 
intluenccd especially by pope Pius II and liis successor, 
Paul II. See IIussitks, vol. iv, especially p. 424, col. 2. 
After a bloody contest of seven years’ duration between 
these kings, the greatest generals of the age, the Hun- 
garian power prevailed, and Moravia, Silesia, and Lusa- 
tia were wrested from Bohemia. A third war with the 
Turks closed as successfully as the former two. The 
emperor also was humiliated by Matthias, and expiated 
his guilt in poverty and disgrace. Matthias was sud- 
denly cut down in the midst of his successes at Vienna, 
April 5, 1490. See Butler, Eccles. Hist, ii, 165 ; Gieselcr, 
Eccles. Hist, iii, 370 sq. See Ladislaus of Poland; 
Pius II. 

Matthias of Kunwalde, one of the first ministers 
of the Ancient Moravian Brethren (q. v.), flourished in 
the Kith century. He was appointed at the Synod of 
Lhota, in Bohemia, in 14G7. On that- occasion nine 
men, of high repute for piety, were eleeted by ballot. 
Then twelve lots were prepared, nine being blank, and 
three inscribed with the Bohemian word Jest (lie is). 
Thereupon a fervent prayer was offered up beseeching 
God to designate of these nine nominees, either one, 
or two, or three, as the ministers of the Church ; but, if 
this should not be the time which he had ordained for 
such a consummation, to cause all the nine to receive 
blanks. In this event the Brethren would have de- 
ferred further action to some future period. Nine lots 
having been drawn singly from a vase and given to 
the nominees, it appeared that Matthias of Kunwalde, 
Thomas of Prelouc, and Elias of Chrenovic, had each 
received one marked Jest. The synod rose to its feet, 
sang a thanksgiving hymn, composed for the occasion, 
and accepted these three men as the future ministers of 
the Church. In the same year, after the episcopacy 
had been secured, Matthias, although only twenty-five 
years of age, was consecrated a bishop, and, upon the 
resignation of bishop Michael, became president of the 
Church Council. He administered its affairs, according 
to the extreme views of discipline entertained by Greg- 
ory (q. v.j, until 1494, when he resigned his presidency 
and united with the liberal party. In 1500, while on 
his way to a synod in Moravia, lie died at Leipnik, after 
having, in his last will and testament, which lie ad- 
dressed to the Brethren, exhorted them to avoid schisms, 
and to preserve the unity of the Spirit in the bonds of 
peace, lie was buried at Prcrau. (E. de S.) 

Matthias I, emperor of Germany, son of Maxi- 
milian II and Mary, daughter of Charles V, deserves a 
place here because of his relation to one of the most 
eventful periods in the earliest stages of modern history, 
lie was born in 1557. In 1578 he was invited by the 
Romanists of the Netherlands to assume the government 
of that country, but lie held the position only a short 
time. lie was appointed stadtholder of Austria in 1595, 
and in 1011 was invited by the Bohemians to become 
their ruler. On the death of his brother Rudolf, empe- 
ror of Germany, in 1612, he succeeded to the throne, 
and was called upon to sit in judgment between Protes- 
tant and Romanist in the ensuing contest between these 
two factions of his empire. He pursued a vacillating 
policy, and, while striving to direct, made himself dis- 
trusted by both, lie concluded a disadvantageous 
treaty with the Turks, then m possession »of Hungary 
(1615), and soon after caused his cousin Ferdinand to be 
proclaimed king of Bohemia and Hungary. In the 
midst of the dissensions which preceded the Thirty 
Years' War he died, in 1619. See Khevenhuller, An- 


nates Ferdinandei ; P. Santoric, Vite di Ridolfo e Mattia 
Imperatori (1664) ; Yelise, Memoirs of the Court of A us- 
tria. i, 240 sq. ; Coxe, House of A ustria , ii, 95 sq. ; Kohl- 
rauseh, Hist, of Germany, p. 311 sq. See also Thirty 
Years’ War. 

Matthias, John B., a Methodist Episcopal minis- 
ter, was born at Germantown, Pa., Jan. 1, 1767 ; was con- 
verted while residing in New York, after his majority; 
was there licensed to preach in 1793 ; preached much 
and with excellent success as a local deacon until 1811, 
when he joined the itinerancy. Thereafter he labored 
very usefully until 1841, when loss of sight obliged him 
to superannuate, lie died in great blessedness at Hemp- 
stead, L. I., May 27, 1848. He was educated a German 
Lutheran, and was by trade a ship-carpenter, but when 
he felt called to preach he prepared to the best of his 
ability, and for many years delivered regularly no less 
than three sermons a week, and many souls were con- 
verted under these labors. lie was one of the most 
humble, pious, and loving of Christians, and the fruit of 
his unostentatious labors was abundant and blessed. — 
Minutes of Conferences , iv, 224. (G. L. T.) 

Matthias, John J., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born at New York Jan. 17, 1796. 
His childhood and early youth were spent with his par- 
ents in Tarry town. At a suitable age he went to Brook- 
lyn to learn the art of printing, but, brought to a knowl- 
edge of converting grace, and persuaded in bis own 
mind that he was called of God to preach the Gospel of 
Christ, he determined to prepare for the work. He en- 
tered the ministry when twenty-one years old. in the 
New York Conference at Goshen Circuit. In 1818 he 
was appointed to Pittsfield Circuit; in 1819 to Stow; in 
1820 to Leyden ; in 1821 and 1822 to Cortlandt ; in 1823 
to Middlebury, Vt. ; in 1824 to St. Albans; in 1825 to 
Pittsfield; in 1826 to Cortlandt. He was stationed in 
the city of New York in 1827 and 1828, and in the city 
of Albany in 1829 and 1830 ; was transferred to the Phil- 
adelphia Conference in 1831, and stationed in the city 
of Newark, N. J. In 1833, 1834, and 1835 he travelled 
the East Jersey District; in 1836 he was stationed at 
the Nazareth Church, in the city of Philadelphia. His 
health failing, he took a superannuated relation, and 
continued to hold it until 1841. While sustaining this 
relation to his Conference, the Pennsylvania and New 
York Colonization Societies appointed him governor of 
Bassa Cove, on the West Coast of Africa. He was in 
Africa about a year, but, subjected to severe suffering by 
the African fever, he returned to the States. In 1842 
he was retransferred to the New York Conference, and 
stationed at Flushing, L. 1.; in 1843 at Roekawav ; in 
1844 to 1847 was presiding elder of the Long Island Dis- 
trict ; in 1848 and 1849 was stationed in Williamsburgh ; 
in 1850 and 1851 in the Twenty-seventh Street Church, 
New York; in 1852 was supernumerary at Hempstead, 
L. I. ; but was given an effective relation in 1853, and 
stationed at Jamaica. In 1854 he was obliged again to 
superannuate, but his relation was changed to effective 
at the ensuing Conference, and in 1851 to 1857 served 
as chaplain to the Seamen’s Friend Retreat on Staten 
Island. I le was held in high esteem by the managers 
and officers of that institution. At the bedside of the 
sick and in his chapel services he was felt to be well 
adapted to the duties of his office.” The tax upon his 
sympathies and the labors of the position were more 
than his enfeebled health could sustain, and in 1858 he 
resigned the chaplaincy, and received a superannuated 
relation. lie retired to a quiet and comfortable resi- 
dence in Tarrvtown, where he resided until the day of 
his decease, Sept. 25, 1861. “ Few ministers have a 

longer or more worthy record than this. Some of these 
fields of labor were very arduous, others of them very 
responsible. In all of them he was faithful and useful, 
lie was a high-minded, intelligent, and honorable man. 
His tastes were refined, his feelings delicate, his conver- 
sation chaste, and his manners dignified but affable. His 


MATTHIAS’S DAY 


901 


MATTISON 


Christian reputation is without blemish. He possessed 
the disciplinary attributes of a minister — “ gifts, grace, 
and usefulness.” His preaching was practical and ex- 
perimental. lie sought assiduously and successfully to 
lead the members of his Church to a higher spiritual 
state, and a holy, active, religious life. As a pastor he 
had few superiors. Gentle, affectionate, and sympa- 
thetic in his manners, his pastoral visits were highly 
prized by the people of his care, lie fostered the Sab- 
bath-school, and fed the lambs of the flock, a good min- 
ister of Jesus Christ” (bishop Janes, in the A r . Y. Chris- 
tian Advocate , Jan. 9, 18G2). See also Smith, Memorials 
of the N. Y. and N. Y. East Conferences , p. 11. 

Matthias’s (St.) Day, a festival observed on the 
24th of February in the Church of Rome, with a pro- 
vision that in leap-year it should be observed on the 
25th. In the Church of England it is usually observed 
on the 24th of February, even in leap-years. In the 
Greek Church St. Matthias's day is held on the 9th of 
August. The date of the introduction of this festival is 
involved in obscurity. Some suppose it was first es- 
tablished in the 11th century, others in the 8th. See 
Farrar, Eccles. Diet. s. v. ; Eadie, Eccles . Diet. s. v. ; 
Broughton, Biblioth. Ilist. Sac. ii, 76. 

Matthieists. See Munster, Anabaptists in. 

Matthieson. See Anabaptists. 

Mattison, Hiram, D.D., a prominent divine of the 
Methodist Episcopal Church, was born at Norway, Iler- 
kimerCounty,N.Y.,Feb.8,1811. Three years afterwards 
his parents, who were natives of New England, removed 
to Oswego County, and settled near the present city of 
Oswego. II is mother, besides rearing her own twelve 
children, became the foster-mother of ten others who 
had not homes for themselves. The first years of his 
early manhood were devoted to teaching, but his con- 
version at the age of twenty-three turned his thoughts 
towards the ministry, which soon after became his life- 
work. He entered the Black River Conference in 183G, 
and filled successively several of the most important ap- 
pointments in that body. In 1842 and 1843 he was sta- 
tioned at Watertown; in 1844 and 1845 at Rome; in 
184G he became superannuated ; the next year supernu- 
merary ; the next two years he was superannuated ; in 
1850 he was made secretary of the Conference, and his 
relation changed to effective. During this and the fol- 
lowing year he served, by appointment of the bishop, as 
professor in Fallev Seminary. In 1852 he was elected 
secretary of Conference for the third time, and his rela- 
tion was changed to superannuated. This same year, 
on account of ill-health and a tendency to pulmonary 
difficulties, he removed to New York City for the bene- 
fit of the sea air, and was pastor of John Street Church 
(left vacant by the death of Rev. \V. K. Stopford), and 
afterwards of Trinity Methodist Episcopal Church in 
Thirty-fourth Street, which he organized, and under his 
administration the present church edifice was erected. 
His preaching was both popular and effective, being dis- 
tinguished by great clearness of statement, force of argu- 
ment, aptness of illustration, and earnestness of appeal. 
His sermon at the camp-meeting held near Morristown, 
N. J., in 18GG, may be very justly pronounced one of the 
most eloquent and powerful discourses of modern times. 
Dr. Mattison labored with great zeal to secure action by 
the General Conference (of which he was a member in 
1848, 1852, and 1856) against all slaveholding in the 
Church, but at length, despairing of success, he formally 
withdrew from the Methodist Episcopal Church, Nov. 1, 
18G1. lie became the pastor of an Independent Method- 
ist Church, for which a house of worship was built un- 
der his supervision in Forty-first Street. This church he 
continued to serve till 18G5, when he returned to the 
Methodist Episcopal Church, and was appointed to the 
Trinity Methodist Church in Jersey City, having been 
admitted a member of the Newark (N. J.) Conference, 
in the fellowship of which he continued till death. The 
last year of his life was devoted to the service of the 


American and Foreign Christian Union as its secretary. 
The fertility of his pen was amazing. Believing strong- 
ly in the power of the press for good or evil, he made 
free and constant use of it to aid the one and oppose the 
other. Ilis publications embraced a range from the lit- 
tle Sunday-school card to the stately volume, all in- 
tended to aid the public movement in favor of temper- 
ance, and in opposition to slavery and Romanism. There 
was too much in the life and character of Dr. Mattison 
to admit of a summing up in the space allotted to this 
brief sketch. We need only say that to know him, es- 
pecially to know him well, was to admire, esteem, and 
love him as a man, a friend, a scholar, a minister, a hero, 
a Christian. Bishop Thomson, in his introduction to the 
writer’s memoir of Dr. Mattison ’s life (see below), thus 
delineates him : “ Before the world he stood as the able 
preacher, the gifted writer, the stern controversionalist, 
the unsparing antagonist; but he was not without the 
gentler and more attractive elements of character. He 
was an amiable, communicative, entertaining compan- 
ion, a generous friend, and loving husband and father. 

‘ From his rough heart a babe could press 
Soft milk of human tenderness.’ 

On all the storms of his life were rainbows, but only his 
intimate friends were in position to see them.” His 
first book was A Scriptural Defence of the Doctrine of 
the Trinity , a small volume issued in 1843, and to which 
miiltum inparvo was peculiarly applicable. In the same 
year he began his publication of Tracts for the Times , 
which at length grew into a small but piquant monthly, 
called at first The Conservative , and afterwards the Prim- 
itive Christian. In 184G he published a work on As- 
tronomy , with large astronomical maps — a work of rare 
merit and popularity. Soon after he issued his Eh- 
mentary Astronomy, and in 1850 edited a new and im- 
proved edition of BurretVs Geography of the Heavens , 
for which he is spoken of as “one of the most competent 
astronomers in the country.” In 1853 he published his 
High-School Astronomy, and the same year was associ- 
ated with Prof. J. B. Woodbury in bringing out a music- 
book, The Lute of Zion, which, becoming widely popular, 
led in a short time to an enlarged edition under the title 
of New Lute of Zion. The next year his work on Spir- 
it Rappings was issued, and had a large circulation. In 
1856 his celebrated controversy with Dr. J. H. Perry, on 
the Wesleyan Doctrine of Christian Perfection, was pub- 
lished in successive pamphlets. Three years later he 
issued another tune-book, Sacred Melodies, “ designed 
for use on all occasions of public worship and the same 
year also sent forth his Impending Crisis, a stout pam- 
phlet of pungent facts and impassioned appeals on the 
slavery question. In 1864 his Minister's Pocket Manned 
was published, and within the next two years followed 
with the two most elaborate theological works of his 
life, Immortality of the Soul, and Resurrection of the Body, 
books of superior and permanent value. During 1*66 
he published Select Lessons from the Holy Scriptures, 
and bis Defence of American Methodism, and in the next 
year a timely treatise on Popular Amusements. The 
year 1868, the last of his life, was perhaps the busiest, 
and the most prolific of results in the line of authorship. 
Besides editing and bringing through the press the work 
on Perfect Love , he wrote and published Mary Ann 
Smith, and a surprising number of other works on Ro- 
manism, from the tract of a few pages to the heavy 
pamphlet, lie left an unfinished treatise on Depravity 
in its Relation to Entire Sanctification, and the outlines 
of several other theological works. Ilis contributions 
to the periodical press were abundant and able. He 
was the author of several poems of decided merit, and 
among his issues from the press were various Church 
and Sunday-school requisites, lie composed with re- 
markable ease and rapidity, and seldom rewrote a sen- 
tence or even a word. His busy life suddenly closed at 
his residence, Jersey City, N. J., iu a signally triumphant 
death, Nov. 24, 1868. See Minutes of Conferences, 1869, 
p, 55 sq. ; also Work Here, Rest Hereafter, or the Life 


MATTISON 


902 


MAUBURNE 


and Character of Rev. Hiram Mattison, D.D., by Rev. N. 
A'msaiit, with an Introduction by bishop Thomson (New 
York, 1870, 8vo). (N. Y.) 

Mattison, Seth, a Methodist Episcopal minister, 
was born at Shaftesbury, Vt., Feb. 22, 1788; joined the 
Methodist Church in 1805; entered the Genesee Con- 
ference in 1810 ; and died Oct. 18, 1845, having preached 
with eminent usefulness and great holiness t lie Gospel 
of Christ for thirty-four years. — Minutes of Conferences, 
iii, 643. 

Mattison, Spencer, A.M., a Methodist Episcopal 
minister and educator, was born at Plainfield, N. Y., Aug. 
*2, 1808; was converted in 1825; graduated, with first 
honors, at Middlebury College, Vt., in 1830 ; joined Troy 
Conference the same year, but on his second charge his 
health failed, and he went to Georgia. On recovery he 
spent five years there as principal of Yineville Academy, 
and then rejoined the Troy Conference in 1842. In 1840 
he was elected professor of ancient languages and lit- 
erature in M‘Kendree College, Illinois, where he spent 
six years, and then resigned and re-entered the regu- 
lar work of the ministry, but at the close of a year 
he accepted the principalship of Pock River Seminary, 
Mount Morris, Til. 11 is health again failed, and he died 
about the end of October, 1853. Professor Mattison was 
an excellent linguist and instructor, and greatly beloved 
by his pupils. lie was a minister of fine talents and 
uniform piety, and a most accomplished Christian gen- 
tleman. — Minutes of Conferences , v, 455. (G. L. T.) 

Mattithi'ah (TIeh. Mattithyah ', i"PP.Pl<3, gift of 
Jehovah , compare OfofWoc, Theodore ; also in the pro- 
longed form Mattithya'hu , S|i“P>nPIS3, 1 Chron. xv, 18, 
21 ; xxv, 3, 21 ; Sept. MarraS-iae, but in Ezra x, 43 
M«3£fl37«£ v. r. 'M.ar^cnnag; so also NctTTaSiac, 1 
Macc. ii, 1 ; Luke iii, 25, 26) the name of three or four 
men in the Old Test, and of one or two (Autli.Vers. 
*• Mattathias”) in the New. See also Mattatiiah; 
Matthew; Matthias, etc.; ancl especially Matta- 
tjiias. 

1. One of the sons of the Levite Jeduthun, appointed 
by David chief of the fourteenth section of the Temple 
musicians (1 Chron. xxv, 3, 21). P.C. 1014. lie is 
probably the same with one of the Levitical wardens 
who were assigned to the performance of the sacred an- 
thems on the removal of the sacred ark to Jerusalem (l 
Chron. xv, 18, 21 ; xvi, 5). B.C. cir. 1043. 

2. An Israelite of the “sons” (residents) of Nebo, 
who divorced his Gentile wife after the Babylonian exile 
(Ezra x, 43). B.C. 459. He was possibly identical with 
No. 4. 

3. The eldest son of Shalhim, a Levite of the family 
of Korah, who had charge of the baked offerings of the 
Temple on the re-establishment after the exile (I Chron. 
ix,31). B.C. cir. 440. 

4. One of those (apparently chief Israelites) who 
supported Ezra on the right hand while reading the 
law to the people after the captivity (Neh. viii, 4). B.C. 
cir. 410. 

5. A person named in Luke iii, 2G as the son of Semei, 
among the maternal ancestors of Jesus; hut as no such 
name appears in the parallel passages of the < )Id Test., 
and would here unduly protract the interval limited by 
other intimations of the generations, it is probably in- 
terpolated from No. 6. (See Strong’s Jlarm. and Expos, 
of the Gospels , p. 1(3.) 

6. The son of Amos and father of Joseph, among the 
maternal ancestry of Jesus after the close of the O.-Tcst. 
genealogy (Luke iii, 25). B.C. post 406. 

Mattock, an old English name for an agricultural 
implement like a pickaxe with a wide point, for grub- 
bing up and digging out roots and stones, is the render- 
ing adopted in the Auth.Yers. for three Hebrew words. 

( made r', an instrument for dressing or pruning a 
vineyard ; occurs only in Isa. vii. 25) denotes a weeding- 


hook or hoe ; ( machareshah ', 1 Sam. xiii, 20) 

and ( niachare'sheth , “share,” 1 Sam. xiii, 20) 

are the names of two agricultural cutting instruments 
(for they were sharpened with a file), one of which is 
perhaps the jrfough-share and the other the coulter (from 
DPPI, to scrape ; but the plur. of both is niljj^rns, ma- 
charcshoth ', “ mattocks,” 1 Sam. xiii, 21). See Plough. 
SPn (i che'reb , 2 Chron, xxxiv, C ; elsewhere usually a 
“ sword”) signifies any sharp instrument, as a knife, 
dagger, chisel ; and possibly a spade in the passage in 
question (marg. “maul”). The tool used in Arabia for 
loosening the ground, described by Niebuhr (Descr. de 
V Arable, p. 137), answers generally to our mattock or 
grubbing-axe (Loudon, Encyclop. of Gardening, p, 617 ; 
Hasselquist, Trav. p. 100), i. c. a single-headed pickaxe, 
the sar cuius simplex, as opposed to bicornis, of Palladius 
{De Re Rust, i, 43). The ancient Egyptian hoe was of 
wood, and answered for hoe, spade, and pick. The blade 
was inserted in or through the handle, and the two were 



Ancient Egyptian Hoes. 


attached about the centre by a twisted rope. See TYil- 
kinson, Anc. Egypt, ii, 16, 18, abridgm. ; comp. Her. ii, 
14. See Agriculture. 

Maturin, Charles Robert, an Irish divine, was 
born in 1782, and was educated at Trinity College. Dub- 
lin. Though popular as a pulpit orator, the income 
from his living — the curacy of St. Peter’s, in the Irish 
metropolis — was inadequate to his support, and he turn- 
ed aside to secular literary enterprises, lie secured spe- 
cial distinction as a poet and dramatist. He died in 
1825. Says a contemporary, “The genius of Maturin 
was great, but it was not always under the control of a 
pure taste.” He published a collection of his Sermons, 
besides many secular works, several of which were first 
brought out under the assumed name of Dennis Jasper 
Murphy. 

Matutinal. See Matins. 

Mauburne or Momboir, Jean, an ascetic Bel- 
gian author, was horn at Brussels about 1460. After 
having studied grammar and music at the cathedral 
school of Utrecht, he joined the regular canons of Mont- 
Saint-Agnes, a famous monastery near Zwoll, and was 
employed in different positions in the congregation of 
W indesham. The publication of his first work. Rosetum 
Spiritual , gave Mauburne great renown, and induced 
Nicholas dc Uacqucville, first president of the Parlia- 
ment of Paris, to invite him to France (1197), to reform 
the regular canons of the kingdom. Mauburne gladly 
heeded the call, and restored order to the abbeys of 
Saint- Severin. of Cysoing, of Saint-Euvert d’Orleans, 

| and of Saint-Martin de Nevers; but he attached him- 
! self more particularly to that of Livri, of which he was 


MAUDU1T 


903 


MAULBRONN 


elected prior (Nov., 1500), then regular abbot by the 
resignation of Nicholas (le HacquevillC in his favor 
(Jan., 1502). The zeal of Mauburne was not confined 
to his own order ; he was interested in that of Benedict, 
and labored much for the reformation of the congrega- 
tion of Chezal, which served as a model to the houses 
of Saint- Vanne and Saint-Maur. Taken ill in conse- 
quence of the fatigue caused by his religious labors, he 
was carried to Paris, and died there about the beginning 
of the year 1503. lie included among his friends Saint- 
Francois de Paule, Geoffroi dc Boussard, chancellor of 
Notre-Dame of Paris ; the bishop Louis Pinel, Pierre de 
Bruges, and probably Erasmus, who addressed several 
letters to him. II is principal works are, Rosetum exer- 
cituum spiritualium et scicrarum meditationiun (Bale, 
1491, et al.). “This book,” says Gence, “is the first 
where some passages of the Imitation have been intro- 
duced and given under the name of Kempis — Venato- 
rium investigatorium sanctorum canonici ordinis , a his- 
torical manuscript which appears to be an abridgment of 
that of Buschius, and in which Mauburne again attrib- 
utes to Kempis the book Qni sequitus me of the Imita- 
tion. We find in the ancient Gallia Christiana (t.vii, 
col. 281-282) two letters addressed to this priest by Eras- 
mus, and written at Paris. See Swurt, A thence Belgicce , 
p. 447 ; Mastelyn, Necrol. Viridis Vallis, p. 121 ; Sander, 
Biblioth. Belgica ; Gallia Christiana, \W, 836-839 ; Mo- 
reri, Grand Diet. Hist. s. v. ; Paquot, Memoir es, vol. iii. 
— Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Mauduit, Miciiel, a learned French theologian, 
was born at Yire, Normandy, in 1G 14. While still young 
he entered the brotherhood of the Oratorians, where for 
a long time he studied the classics; then lie devoted 
himself to preaching, and instructing the country peo- 
ple. The study of the Bible occupied the remainder of 
his life. He possessed a great variety of knowledge, 
understood Greek well, also Hebrew and Latin, and ob- 
tained many prizes in the academical competitions of 
Rouen and Caen. He died at Paris January 19, 1709. 
Of Mauduit’s works we have Traite de religion contre 
les Athees, les Deistes et les nouveanx Pyrrhoniens (Par. 
1677, 12mo); the 2d edition (1698) has been great- 
ly enlarged: — Melanges de diverses poesies ; divises en 
IVlivres (Lyons; the edition of 1723, 12mo, is prefera- 
ble on account of the additions to it). We find in this 
a well-written preface on the good use of poetry : — Dis- 
sertation sur le sujet de la goutte, avec le mogen de Venga- 
rantir (Paris, 1687.1689, 12mo): — Analyse des Epiti'es 
de Saint Paul et des Epitres canoniques , avec des disser- 
tationes sur les endroits dijjiciles (Paris, 1691, 2 vols. 
12mo ; reprinted in 1702) : — Analyse de VEvangile selon 
Cordre historique de la concorde (Paris, 1694, 3 vols. 
12mo, et al.). This work, to which the author devoted 
nearly all his life, has had many editions (later editions, 
Malincs, 1821, 7 vols. 12mo ; Paris, 1843-44, 4 vols. 8vo) : 
— Analyse des Actes des Apotres (Paris, 1697, 2 vols. 
12mo): — Meditations pour une retraite ecclesiastique de 
dix jours (Lyons, 1723, 12mo). Mauduit also left, in 
MS., Analyse de V Apocalypse and Traduction complete 
du Nouveau Testament. Sec Mercure de France, May, 
1709 ; More'ri, Diet. Hist. s. v. — Hoefer, Xouvelle Biogr. 
Generate , s. v. 

Mauermann, Franz Laur, a German Pom an 
Catholic prelate, was born at Ncuzelle in 1780 ; entered 
the priesthood in 1797, and, after filling various posi- 
tions, was in 1825 made chaplain to the royal house of 
Saxony, and in 1827 pneses of the Roman Catholic 
Consistory of the kingdom. In 1842 he was made 
bishop of Rome and confessor of the king of Saxony. 
Later he became apostolic vicar. He died in October, 
1845. — Regensburger Real-Encyklopddie, s. v. 

Maul or Mall is an old name for a hammer or 
mallet, and stands in the Auth. Vers, for the Heb. 

( mephits' , only occurs in Prov. xxv, 18; but kindred is 
mappets', “ battle-axe,” Jcr. li, 20 ; both from 


or to break in pieces), a war-club , such as was an- 
ciently in common use, and even in the Middle Ages, 
the memory of which is still preserved in the modern 
mace as a sign of authority. “ Probably such was that 
which is said to have suggested the name of Charles 
Martel. The macc is frequently mentioned in the ac- 
counts of the wars of the Europeans with Saracens, 
Turks, and other Orientals, and several kinds are still 
in use among the Bedouin Arabs of remoter parts 
(Bnrckhardt, Notes on Bedouins, i, 55). In their Euro- 
pean wars the Turks were notorious for the use they 
made of the macc (Knollys, Hist, of the Turks)" (Smith). 
Various kinds of mace were used by the ancient Egyp- 
tians, either with or without a ball at the end to give 
weight to the blow, and generally with a guard at the 
handle. The curved club or throw-stick, the Arabian 
lissdn or “ tongue,” is a very general Oriental weapon. 



Ancient Throw-sticks : 1, Egyptian; 2, Assyrian. 

Among the Australians, this implement is yet a formid- 
able one, called the boomerang. Unmistakable traces 
of its use occur oil the Egyptian and Assyrian monu- 
ments (Wilkinson, Anc. Eg. i, 365; Bonomi, Nineveh, p. 
134-6). See Armor. 

Maulbronn, originally a Cistercian convent in the 
bishopric of Spiers, was founded by bishop Gunther of 
Spiers, on a tract of land given him by Walther von 
Lomersheim in 1148, previously infested with robbers. 
The convent soon became very rich, partly through do- 
nations, and partly by the zeal and activity of the 
monks. It was at first placed under the jurisdiction of 
the empire, by Frederick I and other emperors, but in the 
14th century was placed under that of the Palatinate. In 
1504 it was conquered by duke Ulrich of Wiirtemberg, 
and when the Reformation commenced, it was appoint- 
ed by him for the monks of his province who wished to 
remain Roman Catholics; duke Christopher, in 1557, 
took this also from them, appointed an evangelical ab- 
bot, and established a school in it. It is yet the scat of 
one of the four minor theological seminaries. The re- 
maining portions of the building, i. e. the church, clois- 
ters, entrance-hall, and refectory, are considered among 
the finest specimens of German Gothic architecture. 

The place has become renowned in the annals of Prot- 
estautism by its connection with two important trans- 
actions, the Colloquium Mavlbrunnense, in 1564, and the 
Formula Maulbrunnensis, in 157G. 

(1.) The introduction of Calvinism into the Palatinate 
by duke Frederick III after 1560, and in particular the 
publication of the Heidelberg Catechism in 1563, pro- 
voked great opposition on the part of the Lutherans. 
The authorities, and especially duke Christopher of 
Wiirtemberg, Wolfgang of Psalzneuburg, and margrave 
Charles of Baden, vainly endeavored to heal the dissen- 
sion bv means of a colloquy held between the theolo- 
gians of the Palatinate and Wiirtemberg at Maulbronn 
in 1564. The elector of the Palatinate was accompanied 
by his court preacher, M. Michael Diller, and the theo- 
logians Dr. Peter Boquin, Caspar Olevian, Zacharias 
Ursinus, and Peter Dathenius; also the church counsel- 
lor Thomas Erastus, chancellor Dr. Eheim, and notary 
Wilhelm Xylander, professor of Greek at Heidelberg. 
The representatives of Wiirtemberg were Valentin 


MAULBRONN 


004 


MAULMONT 


Vannius, abbot of Maulbronn, Johannes Brenz, provost 
of Stuttgard, Jacob Andreii, provost and chancellor of 
the University of Tubingen, Dietrich Schnepf, professor 
at Tubingen, and the court preacher Balthasar Bidem- 
bacli ; also as notary, Lucas Osiamler, then preacher at 
Stuttgard, and as civil counsellors chancellor John Fess- 
ler and vice-chancellor Jerome Gerhard. The colloquy 
lasted from April 10th to April 15th. Chancellor Eheim, 
in his opening speech, invited the theologians, since the 
object of the conference was to heal their dissensions, to 
avoid all merely human views and arguments, and to 
confine themselves to the positive testimony of Scrip- 
ture on the points of controversy. Yet, instead of treat- 
ing of the doctrine of the Eucharist, which was their 
chief point of difference, the theologians at once launch- 
ed into arguments concerning the ubiquity, or, as An- 
dreii termed it, the majestas nullo loco circumscripta , of 
the body of Christ. Thus all possibility of harmony 
was at once destroyed. During eight sessions this same 
question was discussed without either party coming any 
nearer to the views of the other. The theologians of 
the Palatinate, and in particular Boquin, Olevian, and 
Ursin, partly denied the importance of the doctrine of 
the ubiquity of the body of Christ, and partly refuted 
their opponents by the Scriptures, the articles of faith, 
and by an expose of the errors into which these princi- 
ples must lead. Those of Wiirtemberg tried especially 
to defend the idea of the ubiquity of Christ’s body from 
misapprehension and misrepresentation, and treated it 
as a necessary consequence of unio personalis and the 
communicatio ieliomatum ; they rejected the accusation 
of mixing up the two natures, and accused their oppo- 
nents of making a mere man of Christ. As the others 
asked whether, in this view, the body of Christ was 
considered as omnipresent even in the womb, Andrea, 
who was spokesman of the Wiirtemberg party, drew a 
distinction between the possession and the use of the 
attribute, and asserted that Christ could not have been 
omnipresent in the womb, but only became so actually 
after bis ascension — a view which the Heidelberg the- 
ologians rejected as contrary to reason and unsupported 
by Scripture. 

At the last two sittings, finally, the question of the 
Eucharist was discussed, as the princes wished that the 
two parties should seek to arrive at some understanding 
concerning this important point, leaving aside all Cliris- 
tological questions. Yet, after a very few speeches, the 
question of ubiquity was again started, this time by the 
Deformed theologians, and the discussion receded to its 
original ground. The colloquy now came to a close. 
The protocols were compared and signed, and the two 
parties separated, each holding as firmly to its own 
views as previous to the meeting, and considering itself 
as having obtained the advantage. In spite of the 
promise of secrecy, the Heidelberg theologians boasted 
of having silenced their opponents, claiming even that 
duke Christopher himself was now more inclined to 
their doctrines. The Wiirtemberg party would not 
brook this, and Brenz wrote an account of the colloquy, 
denying the statements of the Heidelbergians, which 
was at first circulated privately, and was finally print- 
ed in the same year under the title Epitome colloquii 
Mavlbrunnensis inter theologos Jit idelbergenses et Wur - 
tembergenses de Cana Domini et Majestute Christ i, and 
also a 1 1 \dirhaf tiger u. griindlicher Bericht r. d. Ge- 
sprach, etc., gestelli tlurcli d. Wnrltembergischen Theolo- 
gen (Frankfort, 1504, 4to) ; in these works he accused 
his adversaries of having had recourse to sophistry, and, 
when they found it impossible longer to defend their 
views, to have caused the colloquy to be brought to a 
close. Heidelberg answered by the Epitome colloq. 
Maulbr . cum responsione Palatinorinn ad epit: IPh/’- 
temb. (Heidelberg, 1505, 4to), and published i\t the same 
time the protocol of the conference, which was followed 
up by the opposite party with a new edition of the pro- 
tocols, ‘‘without changes or additions” (Tubing. 1505, 
4to). Both parties now accused each other of interpo- 


lating the protocols. The theologians of Wittenberg 
were also drawn into the quarrel, as duke Christopher 
submitted to them the protocols of Maulbronn and the 
De Majestute Christ i of Andreii and Brenz, both of which 
they severely condemned. The dispute lasted for sev- 
eral years. It was finally set at rest by the wise and 
Christian efforts of elector Frederick at the Diet of Augs- 
burg in 156G. See Osiander, JJistor. eccl. cent, xvi, 
c. 59, p. 791; Struve, Pfalz. K. Ilist , p. 149 sq.; Ilos- 
pinian, Hist. sacr. t. ii.; Arnold, Unpart. K. Hist. cent, 
xvi, § 17, p. 14; Sattler, Gesch. cl. lJerzogth. 1 Viirtem- 
berg, iv, 207 sq. ; Planck, Gesckichte d. Pi'ot. Lehrbegr. 
vol. v, pt. ii, p. 487 sq.; Heppe, Gesch. des deutscli. Pro - 
test, ii, 71 sq.; Klunzinger, D. Religionsgesprdeh zu M. 
(Zeitschr.f. histor. Theolog. 1849, i, 1GG sq.); Leben u. 
ausqewahlte Schrift. d. Ydter , etc., d. reform. Kirche 
(Elberfeld, 1857, p. 260). 

(2.) Another conference, held twelve years later at 
Maulbronn, between theologians from Wiirtemberg, Ba- 
den, and Henneberg, secured a better vcsult. The theo- 
logians were L. Osiander, Balthasar, Bidembach, pro- 
vost of Stuttgard, Abel Scberdinger, court preacher of 
Henneberg, Peter Strecker, pastor at Sulil, and some 
others. The object of the conference was to discuss a 
formula of union drawn up by Osiander and Bidembach. 
The meeting took place Jan. 19, 1576, and the formula 
itself, which may be considered as a forerunner of the 
Formula Concordia , received the name of Formula 
M aulbrunnensis. In the early part of February it was 
sent, together with an address by count George Ernest 
of Henneberg, to the elector August of Saxony, who re- 
ceived also about the same time the so-called Suabian 
and Saxon formula of duke Julius of Brunswick. The 
elector submitted them both to Andrea, who declared 
that, in his opinion, the formula of Maulbronn was the 
most serviceable for the purpose of uniting the different 
parties. Yet in the conference held at Torgau. May 28, 
Andreii consented to use nominally the other formula as 
a basis, but took good care to include all the principal 
points of the Maulbronn formula into the so-called Book 
of Torgau. See Hut ter, Concord, cone. p. 305 sq.; Osi- 
ander, Hist. Eccl. cent, xvi, lib. iv, pt. iii, p. 8GG ; Planck, 
Gesch. d. protest. J.ehrbegr. vi, 428;. Heppe, Gesch. d. 
luth. Concord Reformed, 1858, p. 73 sq. 

(3.) In September of the same year (1576), still anoth- 
er meeting was held at Maulbronn, in which Heerbrand, 
Sclmepf, Magirus, Bidembach, L. Osiander, Dietz, Scher- 
dinger, and Strecker took part. Its object was to dis- 
cuss the Book of Torgau, and it ended in expressing its 
approbation of it as a whole. See Heppe, Gesch. d. 
luth. Concordieiformel , p. 120 sq. — Herzog, Real-Ency- 
hlop. ix, 178 sq. (J. N. P.) 

Maulmont (or Malmont), Jean de, a learned 
Frenchman, was born in Limousin, in tlie IGth century, 
of an ancient noble family, which possessed one of the 
baronies of Limousin, tlie chateau of Maumont. Of his 
personal history but little is known except that he 
was principal of the College of Saint-Michel, otherwise 
called Chanac, which had been founded in 1530 by the 
Pompadour house for the Limousin students. Accord- 
ing to La Croix du Maine, ‘‘Maulmont was a very 
learned man, master of many languages, especially the 
Greek, a great theologian, and a prolific orator.” He 
was ail intimate friend of Julius Scaligcr. Many of his 
contemporaries have pretended that he was the true au- 
thor of the translation of Plutarch which bears tlio 
name of Amyot ; this assertion has been refuted bv La 
Monnoye in a note on V Anti-Baillet of Menage. We 
have of Maulmont’s works, Les (Euvi'es de Saint Justin, 
philosophe et martyr (Paris, 1538, fob): — Les Histoires 
et Chroniqucs du Monde, tirees taut du g?vs volume de 
Jean Zonare, auteur Byzantiu , que de plusieurs metres 
scripteurs llebreux et Frees, avec annotations (Paris, 
1563, fob) : — Les graves et saint es remont ranees de Vem- 
jiercur Ferdinand au pope Pie IV sur le Concile de 
T rente (Paris, 1563, 8vo) : — Remontrances Chretiennes 
en forme d'epitre a la reine d'Angleteri'e, trad, du Latin 


MAUR 


MAUNDAY THURSDAY 905 


de Ilierosme Oserias , evesque Portugalois (Paris, 1653, 
8vo). The same author has written in Italian a life of 
Rene de Birague, chancellor of France, who died iu 1583, 
and the Gallia Christiana quotes it as a correct and use- 
ful work. See La Croix du Maine et Du Verdier, Biblioth. 
Francoises ; Goujet, Biblioth, Frangoises, vol. xii ; Gal- 
lia Christiana , vi, 571.— Iloefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate , 
vol. xxxiv, s. v. 

Maunday Thursday, also known under the term 
Dies Ccex.e Dominica (q. v.), is the name given to 
the Thursday before Faster, The origin of this name 
is Dies inandati— mandate Thursday; either from the 
commandment which our Saviour gave to his disciples 
to commemorate the sacrament of his supper, which he 
instituted on this day (hence also called dies panis , day 
of bread ; and dies lucis , day of light) ; or because on 
this day our Saviour washed his disciples’ feet, and gave 
them commandment to follow his example. Others de- 
rive it from the Saxon mand , which means a basket, and 
subsequently any gift or offering contained in the bas- 
ket. On this day penitents who had been put out of 
the Church on Ash-Wednesdav were readmitted. There 
was also a general celebration of the Lord’s Supper, with 
which the ceremony of washing the feet was connected. 
Candidates for baptism publicly recited the Creed. The j 
origin of this practice is generally referred to the 7th 
century, but Kiddle ( Christian Antiquities, p. 669) con- 
tends that “ it appears to have been of much earlier in- 
stitution.” See Pedilavium. 

Maunoir, Julies, a learned French ecclesiastic, 
was born Oct. 1, 1606, in the province of Saint-Georges 
de Reinthembault, diocese of Rennes. At the age of 
twenty he entered the Order of the Jesuits at Paris, 
and finished his studies at La Fleche. A professor- 
ship in the College of Quimper was offered him, but he 
preferred to preach, and accordingly entered the min- 
istry. He studied the dialect of Brittany, began to 
travel over the country, and displayed so much zeal in 
his preaching that his health became impaired, and he 
was obliged to resume the career of teaching, which 
he followed at Tours. After having been ordained at 
Nevers, he consecrated the remainder of his life, accord- 
ing to a vow that he had made, to the evangelization 
of Brittany. For forty-two consecutive years Maunoir 
labored for the accomplishment of his project. Un- 
moved by the injury and violence with which his devo- 
tion was often repaid, accepting or imposing on himself 
the rudest privations, travelling on foot, with a wallet on 
his shoulders, and carrying only the clothing and nour- 
ishment absolutely indispensable, he visited successively 
and repeatedly nearly all the parishes in the dioceses of 
Cornovaille and Leon, the islands of Ouessant, of Mo- 
lene, of Sizein, etc., without mentioning a great number 
of localities in the other dioceses of Brittany, and every- 
where his preaching was attended with success. lie 
died Jan. 28, 1683, at Plevin, near Guincamp. In ac- 
cordance with his expressed desire, he was buried like a 
pauper, but later a statue was erected to him in the 
church of Plevin. With the triple object in view of 
understanding thoroughly a language so indispensable 
to himself, of purifying it from the mixed dialect used 
by the preachers of the times, and of generalizing the 
learning of the language, Maunoir aided in the promo- 
tion of the colleges of Quimper and of Morlaix, where 
the language of Rrittany was generally used. The same 
motives actuated him in the composition of the follow- 
ing works, which have been adopted by all the ecclesi- 
astics of the country : Canticon spirituel hac instructio- 
7ion profetabl evil quisqui an lient da vont d\ir bai'ados 
(Quimper): — Vita S. Corent ini, Aremorici ; Cosopeti 
(Quimper, 1685, 12mo, et al.) ; far from being written 
in Latin, as father Southwell and Le Long have sup- 
posed, this life is composed of 766 Breton verses: — Le 
Temple consacre a la passion de Jesus-Christ, in Breton, 
prose and verse (Quimper, 1679, 1686, 8vo) : — Le sacre 
College de Jesus divise en cinq classes, ou l' on enseigne en 


langue Armorique les legons Chretiennes , avec les trots 
clefs pour y entrer. These and other works of this char- 
acter are curious in a philological point of view as mon- 
uments of the changes in the Breton language. A very 
competent judge, M. de la Villemarque, has given the 
following opinion: “Born in the French part of Brit- 
tany, father Maunoir was shocked by the rudeness of 
certain sounds hi the Breton language. In order to 
soften them, he suppressed or modified certain signs 
necessary for preserving the primitive signification of 
the words, and for showing their etymology, deriva- 
tion, and affinities. The expressions thus disfigured, of 
which he makes use in his works, prevailed in the 18th 
century, and he left an orthography without fixed prin- 
ciples or method, an orthography ad libitum, which has 
very properly been abandoned, since Le Pelletier has 
substituted the ancient Breton orthography in his Dic- 
tionnaire . See Boschet, Le Pat fait Missionnaire, ou la 
vie du P. Julien Maunoir (Paris, 1697, 12mo) ; Lobineau, 
Vie des Saints, etc., de Bretagne, v, 23-137 ; G. Leroux, 
Pecueil des vertus et des miracles du P, J ulien Maunoir 
(Quimper, 1716, 12mo) ; La Villemarque, Essai sur VIEs- 
toire de-la Langue B retonne, at the head of his edition 
of the Diet. Frangais-Bi'eton de Le Gonidec (St. Brieuc, 
1847, 4to). — Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate, vol. xxxiv, s.v. 

Maupas du Tour, Henri Caugiion de, a French 
prelate, was born in 1600 at the chateau of Cosson, near 
Rheims. Descended from an ancient family of Cham- 
pagne, he had for his godfather king Henry IV, and was 
scarcely sixteen years of age when he was elected ab- 
bot of Saint-Denis of Rheims, with a regular benefice. 
In 1636 he founded there the society of Saint Genevieve. 
He next became chief vicar of the diocese of Rheims, 
then first chaplain to the queen, Anne of Austria, and in 
1641 was finally elected bishop of Puy, whence he was 
transferred in IgGI to the see of Evreux. In the fol- 
lowing year, being called to Rome to solicit the beatifi- 
cation of Francois de Sales, he was chosen assistant pre- 
late to the pontifical throne. January 14, 1667, he found- 
ed a seminary at Evreux, resigned his bishopric in 1680, 
and died at Evreux August 12 of the same year. Of 
his works we have Vie de Mme . de Ckantal (Paris, 1644, 
4to) : — Vie de saint Fratigois de Sales (Paris, 1657, 4to) : 
— Oraisonfun'ebre de saint Vincent de Paul (Paris, 1661, 
4to) : — Statuts synodanx (Evreux, 1664, 1665, 8vo). See 
Gallia Christiana, vols. ii and xi; Le Brasseur, Ilist.du 
Diocese d'Evreux. — Iloefer, Nouv. Biog. Generale , vol. 
xxxiv, s. v. 

Maupin, Milton, a miuister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church South, was born in Campbell County, Ten- 
nessee, Dec. 24, 1829. lie was educated at Emory and 
Henry College, Virginia ; was licensed to preach about 
the year 1849; and was engaged for two or three years 
teaching school and preaching in the local relation. He 
went to California in 1852, and in 1853 joined the Pa- 
cific Conference, California. In 1856 he returned to 
Tennessee ; in 1859 joined the llolston Conference, and 
was appointed to Grayson Circuit, in Western Virginia; 
in 1860 to Newport Circuit; in 1861 to Maynardsville 
Circuit. In 1862 he was appointed by the Conference a 
missionary chaplain to a regiment in the Confederate 
States army; but, as the regiment was disbanded before 
the close of the year, he returned home, and was with- 
out regular work until 1866, when he was appointed to 
Knox and Maynardsville Circuit. In 1867 he was trans- 
ferred to Trinity Conference, Texas, and appointed in 
1869 to Gainesville Circuit; in 1871 to Decatur Mission, 
where he finished his life and ministry, April 1.1871. 
He was faithful to his calling while his strength lasted. 
“ He left the aroma of a good name, and the assurance 
that he went to his t'esf." — Minutes of the M. E. Church 
South. 1871. 

Maur (St.), Congregation of. The Benedic- 
tines afford the only example of a monastic order which, 
after declining from an originally high position, and al- 
ter remaining, so to speak, dead for two centuries, re- 


MAUR 


90G 


MAUR 


vived and took again a leading place in the Church by 
its activity and learning. 

As early as the latter part of the Middle Ages the 
Order of Benedictines had lost much of their influence. 
The convents had become too wealthy, and the monks, 
instead of devoting themselves to study and religious 
exercises, were entirely given up to idleness and worldly 
enjoyments. This state of things continued through 
the 16th century. In the early part of the 17th a re- 
form took place in the Convent of St. Vannes, near Ver- 
dun, under the influence of Didier de la Cour, and it was 
soon imitated by the formerly renowned convents of 
Movenmoutier and Senones. Clement VIII confirmed 
the organization of this Congregation de S . Vannes, which 
produced some distinguished men, among them Dom 
Calmet and Dom Collier. In 1614 the assembly of the 
French clergy expressed the wish that all the Benedic- 
tine convents throughout the country should connect 
themselves with St. Vannes; the general chapter of the 
congregation, however, was afraid of the consequences 
which might result from such extended power. In 1618, 
however, Dom Bernard, one of the monks of St. Vannes 
who had been employed in reforming other convents, ob- 
tained from Louis XI 1 1 authority to establish a congrega- 
tion, which when organized took the name of St. Maur. 
for fear of awakening jealousy if it took that of any par- 
ticular convent. This congregation was confirmed by 
Gregory XV in 1621, and by Urban VIII in 1627. The 
first convent subjected by Be'nard to the new regula- 
tions was that of the Blancs-Manteaux at Paris. Soon 
a number of others joined it. In 1652 they counted 
forty convents; in the beginning of the 18th century 
their number reached 180, divided into six provinces. 
The most important of all these establishments was the 
convent of St. Germain des Pres, near Paris. It was the 
residence of the general of the order, was endowed with 
episcopal authority, and possessed a library particularly 
rich in ancient MSS. Its statutes, drawn up to accord 
with the spirit of the times, the strict morality, intellect- 
ual pursuits, and great learning of its members, gained 
universal respect for the congregation. Amid the loose- 
ness of morals which then prevailed among the French 
clergy, the Congregation of St. Maur belongs to the few 
exceptions which reflect honor on the Church of Home. 
According to the confession of a Romanist writer, they 
arc perhaps the only order in the history of convents of 
which this can be said. It is also to be remembered 
that, conscious of serving higher and universal interests, 
they remained entire strangers to all persecutions both 
of the Jesuits and the Gallican clergy. 

To secure a high degree of scholarship among the Con- 
gregation, the first general, Dom Tariffe. carefully pre- 
pared a scheme of studies ; and as early as the 17th and 
18th centuries the congregation counted a large num- 
ber of distinguished men. Their labors were promptly 
directed to the gathering of materials for the history of 
the convents belonging to the congregation, and to that 
of the saints. These researches soon led them into pa- 
lcological and diplomatic works. The finished educa- 
tion given to the novices required a large number of new 
books or improved reprints of old ones, which were pre- 
pared by order of the superiors by members of the con- 
gregation. Thus arose a large number of very impor- 
tant and valuable works. They treat of a great variety 
of subjects, but especially of the history of France and 
of the Church. The most distinguished among the 
monks were intrusted with the editorship, and the oth- 
ers were employed in gathering the materials, or making 
up some particular part of it : if one of them died before 
his task was complete, another took his place, and con- 
tinued it in the same spirit and with the same learning. 
Xo other order ever made the same use of its’ riches: 
they bought the rarest MSS. and books, made journeys J 
to visit foreign libraries and to establish relations with 
foreign savans. Their publications also possessed an 
outward finish previously unknown in typography. 
Their religious independence is shown in the fact that i 


they remained in friendly relation with the recluses of 
Port Loyal (q. v.), and suffered persecution for tlieir re- 
fusal to endorse the bull Unigenii us (q. v.), and thev 
were often and severely attacked by the Jesuits. The 
order continued hi existence until the French Revolu- 
tion. 

The historical works of the Congregation of St. Maur 
are numerous, and embrace an extensive field. Dom 
Mabillon may be considered as the founder of diplomacy, 
of which he established the basis in his De re diplo- 
malica (1681, 6 vols. fol.) ; this was followed by a sup- 
plement in 1704, in consequence of the attacks of the 
Jesuit Germon. As these works related almost exclu- 
sively to France, a general work on the same subject 
was published by Dom Toustain and Dom Tassin, under 
the title Nouveau, traits de diplomatique (1750-65, 6 vols. 
4to), which is still the most perfect of the kind. To 
these must be added Mont falcon’s Palaographia Grceca 
(1708, fol.), which, however, has been surpassed by sub- 
sequent publications. Chronology may almost be said 
to have been created by them. The A rt de verifier les 
dates , commenced by Dantine and finished by Clcmen- 
cet (1750. 2 vols. 4to), is well known to every student 
of history. A second edition was published by Clement 
(1770, fol.), and then a third (1783-92, 3 vols. fol.), each 
time with numerous additions. The fourth, much en- 
larged edition, clue also to Clement, appeared first in 
1818 (37 vols. 8vo), and was often reprinted ; there are 
also an edition in folio and one in quarto. This work 
has justly been called the most important monument of 
French learning in the 18th century. Montfau^on’s 
Aniiquite expliquee en figures (1719,10 vols. fol.) has now 
become somewhat antiquated in consequence of the new 
sources discovered since. In the domain of philology, 
the congregation took an active part in a yet unsur- 
passed work, the Glossarium medics et infinite Latinitatis 
of Dufresne Ducange (1678), which, if it did not origi- 
nate with them, was at least increased one half by Dom 
Dantine and Dom Cliarpentier (1733-36,6 vols. fob, with 
a supplement by Charpentier, 1767, 4 vols. fob), and ac- 
quired its full importance by their labors. This work 
is not only important for its philological value, but also 
for the information it contains on the literature, laws, 
and civil and ecclesiastical customs of the Middle Ages. 
Charpentier is also the author of the A Iphabetum iyroni - 
etmnn (1747, fob). They published the sourc es of the 
history of France. Such as had been furnished by Pi- 
thon and Duchesne were insufficient, and Colbert and 
Louvois vainly sought to have the work continued; but 
D’Aguessau finally succeeded in inducing the Benedic- 
tines to apply themselves to the task. It finally came 
into the hands of Dom Bouquet, who completed the first 
eight volumes of the Scriptores rerum Gallicannn et 
Francicarum ; Dom J. B. llaudiguier and C. Haudi- 
guier accomplished the ixth, xth. and xith; Dom Cle'- 
ment the xiith and xiiitli, and Dom Brial, the last of 
the Benedictines of St. Maur, the xivtli and xvth (1738- 
1818, fob). The work has since been continued by the 
Academic des Inscriptions , which published the xxisfc 
volume in 1855. To this class of works belongs the 
edition of the writings of Gregoire cle Tours, published 
by Dom Ruinart (1699, fob). They never gave a com- 
plete history of France, but only the beginning of it, 
and the history of particular parts. Dom Martin wrote 
La Religion des Ganlois (1727, 2 vols. 4to), and Dom de 
Brezillac // istoire des G aides et des Conquctts des Ganlois 
(1752, 2 vols. 4to), both of little importance now. Their 
histories of particular provinces are more valuable. The 
most important arc II istoire generate du Languedoc , by 
Vaissette and Dc Vic (1730-45) 5 vols. fob); Ilistoire 
de Bretagne , by Vcisserie (who subsequently became a 
Protestant) and Lo'bineau (T707, 2 vols. fob). This was 
afterwards entirely remodelled, although not completed, 
by Maurice dc Bcaubois (1742, 3 vols. fob. and 2 vols. 
4to); Ilistoire. de Bourgogne, by Plancher (1739 sq., 3 
' vols. fob) ; Ilistoire de la Vide de Petris , by Felibicn and 
Lobineau (1725, 5 vols.). Finally, the Ilistoire litteraire 


MAUR 


907 


MAUE 


de la France (1733-63, 12 vols. 4to), inaugurated by 
Dom Rivet and others, and continued by the order till 
1814, when it was taken up by the Academic des In- 
scriptions ; the xxtli volume was published in 1842. 
It is a very valuable collection of documents, not 
only for the history of French literature, but also for 
that of the Middle Ages generally. The researches in 
the libraries of the convents, also the journeys, prin- 
cipally in Italy, Germany, and the Netherlands, gave 
occasion to publish extensive catalogues and descrip- 
tions of them. Among these we notice the Spicilegium 
vetenim aliquot scriptorum of D’Achery (1553-1677, 
13 vols. 4to ; new edit, by De la Barre, 1723, 3 vols. 
fob); Vetera Analecta , by Mabillon (1675-85, 4 vols. 
4to) ; Collectio nova %'eterum scriptorum , by Martene 
(1700, 4to) ; Thesaurus novus Anecdotorum, by Martene 
and Durand (1717, 5 vols. fol.); Voyage Utter air e de 
deux religieux Benedict ins, by the same (1724, 4to) ; 
Diarium Italicum (1702, 4to), and Bibliotheca bibliothe- 
carum ma?iuscripto?’um nova (1739, 2 vols. fob), both by 
Montfau^on. In Church history, their most important 
works are their revision of the Gallia Christiana of the 
brothers De Sainte-Marthe (1656, 4 vols. fob). The 
new work was commenced by another member of that 
distinguished family, Dom Denis de Sainte-Marthe. It 
was intended as an introduction to a contemplated Orbis 
Christianus, for which a large amount of documents 
were collected, yet this work was never completed. The 
first volume of the Gallia Christiana appeared in 1715. 
Sainte-Marthe died on the completion of the third vol- 
ume, in 1725. The order continued the work until the 
thirteenth volume, which appeared in 1785. It was 
then interrupted, until of late years Ilaureau, the author 
of the Histoire de la Philosophic scholastique (1850, 2 
vols.), took it up again, and in 1856 he published his 
continuation. The Gallia Christiana was used as a model 
for other similar works, such as the Italia sacra , the 
Espaiia sagi'ada, the Illyria sacra, etc. It also gave 
rise to numerous histories of special convents by others 
of the congregation ; the greater part of them, howev- 
er, remain unpublished. The only two which appeared 
are the Histoire de VAbbaye de St. Denis of Fclibien 
(1706, fob), and the Histoire de VAbbaye de S. Germain 
des Pres of Bouillart (1724, fob). The collection of the 
French councils, commenced by Dom de Comae, and 
afterwards continued by Dom Labat, was to be appended 
to the Gallia Christiana . The first volume appeared in 
1789, at the moment of the outbreak of the French Rev- 
olution, and the congregation was dispersed before the 
second w r as complete. The history of martyrs was 
treated by Dom Ruinart in his Acta primorum m cirty- 
rum (1689, 4to), Of greater interest are the works on 
the old liturgies and convent customs, some of which 
are among the earliest works of the congregation. Me- 
nard published the Sacramentarium of Gregory the 
Great (1642,4to), Mabillon the Liturgia Gallicunci (1645, 
4to), Martene his Libri V de antiquis mouachorum riti- 
bus (1690, 2 vols. 4to), and his De antiquis ecclesice riti- 
lus (1700, 4 vols. 4to ; 2d edit. 1736, 4 vols. fob) ; finally, 
among the most renowned works in that line, we must 
mention the Acta Sanctorum Ordinis S. Benedicts, com- 
menced by D A^cherv, and continued by Mabillon and 
Ruinart (1668, etc., 9 vols. fob: the tenth remained un- 
published) ; the A nnales Ordinis S. Benedicti , the cele- 
brated work of Mabillon, completed by Massuet (1703, 
etc., 6 vols. fob). • The same congregation wrote also a 
history of their own order, which formed 3 vols. fob in 
MS., but the superiors refused permission for publica- 
tion. Dom Tassin published, however, an abstract from 
it, down to 1766. Dom Clemencet wrote a history of 
Tort Royal, of which the first part alone appeared (1755, 
10 vols. 12mo) ; the second part remained in MS., as 
being too favorable to the Jansen ists. 

The greatest claim of the Benedictines of St. Maur to 
the gratitude of theologians lies in their editions of the 
works of the fathers. They -had at first contemplated 
Gnly publishing the complete works of authors of their 


own order ; but the favor with which their productions 
were received, as also the requirements of their schools, 
induced them to publish first the works of the Latin fa- 
thers, and afterwards of the Greek also. For this pur- 
pose they compared the various texts of the different 
works existing in France, Italy, England, Holland, Ger- 
many, etc. The result was a set of works wliicli for 
correctness of the text remains unsurpassed, especially 
for the works of the most important among the fathers. 
Among these works we must not forget their valuable 
Latin translations of the Greek fathers, and their Indices, 
so important for all historical students. The first Latin 
father whose works they published is St. Augustine. 
Ilis views afforddd them powerful weapons in the Jan- 
sen istic controversy. The edition was commenced by 
Dom Delfau, and continued by Blampin and Constant 
(1679-1700, 1 1 vols. folio) ; Garet published Cassiodor 
(1679, 2 vols. fob) ; Du Frisehe and Le Nourri, Ambro- 
ses (1686-90, 2 vols. fob) ; Constant, Hilarius of Poi- 
tiers (1693, fob) ; Martian ay, Jerome (1693-1706, 5 vols. 
fob). The works of Cyprian, commenced by Baluze, 
who was not of St. Maur, were completed by Dom Ma- 
ran (1726, fob). In 1645 the Benedictines published the 
Epistle of Barnabas (4to). But it is only towards the 
close of the 17th century that they seriously applied 
themselves to this branch of ancient ecclesiastical liter- 
ature. Montfau^on published the works of Athanasius 
(1698, 3 vols. folio) ; this was followed by his Collectio 
nova putrum (1706, 2 vols. fob), containing additions to 
Athanasius; the works of Eusebius of Cccsarea, and the 
Topography of Cosmas. Massuet published Irenceus 
(1710, fob) ; Montfau^on, Chrysostom (1718-38, 13 vols. 
fob) ; Toutee, Cyril of Jerusalem (1720, fob) ; Gamier, 
Basil the Great (1721-30, 3 vols. folio); Charles de la 
Rue and his nephew Vincent de la Rue, Origen (1733-59, 
4 vols. folio) ; Maran, Justin and the other apologetists 
(1742, fob). Maran commenced an edition of the works 
of Gregory of Kaziunzum, which was continued by Cle- 
mencet, but the breaking out of the French Revolution 
prevented the publication of any but the first volume 
(1788, folio). 

Among the works of writers of their order and others 
of the Middle Ages which they published, we notice the 
rule of St. Benedict of Aniane, Concordia regularum, 
published by Menard (1628, 4to) ; Lanfranc, by D’Ache- 
ry (1648, fob), and Guibert of Xogent, by the same (1651, 
fob) ; St. Bemai’d, by Mabillon (1667, fob ; 2d ed. 1690, 
2 vols. -fob; 3d ed. 1719, 2 vols. fob); Anselm of Canter- 
bury, by Gerberon (1675, fob, 2d ed. 1721); Gregory the 
Great, by Denis de Sainte-Marthe (1705, 4 vols. folio); 
JHldebert de Mans, by Bcaugendre (1708, folio). Dom 
Constant compiled a collection of the letters and decrees 
of the popes, only the first volume of which appeared 
(1721, folio). To aid in the use of the Biblioth. patrum 
maxima of Lyon, Le Nourri wrote his Apparatus (1703, 
fob), which, however, does not extend further than the 
4th century ; it consists of biographical, historical, and 
literary notices of the writers whose works are contained 
in the Bibliotheca. Finally, among their most valuable 
publications are those relating to the ancient transla- 
tions of the Bible. Such are the Hexapla of Origen, by 
Montfan^on (17 13, 2 vols. fob) ; the Biblcth. divina of Je- 
rome, by Martianay (1693, vol. i of the works of Jerome), 
and the Latince versiones antiquie, by Sabatier, Baillard, 
and Vincent de la Rue (1743-49, 3 vols. fob). 

Their zeal and their liberal views could not fail to in- 
volve them in numerous and hitter controversies; yet 
even then they generally preserved a tone of great mod- 
eration, whilst their greater learning often gave them 
the advantage over their adversaries. Perhaps the 
weakest contest they ever engaged in was their defence 
of the claims of their fellow Benedictine abbot Gerscn 
as the author of the Imitatio Ckristi. against the at- 
tacks of the Augustinian canon regulars [see lvEMns]. 
They ably defended themselves against the insinuations 
of De Ranee, founder of La Trappc, who accused them 
of worldliness on account of their studies. Mabillon 


MAURAND 


908 


MAURICE 


was thus provoked to publish his renowned Traite des 
etudes Monastiques (1G91, 4to, and 1G92, 2 vols. 12mo ; it 
was translated into Latin and Italian). They also got 
into tlifhciilties with the Jesuits, who accused them of 
Jansenism on account of their edition of St. Augustine, 
and otherwise attacked them in the Journal of Trevoux. 
During this controversy they published very important 
essays against the bull Unigenitus. Gerberon published 
the Uistoire generate du Jansenisme (1700, 3 vols. 12mo), 
and Le Cerf the Uistoire de la Constitution Unigenitus 
cn ce qui regarde la Congregation de St. Maur . The 
French Devolution, in forbidding the existence of con- 
vents, dispersed also the Benedictines. Several of the 
works they had then on hand remained uncompleted. 
The Academie des Inscriptions undertook to finish such 
as related to the history of France. The last of the 
Benedictines of St. Maur, Dom Brial, died a member of 
the French Academy in 1833. In later times an attempt 
was made to revive the order. La Mennais (q. v.) with 
some of his friends bought the abbey of Solesmes, for- 
merly occupied by the Benedictines of St. Maur. The 
pope made it the regular abbey of the restored Order 
of Benedictines Sept. 1, 1837, and Geranger (afterwards 
called Gue ranger), a German professor, formerly a Prot- 
estant, was made superior-general of the order. Yet so 
far, the attempts of the new monks to rival the fame of 
their predecessors have proved unsuccessful ; the ultra- 
montanism which pervades the French clergy is not fa- 
vorable to profound studies. Its first work gave evi- 
dence of the spirit which now animates the institution : 
Origines catlioliques, origines de VEglise Romaine (Paris, 
1836, 4to ; vol. i only has appeared). By his Institutions 
liturgiques (Paris, 184G) Gueranger helped to introduce 
the use of the Roman liturgy in the French dioceses, in 
spite of the remonstrances of the Gallican clergy. The 
most eminent of the new Benedictines is Pitra, yet even 
his works will prove of more value to the papacy than 
to science. In an article published in the Correspondant 
of 1852 he attacked the Regesta pontijicuni of Jade, and 
asserted that the making of the pseudo-decretals (q. v.) 
affords proof that the primacy of the See of Borne was 
then already recognised by all. Pitra has published a 
Uistoire de St. Leger et de VEglise de France an 7 me sie - 
cle (Paris, 181G) : — Etudes sur la Collection des Actes des 
Saints paries Bollandistes (Paris, 1850), a valuable work. 
Since 1852 he has been working at a Spicilegium Soles - 
mense , of which three volumes have been published 
(Paris, royal 8vo). They do not continue the impor- 
tant works commenced by the old order, leaving even 
the series of the fathers unfinished. See Petz, Biblioth. 
Benedict o-mauriana (Vienna, 171G,8vo) ; Le Cerf, JHbli- 
otheque historiqne , etc., des A uteurs de la Cong, de St. 
Maur (Hague, 172G, 12mo) ; Tassin, Uistoire liter, de la 
Congr. de St. Maur (Paris, 1726, 4to); Herbst, Die Ver- 
clienste d. Maurvner um d. Wissenschaften ( Tubinger theol. 
Qua rtalsch lift, 1833, part i, ii, iii ; 1834, pt. i). — Ilerzog, 
Real-Encgklopadie , ix, 190 sq. 

Maurand (or Mauran), Pierre, the first leader 
of the Albigenses in Southern France, was born at Tou- 
louse, of a noted family, in the early part of the 12th 
century. From his youth he gave himself entirely 
to spreading the doctrines of the Albigenses (q. v.) 
throughout Languedoc. Rich and learned, preaching 
incessantly, travelling barefooted, sleeping on the 
ground, living in the midst of danger, he strongl}' im- 
pressed the southern mind, always easily excited, and 
in a short time made a great number of converts, whom 
he assembled in two of his mansions, one in the city, 
the other in the country. Maurand said boldly “that 
the clergy performed their ecclesiastical duties without 
learning, without morals, and without capacity; that 
nsurj r was common, and that in many churches all was 
venal, the sacraments and the benefices; that the clerks, 
the priests, the canons, and even the bishops, associated 
publicly with abandoned women; that if the same vices 
were remarked in the lords and laity, it was owing to 
the general ignorance, ail excuse which the clergy could 


not plead.” As for his belief, he admitted two grand 
directing principles, independent and uncreated ; good 
and evil ; light and darkness. He did not consider 
almsgiving a means of salvation ; and life should not be 
an incessant commerce, lie did not admit that a priest, 
could, by a few words, transform the bread and wine 
into the body and blood of Christ, and persisted in see- 
ing in the mass and sacrifice only a commemoration, a 
symbol. He rejected all the ceremonial service of the 
Church as an abuse which should be destroyed, lie led, 
moreover, a most regidar and sober life, prayed on his 
knees seven times a day and seven times each night. 
He did not acknowledge the remission of sins on the 
earth, not being able to believe that a mere mortal, a 
priest “ all covered with the leprosy of vice,” could ab- 
solve that of which he was himself knowingly guilty 
each day. As for the members of the clergy, he called 
them net pastors, but ravishing wolves, etc. The court 
of Rome was not slow in being roused, and the number 
of heretics multiplied so prodigiously that an appeal 
was made to the secular arm. After having condemned 
the sectarians in several synods, the archbishops of Nar- 
bonne and Lyons made some arrests, and burned alive 
those who would not recant. After the action of the 
Council of Albi in 11 7G, pope Alexander III himself in- 
augurated a crusade against the heretics, who were par- 
ticularly strong in the dominion of Raymond V of Tou- 
louse. The legate and the bishops entered Toulouse in 
the midst of the insulting clamors of the people. One 
of the prelates however preached, and attempted to re- 
fute the doctrines of the Albigenses ; the latter, appa- 
rently convinced not so much by his reasoning as by 
fear of the count of Toulouse, did not dare to be seen or 
to speak in public. The legato, not contented with this 
success, caused the Roman Catholics to promise with an 
oath to denounce and deliver up all the heretics they 
knew. Pierre Maurand was one of the first reached by 
this measure. They induced him by caresses and prom- 
ises to appear before the legate. In the examination to 
which he was obliged to submit, he declared that the 
bread was not the body of Christ. The inquisitors 
asked nothing more; they delivered him to the count 
of Toulouse, who immediately imprisoned him, order- 
ing that his goods should be forthwith confiscated and 
his mansions demolished, whilst other punishment was 
yet to follow. Pierre Maurand, seeing himself on the 
verge of an ignominious death, promised to abjure bis 
faith. They then brought him out of prison, and on 
the public square, before the assembled people, be 
kneeled to the legate and his colleagues; begged their 
pardon, and promised to submit to their orders. The 
next day the bishop of Toulouse and the abbot of Saint- 
Sernin took Maurand from his prison, naked and bare- 
footed, and led him through the city, Hogging him from 
time to time. Arriving at the cathedral, he paid a 
heavy fine, renewed the abjuration of bis faith, and 
heard the sentence which condemned him to start with- 
in forty days for Jerusalem, and remain there three years 
in the service of the poor; his goods were confiscated, 
half to the profit of Raymond V, half to the profit of the 
clergy. lie was also obliged to pay a fine of five hun- 
dred pounds’ weight of silver to the count of Toulouse, 
to make numerous gifts to religious establishments, to 
the poor, etc. However, when Maurand returned from 
Palestine, he recovered the greater part of his estates. 
See Dom Vaissette, Uistoire de Languedoc , t. iii, chap, 
xix ; Diet, des Heresies , article Albigeois, in the Encg- 
clopedie theologique of the abbe Migne; Benoit, Hist, 
des Albigeois. t. 1; Langlois, Uistoire des Croisades con - 
ire les Albigeois; Basnage de Beauval, Hist, de VEglise , 
t. ii, chap. xxix. — Hoefer, Nouv. Biogr. Generate , vol. 
xxxiv, s. v. 

Maurice, St. See Mauritius. 

Maurice (duke and afterwards elector ) of Saxony, 
one of the most prominent characters in the history of 
the Reformation in the Church of Germany, a celebrated 


MAURICE 


909 


MAURICE 


general anil champion of the Protestant cause, was the 
eldest son of duke Henry of the Albertine line and 
nephew of duke George the Bearded, the most bitter 
opponent of the Reformation. Maurice was born at 
Freiburg March 21, 1521 ; he espoused in 1541 Agnes, 
daughter of the landgrave Philip of Hesse ; and later in 
the same year succeeded his father in the duchy of Sax- 
ony and its dependencies. He was hardly well estab- 
lished in his dominions when a dispute arose between 
him and his cousin, the elector of Saxony, John Fred- 
erick, regarding their respective rights over the bish- 
opric of Meissen, which was the common property of the 
Ernestine and Albertine lines; but by the influence of 
Luther and of the landgrave Philip a temporary recon- 
ciliation was effected. In the war with the Turks he 
distinguished himself as a soldier, and became the fa- 
vorite of Charles V. Whether, however, Maurice was 
at this time the sincere friend of the emperor is a 
question that has never yet been determined. This 
much is certain that Maurice was selfish by nature, 
and sought rather the furtherance of his own inter- 
ests than the welfare of his associates and those who 
befriended him. A professed Protestant, he took part 
in the deliberations at Smaleald (q. v. ; see also Holy 
League), but refused to become a member of the league 
for fear of displeasing the emperor, with whom he co- 
quetted at that time to secure the protectorate of the 
bishoprics of Magdeburg and Halberstadt. No sooner 
had the emperor bestowed upon him this much-coveted 
favor, and honored him with the title of elector (June 
19, 1540), than Maurice deserted the Protestant camp, 
and played the part of a most devoted adherent of the 
emperor’s cause. In consequence of this unexpected 
hostility to the Protestants the imperial army gained a 
decisive victory at Miihlberg in April, 1547, wellnigh 
proving the death-stroke of the Protestant cause. By 
this defeat of the Protestants, and the imprisonment of 
his rival, John Frederick, Maurice, according to a pre- 
vious understanding with the emperor, became himself 
the ruler of all Saxony. Thus gratified in all the am- 
bitious desires in which he could expect aid from Charles 
V, Maurice became quite uneasy in his present relation, 
and hesitated not to embrace the very first opportunity 
to seek anew the favor of the leaders he had so basely 
deserted. It is true as late as 1547 Maurice was still found 
on the side of the imperialists, for he this year supported 
the Interim (q. v.) of Augsburg; but gradually he less- 
ened the hold of the Romanists upon him, and by 1551 
we find him a party to a secret treaty of the Protestants 
with Henry II of France, at the very time that he was 
professing to besiege the rebellious city of Magdeburg. 
As treacherously and unhesitatingly as he had aban- 
doned the cause of the Reformers he now forsook the 
imperial side. Poor Charles was at Innsbruck, employ- 
ing himself in building up vast schemes of ambition, 
little dreaming of the mine which the man whom he 
most of all confided in was preparing to spring under his 
feet. When suddenly the word came to him that he 
must release prince Philip of Hesse, whom he had im- 
prisoned for his opposition to the imperial cause, even 
before he had time to decide the case, news came 
to him that Maurice of Saxony was marching against 
him. 'Without money, without troops, without allies, 
Charles was compelled to yield to the demands of the 
man whom he had himself made powerful. On April 
18, by the mediation of Ferdinand, king of the Romans, 
a treaty was concluded at Linz granting the demands 
of the Protestants; but as it was not to take effect till 
May 2G, Maurice employed himself in attacking (May 
18) the camp of Reitti, in which soldiers were assem- 
bling for the emperor, defeated and wholly dispersed 
the imperialists, and advanced on Innsbruck with the 
view of taking Charles captive. Had it not been that 
a mutiny stopped his progress, the emperor would have 
been rudely handled, as Maurice knew his antagonist, 
and feared the consequences of his treachery. But 
Maurice also was feared. Ilis advance on Innsbruck so 


alarmed the members of the Council of Trent, then in 
session there, that they fled from the town, and the sit- 
tings were thenceforth suspended for some years. Fi- 
nally came the day of convocation of the electors and 
princes of the empire at Passau; Maurice directing the 
cause of the Protestants, and Ferdinand attending to the 
imperial interests. To the Protestants this meeting 
must ever be memorable. It was here that a treaty of 
peace was established which secured to Protestants free 
exercise of worship; and it was by the Passau treaty 
that the Romanists of Germany agreed that the impe- 
rial chamber, from which Lutherans were not to be ex- 
cluded, should render justice irrespective of religion; 
and that the Aulic Council should be composed exclu- 
sively of German ministers. These conditions, which 
in political matters secured “ Germany for the Germans,” 
and in religious affairs permanently established the 
principles of toleration, were embodied in the agreement 
called the Peace of Passau (Aug. 22, 1552). Charles, 
though he professed reconciliation, never lost an oppor- 
tunity to wreak his vengeance on the elector. The lat- 
ter, with his usual subtlety and address, patched up a 
reconciliation with the emperor, and engaged in the 
campaign of 1553 against the Turks, who were gradu- 
ally gaining ground in Hungary. Returning soon, he 
found that one of his former allies, Albert, margrave of 
Kulmbach, had refused to accede to the treaty of Pas- 
sau, and continued the war on his own account, making 
raids on the ecclesiastical princes of the Rhine and Fran- 
conia. Maurice also speedily discovered that behind 
the margrave stood the emperor, who had secured the 
services of the margrave because he had found in him 
a general and an army capable of wreaking his ven- 
geance on the perfidious Saxon prince. But Maurice was 
equal to the occasion. Putting himself at the head of 
20,000 men, he marched to protect his bishopric of Mag- 
deburg against the ecclesiastical spoliator, and, falling in 
with him at Sievershausen, completely defeated him 
(July 9, 1553), but fell himself in the conflict, mortally 
wounded, and died July 11, 1553. “So thoughtful and 
reticent, so enterprising and energetic, so correct in 
judgment and unfailing in action, and at the same time 
wholly devoid of moral sentiment, he is one of the 
most prominent instances of power without principle 
which the world’s history has ever presented.” lvohl- 
rausch has perhaps furnished the most moderate com- 
ment on the perjured life of Maurice of Saxony. “The 
final efforts he so patriotically made for the promotion 
and establishment of general tranquillity, and his love 
for peace and order, which he sealed with his own blood, 
have in a great degree served to throw the mantle of 
oblivion over his earlier proceedings, and conciliated the 
critical voice of public opinion” {Hist. Germany , p. 290). 
Robertson appears to be equally anxious to laud the last 
act of Maurice, and to let it stand forth only as the life- 
work of this faithless prince. He excuses him on the 
ground that “his long anil intimate union with the ein- 
1 peror had afforded him many opportunities of observing 
narrowly the dangerous tendency of that monarch’s 
| (Charles) schemes. He saw the yoke that was prepar- 
ing for his country, and was convinced that but a few 
steps more remained to be taken in order to render 
Charles as absolute a 'monarch in Germany as he had 
become in Spain. At the same time he perceived that 
Charles was bent on exacting a rigid conformity to the 
doctriues and rites of the Romish Church, instead of al- 
lowing liberty of conscience, the promise of which had 
allured several Protestant princes to assist him in the 
war against the confederates of Smaleald. As he him- 
self, notwithstanding all the compliances which he had 
made from motives of interest, or an excess of confi- 
dence in the emperor, was sincerely attached to the Lu- 
theran tenets, he determined not to be a tame spectator 
of the overthrow of a system which he believed to be 
founded in truth” (p. 38*6). Though we would gladly 
like to concede this point, truth compels us to dissent 
from the opinion of the noted historian. We doubt veiy 


MAURICE 


910 


MAURICE 


much whether Maurice of Saxony, in any period of his j 
life, believed either liomanism or Protestantism “to be 
founded in truth we doubt even that he ever believed 
himself *• to be founded in truth.” Let us say, rather, 
that he was possessed of an ambition which knew no 
bounds, and that, seeking honor for himself, he reaped 
all the glory of having concerted and completed that 
unexpected revolution which closed with the treaty of 
Passnu — “that overturned the vast fabric in erecting 
which Charles had employed so many years, and had 
exerted the utmost efforts of his power and policy; that 
annulled all his regulations with regard to religion ; de- 
feated all his hopes of rendering the imperial authority 
absolute and hereditary in his family; and established 
the Protestant Church, which had hitherto subsisted 
precariously in Germany, through connivance or by ex- 
pedients, upon a firm and secure basis” (p. 415; comp, 
p. 424, 425). It is indeed a singular circumstance that 
the Reformation should be indebted for its security and 
full establishment in Germany to the same hand which 
had brought it to the brink of destruction, and that 
both events should have been accompanied by the same 
acts of dissimulation. See J. Camerarius, Vita Mauritii 
Electoris Saxonue (15G9) ; Georg Arnold, Vita Mauritii 
(1719); F. A. von Langenn, Moritz Herzog und Chur- 
Jiirst von Sachsen (1841, 2 vols.); Schlenkert, Montz 
Churfib'st von Sachsen (179S-1800, 4 vols.); R. von We- 
ber, Moritz, Graf von Sachsen, etc. (Lps. 18G3); Taillan- 
dier, Maurice da Saxe (Paris, 18G5) ; Coxe, House of 
Austria, i, 450 sq. ; Yell sc, Memoirs Court of Austria, i, 
254; Kohlrausch, Hist, of Germany, ch. iv; Robertson, 
Charles U, book x. See also Charles Y; Interim; 
Reformation. 

Maurice, Antoine (1), a French Protestant theo- 
logian and Orientalist, was born at Eyguieres, in Prov- 
ence, Sept. 27, 1G79. lie belonged to a Provencal 
family which had embraced the Reformed religion in 
the lGth century, and furnished many pastors to the 
churches of the south. When the revocation of the 
Edict of Nantes forced his father to retire to Geneva, he 
was not permitted to follow him, and remained for some 
time in the hands of priests, who hoped to educate him 
to the service of the Church of Rome. Two officers, 
friends of his family, coming to his aid, he succeeded 
finally in escaping the vigilance of his guardians and ar- 
rived at Yienna; being denounced during a halt, he fled 
alone, and arrived on foot at Bourg in Bresse (1G86). 
Although it was in the middle of winter, he resumed 
his route with a faithful servant, and, after having wan- 
dered in the mountains of Jura, he succeeded in reach- 
ing Basle, from whence he was conducted to Geneva in 
a pitiable condition. He was then only nine years old. 
Consecrated to the ministry, he entered it in 1G97, at 
Geneva, where, in 1704, he assumed pastoral duty. 
Gifted with a happy memory and great talent for the 
study of languages, he learned the greater part of the 
Oriental idioms, and perfected himself by speaking 
them fluently with a rabbi and priest from the Levant 
whom he had invited to his house. He was also fond of 
the sciences, and abandoned the system of Des Cartes for 
that of Newton, of whom he became a zealous partisan. 
In 1710 he was elected professor of belles-lettres and of 
history in the Academy of Geneva, later he taught the 
Oriental languages, and after 1724 theology. He was 
twice called to the rectorship. In 1713 he was made a 
member of the Royal Society of the Sciences of Berlin, 
on the proposition of Leibnitz. Maurice died in Geneva 
Aug. 20, 1756. Of his works we have an edition of the 
Rationarium Temporum du P. Petan, with notes (Gene- 
va, 1721, 3 vols. 8vo) : — twelve Sermons (ibid. 1722, 
8vo): — twenty different dissertations, among others, De 
Conscicntia (1725-1734, 4to) : — lie Resurrections Jesu 
Christi (1734- 17G3): — Jus exa minis ( 1 740^ fol): — De 
Suicidio (175G, 8vo). His scientific and philological 
works have not been published. — Hoefcr, Nouv. Biog. 
Gene. rale, s. v. 

Maurice, Antoine (2), a Swiss theologian, was 


born at Geneva April 11, 171 G. He showed at an early 
age a decided taste for the physical sciences; at the age 
of sixteen he maintained before the celebrated pro- 
fessors Caames and Calendrini some theses, De Actione 
Solis et Lunev in aerem et aquam (Geneva, 1732, 4to), 
which were then considered very remarkable. lie be- 
came pastor in 1748, and in 1753 succeeded his father 
in the theological chair. He died in Geneva July 23, 
1795. He has left some dissertations on philosophical 
and theological points : De Musica in Sacris (Geneva, 
1771, 4to): — De Fide veterum Judeeomm circa futurum 
j)Ost hanc vitam statum (ibid. 1780, 8vo): — De Toleran- 
tia apud Ethnicos (ibid. 1790, 4to); — and in MS. a Ilis- 
toire ecclesiastique. See Senebier, Hist, litter, de Ge- 
neve; Mensel, Gelehrten-Lexikon, s. v. — Hoefer, Xouv. 
Biog. Generale, s. v. 

Maurice, Frederick Denison, a very celebrated 
English divine of our day, the successor of Dr. Arnold 
as leader of the “Broad Church” party of the Anglican 
clergy, was born in 1805, the son of a Unitarian minister 
of high reputation for intelligence and philanthropic 
zeal. Young Maurice at an early age entered at Trin- 
ity College, Cambridge, where he formed an intimate 
friendship with the late Scotch divine John Sterling 
(q.v.), a friendship which lasted through the whole of 
Sterling’s life, and which was made closer in the end 
by the marriage of the friends to two sisters. From 
Trinity College both Maurice and Sterling removed to 
the smaller corporation of Trinity Hall; and here thus 
early the former began to exert that singular influence, 
partly intellectual and partly moral, upon all who came 
near him, which accompanied him throughout his whole 
career. His examinations at college were passed with 
such great distinction that he was recommended for a 
fellowship notwithstanding his nonconformity, and when 
he refused, upon the ground that he could not conscien- 
tiously subscribe to the Thirty-nine Articles, he was giv- 
en a year or two that he might overcome his scruples, 
take his degree, and enjoy a fellowship. This also he 
declined, on the ground that, by holding out to himself 
such a prospect, he would be subjecting bis intellectual 
independence to the risk of a temptation, and bribing 
his conscience. Accordingly, quitting Cambridge with- 
out a degree, he removed to London, where for some 
time he devoted himself to literature. With his friend 
Sterling he became connected with the “ Athenfeum,” 
then just starting, and opened a literary career that last- 
ed for a period of forty-four years, within which “the ink 
of his pen was seldom dry.” Experiencing a change in 
his religious sentiment, he finally decided to enter the 
ministry of the Established Church, but, lest bis motives 
should be misinterpreted, he went to Oxford instead of 
Cambridge, and there about 1828 received ordination. 
From that very moment his activity in the Church 
began, and as he commenced so he continued through 
life. Earnestly devoted to the interests of the Christian 
religion, he sought to present the truths of the Gospel 
in a manner that might bring within the pale of the 
Church the educated and the liberal. He held that the 
Church ought to grapple intellectually, in its theolog- 
ical aims and expositions, with the most advanced forms 
of sceptical thought, in such a manner as to evince a 
liberal sympathy with much that is non-thcologieal in 
its apparent aspect, in order the more surely to exhibit 
the supremacy of religion over all, and that the Church, 
as an institution, ought so to grapple with contempora- 
ry forms of social evil as to exhibit Christianity as the 
true source of every effective social amelioration. In 
carrying out these ideas he necessarily came into conflict 
with the views of others, both in and out of the Church; 
his orthodoxy on various doctrinal points was ques- 
tioned, and he was severely attacked by those who be- 
lieved him guilty of injuring the best interests of the 
Church. 

Mr. Maurice was holding a position as preacher, but 
it is especially as a writer that he exerted his influence 
and secured a reputation, and, as a proper estimate of 


MAURICE 


MAURICE 911 


this man is impossible without a glance at his works, 
we proceed to a hasty consideration of his written pro- 
ductions in the field of theology and philosophy. Omit- 
ting numerous separate sermons and occasional tracts, 
we note his Doctrine of Sacrifice deduced from the 
Scriptures: — Lectures on the Ecclesiastical History of 
the First and Second Ce?ituries: — Theological Essays: 
— Patriarchs ami Lawgivers of the Old Testament : — 
Prophets ami Kings of the Old Testament: — The Unity 
of the Xeio Testament: — Christmas Day and other Ser- 
mons: — On the Religions of the World: — On the Prayer- 
book: — The Church a Family: — On the Lord's Prayer: 
— On the Sabbath; and Law on the Fable of the Bees. 
To the “ Encyclopaedia Britannica” he contributed His- 
tory of Moral and Metaphysical Philosophy , in ancient 
and in mediaeval times, which was afterwards collected 
into book form and republished (2 vols. 8vo). He also 
published a reply to Mansel’s Hampton Lectures in 1859. 
Particularly noteworthy among all these productions are 
his Theological Essays (Loud. 1853, 8vo ; N. Y. 1854). A 
Unitarian by birth and education, Mr. Maurice had im- 
bibed much of the humanitarian principles. In these 
essays he proposed for himself the task of influencing 
the general religious thought of England, determined, as 
a faithful ambassador of his Saviour, to meet the actual 
wants of the disturbed and reluctantly sceptical age in 
which he lived. Unfortunately, however, Mr. Maurice 
had failed to make due allowance for the moderate de- 
gree of toleration that was in vogue twenty years ago, 
when he came forward to act as a religious and theo- 
logical reformer, and for the ignorance that prevailed 
among his fellow-men concerning the man who sought 
to do this work. Now that careful inquiry and inves- 
tigation have clearly revealed his character, even the 
most orthodox of all orthodox Christians need not hesi- 
tate to speak in terms of highest commendation of the 
labors and services of Frederick Denison Maurice. But 
not so in the days of his travail. “ It was the specialty 
of his position,” says a writer in the British Quart. Rev. 
(Jan. 1873, p. 30), “ that he stood midway, as it were, be- 
tween the professors of the Christian faith, as commonly 
received, and the modern sceptical and rationalizing 
spirit which attracted his sympathies, in so far as it was 
a spirit of free and earnest inquiry, aiming sincerely at 
the attainment of the truth. Thus he came to be con- 
sidered by many as affording a sort of half-way house of 
shelter to those who did not or could not accept the or- 
dinary orthodoxy, and who were yet too much in earnest 
about life and destiny to be satisfied with the cheerless 
negations of atheism or the cold comforts of a provis- 
ional scepticism. It was natural that he should meet 
the fate of those who strive to reconcile contraries. Dis- 
owned by orthodoxy — which is no matter for wonder — 
he was rejected and often also despised by scepticism. 
By the one party he was charged with unsettling the 
faith of ingenuous youth, while the others accused him 
of paltering with words in a double sense, and seeking 
to reconcile things really irreconcilable.” The Lessing 
of the English Church, he held many views akin with 
the great German writer. Seeking, like the latter, to 
spread truth by giving it a fair test, Mr. Maurice often 
went beyond reasonable limits, and unknowingly en- 
dangered the interests of the cause he so unhesitatingly 
served ; his language respecting both the atonement 
and the question of eternal punishment was made the 
text of many attacks, the most noted of which was that 
by l)r. Candlish of the Scottish Church, in a sermon en- 
titled Examination of Mr. Maurice's “ Theological Es- 
says." 

Starting from the divine centre as the root and source 
of all, religion is to Mr. Maurice a mode of life condi- 
tioned and determined on all sides by dependence upon 
God — the human personality upon the divine Person. 
“As a life it is a series of experiences through and in 
which man is acted upon by God, so as to be filled full 
out of the Infinite fulness. But how shall there be a 
communion between God and man? In order to the 


revealing of God, there must be a revealer. This re- 
vealer must be able to manifest forth what is in God, 
who is the Father universal, and to do this by such 
means that man may thereby know him as his Father. 
A mediator between God and man is essential to the 
satisfying and fulfilling of human wants. Only one who 
was himself God could adequately unfold the Eternal. 
And he must do this by manifestation of the divine in and 
through the human, otherwise man could not apprehend 
the revelation; the light would continue shining in 
darkness without being comprehended of the latter. . . . 
The Father has shown us what he is by an actual man 
like ourselves, who told us that he came forth from the 
Father, and that he knew him. ... He could reveal 
God to men because, having been ever with the Father, 
he had also been near to all men from their beginning, 
as the Light lightening every man coming into the 
world. He was the Boot, and because he was the Root, 
he was also the Head of humanity. He could redeem 
humanity, and he alone could, because it was his own; 
because lie was in some way already one with it; be- 
cause in its deepest roots the human personality was 
bound to him. He did not, therefore, first become a Re- 
deemer when he came to our earth in human form. He 
could redeem in time, because he had been the Deliverer 
before his incarnation — because it was his nature to be 
so.” So far so well. There is, however, one great as- 
pect of the work and mission of Christ which Mr. Mau- 
rice ignored, that brought the charge of heterodoxy to 
his door. The necessity of vindicating the authority of 
a broken law, the obligation from which even God him- 
self could not escape of only pardoning when justice had 
been satisfied, and which, therefore, magnified and made 
honorable the law that man had disowned and the au- 
thority he had despised, are altogether tossed aside 
by Mr. Maurice. According to him, it is the sin, 
and not alone, if at all, the penalty of the sin of the 
world that Christ takes away. The penalty is and 
must always be borne by those against whom it is di- 
rected, and cannot be endured by any at second hand. 
Need we wonder that this view of the atonement ex- 
posed Mr. Maurice to much obloquy? “ He transforms 
the atonement,” says the writer already quoted, “into a 
mere means of reconciling man to God by a process of 
education. The subjective influence of the sacrifice of 
Christ — its effects, that is. upon the souls of men, ethi- 
cally and spiritually — was alone emphasized by him. 
And whatever benefits may have been wrought by 
bringing this aspect of the atonement into prominence, 
obviously it is not the whole scriptural doctrine of sac- 
rifice, as unfolded in the work in which he seeks to de- 
duce that from the Scriptures.” Fundamentally defec- 
tive in this one great doctrine of Christianity, there are 
yet others in which his influence was mainly pernicious. 
“Grateful to him as we are for the power with which he 
vindicated that great truth on which Christianity rests 
— the incarnation of our Lord — is it not evident that he 
was apt to resolve this, and with it the whole work of 
Christ, into the fulfilment of a merely naturalistic or- 
der? ... He clung to the indefinite, afraid of losing 
hold of the reality by putting thoughts in the place of 
things — opinions, theories, and speculations about the 
real, for true contact with and genuine apprehension 
(or laying hold and grasping) of it. He would not let 
go his hold upon reality, which somehow was brought 
near by being revealed to man ; but he was satisfied 
with the somehow." And yet, while there are some 
points like those mentioned on which we must differ 
from the teachings of Mr. Maurice, we must concede 
that, in face of a rationalism which menaces the foun- 
dations of Christianity, Mr. Maurice might well be 
counted, even by the most orthodox, “a champion of 
revelation.” We do not so much refer to his influence 
upon those who, accepting his theological teaching in 
its entirety, may be called his disciples, as to the far 
more diffused influence exercised by him upon the gen- 
eral religious thought of England. The very corner- 


MAURICE 


912 


MAURITIUS 


stone of this influence lies in his vivid and unfailing ap- 
prehension of the revelation of God in Christ as a pres- 
ent reality, exactly fitted to accomplish all that the 
world needs. 

Mr.Mauriee held for many years the professorship of 
divinity in King’s College. The peculiar views advo- 
cated in his Theological Essays deprived him of this 
position, and he was thereafter confined to the oflice of 
chaplain to Lincoln’s Inn. In 18G0 the queen, in addi- 
tion, appointed him incumbent of the district church 
of Yere Street, Marylebone, and in 18GG he was hon- 
ored with a call to the chair of moral philosophy at 
Cambridge, lie died at his residence in London, April 
1, 187*2, the object of universal admiration. “ By not a 
few he was ‘worshipped on this side idolatry,’ while 
by a large number of outsiders he was regarded with 
affectionate veneration. These feelings culminated at 
his death in a display of feeling such as it is given to 
few to call forth. The unanimity of the testimony borne 
to his character and work by the many journals, secular 
and religions, that chronicled his decease, was an index 
of the general sentiment. It was felt everywhere that 
England had lost a veritable hero in the battle for truth, 
and the Church a bright ornament and exemplar of the 
practical graces of the Christian life.” 

It must not be believed that Mr. Maurice’s labors were 
confined to the theological or philosophical arena. It 
has been truly said by the A thenceum that he “lived 
during his allotted term the lives of many men.” He 
was the originator, or one of the originators, of the 
Christian socialistic movement, the design of which was 
to break down the system of competitive labor, and ele- 
vate the working classes by teaching them to associate 
together in little companies, undertaking work in com- 
mon, and sharing the proceeds. With a view to pre- 
paring working-men for such a task, he founded a work- 
ing-men's college in London, to which in liis last years 
he devoted much of his time and attention. He also 
took great interest in the cause of female education. 
Indeed, there are few social questions of any importance 
to which his sympathies did not extend. See Fra- 
ser's Magazine, 1854 (April); Scribner's Monthly, 1872 
(Sept.); British Quart. Rev, 1873 (Jan.), art. ii; English 
Cyclop, s. v. ; Allibone, Diet, of Brit . and A mer. A uthors, 
s. v. ; Xew A mer . Cyclop, s. v. 

Maurice, Henry, D.D., an English divine, flour- 
ished near the middle of the 17th century as chaplain 
to the archbishop of Canterbury. lie published A Vin- 
dication of the Primitive Church and Diocesan Episco- 
pacy , in answer to Baxter’s Church History of Bishops 
(Loiul. 1G82, 8vo):— Sermons (1G82, 4to; 1744, 4to) 

A Defence of Diocesan Episcopacy , in answer to David 
Clarkson’s Primitive Episcopacy (Lond. 1700): — Doubts 
concerning lloman hifullibility. See Gibson’s Pi'eserva- 
tire , iv, 271 ; Allibone, Diet. Brit, and A mer. Authors, 
vol. ii, s. v. ; Darling, Cyclop. Bibliogr. vol. ii, s. v. 

Maurice, Thomas, an English divine and scholar, 
noted particularly for his studies of the antiquities of 
India, was born about 1755 at Hertford, where his fa- 
ther was then head-master of the Christ’s Hospital 
school. After his father's death the family was im- 
poverished by an unfortunate marriage of the widow, 
and his education proceeded irregularly till Dr. Parr, on 
opening his school at Stanmore, was prevailed on to re- 
ceive him as a pupil, and treated him with great gener- 
osity and kindness. Destined for the Church, he en- 
tered at nineteen St.John’s College, Oxford, whence he 
removed next year to University College. After taking 
his degree of B.A., he was ordained by bishop Lowth, 
and held for some time the curacy of the large par- 
ish of Woodford, in Essex, which in 1785 he resigned 
for a chapel at Epping, in orderjo obtain greater leisure 
for study. 1 1 is turn for historical studies had been fos- 
tered at University College by his distinguished tutor 
Lord Stow ell, and he now began to concentrate his at- 
tention on the history of India, for treating upon which 


he made proposals in 1790 in a published letter address- 
ed to the East India directors. The irreligious spirit of 
the Freneh Devolution, alarming Mr. Maurice’s mind, 
induced him to remodel his first work after it was near- 
ly completed, and to devote a considerable proportion 
of it to dissertations on the Hindu mythology. In 
1791 he came before the public with two volumes of his 
Indian Antiquities : the rest were brought out at inter- 
vals, the completion of the work being mainly owing to 
the liberality of the earl of Harborough ; and the sev- 
enth and last volume appeared in 1797. This work re- 
mains to our day a trustworthy book of reference. Mean- 
time he had undertaken a History of Hindustan, the 
three volumes of which, in quarto, were published in 
1795, 1798, 1799, and a second edition appeared in 1821. 
In 1798 earl Spencer presented him to the vicarage of 
Wormleighton, in Warwickshire ; next year he was ap- 
pointed assistant librarian in the British Museum ; in 
1800 bishop Tomline obtained for him the pension that 
had been held by the poet Cow per ; and in 1804 he re- 
ceived from the lord chancellor the vicarage of Cudham, 
in Kent. His Modern History of I] indostan, in two vol- 
umes, appeared in 1802 and 1804. Several other vol- 
umes on Eastern history and theology, and attempts in 
verse, succeeded this work ; and one of his last under- 
takings was his Memoirs, comprehending the History of 
the Progress of Indian Literature , and Anecdotes of Lit- 
erary Chamcters in Britain, during a Period of Thirty 
Years. Of this work the three volumes appeared in 
1819, 1820, and 1822. He died March 30, 1824. See 
English Cyclop, s. v. ; Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and A mer. 
Authors, s. v. ; Gorton, Biog. Diet. s. v. 

Mauritius axd the Thebaic Legion. • The le- 
gend concerning St. Mauritius and his fellow-soldiers 
originated with Eueherins, bishop of Lyons (f about 450), 
and was first published in A.I). 1G62, by the Jesuit Fran- 
cis Chiffletus, from an old martyrology in the Abbey of 
St. Claude, in the Jura. A reeension of this legend was 
admitted by Surius into his Lives of Saints in 15G9, 
which is drawn from martvrologies of a later date, and 
was composed by a monk connected with the cloister of 
St. Maurice, who bore the same name as the bishop, but 
flourished nearly a century later. Much has been writ- 
ten for and against the authenticity of the legend, but 
the results of modern criticism seem to indicate that a 
basis of truth underlies the story. The evidence in its 
favor reaches to the 4th century, while the adverse proof 
rests chiefly on the improbability of the events narrated. 
It relates that during the wars of the emperor Maxim- 
ian with the Gauls, a legion, known as the Thebaic, was 
ordered from the East to reinforce his army. It was 
composed entirely of Christians, and was led by Mauri- 
tius. While the emperor rested at Oetoduruin (now 
Martigny, at the foot of Mount St. Bernard), the bulk 
of this legion was stationed at St. Maurice, in the pres- 
ent canton of Wallis, excepting two cohorts, which were 
sent to Treves. The army was at this time employed 
in persecuting Christians, in which service the Thebaic 
legion was ordered to co-operate. They refused to obey, 
and the emperor, in a rage, commanded the decimation 
of the legion. As they remained firm, even after a sec- 
ond decimation, Maximian ordered the massacre of the 
entire body. Encherius states that at this period a le- 
gion numbered GGOO men, and clearly asserts that the 
greater portion of this legion perished at St. Mauriee, 
while the martyrology of St. Mauritius adds that offi- 
cers were sent to Treves to execute a similar punish- 
ment on the two cohorts stationed there. A similar le- 
gend occurs in Simeon Metaphrastes, according to which 
a St. Mauritius with seventy of his soldiers was execu- 
ted by order of Maximian ; but this was probably a 
Greek adaptation <xf the Latin story. Grave doubts are 
cast upon the legend by the great number of fugitives 
from this massacre which constantly meet ns, and by 
the improbability of the sacrifice of so large a body of 
troops in time of war. See De Lisle, Defense de la Verite 
du Martyre de la Legion Thebeenne (1737) ; the A da SS., 


MAURUS 


913 


MAURY 


Surius, and the Martyrol. Usuardi , edit. J. B. du Sollier, 
S. J., Sept. 22, and October 4, 10, 15 ; also Tillemont, Me- 
moires , tom. iv ; Stolberg, ix, 302 sq. ; Rettberg, Kir - 
chengesch. Deutschlands, i, § 1G.— Herzog, Real-EncyHop. 
ix, 197 sq. ; Wetzer und Welte, Kirchen-Lexikon , vi, 414 
sq. (G. M.) 

Maurus, a pupil of Benedict of Nursia, is chiefly 
known by the account given of him by the monks of 
the Congregation of St. Maur (q. v.). His history is 
mainly legendary. He is said to have been the first to 
introduce the Benedictine rule into France; to have 
founded its first convent in France at Glanfenil, in the 
province of Anjou, and to have died in 584, after having 
performed a great number of miracles. Such at least 
are the main points to be gathered from his biography, 
much mixed up indeed in regard to dates, which appear- 
ed in the 9th century. Gregory of Tours makes no 
mention of him whatever. This, however, appears cer- 
tain, that France was the field of his labors, for his name 
was known there before his biography appeared. Yet 
all the Manrimonasteria do not lead us back to him ; 
thus, for instance, that at the foot of the Vosges is 
named after an abbot of the 8th century. Mabillon and 
Ruinart vainly tried to prove the correctness of the old 
biography {Acta Sanctorum ord. S. Bened. scec. i, 274 
sq. ; Annales ot'd. S. Bened. scec . i, 107 sq., 629 sq.), 
whilst not only Protestant but also Roman Catholic 
writers have found ample reason to doubt its genuine- 
ness. — Herzog, Real-Encyklop. ix, 201. (J. N. P.) 

Maurus, Rabanus. See Rabanus. 

Maury, John Siffrein, a French prelate, and noted 
also as a pulpit orator, was born June 2G, 1746, at Vau- 
reas, in the Venaissin, of poor but respectable parents, 
lie displayed at a very early age great eagerness for 
learning, and being destined by his parents for the ec- 
clesiastical profession, he was placed at the Seminary of 
St. Garde, at Avignon, to pursue his theological studies. 
About 17GG he proceeded to Paris, in the expectation 
of earning a subsistence by the cultivation of his tal- 
ents. Though he was without friends in that city, his 
first publication attracted considerable notice. Encour- 
aged by this early success he took orders, and devoted 
himself to the study of pulpit eloquence. In 1772 an 
Eloge on Fenelon, which he published, was favorably 
received by the French Academy, and caused him to be 
appointed vicar-general of the bishop of Lombez. He 
however soon returned to Paris, -where he became 
very popular as a preacher. A panegyric of St. Louis, 
which he delivered before the French Academy, and one 
of St. Augustine before an assembly of the clergy, met 
with so much success that king Louis XVI appointed 
him preacher to the court, and presented him with the 
living of the abbey Frenade, in the diocese of Saintes. 
In 1785 he delivered his panegyric on St. Vincent cle 
Paul , which is esteemed a masterpiece ; shortly after he 
had the honor to be chosen a member of the Academy 
in the place of the lyric poet Lefranc de Pompignan, 
and the following year the valuable benefice of the pri- 
ory of Lioris was conferred upon him. At the assembly 
of the States-General in 1789 he was named deputy of 
the clergy for the bailiwick of Peronne, and soon took 
a prominent part in the debates. From the first he 
enlisted himself on the aristocratic side, where his en- 
ergetic eloquence and peculiar talent at reply rendered 
him a formidable antagonist to Mirabeau. 11 is im- 
pressive and impassioned oratory, though it expressed 
opinions hostile to the great majority of the assembly, 
was often listened to with admiration and greeted with 
applause. His great moral courage and firm adherence 
to the principles which he had adopted, and which, in 
spite of the most violent opposition and in the face of 
the greatest danger, he earnestly advocated, secured 
for him the respect and esteem of the more enlightened 
portion of his enemies. November 27, 1790, a decree 
was passed in the National Assembly, by which every 
ecclesiastic in the kingdom was required to take an oath 
V. — 31 M M 


to maintain with all his power the new constitution; 
and, in case of any priest’s refusal, it was declared that 
he should be held to have renounced his benefices. To 
this constitution the pope had refused his sanction, on 
account of its hostility to the interests of the Church, 
and the oath was indignantly refused by the great ma- 
jority of the clergy. When the day arrived for the 
taking it by the bishops and clergy of the Assembly, an 
infuriated mob surrounded the liall, threatening death 
to all who should refuse. On this occasion also Maury 
displayed his usual intrepidity, and boldly advocated 
the independence of his order. “ Strike, but hear me,” 
was his exclamation, when the last eiforts of his impas- 
sioned eloquence in that Assembly were interrupted by 
the incessant cries of his political antagonists. At the 
close of the stormy session of the National Assembly, 
Maury, who could lend no further aid to the prostrate 
cause of royalty and religion, quitted his native coun- 
try, and, at the invitation of Pius VI, took up his resi- 
dence at Rome. He was there received with the high- 
est distinction, and the loss of his benefices in France 
was more than compensated by his speedy elevation to 
the highest positions in the gift of the Roman Church. 
In 1792 he was named archbishop of Nica?a “in partibus 
infidelium,” and afterwards appointed apostolical nun- 
cio to the diet held at Frankfort for the election of the 
emperor Francis II. This mission accomplished, in 1794 
he was elevated to the dignity of a cardinal, and was 
instituted to the united sees of Monte-Fiascone and 
Cometo. On the invasion of Italy by the French in 1798, 
though every effort was made to seize cardinal Maury, 
he escaped muler disguise to Venice, where he assisted 
at the conclave assembled for the election of Pius VII. 
In 1799 he returned to Rome upon the conquest of Italy 
by Suwarrow, and was accredited as ambassador to his 
exiled king, Louis XVIII, at that time a resident of Mit- 
tan. This office he resigned on the reconciliation of 
the Church of Rome with the government of France un- 
der Napoleon (in 1804); thereafter he embraced the 
cause of the first consul, and was permitted to return to 
France. This position, which was deemed not to be in 
unison with the tenor of his former conduct, subjected 
him in after times to the reproaches and persecutions 
of the party whom he had served with so much person- 
al hazard. Napoleon gladly received the approaches 
of so distinguished a member of the Church whose es- 
tablishment he was restoring in France ; an interview 
took place between them at Genoa, and in May, 1806, 
Maury reappeared at Paris. The flattering reception 
he there met with was calculated to attach him to the 
interests of this chief, who admitted him to bis intima- 
cy, and availed himself of his counsels in ecclesiastical 
matters. He received the pension assigned to the dig- 
nity of a French cardinal, and was appointed first 
almoner of Jerome Bonaparte. In 1807 he was elected 
a member of the Institute in the place of Target, one of 
the advocates of the unfortunate Louis XVI. His ac- 
ceptance in 1810 of the archbishopric of Paris subjected 
him to the displeasure of Pius VII, between whom and 
Napoleon there had arisen much disagreement. Car- 
dinal Maury was a warm and sincere admirer of the 
emperor, and he not only espoused his cause in the dis- 
putes with the head of the Church, but took ever)" oc- 
casion, which the frequent victories of this chief af- 
forded him, of testifying his gratitude by expressions 
of admiration in his mandates to the clergy of his 
diocese. These mandates, written in a style of the 
most florid eloquence, do not remind ns of the im- 
pressive and energetic orator of the National Assem- 
bly : they were severely criticised by the adherents 
of the ancient regime , and by the witty frequenters 
of the Parisian saloons, who styled them' “archiepis- 
copal despatches,” in allusion to their military tone, 
and their imitation of the style and manner of Napo- 
leon’s bulletins. After the capitulation of Paris on the 
30th of March, 1814, Maury was deprived by the Bour- 
bons of the administration of his'diocese ; and, in their 


3IAUZZIM 


914 


MAXCY 


resentment for his adherence to Napoleon’s fortunes, 
they forgot his former daring and powerful support of 
their tottering throne, lie then returned to Koine, 
where he was imprisoned during one year by the orders 
of the pope ; he was afterwards allowed to live in retire- 
ment on a pension which was given to him in com- 
pensation for his resignation of the see of Monte Fias- 
conc. In this retirement, deeply affected by the in- 
gratitude of his former party, and that of the pontiff, to 
whose elevation he had been instrumental, he died on 
the 11th of May, 1817. “ Notwithstanding his extraor- 
dinary eloquence,” says the duchess of Abrantes, who 
knew him intimately, “the abbe Maury had been be- 
fore the Revolution, what he was in proscription, what 
he continued under the empire, a man of talent rather 
than a man of sense, and a curate of the time of the 
League, rather than an abbe of the reign of Louis XIV.” 
She adds that his figure was in the highest degree dis- 
agreeable, but the description she gives of it appears 
rather a caricature than a portrait. His principal work, 
Essais sur l' Eloquence de la Chaire (3 vols. 8vo), pub- 
lished after his death by his nephew, Louis Siffrein 
Maury, still maintains its well-merited popularity. His 
mind was formed to appreciate the eloquence of Massil- 
lon, Bossuet, and Bourdaloue, and his criticisms on the 
other French divines are in general as correct as they 
are temperate. In his review, however, of English pul- 
pit oratory, he manifests a want of acquaintance with 
the writings of its most celebrated preachers, such as 
Jeremy Taylor, Sherlock, and Barrow. He selected 
Blair as the best model of English eloquence, and the 
comparison which he draws between him and Massillon 
is necessarily most unfavorable to Blair. His own pan- 
egyric of St. Augustine is esteemed one of the finest 
pieces of French pulpit eloquence, lie is also supposed, 
conjointly with the abbe de Boismont, to be the author 
of a work entitled Lettres sur VEtat actuel de la Religion 
et du Clerge en France . See Vie du Cardinal Maury 
(1827), by Poujoulat; he Cardinal Maury, sa Vie et ses 
(Eurres (1855); Iloefer, Four. Biog. Generale, s. v. ; 
Monthly Review , vol. lxix (1812), Appendix; English 
Cyclop, s. v. 

Maiiz'zim Sept. M aio^ttp v. r. Maw&i, 

Vulg. Maozim ). The marginal note to the A. V. of 
I)an. xi, 38, “the God of forces,” gives, as the equiva- 
lent of the last word, “ Mauzzim, or gods protectors, or 
munitions.” The Geneva version renders the Hebrew 
as a proper name both in Dan. xi, 38 and 39, where the 
word occurs again (marg. of A. V. “munitions”). In 
the Greek version of Theodotion, given above, it is treat- 
ed as a proper name, as well as in the Vulgate. The 
Sept., as at present printed, is evidently corrupt in this 
passage, but iVyupd (ver. 37) appears to represent the 
word in question. In Jerome’s time the reading was 
different, and he gives “ Deum fortissimum” for the 
Latin translation of it, and “ Deum fortitudinum” for 
that of Aquila. He ridicules the interpretation of Por- 
phyry, who, ignorant of Hebrew, understood by “the 
god of Mauzzim” the statue of Jupiter set up in Modin, 
the city' of Mattathias and his sons, by the generals of 
Antioehus, who compelled the Jews to sacrifice to it, 
“ the god of Modin.” Theodore! retains the reading of 
Theodotion (Ma£wtiju being evidently for ISlatoZetp), 
and explains it of Antichrist, “ a god strong and power- 
ful.” The Pesbito-Syriac has “the strong god,” and 
Junius and Tremellius render it “Deum summi roboris,” 
considering the Hebrew plural as intensive, and inter- 
preting it of the God of Israel. There can be little 
doubt that “Mauzzim” is to be taken in its literal sense 
of “fortresses,” just as in Dan. xi, 19, 39, “the god of 
fortresses” being then the deity who presided over 
strongholds. But beyond this it is scarcely possible to 
connect an appellation so general with any special ob- 
ject of idolatrous worship. Grotius conjectured that 
Mauzzim was a modification of the name A4i£of, the 
war-god of the Phoenicians, mentioned in Julian’s hymn 


to the sun (Beyer, Add it. ad Seldenii u De Dea Syria,* 
p. 275). Calvin suggested that it denoted “ money,” the 
strongest of all powers. By others it has been supposed 
to be Mars, the tutelary deity of Antioehus Epiphanes, 
who is the subject of allusion. The only authority for 
this supposition exists in two coins struck at Laodicea, 
which are believed to have on the obverse the head of 
Antioehus with a radiated crown, and on the reverse 
the figure of Mars with a spear. But it is asserted, on 
the contrary, that all known coins of Antioehus Epiph- 
anes bear his name, and that it is mere conjecture 
which attributes these to him; and, further, that there 
is no ancient authority to show that a temple to Mars 
was built by Antioehus at Laodicea. The opinion of 
Gesenius is more probable, that “ the god of fortresses” 
was Jupiter Capitolinas, for whom Antioehus built a 
temple at Antioch (Livy, xli, 20). By others it is re- 
ferred to Jupiter Olympius, to whom Antioehus dedi- 
cated the Temple at Jerusalem (2 Mace, vi, 2). See Ju- 
piter. Fiirst (// anclw . s. v.), comparing Isa. xxxiii, 4, 
where the reference is to Tyre, “ the fortress of the 
sea,” makes equivalent to Fis’Elj or even 

proposes to read for the former the god of the 

“ stronghold of the sea,” i. e. Melkart, the Tyrian Her- 
cules. A suggestion made by Mr. Lavard {Nineveh, 
ii, 456, note) is worthy of being recorded, as being 
at least as well founded as any already mentioned. 
After describing llera, the Assyrian Venus, as “stand- 
ing erect on a lion, and crowned with a tower or mural 
coronet, which, we learn from Lucian, was peculiar to 
the Shemitic. figure of the goddess,” he adds in a note, 
“ May she be connected with the ‘El Maozem,’ the de- 
ity presiding over bulwarks and fortresses, the ‘ god of 
forces,’ of Dan. xi, 38?” Pfeiffer {Dub. Vex. cent, iv, 
loc. 72) will only see in it “the idol of the 3/ ass /” — 
Smith, s. v. 

Maw (iing, kebab ' , hollow, only occurs in Dent, xviii, 
3), the rough ventricle or echinus of ruminating ani- 
mals, which is the second of their four stomachs (Aris- 
totle, Hist. anim. ii, 1 7). So the Vulg., Onkelos, Saadias, 
and Kimahi interpret; but Josephus {Ant. iv, 4), Philo 
(ii, 235, ed. Mang.), after the Sept. {twrarpor, i. e. yv- 
vvorpov), understand the fourth stomach, or omaum, 
esteemed a great delicacy (like tripe) among the an- 
cients (comp. Bochart, Ilieroz. i, 571 ed. Lips.). 

Mawmoisine or Malvoisine, William de, a 
Scotch Koman Catholic prelate, supposed to be a native 
of France, flourished in Scotland about the opening of 
the 13th century. lie was made bishop of St. Andrew’s 
in 1202; established many monasteVies in that country, 
and was active in promoting a crusade to the Holy Land. 

Mawson, Matthias, D.D., an English divine of 
the 18th century, became master of Corpus Cliristi Col- 
lege, Cambridge, in 1732; subsequently rector of II ad- 
stock, Essex; bishop of Llandaff in 1738; was trans- 
lated to Chichester in 1740, and in 1754 to Ely. lie 
died about 1771. Bishop Mawson published only occa- 
sional Sermons (Loud. 1732, ’33, ’40, ’41, ’43, ’46, ’50). 
See Aliibone, Diet. Brit, and A mer. Authors, vol. ii, s. v. 

Maxcy, Jonathan, D.D., a Baptist minister and 
noted American educator, was born in Attleborough, 
Mass., Sept. 2, 1708; graduated at Brown University in 
1787, and immediately became a tutor in that institution. 
Deciding for the ministry, he was licensed to preach 
April 1, 1790, and was on *Sept. 8, 1791, ordained pastor 
of the First Baptist Church of Providence, K. I. He 
was on the same day also elected both a trustee and 
professor of divinity "in the college, and in July, 1792, 
became president. II is pastoral relations he severed 
September 8, 1792» In 1802 he accepted the presiden- 
cy of Union College; and in 1804, the newly-estab- 
lished South Carolina College having chosen him for its 
first president, he heeded the call, in the hope that a 
Southern climate would improve his health, which had 
become much impaired. Over this institution he con- 


MAXENTIUS 915 MAXIMILIAN 


tinued to preside, with almost unprecedented popularity, 
until liis death, June 4, 1820. Dr. Maxcy was one of 
the most accomplished pulpit orators and scholars this 
country has produced. He was well versed in philology, 
criticism, metaphysics, logic, politics, morals, and phi- 
losophy. His character was very amiable and his piety 
sincere. His death was that of the believer in Jesus, 
and his memory is widely revered. He published a 
large number of sermons, addresses, orations, etc., which 
after his death were gathered in a volume, entitled The 
Literary Remains of the Rev. Jonathan Maxcy, D.D., 
with a Memoir of his Life , by Romeo Elton, D.D. lhe 
most valued of his publications were his sermons on the 
existence of God, frequently republished. See Sprague, 
A minis, vi, 297; Christian Review , vol. ix; Allibone, 
Diet . Brit, and Amer . Authors, s. v. ; Drake, Diet. Amer. 
Biog. s. v. 

Maxentius. See Constantine. 

Maxfield, Thomas, a noted early Methodist lay- 
preacher, flourished in the latter part of the 18th cen- 
tury. He was one of Wesley’s converts at Bristol, and 
was appointed to pray and expound the Scriptures, but 
not to preach, at the Founderv, in London, during Mr. 
Wesley’s absence. Maxfield, however, being a young 
man of “much fervency of spirit, and mighty in the 
Scriptures,” greatly edified the people, who, assembling 
in vast crowds, and listening with earnest attention, in- 
sensibly led him to deviate from this restriction and 
begin to preach. Wesley was informed of this irregu- 
larity, and hastened to London in alarm to check him, 
his prejudices for “Church order” being still strong. 
The mother of Wesley counselled him to hear Maxfleld 
preach before reproving him, adding, “ But take care 
what you do respecting that young man ; he is as surely 
called of God to preach as you are.” Wesley heard him, 
and, his prejudices yielding to the power of truth, he 
objected no longer. Thus Maxfield became the first of 
the innumerable itinerant lay-preachers, who have spread 
the Gospel throughout the world more successfully than 
any other class of the Christian community. Wesley 
promoted his welfare in every way, introduced him in 
London to a social position superior to his birth, by 
which he was enabled to make an advantageous mar- 
riage, and obtained ordination for him in Ireland from 
the bishop of Londonderry, who favored Wesley in that 
country. Maxfield was present at the first Methodist 
Conference, which was held at the Founderv, London, 
June 25,1774. Maxfield also attended the tnird Con- 
ference assembled at Bristol, May, 1746. lie shared the 
persecution to which the followers of Wesley were sub- 
jected ; was at one time seized and imprisoned for the 
king’s service, thrown into a dungeon, and offered to 
the commander of a ship of war. In 1763, during a re- 
vival in London, great excitement was produced by an 
honest madman, Bell, formerly a life-guardsman, who 
had become a local preacher, and supposed that he had 
performed a miraculous cure. Possessing more enthu- 
siasm than judgment, he became fanatical in public 
meetings, and greatly excited his hearers. He unfor- 
tunately obtained much influence over Maxfield — the 
latter was not naturally an enthusiast — and made him 
a companion in his fanaticism. Both the Wesleys 
conversed with Maxfield on the subject, telling him 
what they disliked in his conduct. In some matters 
he had been unjustly blamed, in others he promised 
to change; the evil, however, was not remedied, but 
seemed rather to increase. Then Mr. Wesley wrote a 
long letter to Maxfield, plainly telling him of the errors 
of his preaching and conduct, and of its tendency to- 
wards a separation from the Weslevans. The doctrines 
advocated by Maxfield and Bell were erroneous, inas- 
much as they taught that a person saved from sin need 
not examine himself, need not pray in private, need only 
believe ; that believing makes man perfect, and that the 
pure in heart cannot fall from gtace. They said no one 
thus saved could be taught by any one who was not. 


They were thus led to consider themselves the only 
persons really capable of interpreting the Gospel and 
qualified to teach it, and soon regarded themselves as 
inspired, mistaking the workings of their own imagina- 
tions for the voice of the Spirit, and neglecting knowl- 
edge, reason, and wisdom generally. Maxfield finally 
decided to separate from Mr. Wesley, and accordingly 
gave up his work at the Foundery, and took with him 
one hundred and seventy persons who had embraced the 
Wesleyan cause. He now opened an independent chapel, 
and preached for twenty years. Towards the close of 
Maxfield’s life, Wesley, in his travels through England, 
found him sinking under paralysis and the weight of 
years, prayed with him, invoking God’s blessing on his 
last days, and subsequently preached in his chapel. See 
Stevens, Ilist. of Methodism (Index in vol. iii) ; Smith, 
Ilist. of Wesley and his Time; Tyerman, Life of Wesley 
(see Index in vol. iii). 

Maximian. See Diocletian. 

Maximianists, a considerable party among the 
Donatists who separated from the main body of that 
sect, and arrogated to themselves the exclusive posses- 
sion of those qualities of perfection and infallibility to 
which the whole sect had made pretensions when they 
separated from the Catholic Church. See Donatists. 

Maximilian I, one of the most distinguished of 
the German emperors, the son and successor of Frederick 
III, the forerunner of Charles Y, was born at Neustadt, 
near Vienna, March 22, 1459. In his nineteenth year he 
married Maria, the only child and heiress of Charles the 
Bold, duke of Burgundy, who died in 1482. Maximilian 
had hoped to enjoy the estates of liis father-in-law, but 
Louis XI of France attempted to seize some of these pos- 
sessions, and thus involved our German prince in a con- 
test which, when it promised to end favorably for Max- 
imilian, was suddenly turned in favor of Louis XI by 
the dexterous intrigues of the latter among the Nether- 
landers. It was not until 1493 that peace was finally 
established at Senlis. This very year liis father the 
emperor died, and Maximilian succeeded to the govern- 
ment of the vast possessions of the Teutonic realm, so 
soon to become the theatre cf one of the greatest revo- 
lutions the world has ever been called upon to witness 
— the Reformation of the 1 6th century— an event that 
was ushered in just as Maximilian himself was fa.st 
fading as the shades of evening. In 1494 the newly- 
crowned emperor married Bianca Sforza, daughter of the 
duke of Milan, which alliance gave rise to a succession 
of wars in Italy. Shortly after he joined the League of 
Cambray, formed between pope Julius II, Ferdinand of 
Spain, and Louis XII of France, against the Venetians; 
but that republic having soon after become reconciled 
to the pope, Maximilian joined the so-called Holy League 
between England, Spain, Venice, and the pope, in oppo- 
sition to the French, who were signally defeated by the 
( forces of Henry VIH and the emperor in the ‘’battle of 
the spurs,” near Guinegate (1513). The ascension of 
Francis I to the throne of France somewhat modified 
matters in favor of the French. The new king of the 
Franks captured Milan, and compelled Maximilian to 
give up Verona to the Venetians for 200,000 ducats. By 
the treaty of Basle (1499) he had been obliged to ac- 
knowledge the independence of Switzerland. Though 
thus unsuccessful in his wars, he had the fortune to see 
the hereditary dominions of liis house increased during 
liis reign by several peaceful additions; and the mar- 
riage of his son Philip with the infanta Juana, and of 
his daughter Margaret with the infant Juan of Spam, 
led to the subsequent union of Spain with Austria, 
while the marriage of two of his grandchildren with 
the son and daughter of Ladislaus, king of Hungary 
and Bohemia, brought both these kingdoms to the Aus- 
trian monarchy. The closing activity of his reign was 
displayed against the rising heresy. Luther had just 
come forward and attacked Tetzel (1517), and. as Leo X 
was inclined to make light of the opposition of the little 


MAXIMILIAN 


916 


MAXIMIN 


Augustine friar, Maximilian addressed the Homan poo- 
lin'. and persuaded him to heed this difficulty as “ a ques- 
tion which was dividing Germany.” But in the very 
year in which the discussion at Leipzic came off Maxi- 
milian died (1519), and left it for his successor Charles 
V to further the cause of Protestantism by a blind obe- 
dience to the dictates of an incompetent Homan pontiff. 
Maximilian I was a liberal patron of literature, and 
learned men were greatly encouraged by him. Indeed 
he was himself an author, producing several works in 
prose and verse. See Hegcwisch, Gesch. d. Regierung 
Maximilians I (1782; new ed. Leipz. 1818); Ilaltaus, 
Gesch. d. Kaisers Maximilian (1850) ; Klttpfel, Kaiser 
Maximilian I (Berl. 1864) ; Lichnowsky, Gesch. d. Ilauses 
Habsburg ; Vehse, Memoirs of Austria, i, 2-33: Coxe, 
Hist, of the House of Austria , i, 278 sq. ; Kohlrausch, 
Hist, of Germany , p. 234 sq. 

Maximilian II, emperor of Austria, son of empe- 
ror Ferdinand I. and of Anna of Hungary, was born at 
Vienna Aug. 1, 1527. He was educated in Spain by 
Charles V; took part in the war of Smalcald (1544-48) 
against the French; became viceroy of Spain in 1549; 
on his return to Germany, about 1551, he made the 
treaty of Passan, and in 1552 became governor of Hun- 
gary. In September, 1 562, he was crowned king of Bo- 
hemia; elected king of Rome at Frankfort in Novem- 
ber of the same year; king of Hungary at Presburg in 
1563; and finally succeeded his father as emperor of 
Germany in July, 1564. lie made war against the 
Turks, in Hungary, until 1567, but afterwards reigned 
in peace. During his youth his preceptor, Wolfgang 
Stiefcl, had made him acquainted with the Protestant 
tenets, and he showed himself favorable to the Refor- 
mation, living on very friendly terms with the Protes- 
tant princes (Fisher. Ilist.of theRefoi'ination [N. Y.1873, 
Svo], p. 423). Yet he did not allow their doctrines free 
scope throughout his empire, as the majority in the 
states was opposed to it, and the Protestants themselves, 
divided into Lutherans and Calvinists, were engaged in 
strife with each other. From the manner in which he 
sought the friendship and alliance of Romish princes, it 
must appear that Maximilian II never allowed his pri- 
vate convictions to rule him as a monarch, but that alt 
was made subservient to the interests of the empire. 
Some will even have it, as Vehse (see below), that he 
was at one time a convert to the Protestant religion 
(comp. Baker, Eccles. Hist, ii, 211). He, however, grant- 
ed the Protestants in 1568 liberty to worship God 
according to their conscience throughout Austria, 
and commissioned D. Chy trams to draw up a Prot- 
estant liturgy for Austria. Although he was op- 
posed to the Jesuits, and subjected them to many 
restrictions, he yet, by his toleration, permitted them 
access and great influence in his own family. lie 
died Oct. 12, 1576. Sec J. F. Miller, Epistohe Fer- 
dinandi I et M. II (Pestli. 1808); Koch, Qtiellen z. 
Gesch. M. II (Leipz. 1857-61); Ranke, Historisch- 
politischer Zeitsch r. (1832, p. 278 sq.) ; and the same 
reprinted in Deutsche Gesch. (1868), vol. vi ; Bernard 
Raupach. Evang. (jester reich, vol. i and ii; Lebret, 
Magazin z. Gebrauch d. Staaten und Kirchcngesch. 
(Ulm, 1785), vol. ix; Maurenbrecher, in Sybel’s llistor. 
Zeitsch rift. 1862, p. 351 sq.; E. Heimann, in the same 
journal, i860, p. 1 sip ; Coxe. Hist, of the House of A us- 
tria , ii, 4 sq.; Vehse, Memoirs of the House of A ustria. i, 
217 sq. ; Pierer, l Inicersal-Lexikon, xi, 29; Herzog, Real- 
Encyklop. ix, 204. 

Maximin I, Jcltus Visrits, Homan emperor, was a 
native of Thrace, and a shepherd in his youth. II is 
fine figure, great height, and strength attracted the notice 
of the emperor Severus. who enrolled him in his guards. 
Maximin advanced rapidly, but did not serve •under 
either Macrinus or lleliogabalus* During thy reign of 
Alexander Severus he came to Home, was made senator 
and chief of a newlv-formed legion, took an active part 
in the wars against the Persians and Allemans. and soon 
gained great infiuence over the soldiers. When Alex- 


ander Severus was killed at Mayence, March 19,235. the 
troops appointed Maximin his successor, and the sen- 
ate, frightened, confirmed the election. He remained, 
however, with the army, and made several expeditions 
into Germany. His disposition was naturally cruel, and 
he gave full scope to it when on the throne. Two con- 
spiracies agaiust him which were discovered led to fear- 
ful massacres; in the first, it is said, over four thousand 
persons were executed. He also opposed Christianity, 
and particularly persecuted the bishops who had been 
most favored by Alexander. About the same time some 
earthquakes occurred in the empire, particularly in Cap- 
padocia, and the people became enraged against the 
Christians, whom they accused of being the cause of 
all the evils which befell them, and the emperor allowed 
free scope to all barbarities the people chose to inflict 
on them. The persecution, indeed, broke out only in 
some parts of the empire, so that Christians could flee 
before it ; but as the Christians had of late become used 
to toleration, this sudden visitation of persecution fell 
severely upon their heads, and caused much suffering 
(comp. Eusebius, Eccles. Hist. vi,28 ; Firmilian, in Cypr. 
Ep. 75 ; Origen, Comment, in Matt, xxiv, 9). Finally his 
soldiers, tired of his tyranny and cruelty, murdered him, 
together with his son, at Aquilcia, March, 238. Max- 
imin was only regretted by the inhabitants of Thrace 
and Pannonia, who were proud of having an emperor of 
their own ; the other parts of the empire rejoiced over 
his death. The legendary poesy of the 10th centu- 
ry assigns to the reign of Maximin the fabulous mar- 
tyrdom of St. Ursula, a British princess, and her com- 
pany of eleven thousand (according to others, ten thou- 
sand) virgins, who, on their return from a pilgrimage to 
Home, were murdered by heathens in the neighborhood 
of Cologne. “This incredible number has probably 
arisen from the misinterpretation of an inscription, like 
• Ursula et Undecimilla’ (which occurs in an old missal 
of the Sorbonne), or £ Ursula et XI M. V,, i. e. Martyres 
Virgines, which, by substituting millia for martyres, was 
increased from eleven martyrs to eleven thousand vir- 
gins. Some historians place the fact, which seems to 
form the basis of this legend, in connection with the 
retreat of the Huns after the battle of Chalons, 451” 
(Schaff). See Herzog, Real-Encyclop. ix, 207 ; Smith, 
Diet, of Greek and Roman Biography and Mythology , ii, 
983 ; Schaff, Church Hist, i, 170; Gicseler, Ecclesiastical 
History, i, 115. 


Maximin II, Daza, Roman emperor, was originally 
an Illyrian peasant, who served in the Homan armies, and 
was raised by Galerius, who was his relative, to the rank 
of military tribune, and lastly, A.D. 303, at the time of 
the abdication of Diocletian and Maximian, to the dig- 
nity of C:esar, receiving for his share the government 
of Syria and Egypt. After the death of Galerius, in 311. 
Maximin and Licinius divided his dominions between 
them, and Maximin obtained the whole of the Asi- 
atic provinces. Both he and Licinius behaved ungrate- 
fully towards the family of Galerius, their common ben- 
efactor. Valeria, the daughter of Diocletian and widow 
of Galerius. having escaped from Licinius into the do- 
minions of Maximin, the latter offered to mam* her, 
and on her refusal banished her with her mother into 
the deserts of Syria. He gained unenviable notoriety 



MAXIMUS 


917 


MAXIMUS 


by bis severity towards his Christian subjects, and made 
war against the Armenians. A new war having broken 
out between Licinius and Maximin, the latter advanced 
as far as Adrianople, but was defeated, tied into Asia, and 
died of poison at Tarsus in 313. — English Cyclop . s. v. 



Coin of Maximin II. 


Maximus Alexandrinus, called also the Cynic 
Philosopher, was born in the fourth century, in Alexan- 
dria, of Christian parents of rank. He united the faith 
of an orthodox believer with the appearance and eon- 
duet of a cynic philosopher, and was greatly respected 
by the leading theologians of the orthodox party. 
Athanasius, in a letter written about A.D. 371 (Epist. 
ad Maxim . Pliilosoph. in Opp. i, 917, etc., ed. Benedict.), 
compliments him on a work written in defence of the 
orthodox faith. Tillemont and the Benedictine editor 
of the works of Gregory Nazianzen {Monition ad Orat. 
xxv), misled by the virulent invectives of that father, 
attempt to distinguish between this Maximus and the 
one to whom Athanasius wrote, for the reason that 
Athanasius could never have approved of so worthless a 
character. They also distinguish him from the Maxi- 
mus to whom Basil the Great addressed a letter (Ep. 41, 
Paris, 1839) in terms of great respect, discussing some 
points of doctrine, and soliciting a visit from him ; but 
they are not successful in either case. The Maximus 
Scholasticus, however, to whom Basil also wrote (Ep. 
42), was a different person. In A.D. 374, during the 
reign of the emperor Valens, in the persecution carried 
on by Lucius, Arian patriarch of Alexandria, Maximus 
was barbarously scourged and banished to the Oasis, on 
account of his zeal for orthodoxy, and the alacrity with 
which he aided those enduring the same persecutions 
(Gregory Nazianzen, Orat. xxv , c. 13, 14). He was re- 
leased at the end of four years, probably on the death 
of Valens ; and it was soon after this event that he pre- 
sented to the emperor Gratian at Milan his work Be 
Fide, written against the Arians (compare Jerome, Be 
Viris Illustr . c. 127). He wrote also against other here- 
tics, but whether iu the same work or in another is not 
certainly known ; and he disputed ably against the hea- 
thens. He appears to have returned from Milan and 
visited Constantinople, where Gregory Nazianzen bad 
just been made patriarch, A.D. 379. Gregory received 
him with the greatest honor, and pronounced an ora- 
tion {Orat. xxv ) in his praise, where his warm panegy- 
rics cause the commendations of Athanasius and Basil to 
seem exceedingly tame. He welcomed him at his table, 
treated him with much confidence and regard, but was 
subsequently grievously disappointed in him. Whether 
in the succeeding events Maximus was himself ambi- 
tious or merely the tool of others, does not appear. 
Profiting by the sickness of Gregory, and supported by 
some Egyptian ecclesiastics, sent by Peter, patriarch of 
Alexandria, under whose guidance they professed to 
act, Maximus was ordained, during the night, patri- 
arch of Constantinople, in the place of Gregory, whose 
election had not been perfectly canonical. This bold 
proceeding greatly excited the indignation of the peo- 
ple, with whom Gregory was popular. The emperor 
Theodosius, to whom the usurper applied, showing him 
no favor, the latter withdrew to Alexandria, from 
whence he was speedily expelled by his patron Peter 
(see Gregory Nazianzen, Carmen de Vita sua, vss. 750- 
1029). The resignation of Gregory did not benefit 
Maximus. His election wa9 declared null and void by 
the second general council, and the presbyters whom he 
had ordained were declared not to be presbyters (Con- 


cll. Constantinop. can. 3, sec. Dionys. Exiguum; Capital. 
G, sec. Isidor. Mercat; apud Condi, vol. i, col. 809, 810, 
ed. Hardouin). He attempted again to assert his claims 
to the patriarchate; but, though the Italian bishops 
seemed inclined for a time to second his efforts, lie met 
with no permanent success. The invectives of Gregory 
Nazianzen against Maximus ( Carminu , see. Be Vita 
sua, 1. c. ; In Invidos, vs. 16, etc.; In Maximum ) were 
written after their struggle for the patriarchate, and 
contrast strongly with his former praises in his twenty- 
fifth Oration, to which some of Gregory’s admirers, to 
conceal the inconsistency, prefixed the name of Heron 
or Hero (In Laudem Jleronis ; Jerome, Be 1 Iris Illustr. 
1. c.), which it still bears. The work of Maximus, Be 
Fide, which is well spoken of by Jerome, is lost. (See 
Athenas, Basil, Gregory Nazianzen, Jerome, l. e.; Sozo- 
men, II. E. vii, 9, cum not. Vales ; Tillemont, Memoires, 
ix, 443, etc. ; Cave, Hist. Lift, ad ann. 380, i, 27G, ed. Ox- 
ford, 1740-42; Fabricius, Bihl. Graeco , iii, 520). — Smith, 
Diet. Gr. and Rom. Biog. vol. ii, s. v. 

Maximus Confessor, a leading champion of or- 
thodoxy in the Monothelite controversy (q. v.), was 
bom at Constantinople in 580. At an early age he be- 
came private secretary to the emperor Heraclius, but, 
deciding for the ecclesiastic state, he resigned this posi- 
tion, and in G30 entered the monastery of Chrysopolis 
(Scutari), near Constantinople, and in a short time be- 
came its abbot. The dangers which threatened the 
state at the time induced the emperor to attempt a 
reconciliation between the parties engaged in the Mono- 
physite controversy (q. v.), by means of a compromise, 
which declared that Christ had accomplished the work 
of redemption by one manifestation of his will as the 
God-man, Qua Sttavdpuey ev&pyti$). The patriarchs 
Sergius, of Constantinople, and Cyrus, of Alexandria, 
as heads of the contending parties, agreed in 033 to 
unite on this formula, and many of the Monophysite 
faction returned to the Church ; but several of the or- 
thodox opposed the compromise strongly, as practically 
endorsing Monophysite views. With a view to put an 
end to these troubles, the emperor in 639 published an 
edict, known as the Ecthesis (q. v.), which prohibited all 
controversies on the question whether in Christ were 
one or two operations, but which itself plainly incul- 
cated the doctrine of one will. Maximus, who had in 
the mean time removed to Africa, now entered the lists 
in defence of the orthodox view, and unequivocally re- 
sisted all attempts to undermine the faith of the Church. 
His course was favored by Gregorius (or Georgius), the 
prefect of North Africa, who sought an opportunity to 
renounce his allegiance to the Byzantine court ; and 
under his protection Maximus exerted himself to the 
utmost to combat the many heresies which were then 
rife, manifesting a special zeal against the Monophysite 
Severians in Egypt and Crete, and against the Mono- 
thelites. His discussion with Pyrrhus, the patriarch 
of Constantinople, who had tied to Gregorius on being 
charged with complicity in the murder of the emperor 
Constantine, was held in July, A.D. 645, and resulted in 
the signal triumph of Maximus. The records of this 
disputation belong to the most interesting writings of 
the Monothelite controversy. In the following year 
the bishops of Africa and the neighboring isles, influ- 
enced by Maximus, held a number of synods which con- 
demned Monothelitism, and called on Theodore, bishop 
of Borne, to support their views with his authority. 
Maximus now went to Rome, accompanied by Pyrrhus, 
who formally recanted his late opinions, and was recog- 
nised by the pope as the rightful patriarch of Constan- 
tinople; and thus a coalition in the interests of ortho- 
doxy was formed which promised a complete triumph. 
But Maximus was the only disinterested party to the 
agreement. Gregorius fell in a battle with the Sara- 
cens in A.D. 647 ; Pyrrhus hastened to take back his 
recantation, and to make his peace with the emperor; 
and the pope, disappointed in the hope of seeing his su- 
premacy recognised in the East as well as iu the West, 


MAXIMUS 


918 


MAXIMUS 


anathematized him. Maximus was again compelled to 
tontine his labors to controversial writings. He was 
now recognised at the imperial court as tlie soul of the 
opposition ; and when he resisted the edict of Const an s 
11, promulgated in A.D. 648, and known as the Tyjms 
(ip v.). Gregorius, an envoy of the Byzantine court, did 
not disdain to seek him in his cell, and attempt to 
shake his firmness. The monk, however, refused to 
make any concessions, since he regarded that edict as 
degrading Christ to the level of a being without will 
or energy, and denied the right of the emperor to inter- 
fere in dogmatic questions. On the accession of Martin 
I. Maximus, more than any others, induced that pope to 
convene the first synod of the Lateral! (in 649); and 
there can be no doubt that he originated the resolu- 
tions there adopted, which condemned Monothelitisra 
and the imperial edict. Thereafter Maximus entered a 
cloister, and we lose trace of the detailed record of his 
life. We meet him again when apprehended, under or- 
ders from Constantinople, perhaps at the same time as 
pope Martin I, and brought to trial in 655. The pro- 
ceedings (of which the records are quite full) show that 
the aim of the emperor was simply to secure his ap- 
proval of the tvttoq, as a measure in the interests of 
peace; but the monk remained firm, and declared with 
tears that the only means of securing peace was the 
recall of that instrument. Hence the treatment he re- 
ceived became harsher; and when, after his third trial, 
lie still persisted in maintaining his views, a synod con- 
vened by the patriarchs of Constantinople and of An- 
tioch advised the emperor to banish him, and he was 
taken to the castle of Bizva, in Thrace, later to the 
monastery of St. Theodore, near Bhegium, and finally to 
Perbcris. 11 is exile was protracted more than a year, 
during which period frequent attempts were made by 
bishop Theodosius of Ctesarea, and by special agents of 
the emperor to induce him to recant, but always with- 
out success, lie was finally condemned to be scourged, 
and to lose bis tongue and his right hand, that he might 
no longer be able either to speak or write, and afterwards 
to be incarcerated in the castle of Shemari, in the coun- 
try of the Laeians, where he died, Aug. 13, 00*2. His 
infiuence, however, continued to be felt. A few years 
later the emperor Constans II fell a victim to the hatred 
he had aroused chiefly by his persecution of this faith- 
ful champion of the Church, and in A.D. 080 the Church 
gave her sanction to the doctrines so heroically defend- 
ed by this monk in the first Trillion council (q. v.). 

As a writer Maximus is distinguished by a rare com- 
bination of dialectic power with mystical profundity. 
Ilis mind was receptive rather than creative, and in his 
works Platonic and Aristotelian thought, Chalccdonian 
orthodoxy, the theology of the Greek fathers, and the 
ideas of a Christian mysticism, which includes both the 
subjective ascetism of the Egyptian monks and the hie- 
rarchical tendencies of the Areopagite system, all meet 
and coalesce. The mysticism of the Pseudo-Dionysius 
exerted the greatest influence over him, and from it he 
derived his principal thoughts; and it is chiefly be- 
cause of his authority that t lie wide-spread influence of 
this system upon the theology of the Middle Ages was 
possible. The influence exerted on Scot us Erigcna by 
the writings of Maximus was especially important. 
Baur asserts that Erigcna merely developed the ideas 
of Maximus, and commented on them; and other writ- 
ers have shown in detail that the essential features of 
the system of Erigcna are drawn from Maximus, and 
mediately through him from the Areopagite. This 
monk thus becomes important as a connecting link be- 


volumes, folio (Paris, 1675). Catalogues have recorded 
the titles of fifty-three, his letters being mentioned as 
one work. Of these, forty-eight have been printed. 
They may be classed as exeget ical, which treat the 
Scriptures in allegorical style ; commentaries on the 
Church fathers ; dogmatico-polemical ; moral and ascet- 
ic ; epistolary; and miscellaneous. He is commemora- 
ted in the Latin Church Aug. 13 ; by the Greek Church 
Jan. 21 . See Herzog, Real-Encyklop. xx, 1 14 sq. ; Wet- 
zer und Welte, Kirchen-Lex. xii, 783 sq.; Kurtz, Church 
Hist, i, 205 sq. ; Hardwick, Ilist. of the Middle Ayes, p. 
72 sq. ; Gieseler ,Eccles. Ilist. i, 366 sq. ; Milman, Hist, of 
Lat. Christianity , ii, 274 sq. ; Neander, Ilist. of Christian 
Dogmas, ii, 423 sq. ; Smith, Diet, of Greek and Roman 
Biog. and Mythol. s. v. (G. M.) 

Maximus tiie Greek, a celebrated personage in 
Russian Church history, was born at Arta, in Albania, 
towards the end of the 15th century. After studying 
at Paris, Florence, and other cities then distinguished 
as scats of learning, he took the monastic vows at the 
cloister of Mount Athos. The grand-duke Vnssili Ivano- 
vitch, having requested the patriarch of Constantinople 
to send two persons to arrange and describe a vast num- 
ber of Greek manuscripts and books that had recently 
been discovered in some part of the palace, Maximus 
was selected, and accordingly set out for Moscow. He 
was directed by Vassili to examine the books, and to se- 
lect such as were most deserving of publication ; but as 
lie was then wholly ignorant of the Slavonic tongue, 
lie had first to prepare a Latin version, which was after- 
wards rendered by others into Slavonian. It was thus 
that the translations of a Psalter with a commentary, 
and Chrysostom’s Homilies on St. John, were produced. 
Desirous of returning to his convent, it was only at the 
instances of the Czar, who wished him to revise the ear- 
lier translated books of the Greek Church, that he de- 
cided to remain, and he then undertook this task, for 
which he was now qualified by a successful mastery of 
the Slavonian. The diligence with which he executed 
it, resulting in many corrections, tended however only 
to raise up numerous enemies against him, among the 
rest Daniel the metropolitan. But what mure immedi- 
ately tended to his disgrace was the firmness with which 
he opposed Vassili’s divorce from his first wife, Salome 
(on account of barrenness), and his marriage with the 
princess Helena Glinski (comp. Duncan, Ilist. of Russia, 
p. 350). Maximus was condemned by a synod, excom- 
municated as a heretic, and imprisoned in the Otroteh 
monastery at Tver in 1525. In this confinement he 
was for some time treated with great rigor, though the 
bishop of Tver interceded for him. At length removed 
to the Monastery of St. Sergius, he died there in 1556. 
A great number of works by him are extant, chiefly in 
manuscript, on a variety of subjects — dogmatical, polem- 
ical, philosophical, etc., from which considerable infor- 
mation has been derived with regard to the opinions 
and prejudices of the clergy and people in that age ; nor 
was he at all timid in reproving the abuses and vices of 
the times. This alone would account for the persecu- 
tion which he drew down upon himself; but after his 
death even those who had been among the more violent 
against him admitted his innocence, nor was it long be- 
fore his memory came to be regarded as that of a holy 
man and a martyr. — English Cyclop, s. v. : Pose, Xcw 
Gen. Biog. Diet. s. v. 

Maximus or Jerusalem (Ilierosolymitanns'), a 
Greek ecclesiastical writer, flourished in the latter part 
of the 2d century. Jerome (De I ’iris lllnstr. c. 47) 
speaks of Maximus as writing on the questions of the 
origin of evil and the creation of matter, and a> having 


tween the ideas of the East and West, between the early 
fathers and t lie Middle Ages, and as a forerunner of 
scholasticism : and in his genius, character, piety, learn- lived under the emperors Commodtis (A.D. 180-193) and 
ing, literary and ecclesiastical influence, as well as in Severus (A.D. 193-210, but he does not designate what 
his eventful life, he appears one of the most remarkable 1 otfiee he held in the Church, or whether he held any; 
Christian thinkers and martyrs. Ilis works have bee" nor does be connect him with any locality. Uonorius 
largely transcribed ami read, but there is no complete of Autun (7>c Scriptor. Ecclts. i, 47), extracting from Je- 
edition. Combefis has published a collection in two | rome, mentions the name of Maximinus; and Kufinus, 


MAXIMUS 


919 


MAXIMUS 


translating from Eusebius, who has a brief passage re- I 
lating to the same writer (II. E. v, 27), gives the name I 
in the same form ; but it is probably incorrect. A Max- 
imus, bishop of Jerusalem, lived in the reign of Antoni- 
nus Pius or Marcus Aurelius, or the early part of that of 
Commodus, somewhere between A.D. 15G and A.D. 185; 
another Maximus occupied the same see from A.D. 185, 
and the successive episcopates of himself and seven suc- 
cessors occupy about eighty years, the duration of each 
episcopate not being known. The date of this latter 
Maximus of Jerusalem accords sufficiently with the no- 
tice in Jerome respecting the writer ; but it is remarka- 
ble that though both Eusebius and Jerome mention the 
bishop (Eusebius, Chronic, and Jerome, Euseb. Chronic. 
Interpretation they do not either of them identify the 
writer with him ; and it is remarkable that in the list 
given by Eusebius of the bishops of Jerusalem, in his 
Hist 07\ Eccles. (v, 27), the names of the second Maximus 
and his successor Antoninus do not appear. It is uncer- 
tain, therefore, whether the writer and the bishop are 
the same, though it is extremely probable they were. 
The title of the work of Maximus noticed by Jerome 
and Eusebius (for the two questions of the origin of evil 
and the creation of matter appear to have been compre- 
hended in one treatise) was De Materia. Eusebius has 
given a long extract from it (Prcej). Ecang. vii, 21, 2*2). 
A portion of the same extract is inserted, without ac- 
knowledgment, in the Dialogus Adamantii de recta in 
Deuni Fide , or Conti'a Marcionitas, sect, iv, commonly 
attributed to Origen, but in reality written long after 
his time. It is also quoted in the Philocalia , c. 24, com- 
piled by Gregory Nazianzen and Basil the Great almost 
entirely from the works of Origen. In the inscription 
to the chapter they are said to be from the Pi'&pai'citio 
Evaiigelica of Eusebius ; and their being contained also 
in the supposed work of Origen, De Recta Fide, is af- 
firmed in a probably interpolated sentence of the con- 
cluding paragraph of the chapter (Delarue, Opei'a Oi'ig- 
enis , i, 8U0 sq.). This passage, apparently the only part 
of Maximus’s work which has come down to us, is given 
in the Bibliotheca Patnun of Galland (ii, 14G), who iden- 
tifies the author with the bishop, and gives his reasons 
for so doing in the Pivlegomena to the volume, c. G ; see 
also Cave, Hist. Lift, ad ann. 19G, i, 95; Tillemont, Me- 
moii'es , ii, 706, note xiii on Origen. 

There was a third bishop of Jerusalem of this name, 
besides the two previously mentioned, who lived in the 
reign of Constantine the Great and his sons. He suffer- 
ed in one of the later persecutions of the heathen em- 
perors, apparently under Maximian Galerius (Philostor- 
gius, II. E. iii, 12). His sufferings in the cause of Chris- 
tianity, and the great excellence of his character, so en- 
deared him to the people of Jerusalem, among whom he 
officiated as priest, that when he was appointed by Ma- 
carius, bishop of that city, to the vacant bishopric of Di- 
ospolis, the multitude would not permit his departure, 
and Macarius was forced to nominate another in his place. 
According to some accounts, Macarius repented almost 
immediately of the nomination of Maximus to Diospo- 
lis, and readily acquiesced in his remaining in Jerusa- 
lem, taking him for his assistant in the duties of the 
episcopal office (Sozomen, Hist. Eccles. ii, 20). Upon 
the death of Macarius (some time between A.D. 381 and 
335), Maximus succeeded him, and was present at the 
Council of Tyre, A.D. 335, when Athanasius was con- 
demned. Sozomen records (Ilist. Eccles. ii, 25) that at 
this council Paphnutius, a bishop of the Thebais or Up- 
per Egypt, and himself a confessor, took Maximus by 
the hand, and told him to leave the place; “for,” said 
he, “ it docs not become us, who have lost our eyes and 
been hamstrung for the sake of religion, to join the 
council of the wicked.” This appeal was in vain, and 
Maximus was induced, but unfairly, to subscribe to the 
decree condemning Athanasius. But he soon regretted 
this step, and. at a synod of sixteen bishops of Palestine, 
joyfully admitted Athanasius to communion when re- 
turning from the Council of Sardica, through Asia, to 


Alexandria. Sozomen relates (Hist. Eccles. iv, 20) that 
Maximus was deposed by the influence of Acacius of 
Caesarea and Patrophilus (A.D. 349 or 350), and Cyril 
(St. Cyrillus of Jerusalem) appointed in his place ; but 
if there is any truth in this statement, the death of 
Maximus must have very shortly followed his deposi- 
tion (Socrates, Hist. Eccles. ii, 8 ; Sozomen, l. c., and iii, 
6 ; Theodoret, l. c. ; Philostorgius, /. c. ; Le Quien, 07’iens 
Christianus , vol. iii, col. 15G). — Smith, Diet. oJ'Gi'tek and 
Roman Biog. vol. ii, s. v. 

Maximus Piiilosopiius. Different parties of that 
name are known in ancient history. 

1. A heathen eclectic- Platonic philosopher and con- 
juror, who was teacher to the emperor Julian, and had 
great influence over him. 

2 . Also a heathen, of Madaura, in Africa, is known to 
us by an interesting letter to Augustine. In consequence 
of his consciousness of the downfall of heathenism, he 
seeks to uphold a philosophical but impotent monothe- 
ism, which, in the worship of several deities, sees only 
the adoration of a higher or supreme deity who imparts 
to them their power; but he reproaches the Christians 
with wishing to have that God all to themselves, and 
visiting the graves of the dead (martyrs). Bcgardless 
of the new life which Christianity awakened, or of the 
divine energy testified by its exclusiveness, he finally 
exclaims, wearily, “ Trahit sua quemque voluntas.” The 
answer of Augustine is somewhat haughty and ironical 
(August. Opp. ii, 25 sq., ed. Tenet.). 

3. Eusebius mentions a Christian philosopher of that 
name in the 2d century, giving an interesting fragment 
of a work of his on the question, then much discussed, 
of the origin of evil (Prap. Evang. vii, 21 fin., 22 ; Hist. 
Eccles. v, 27). He has been by some considered as the 
author of the Dialogus c. Marcion., formerly and errone- 
ously attributed to Origen; but Gieseler (Siud.u. Krit. 
1830-32, p. 380) successfully opposed this view. 

4 . Another Maximus, who represented himself both 
as a philosopher (cynic) and a Christian, and gave much 
trouble to Gregory of Nazianzum, at Constantinople.— 
Herzog, Real-Encgklop. ix, 208. 

Maximus, bishop of Turin, was born towards the 
close of the 4th century, and early in the 5th was ele- 
vated to the episcopate. But little is known of his life. 
Ilis signature is affixed to a document expressing the 
approval by the bishops of Northern Italy of pope Leo’s 
letter to Flavian on Eutychianism (Leo, Opp. ed. Ques- 
nel, p. 291). Among the signatures to the acts of a 
synod held at Borne in A.D. 4G5, his name appears im- 
mediately below that of pope Hilarius, the successor of 
Leo, a circumstance that marks him as the oldest bishop 
of the assembly. Ilis writings, chiefly homilies, are 
rich in descriptions of the life of the Christians, at a 
time when paganism, although tottering to its fall, was 
still powerful among the rural population, and when the 
empire was trembling before the power of the invading 
hordes of barbarians. During the irruption of Attila 
he displayed a lofty faith in God, and succeeded in 
arousing his people from their despair, which had deter- 
mined them to forsake their homes and seek safety in 
flight. The people of Turin obeyed his counsel, and 
their city was spared. But when the Huns departed 
from Italy, and the citizens purchased a share of their 
spoil, including slaves, he did not hesitate to condemn 
their conduct, and even compared them to wolves fol- 
lowing in the track of lions, in order to gorge them- 
selves on their abandoned prey. His homilies often 
censure the still prevailing idolatry, particularly the 
eultus Dianas arvorum numinis, the practice of the 
priests in inflicting wounds on themselves to do honor to 
their goddess, etc., and also defended the orthodox doc- 
trines of the Church against Eutychians, Nestorians. 
Pelagians, and Maniclueans. The best edition of his 
works is that published at Borne in 1784, found in 
Migne, vol. lvii. See also Schbnemann, Bill. Hist. Lit. 
(Lcips. 1794), ii, G07 sq.; Acta Band. June 25; Biogra - 


MAXIMUS 


920 


MAXWELL 


phie , Universelle , vol. xxvii, s. v. ; Herzog, Real-Eneyklop. 
ix, 208 sq. ; Wetzer u. ^Velte, Kirchen-Lex. xii, 782 sq. 

Maximus of Tyre, a Neo-Platonic philosopher, 
surnamed after the place of his abode, flourished in the 
2d century as teacher of philosophy and rhetoric, first in 
Greece and afterwards in Home, whither he made two 
journeys, one under the reign of Antoninus, another un- 
der that ofCommodns. He maybe ranked with Phredrus, 
Quintus Curtins, and others, of whom their contempora- 
ries have scarcely made mention, and therefore of whom 
very little is known. We have extant of his works 
forty-one AiaXtZtig, or dissertations, upon various argu- 
ments, a MS. copy of which was first brought out of 
Greece into Italy by Janus Lascaris, and presented to 
Lawrence de Medicis. From this copy a Latin transla- 
tion was made, and published by Cosrnus Paceius, arch- 
bishop of Florence, in 1519; then in Greek by Henry 
Stephens in 1557 ; then in Greek and Latin by Daniel 
Heinsius in 1G07; by J. Davis in 1703; by Keiske in 
1774, and since, in 4to. These dissertations are enter- 
taining, curious, and instructive, and have gained the 
author high encomiums among the learned. The fol- 
lowing examples will give some idea of the subject of 
Maximus’s dissertations: “On Plato’s Opinion respect- 
ing the Deity;’’ “Whether we ought to return Injuries 
done to us;” “Whether an Active or a Contemplative 
Life is to be preferred “ Whether Soldiers or Husband- 
men are more useful in a State ;” “ On the Diemonium 
of Socrates;” “Whether Prayers should be addressed to 
the Deity,” etc. The dissertations have been translated 
into French by Morel (Paris, 1607), by Forney (1764), 
and bv Dounais (1802); into Italian by Petrode Bardi 
(Venice, 1642) ; and into German by C. T. Damm (Ber- 
lin, 1764). There is, we believe, no English translation 
of this author. Isaac Casaubon, in the epistle dedica- 
tory of his Coinmentaries upon Persius , calls him “mel- 
litissimus Platonicorum ;” and Peter Petit represents him 
as “auctorem imprimis elegantem in philosophia ae di- 
sertum” (J Use. Observat. lib. i, c. 20). He has spoken a 
good deal of himself in his thirty-seventh dissertation, 
and seemingly in a style of panegyric, for which his 
editor Davis has aeensed him of indecency and vanity; 
but Fabricitis ( Bib . Grcec. lib. iv, c. 23) has defended him 
very well upon this head by observing that Davis did i 
not sufficiently attend to Maximus’s purpose in speaking 
thus of himself; “ which was,” he says, “not at all with 
a view of praising himself, but to encourage and pro- 
mote the practice of those lessons in philosophy which 
they heard from him with so much applause.” Some 
have confounded Maximus of Tyre with Maximus Ephe- 
sus, the preceptor of Julian the Apostate. See Gen. 
Ploy. Diet. s. v. ; Smith, Diet. Greek and Roman Biog. 
and Mythol. s. v. ; English Cyclopcedia, s. v. 

Maxwell, Lady Darcy, an eminently pious Meth- 
odist, who by birth and rank belonged to the nobility of 
Scotland, is noted for her great works of philanthropy. 
She was the youngest daughter of Thomas Brisbane, 
County of Ayr, and was born about the year 1742. In 
her own home she received the rudiments of an educa- 
tion, but subsequently completed it in the city of Edin- 
burgh. At the age of sixteen she resided for a time in 
London with her uncle and aunt, lord and lady Lothian, 
to enjoy the advantages of being presented at court. In 
1759. soon after her return from London, she married Sir 
Walter Maxwell. This union seemed to open before 
her a bewildering vista of future joys and happiness; 
but only for two short years did she realize her bright 
anticipations; at the end of that period her husband 
and child were taken from her, and she was left a widow 
at nineteen. When tidings of her little one’s death, with- 
in six weeks after that of her husband, were conveyed to 
her, without any outburst of grief, or even a murmur, she 
exclaimed, “ I see God requires my whole heart, and he 
shall have it!” “God brought me to himself by afflic- 
tion,” she frequently said. It was while overwhelmed 
by these heavy trials that she became acquainted with 


the Methodists. The early ministry of John Wesley 
and George Whitefield was generally respected in Scot- 
land. Many of the higher classes approved their labors ; 
ministers of the Establishment, members of the univer- 
sity, and persons of rank and title mingled in their aud- 
iences. It is supposed that some of the pious nobility, 
admirers of Wesley and Whitefield, first induced lady 
Maxwell to hear them. However that may be, it is 
certain that on June 16, 1764, Mr. Wesley preached to a 
large congregation in Edinburgh, and from that time 
corresponded with her ladyship, his influence aiding 
greatly in regulating her views, and guiding her deter- 
minations through life. From the time of her husband’s 
death she had resided in Edinburgh or the vicinity. 
Her benevolence here was unusually great. Seeking to 
relieve misery in every form, there was scarcely a pub- 
lic or private charity for the repose of age or the guid- 
ance of youth, the relief of the poor, the care of the sick, 
or the spread of the Gospel, to which she did not con- 
tribute. In 1770 she established a school in Edinburgh 
for the purpose of affording education and Christian in- 
struction to poor children — this school was always the 
object of her pious solicitude; its entire management 
and superintendence remained with herself, and, as the 
benefits flowing from it became manifest, pecuniary aid 
was furnished by others. At the time of her death 
eight hundred children had profited by this praisewor- 
thy charity, and it is still in active operation. The 
employment of her time each day was exceedingly ex- 
emplary; she usually rose at four o’clock, and attended 
the Wesleyan chapel at five, morning preaching being 
then eutsomary; after breakfast she discharged the du- 
ties of the head of a family in her own house ; from 
eleven to twelve she spent the time in interceding with 
God for her friends, the Church, and the world ; the re- 
maining hours of the day she devoted to reading, writ- 
ing, exercise, and acts of benevolence. Her evenings, 
when alone, were occupied with reading, chiefly divin- 
ity; and, after an early supper, and committing her 
family to the care of the great Father who watches over 
all, and spending some time in praising God for his mer- 
cies, she retired to rest. In this manner, for nearly fifty 
years, she walked with her God. Her outward relig- 
ious life had its varieties, but they were the varie- 
ties of advance; her inner religious life also had its 
changes, but they -were those of the beautiful morn- 
ing, which shines brighter and brighter unto the 
perfect day. In person, lady Maxwell was above the 
medium height, exceedingly straight and well propor- 
tioned; her features quite feminine, but strongly intel- 
ligent; her eye quick and penetrating, yet sweet and 
tender. She died July 2, 1810, passing away as peace- 
fully and joyfully as she had lived : the society to which 
she belonged losing its oldest member, the world one of 
its best inhabitants, and the Church universal one of its 
brightest ornaments. See Lancaster, Life of Lady Max- 
well (N. Y. 1840, 12mo) ; Coles, Heroines of Methodism , 
p. 76. 

Maxwell, Robert, one of the Scottish lords of the 
regency during the absence of James V in France, de- 
serves a place here for his action in the first Parliament 
of Mary queen of Scots (1543), where he introduced a 
bill to allow the reading of the Scriptures in the vulgar 
tongue, which was passed in spite of the opposition of 
the lord chancellor, the bishops, and priests. He died 
in 1546. 

Maxwell, Samuel, an American divine and edu- 
cator, was born in Berkshire County, Mass., about 1805; 
was educated at Amherst College (class of 1829) ; sub- 
sequently became principal of the preparatory depart- 
ment of Marietta College, Ohio, and later a professor in 
the collegiate department of the same institution, and 
remained there until his death, which occurred January 
24, 1867. He was also in the employ of the American 
Missionary Association in his last years. 

Maxwell, William, LL.D., an American educa- 


MAY 


921 


MAYENCE 


tor, celebrated also in the department of jurisprudence, 
was born at Norfolk, Ya., Feb. 27, 1784; was educated 
at Yale College, 1802; practiced in his native city, and 
attained great eminence ; assumed the editor’s chair in 
the literary department of the A r . Y. Journal of Com- 
merce in 1827 ; resumed the practice of jurisprudence, 
however, in the following year ; was a member of the 
Virginia House of Delegates in 1830, and of the State 
Senate from 1831 to 1837, during which time he was 
made secretary of the Historical Society of Virginia. He 
next accepted the presidency of the Hampden Sidney 
College in 1838, which he retained until 1844, and then 
edited the Virginia Historical Register from 1848 to 
1853 (G vols. in 3, 12mo). He died January 9, 1857, at 
Richmond, Ya. lie wrote Memoir of the Rev. John II. 
Rice , D. D. (Phila. 1835, 12mo). See Drake. Diet. A mer. 
Biog. s. v. 

May, E. K., a Dutch Reformed minister, was born 1 
at Lynn, Norfolk, England, Jan. 28, 1795. He received 
a good preparatory education, and studied for the min- 
istry at lloxton College, near London ; was ordained in 
1815 over the Independent Church at Bury, Lancashire, 
and subsequently preached in Rochford, in the south 
of England, and Croydon, Surrey. In 1834 he came to 
America, and in 1835 became a member of the Classis 
of Washington, and pastor of the Reformed Dutch Church 
in Northumberland ; in 1836, pastor of the Church in 
Schuylerville ; in 1839, of the Twenty-first Street Church, 
New York; in 1848 accepted the appointment of sec- 
retary to the Pennsylvania Colonization Society; and 
in 1849 became secretary of the Pennsylvania Seamen's 
Friend Society, in which connection he served until 
near his death, August, 1858. N1 r. May was an instruc- 
tive and evangelical preacher, a man of refined taste and 
correct judgment, and a frank, open-hearted Christian. 
See Wilson, Brest. // ist. A Imanac , I860, p. 203. (.). L. S.) 

May, James, D.D., an Episcopal divine and theo- 
logical educator, was born in Chester County, Pa., Oct. 
1, 1805. He entered Jefferson College, Pa., in 1822; 
graduated with distinction; commenced the study of 
law, but finally entered the theological seminary at Alex- 
andria, Ya. He was ordained by bishop White in 1827, 
and first settled in Wilkesbarre, Pa., where he remained 
two years. In 1836 he became rector of St. Paul's par- 
ish, Philadelphia. While there he was engaged with 
Dr. Clark, then rector of St. Andrew’s Church, Dr.Tyng, 
then rector of the Church of the Epiphany, and with 
Dr. Suddards, then and still rector of Grace Church, in 
the editorial management of the Ejnscopal Recorder. 
His health failing at this time, he was led to seek re- 
storation in foreign travel. Two years were thus spent 
abroad. After his return, he accepted the position of 
professor of pastoral theology and ecclesiastical history 
in the Alexandria. Seminary, his alma mater. The out- 
break of the rebellion in 1801 closing the operations of 
that school, he removed to Philadelphia, and became 
professor of ecclesiastical history and systematic theol- 
ogy in the divinity school just organized. He remained 
there until his death, Dec. 18, 1863. But few men 
have so thoroughly won the affections of those with 
whom they were associated. Apparently not an impul- 
sive man, he was by no means a person of cold and un- 
impulsivc temper, but full of deep feeling. lie has 
influenced the training of hundreds now in the minis- 
try, who will greatly miss his counsels, and the encour- 
agement Ills sympathy and personal attainments gave 
them. He was remarkable for the unvarying symmetry 
and depth of his Christian character, and seemed like 
one inspired by Gospel principles, rather than controlled 
by them, so perfectly natural and habitual was his man- 
ifestation of them. See A m. Ch. Rev. 1864, p. 150. 

May, Samuel Joseph, an eminent Unitarian 
minister and philanthropist, was born in Boston, Mass., 
in 1797. He graduated at Harvard College in 1817 ; 
and, after preaching several years as a Unitarian min- 
ister at Brooklyn, Conn., became general agent of the 


Massachusetts Anti -slavery Society. Afterwards he 
assumed a pastorate at South Scitnate, Mass.; from 
1842 to 1845 was principal of the Lexington Normal 
school ; and finally, in 1845, settled in the Unitarian 
ministry at Syracuse, New York. There the remainder 
of his life was passed, and he was identified with every 
movement for the moral, intellectual, and social im- 
provement of the people, and came to be regarded as the 
leading spirit in every measure of benevolence. In all 
matters of education he was very active, and to him, as 
much as to any man in Syracuse, it is due that its 
public schools are so successfid and maintain so high 
a character. He resigned the pastorate July 1, 1871. 
Mr. May devoted his energies especially to the anti- 
slavery cause for many years. He was one of the first 
members of the New England Society in 1832, and a 
member of the Philadelphia Convention of 1833 which 
formed the Anti-slavery Society. He was author of 
Recollections of A mer. Anti-slavery (1869). See Drake, 
Diet. A mer. Biog. s. v. ; New A mer. Cycloj). 1871, p. 495. 

Maya (Sanscrit, JUusio >i) is a term applied by the 
Ilindfts, in a philosophical or mystical sense, to that 
power which caused or created the visible phenomena 
of the universe. The Hindu, like Berkeley and other 
European philosophers, assumes that external objects 
have no absolute existence, but that they are mere im- 
pressions on the mind. Maya, in Hindi! theology, is, 
according to some, that mighty goddess the wife or 
consort of Brahma. See Moor, Hindu Mythology , s. v. ; 
Wilson, Sanscrit Dictionary , s. v. ; Thomas, Diet. Biog. 
and Mythol. s. v. 

Mayence, a German town, beautifully situated on 
a sloping hill on the left bank of the River Rhine, is 
noted in ecclesiastical annals as the seat of an archiepis- 
copal see, and as the seat of several important Church 
councils. See Mayence, Councils of. 

Mayence as an Archbishopric and Bishopric. — We 
have no trustworthy information as to the early history 
of this archbishopric. Attempts have been made to 
prove that the Christian Church was established there 
by St. Crescens, based on the passage in 2 Tim. iv, 10, 
“Crescens (is departed) to Galatia;” and Jerome and 
other writers also favor the opinion of Gaul having been 
Christianized by Crescens. Ado, however, in his Mar- 
tyr ologium, written about 860, is the first to refer to the 
action of Crescens at Vienna. Still we find no docu- 
ments referring to it until the 10th century, which may, 
I however, be accounted for by the fact that the city 
was three times destroyed by fire up to that period. 
According to the ecclesiastical tradition, Crescens, a pu- 
pil of the apostle Paul, came to preach there as early 
as the year 82, became the first bishop of Mayence, and 
died a martyr in 103. The list of bishops up to the 
6tli century is all of later origin ; according to it, Cres- 
cens was succeeded by Aureus, who was murdered by 
the Vandals when they took the city in 451. Sidonius, 
about 546, began the restoration of the town and of the 
church ; Sigbcrt then became bishop about 589, and is 
said to have received from king Childebert the onyx 
bearing a likeness of that prince and of his wife, which 
is still retained among the jewels of Mayence. In 612 
Leonisius (Leutgasius) caused war between Thcoderick 
and Theodebert. We then find in the list Ruthelmus 
(Rudelin), Landwald, Lupoald (Leowald), Rigbert (Rich- 
bert,f 712), Gerold, who died at the hands of the Saxons 
in 743. He was succeeded by his son Gerwilio or Ge- 
wilieb, who in 744 marched with Carloman against the 
Saxons, and defeated them on the shores of the Weser. 
In 745 he was deposed, Bonifacius appointed in his 
place, and the bishopric transformed into an archbish- 
opric, with the sanction of pope Zachary, in 748. In 
753 or 754 Bonifacius resigned in favor of his pupil Lul- 
lus, who, however, did not receive the pallium before 
780; he labored diligently for the interest of the arch- 
bishopric, founded several churches and convents, and 
greatly increased the revenues of the Church by the 


MAYEXCE 


922 


MAYEXCE 


adoption of the tithing system in 779. lie died Oct. 1G, 
7,S(j. llis successor was Bicnlf, who founded the school 
of the Church of St. Alban at Mavence, and died Aug. 9, 
«SJ3, the very year in which Constantine called a coun- 
cil at Mavence (see below). IIaistulf,f Jan. 28, 827, in- 
troduced canonical life in the archbishopric; yet the 
succeeding archbishops, down to Marculf, were not elect- 
ed according to canonical rules, but by the king, with 
the consent of the clergy' and people. This was the 
case with Otgar, 82G-47 ; Rabanus Maurus, 847-5G (who 
called a council, by order of Louis of Germany, in the 
year of his accession to the archicpiscopal chair); 
Charles, son of king Pepin I of Aquitania, and nephew 
of Louis the German, 85G-G3, who was also archchan- 
cellor of the empire, a dignity which was retained by 
his successors; Liutbcrt, who marched against the Bo- 
hemians in 872, and against the Sorbians in 874 ; defeat- 
ed the Normans, who had ascended the Rhine, in 883, 
and died Feb. 17, 889. Sunzo (Sunderhold) fell fight- 
ing against the Normans in 891. Hat to 1 played an 
important part in the history of Germany' during the 
reign of Louis the Infant and Conrad I, and died Jan. 
18, 913. 1 Iis successor, Heriger, died in 927. Ilildebert, 
who successfully disputed against Cologne and Treves 
the right to crown the king, and crowned Otto I at Aix- 
la-Chapelle in 93G, died in 937. Friedrich was exiled 
to Hamburg or Fulda by the emperor Otto I, as a rebel ; 
was recalled in 954, but repeatedly accused of treason, and 
escaped punishment only' by his sudden decease in 954. 
He was succeeded by Wilhelm, a natural son of Otto, 
who died in 9G8. Of Ilatto II (9G8-70), the tradition 
says that he was devoured by mice. Ruprecht died in 
974. Willigis rcceiy'ed the pallium from pope Benedict 
VII, together with the priynlege of presiding at all the 
German councils and of crowning the. king. To remind 
him always of his loyv origin (his father yvas said to 
have been a wagoner), he caused a wheel to be erected 
on the walls of his palace, and this is said to be the ori- 
gin of the wheel on the arms of the archbishops of 
Mavence. In 978 he laid the foundations of the new 
cathedral (which, however, yvas burned down on the day 
of its consecration in 1009), and died in 1011. Next fol- 
low Arehimbald (Erkenbold), 1011-21 ; Aribon, 1021— 
31; Bardo of Oppershofcn, 1031-51, who finished the 
new cathedral, and consecrated it Noy\ 10, 1037. He 
received on this occasion the pallium from pope John 
NIX, and the right to act as papal legate yvhenever no 
other person appeared invested with that authority in 
liis diocese. The succeeding incumbent yvas Leopold 
(Lnitpold ), count of Bogen, 1051-59. Sigfrid I, count 
of Eppstein. joined a crusade in 10G5; in 10G9 he tried, 
but in vain, to procure a divorce between Ilcnrv IV and 
Bertha, and proclaimed — yet without effect — in 1075 the 
edict of celibacy of Gregory VII. After 1077 he took 
the part of the anti- kings, and crowned Rudolf of 
Suabia and Hermann of Luxemburg. He died in 1084. 
Wezilo (10X4-88) yvas complained of at the Council of 
Ilalberstadt, and put under ban for maintaining that 
those of the secular clergy who lost their estates were 
no longer subject to ecclesiastical jurisdiction ; he sub- 
sequently receded from this position. Under Ruthard 
(1088-99), in 1097, a persecution broke out against the 
Jews in Mavence, and the archbishop, fearing the anger 
of the emperor for having taken an active part in it, 
lied to Thuringia, whence he returned only after a lapse 
of eight years. Adelbert I, count of Saarbruck (1109- 
37), yvas elected by Henry V, yet sided against him in 
1112 on the question of investiture; he was imprisoned 
for his opposition, and only' released in 1115, when the 
people of Mayence rose in arms to secure his liberation. 
Adelbert showed his gratitude by granting the citizens 
of Mavence the charter (releasing them from the jurisdic- 
tion of the church-yvardens and -fro m their taxes), which 
was inscribed on the door of the cathedral in 1 135. In 
1 120 he tied again before the emperor, after whose death, 
in 1 125, he assembled a diet for the election of a king. ' 
This is the first instance of the appearance in the liis- I 


torv of Germany of the electors, among whom the arch- 
bishop of Mayence held the first place. Adelbert II, 
brother of the preceding, held the office 1 138-41. Mar-, 
culf, 1141-42, was the first archbishop elected according 
to canonical rules, with the concurrence of the people. 
Henry 1, 1 142-53, yvas appointed by Conrad III tutor to 
his son, before his departure for the crusade. lie yvas 
hated by the clergy for his severity, and the}' accused 
him before the pope of squandering the funds of the 
Church and of immorality'. He was deposed in 1153. 
Under Arnold I, of Seelenhowen (1153-GO), the partisans 
of his predecessors, among them Hermann, count of the 
Palatinate, invaded the diocese and laid the land waste. 
Arnold retaliated, and peace was only restored at the 
emperors return from Italy in 1155. Arnold having 
promised the emperor to accompany him in his next 
journey to Rome, and to employ' his influence to settle 
the difficulty then existing between him and the pope, 
he sought to levy' a tax on the diocese to defray' his ex- 
penses; but the citizens resisted, and, the emperor re- 
fusing to take the part of the citizens, they murdered 
the archbishop in 1 160. The emperor now appointed 
Conrad I, in spite of the opposition of the chapter; the 
new archbishop, however, on being requested to recog- 
nise the anti-pope, Pascal, fled to Alexander at Rome, 
and was made archbishop of Salzburg. His place was 
filled in 11G5 by Christian 1, count of Buch, chancellor 
of the emperor Frederic 1. He proy'ed true to that 
prince, and took liis part in Italy against the pope: but 
was arrested there in 1180 by the count of Monte Fer- 
rara, remained a prisoner until 1181, and died in the 
neighborhood of Rome in 1183. The title of archchan- 
cellor of the empire, yvbich the archbishops of Mayence 
had often recciy'cd since the 10th century’, became per- 
manent now. After the decease of Christian, Conrad 
I became again archbishop of Mayence. The late prel- 
ate had already' set up a claim on the estates of the 
extinct house of Franconia in Thuringia and Ilessc; 
Conrad brought it forward again in 1184, but yvas op- 
posed by the landgrave Lewis III, and a lengthy strife 
ensued. In 1197 Conrad took part in a crusade, and 
died in 1200. Sigfrid II, the elder, count of Eppstein 
(1200-30), obtained in 1208 the direction of the bishop- 
ric of Worms, and in 1228 the right to crown the kings 
of Bohemia (which yvas exercised by his followers un- 
til 1343). Sigfrid III, of Eppstein, nephew of the pre- 
ceding (1230-49), finding the finances in very bad con- 
dition, ley'ied, with the assent of the chapter, on all 
benefices a tax amounting to one twentieth of their 
income. On the other hand, it yvas enacted that the 
archbishop could in future contract no liabilities with- 
out the consent of tlic chapter, and that every fut- 
ure archbishop should be strictly held to submit to 
that rule. In 1232 Sigfrid obtained from the king 
the abbey' of Lorcb, and restored the cathedral, yvliicli 
was consecrated in 1239. He favored tlic deposition of 
emperor Frederick II, and supported Henry Raspe. and 
afterwards William of Holland (this is commemorated by 
three statues to be seen in the cathedral of Mayence, 
the centre one representing the archbishop, the one on 
his right Henry Raspe, and the other William of Hol- 
land). After the death of Hear}' Raspe, Sigfrid at- 
tempted to annex his possessions to Thuringia, but was 
opposed by landgrave Henry and Sophia of Brabant, 
and the dispute lasted seven years. Sigfrid died in 
1249, and was succeeded by Christian II, of Bolamlen, 
who resigned in 1251. Gerhard I (1251-59), yvas impris- 
oned in 125G by' duke Albrecht of Brunswick, and liber- 
ated in 1257 by king Richard of England, whom lie af- 
terwards supported as a candidate to the imperial crown. 
Under him the cathedral canons of Mayence ceased to 
lead the communistic life. Werner of Eppstein, nephew 
of Sigfrid 1 1 1 (1259-84), cancelled part of the debts of the 
archbishopric, and concluded a treaty yvith the duchess 
Sophia of Brabant in 1203, by which he obtained Grun- 
berg and Frankenlmrg ; in 1271 he bought Wildenberg, 
Amorbaeh, Sehnecbcrg, and Wilbach from Ulrich of Dii- 


MAYENCE 


923 


MAYENCE 


ren, and in 1278 the castle of Boekelnheim from count 
Henry of Sponheim ; he took an active part in the elec- 
tion of Budolph of Ilapsburg as emperor of Germany. 
After a vacancy of two years, Henry II was appointed 
archbishop in 1280; he was disliked by the clergy for 
his strictness, and died in 1288. Gerhard II, of Eppstein 
(1289-1305), labored to have his cousin Adolph of Nassau 
elected emperor, but afterwards aided in his deposition, 
and in the election of Albrecht of Austria : he used his 
influence with both emperors for the aggrandizement 
of his archbishopric. lie was also somewhat distin- 
guished as a legislator; his decrees form the Concordata 
Gerhardi. An electoral edict of king Albrecht having 
assigned him the second rank among the electors, he 
protested, and obtained an imperial decree, under date of 
Sept. 23, 1298, placing him and his successors in the first 
rank ; the same decree confirmed them also in the title 
of archehancellor of Germany. Peter Aichspalter (1306- 
20) improved greatly the finances of the diocese by his 
economy, and was a strict promoter of ecclesiastical dis- 
cipline. Matthias, count of lhicheck and landgrave of 
Burgundy (1321-28), first sided with emperor Louis of 
Bavaria, but afterwards with the pope, and enlarged the 
estates of the archbishopric. After his death, which oc- 
curred in 1328, pope John XNII appointed Henry III, 
count of Burneburg, but the chapter elected archbishop 
Baldnin of Treves; the latter governed the diocese dur- 
ing the difficulty, and added to it a part of the village 
of Ilerzberg, half of Mark Puderstadt, Sehurburg, Botz- 
wangen, Esenheim, and Odenheim. On Nov. 12, 1336, 
Balduin voluntarily surrendered his claim, and Henry 
was now accepted by the chapter, after promising to 
take sides with Louis of Bavaria, and to surrender the 
strong places of the diocese into the hands of the chap- 
ter. In 1329 he engaged not to tax the inhabitants of 
Mayenee, or those of the suburbs, without their con- 
sent; in 1330 he released them from the ecclesiastical 
punishments they had incurred for injuring the clergy, 
and in 1331 absolved them from their promise to re- 
pay the Jews sums advanced by them to the city. He 
obtained jurisdiction over Eichsfeld, Puderstadt, and 
Giboldhausen; on the other hand, Olmhtz and Prague 
were detached from Mayenee, and, in consequence, the 
archbishops of Mayenee lost the right to crown the 
kings of Hungary. lie finally got into difficulties by 
liis fidelity to emperor Lewis, and was deposed by pope 
Clement VI in 1346, yet continued to exercise his func- 
tions until his death in 1353. Gerlaeh, who had been 
appointed by the pope in 134G, v r as now recognised by 
all as archbishop. The difficulties betw een him and his 
predecessor had greatly injured the diocese: the funds 
had become low r , debts had been contracted, the clergy 
had become much relaxed, and the respect of the people 
had diminished in consequence ; Gerlaeh, however, add- 
ed to the diocese the castles of Itter and Allenfelt, Bal- 
lenburg, the village of Budensheim. and the half of 
Geismar. At this time the Golden Bull, in which, the 
high position of the archbishop of Mayenee as dean of 
the electoral college was officially recognised, was given 
to the public. Gerlaeh died Eeb. 12, 1371. His suc- 
cessor, John I. duke of Luxemburg, died in 1373. Louis, 
son of margrave Frederick the Earnest, was now ap- 
pointed by both the pope and the emperor, while the 
chapter elected Adolph I, of Nassau, bishop of 'Spires, who 
took up his residence at Erfurt ; the difficulty lasted 
until 1380; Adolph remained archbishop of Mayenee, 
while Louis w r as made archbishop of Magdeburg, and 
retained the regalia until his death. Adolph was long 
at w T ar with landgrave Hermann of Hesse about some 
possessions in that province; be founded the University 
of Erfurt, and died in 1390. 11 is successor, Conrad 1 1, of 
Weinsberg, persecuted the Waldenses. of whom there 
were a number in his diocese, and entered into a league 
with the Palatinate, Bavaria, and Spires against the 
Flagellants. He died Oct. 19, 1396. John IT, count of 
Nassau, brother of Adolph I (1396-1419), took part in the 
deposition of emperor Wenzel, and, in consequence of be- 


ing suspected of having had a share in the murder of 
the emperor elect, duke Frederick of Brunswick, as he 
sheltered the murderer, he became involved in a war 
with Brunswick and Hesse, which lasted until 1401 : he 
added to his diocese Wetterau and Ardeek, besides sev- 
eral villages. Conrad III, count of Stein, was in 1422 
appointed vicar of the empire by emperor Sigismund; 
but, being opposed by Louis of Heidelberg, he resigned 
that office in 1423 : he added to the diocese the city of 
Steinheim, and enacted strict regulations for the con- 
duct of the clergy. Under him the citizens of Mayenee 
continued to complain of the exemption from taxes en- 
joyed by the clergy, and he did not succeed in settling 
the question. He died in 1434. His successor, Die- 
trich 1, of Erbach, w f as more fortunate, and put an end to 
the troubles in 1435, with the aid of tw r o commission- 
ers of the Council of Basle. His whole time w*as taken 
up in quarrels w-ith the pope and emperor; the Prag- 
matic Sanction of Mayenee. of w hich he was the author, 
and in which he recognised the Council of Basle, the 
suppression of the annates, and the general restoration 
of canonical election, was rejected, while the Concordat 
of Ascliaflcnburg, which held the contrary views, was 
afterwards adopted. Dietrich died May 6, 1459, and w r as 
succeeded by Diether (Dietrich II), count of Isenburg- 
Budingen; the latter, however, found a rival in count 
Adolph of Nassau, whom Frederick, elector of the Pala- 
tinate, supported by force of arms ; Diether was besieged 
in Heidelberg July 4, 1461, and obliged to flee. In 1462 
he was deposed by pope Pins II, for refusing to collect 
the annates (which the pope had arbitrarily raised from 
10,000 to 21,000 florins). Adolph II, count of Nassau, 
w as now made archbishop, and a war commenced be- 
tween Diether, supported by Bavaria and the Palati- 
nate, and Adolph, upheld by Bavaria and Wiirtemberg ; 
a treaty was finally concluded, Oct. 25, 1463, Diether re- 
nouncing his claims. The city of Mayenee, which was 
stormed by Adolph in 1462, lost all privileges. After 
the death of Adolph, Sept. 6, 1475, Diether was again 
appointed archbishop; but now commenced a strife 
about the city of Mayenee: the cathedral chapter 
claimed it for its own, while the citizens demanded their 
liberty, and rebelled against the chapter; they were 
final!}' defeated, and the city remained subject to the 
archbishop, who made it his residence ; he built the 
palace of Martinsburg, and founded the University of 
Mayenee, w hich w as opened in 1477 ; he also restored to 
the diocese the estates of Algesheim and Olm, and died 
May 7, 1482. Albert I, duke of Saxony, was son of the 
elector Ernst (1482-84). His successor, Berthold, count 
of Uenneberg, accompanied emperor Maximilian as arch- 
chancellor to court; he took an active part in restoring 
peace throughout the country, and in the institution 
of the imperial chamber of justice; he also introduced 
great improvements in the ecclesiastical and conventual 
discipline, and laid the grievances of the Germans with 
regard to ecclesiastical affairs before the court of Borne. 
He died Dec. 21, 1504. Jacob of Liebenstein (1504-8) 
added Kostheim and part of Klingenberg to the diocese. 
L T riel of Genimengcn (1508-14) ordered the examina- 
tion of the clergy, and strictly opposed concubinage 
among them. Albrecht of Brandenburg, archbishop of 
Magdeburg, was made archbishop of Mayenee in 1514', 
he loved grandeur, wasted the funds of the diocese, 
and abused the sale of indulgences; lie took part in 
the league against the Protestant princes; being at- 
tacked by the landgrave of Hesse, he purchased peace 
at the expense of 40,000 thalers. In 1529 he originated 
the Edict of Worms against the Protestants; yet lie af- 
terwards sought to restore peace among the different re- 
ligious parties, and was one of the principal promoters 
of the peace of Nuremberg. He died Sept. 24, 1545, 
highly respected both by the Boman Catholics and the 
Lutherans, and even by Luther, with whom he had 
some correspondence. Sebastian of Heusenstam (1545- 
55) labored to improve the administration of the dio- 
cese, and also to restore the influence of Bomanism; he 


MAYENCE 


924 


MAYENCE 


subscribed to the Interim of 1548. During his reign 
Albrecht Aleibiades of Brandenburg invaded the diocese, 
and took Mayenee; lie made the citizens swear alle- 
giance to the king of France, demanded a contribution 
of 600,000 florins from the archbishop and chapter, and, 
as they were unable to pay that amount by the time 
stipulated, he burnt down the areliiepiseopal palace and 
several churches; the archbishop himself fled to Elt- 
feld, where he died in 1555. His successor, Daniel of 
1 fomburg, endeavored to restore the archbishopric to its 
former splendor; he introduced the Jesuits into Mav- 
enee and in Eichsfelde, and surrendered education into 
their hands; lie took part also in the attempts of recon- 
ciliation between the Protestants and Romanists, added 
to his diocese the county of Lahr (Uieneek), the county 
of Konigstein, and the villages of Rennshausen and 
Zornheim. He died March 22, 1582. He was succeed- 
ed by Wolfgang of Dalberg (1582 to April 5, 1601). John 
Adam, of Bicken (1601 to Jan. 10, 1604), and John Sui- 
card, of Kronenberg, strictly enforced all the old ecclesi- 
astical rules, and persecuted the Protestants. Under 
Suicard the diocese began to feel the effects of the Thir- 
ty Years’ War, which was then raging; it suffered espe- 
cially from the inroads of Mansfeld and Christian of 
Brunswick, against whom he called for the assistance 
of the Spaniards. lie died July 6, 1629. Anselm Casi- 
mir, of Warabold, was obliged to flee from Mayenee when 
that city was taken by Gustavus Adolphus, Dec. 23, 1631 ; 
he retired to Cologne, and the diocese was, until the 
Treaty of Prague, in 1635, occupied by Swedish and 
French troops, who greatly impoverished the country — 
not more, however, than the imperial forces. In 1635 
the archbishop returned to Mavence; but the diocese be- 
coming again the theatre of war in 1643, he fled again 
before the French armies, and in 1647 made a treaty 
with Turenne. Mavence remained in the possession of 
the French, and the archbishop went to reside at Frank- 
fort, where he died, Oct. 9, 1647. His successor, John 
Philip, of Sehonborn, prince bishop of Wurzburg, re- 
signed soon after his election, for the Swedes, after the 
expiration of the peace of Westphalia, exerted them- 
selves for the secularization of the diocese, and the arch- 
bishopric was only maintained through the intervention 
of Saxony ; it lost, however, by exemption, the districts 
of Verden and Ilalberstadt. On the occasion of the 
coronation of Ferdinand IV at Regensburg, John Philip 
came in conflict with the archbishop of Cologne over 
their respective prerogatives. He was also in difficulty 
with the inhabitants of Mayenee, and finally took the 
city by force in 1664. Philip also quarrelled wkh Sax- 
ony about the town of Erfurt, which was finally added 
to his diocese in 1665. He then devoted all his atten- 
tion to internal improvements; he gave regulations to 
the court of Mayenee in 1659; in 1661 he established a 
theological seminary ; and in 1663 was also made bishop 
of Worms. lie died Feb. 12, 1673. His successor was 
Lothar Frederick, of Metternich-Burehied, coadjutor of 
John Philip since 1670; in 1674 he got into war with 
the elector of the Palatinate, about the district of Bock- 
elnheim, but died June 3, 1675. Domian Hartard, of 
Leyen, died Dec. C, 1678. Charles Henry, duke of Met- 
ternieh-Winneburg, was elected in 1679, and died on 
Sept. 27 of the same year. Anselm Franz, of Ingolheim, 
surrendered Mayenee to the French in 1688, and took 
up his residence at Erfurt ; but the marshal of Uxelles 
having given up Mayenee to the duke of Lorraine, Sept. 
8, 1689. the archbishop returned to it. In 1691 he joined 
a league against France. By a treaty concluded Aug. 
24, 1692 with Brunswick, he gave up the district of 
Eiehsfeld, with the exception of Duderstadt, Giebokl- 
shausen, and Landau. He died in 1695. Lothar Franz, 
of Sehonborn, nephew of John Philip, took the part of 
Austria against Spain in the War of Succession. v In 1704 
the district of Kronenberg was joined to the diocese by 
succession. In 1714 the strife between the archbishop 
and the Palatinate was brought to a close by the former 
giving up his claim to Boekelnlieim, and receiving in I 


exchange New* Bamberg. He died Jan. 30,1729. Fran* 
eis Louis, count of Neuburg, bishop of Breslau and 
Worms, and also archbishop of Treves, died April 19, 
1732. Under Philip Charles, of Eltz-Kempeuieh, Alze- 
nan, together with five villages, was added to the dio- 
cese. He died March 21, 1743, John Frederick Charles, 
count of Ostein, remained neutral in the Austrian War 
of Succession, and his diocese suffered severely from the 
French in consequence ; in 1745 the grand duke of Tus- 
cany succeeded in driving the French armies out of the 
country, but during the Seven Years’ War the bishop- 
ric suffered again on account of its adherence to the 
queen of Hungary. The archbishop died June 4, 1763 : 
he had added the bishopric of Fulda to Mayenee. Em- 
merich Joseph, baron of Breidbaeh-Bureslieim,was made 
also bishop of Worms in 1768; in 1769 he joined the 
two other ecclesiastical electors in trying to emancipate 
the German episcopacy from the dominion of Rome ; by 
a decree of Dee. 23, 1766, he abolished a number of festi- 
vals, and by another of July 30, 1771, he enacted several 
reforms in the convents; he encouraged industry and 
agriculture, founded charitable institutions, and estab- 
lished the administration of the diocese on a regular ba- 
sis ; on Jan. 30, 1773, he entered into an agreement with 
Saxony concerning Trefurt and Mulhouse, by which he 
surrendered the jurisdiction of Protestant districts to 
Saxony. He died July II, 1774, Frederick Charles Jo- 
seph, of Eichthal, who became also bishop of Worms, 
followed in the footsteps of his predecessor, introducing 
many reforms in the Church ; he endowed the Univer- 
sity of Mayenee with the convents of Karthaus, Alten- 
munster, and Reiehenklaren in 1781, to which, in 1784, 
lie added seventeen prebends, and also directed that the- 
ological studies should no longer be pursued in convents, 
but only in the University of Mayenee. The archbish- 
ops had heretofore been partisans of Austria, but he sided 
with Prussia when Frederick the Great opposed the 
plans of aggrandizement of the former power towards 
Bavaria ; he opposed, also, the encroachments of the pa- 
pal nuncios. When the French Revolution broke out, 
Mayenee was betrayed into Custine’s hands, Oct. 21, 
1792 ; the archbishop lied to Ileiligenstadt, then took up 
his residence at Erfurt, and died at Asehaffenbiirg July 
25, 1802. He was the last archbishop of Mayenee. The 
archbishopric was secularized Feb. 26, 1803. By treaty 
France received the portion of the diocese on the left 
shore of the Rhine, and the remainder was divided be- 
tween Prussia, Hesse, etc., with the exception of the 
principalities of Ascliaffenburg, Regensburg, the county 
of Wetzlar, and some other small portions which were 
given to the coadjutor of the late archbishop, Charles 
Theodore of Dalberg, as arehchaneellor, metropolitan, 
and primate of Germany. The see was transferred to 
the cathedral of Regensburg, and received jurisdiction 
over the whole of the former ecclesiastical provinces of 
Mayenee, Treves, and Cologne, lying on the right shore 
| of the Rhine, with the exception of the part belonging 
' to Prussia, and also over the whole province of Salzburg, 
in Bavaria. The archbishopric of Mavence became a 
simple bishopric, subject to the archbishop of Mechlin, 
and including only the territory" of the old archbishopric 
on the left shore of the Rhine. The first bishop was 
Joseph Louis Colmar, appointed Oct. 3, 1S02, who gov- 
erned his diocese exclusively under French inspiration. 
Mayenee was taken by the allies May 17, 1814 ; Colmar 
died Dec. 15 of the same year. A vicar-general was 
then appointed. In 1829 the bishopric of Mayenee was, 
by a papal decree, detached from Mechlin and subjected 
to Freiburg. Joseph Vitus Burg was appointed bishop 
Jan. 12,1830; he divided the diocese into deaneries, and 
died May 23, 1833. 1 Iis successor, the former vicar-gen- 
eral, John Jacob Ilumann, died Aug. 19, 1834. Peter 
Leopold Kaiser issued complete diocesan statutes in 
1837, and died Dee. 30, 1848. Leopold Schmid, pro- 
fessor of theology and philosophy at the University of 
Giessen, was appointed bishop of Mayenee by pope Pius 
IX, Feb. 22, 1849, but he was not confirmed (sec L, 


MAYENCE 


925 


MAYER 


Schmid, Ueb. d. jiingste Mainzer Bischofstoahl , Giessen, 
1850) ; and William Emanuel von Ketteler was made 
bishop in his place, March 29, 1850. Since Ketteler’s 
accession, the bishopric of Mayence is noted as the gath- 
ering-place of all Jesuit nltramontanists. How this 
Homan see in Germany will continue its opposition to 
all order of state rule, now that the Jesuits have been 
expelled from Germany (1873), remains to be seen. Sec 
Theoderich Gresenumd, Catalogus episcoporum et archi- 
episcoporum MogunU (Sclumk’s Beitragen, vol. ii) ; J.Lat- 
omus, Gesch. d. Bischofe v. M. (in Mencke, Scriptores re- 
rum Germ.v ol. iii); Servarius, lies Moguntiacce (in Joan- 
nis, Res MogunU Frankf. 1722, vol. i) ; Severus, Memoriu. 
pontijicum J fogunt. (Mayence, 1765) ; Wiirdtwein, l)m- 
cesis Moguntina in archidiaconatus districtci (Manh. 
1769-77,3 vols.); Schepfer, Codex eccles. Mogunt. nov. 
(Aschaf. 1803) ; D. Untergang d. Kurfurst. M. (Frankf. 
1839) ; Werner, Der Dom z. M. (Mayence, 1827, 3 vols.) ; 
Pierer, Uni versa l-Lexikon , x, 741 sq. ; Herzog, Real-En- 
cgklop. viii, 697 sq. 

MAYENCE, Councils at. Of the numerous coun- 
cils of the Church of Home convened here, special notice 
is due to those of 813, 847-8, 1225, and 1549. 

(1.) The first of these, convened June 9, 813, by order 
of Charlemagne, was composed of thirty bishops and 
twenty-five abbots ; Hiklebakl, archbishop of Cologne 
and arch-chaplain, presided. The object of this council 
was to restore the discipline of the Church. To this 
end the Gospels, the canons of the Church, and certain 
of the works of the fathers were read, among others 
the pastoral of St. Gregory ; the abbots and monks also 
read the letter of St. Benedict. Fifty-six canons were 
published. 1, 2, and 3 treat of faith, hope, and char- 
ity. 4. Orders the administration of holy baptism af- 
ter the Roman use, and restricts it to Easter and Pen- 
tecost, except in cases of necessity. 6. Orders bishops 
to take care of disinherited orphans. 9. Orders canons 
to eat in common, and to sleep in the same dormitory. 
11. Relates to the life of the monks. 13. To that of 
nuns. 22. Is directed against vagabond clerks. 23. 
Gives entire liberty to clerks and monks who have been 
forced to receive the tonsure. 28. Orders all priests at 
all times to w'ear the stole, to mark their sacerdotal 
character. 32. Defines the difference between the exo- 
mologesis and litania ; the former it states to be solely 
for confession of sin, the latter to implore help and mer- 
cy. 33. Orders the observance of the great Litany by 
all Christians, barefooted, with ashes. 35. Confirms the 
19th canon of Gangra on fasting. 36 and 37. Relate to 
holidays and Sundays. 43. Forbids mass to be said by 
a priest alone ; for how can he say Dominus vobiscum, 
and other like things, when no one is present but him- 
self? 47. Orders godparents to instruct their godchil- 
dren. 52. Forbids all interments within the Church ex- 
cept in the case of bishops, abbots, priests, or lay persons 
distinguished for holiness of life. 54. Forbids marriage 
within the fourth degree. 55. Forbids parents to stand 
as sponsors for their own children, and forbids marriages 
between sponsors and their godchildren, and the parents 
of their godchildren. 5G. Declares that he who has 
married two sisters, and the woman who has married 
two brothers, or a father and son, shall be separated, and 
never be permitted to marry again (Cone, vii, 1239). 

(2.) The next council convened there about Oct. 1, 
847, by order of Louis of Germany, under Kabanus, 
archbishop of Mayence, assisted by twelve bishops, his 
suffragans, and several abbots, monks, priests, and oth- 
ers of the clergy, including the cliorepiscopi. Thirty- 
one canons were published. The most important are : 
2. Warning bishops to be assiduous in preaching the 
Word of God. 7. Leaving the disposition of Church 
property to the bishops, and asserting their power over 
the laity. 11. Forbidding to endow new oratories with 
the tithes or other property belonging to churches an- 
ciently founded, without the bishop’s consent. 13. Re- 
lating to the life to be observed by clerks and monks ; 
forbids joking, gaming, unsuitable ornaments, delicate 


living, excess in eating or drinking, unjust weights or 
measures, unlawful trades, etc. 14. Ordering all monks 
holding livings to attend the synods and give an ac- 
count of themselves. 15. Forbidding the clergy to wear 
long hair, under pain of anathema. 30. Forbidding 
marriage within the fourth degree (Cone, viii, 39). 

(3.) The next important council was held at Mayence 
in 1225, by cardinal Conrad, legate of Ilonorius III. It 
is by some called “ a synod of Germany.” Fourteen 
canons were published, which relate to the incontinence 
of the clergy, and simony. The sixth declares that ex- 
communicated priests who dare to perform any clerical 
function while under excommunication shall be deposed 
both from their office and benefices, without hope of be- 
ing ever restored ; shall be treated as infamous, deprived 
of the power of leaving their property by will, and never 
again permitted to hold any kind of ecclesiastical bene- 
fice (Cone, xi, 294). 

(4.) Another very large body assembled in council at 
Mayence in 1549, called together by Sebastian Hensen- 
stein, archbishop of Mayence, with the deputies of the 
bishops of his province and the principal of his clergy. 
Forty-seven canons were published concerning the faith, 
and fifty-seven canons of discipline. Among the first 
we find an exposition of the mystery of the sacred Trin- 
ity, according to the faith of the Church ; it is further 
stated that man was created with righteousness and en- 
dued with grace, but that he was possessed of free-will; 
afterwards the fall of man and his justification are spo- 
ken of, and it is declared that this justification proceeds 
from the grace of God; that it is given before any 
merit; that this justification is given when man re- 
ceives the Holy Spirit, with faith, hope, and charity, 
which gifts it declares to be inherent in him, and not 
merely imputed, so that man is not only accounted 
righteous, but is so in reality, yet not through his own 
merits, but by God’s grace and righteousness communi- 
cated to him; that the charity which justifies must be 
accompanied by good works, of which grace is the source 
and principle (canons 7 and 8). The council moreover, 
in the canons of faith, set forth the doctrine of the sac- 
raments, and decided, against the heretics, that they are 
not bare ceremonies, but effectual signs of grace, which 
they are, by divine operation, the means of conveying 
to those who receive them worthily. 

With regard to ceremonies, it is decreed that such 
ought to be retained as incite the people to meditate 
upon God ; among these are reckoned the sacraments, 
churches, altars, images, holy vestments, banners, etc. 
As to images, the council decrees that the people should 
be taught that they are not set up to be worshipped, 
and that none ought to be set up in churches which are 
likely to inspire worldly and carnal thoughts rather 
than piety. Curates are also enjoined to remove the 
image of any saint to which the people flocked, as if at- 
tributing some sort of divinity to the image itself, or as 
supposing that God or the saints would perform what 
they prayed for by means of that particular image, and 
not otherwise. Afterwards the following matters are 
treated of : devout pilgrimages, ^worship of saints, prayer 
for the dead, and the law of fasting. 

Among the fifty -six canons of discipline and mo- 
rality, we find it ruled (by canon 61) that when the 
lesser festivals fall on a Sunday, they shall be kept on 
some day following or preceding ; that apostate monks, 
upon their return to their duty, shall be kindly treated ; 
that nuns shall not leave their convent without the 
bishop’s permission ; that preaching shall not be allow- 
ed, nor the hoh r sacraments administered, in chapels at- 
tached to private houses ; that care shall be taken that 
all school-masters be sound Catholics, etc. Finally, it is 
declared that the council received the acts of the holy 
oecumenical councils, and yielded entire submission to 
the catholic, apostolic, Roman Church in all things 
(Cone, xiv, 6G7 ; Landon, Manual of Councils , s. v.). 

Mayer, J acob, an American minister of the Ger- 
man Reformed Church, was born in Lvkens Valley, Dau- 


MAYER 


92G 


MAYER 


pUin Co., I*a., in 1798 ; was brought up in the Reformed 
Church, and early instructed in its doctrines. Prepara- 
tory to entering the ministry, he was for four years un- 
der the special tuition of Rev. Dr. Samuel Ilelffenstein, 
of Philadelphia ; was licensed to preach in September, 
1822, at the synod held in Harrisburg, Pa.; was soon 
afterwards ordained, and took charge of the churches in 
Woodstock, Ya., and vicinity. After three years of la- 
bor he removed to the neighborhood of Shrewsbury, 
York Co., Pa., and there took charge of quite a number 
of congregations. In this field he labored eight years ; 
then removed to Mereersburg, Franklin Co.. Pa., and be- 
came pastor of the Church at that place, in connection 
with those at Greencastle and Loudon in the same coun- 
ty. In 1836 he was appointed special agent of the the- 
ological seminary at Mereersburg ; the next eight years 
of his active life were devoted to the work of procuring 
funds for the use of that institution and of Marshall Col- 
lege, in Mereersburg, in the founding and establishing of 
both of which he was deeply interested. While engaged 
in this work his health failed, and he was obliged to re- 
linquish the pastoral work, and attend to some secular 
pursuit in order to provide for himself and family a proper 
temporal support. He lived in this way, during differ- 
ent periods, at Chambersburg, Philadelphia, Columbia, 
and mainly at Lock Haven ; in the last-named place he 
died, Oct. 29, 1872. “lie suffered severely, especially 
during the last four years of his life, from lingering con- 
sumption, in the midst of which he manifested much 
Christian patience, especially during the closing por- 
tion of his earthly career.” See Reformed Church Mes- 
senger •, Nov. 6, 1872. 

Mayer, Johann, a German theologian, was born 
Aug. 2, 1697, at Nuremberg ; studied at the high-sehools 
ofhis native place until 1717, when he went to the Uni- 
versity of Altdorf to stiuty theology. In 1720 he re- 
moved to the University of Halle, and there enjoyed 
the instruction of the celebrated German savants Wolf 
and Michaelis. He continued his studies until 1725, 
when he finally secured the position of catechist, first at 
an orphan asylum and later at a prison. In 1727 he 
was made vicar, and in 1728 morning preacher at Fit. 
Waldbnrg. The year following he became pastor at 
Schwinunbach and Wengen; in 1732 dean of Spitalch, 
Nuremberg; in 1738 was transferred to the Church of 
St. Laurence ; in 1749 became senior of the chapter. He 
died Sept. 3, 1760. Mayer’s productions are mostly of 
an ascetic character; at the time of their publication 
they secured him much popularity, especially his Epis- 
tolkche Betrachtungen dcs Todes (Nuremb. 1741, 4to). 
He also published a number of his sermons. For fur- 
ther details ofhis works, see During, G elder te Theologie 
Deutschlands , vol. ii, s. v. 

Mayer, Johann C., a Presbyterian minister, a 
German by birth, was born in Korb, Wiirtemburg, May 
4, 1835. He was educated at Basle, Switzerland, and 
attended the seminary at St. Christiana, lie left his 
native land and settled in Texas, where he was licensed 
by the Lutheran Synod of Texas. On coming to New 
Orleans lie organized a German Presbyterian Church, 
but died before he had been ordained pastor over it, 
Aug. 24, 1858. See Wilson, Presh. Hist. Almanac , 1860, 
p. 76. (J. L. S.) 

Mayer, Johann Friedrich, a German Lutheran 
minister, was born at Leipsie in 1650. lie studied in 
the university of his native city, and became succes- 
sively superintendent of Lcissnig in 1673, of Grimma in 
1679, professor of theology at Wittemberg in 1684, pas- 
tor of St. Joseph of Hamburg in 1686, professor of the 
gymnasium of that city in 1687, professor at the Uni- 
versity of Kiel in 1688, professor and archehanecHor at 
the University of Greifswald, ambgeneral superintendent 
of Pomerania and Kiigen, in 1701. lie died at Stettin 
in 1712. Mayer had taken a leading part in all the 
controversies of the time. Among his voluminous works 
we notice Bibliotheca Biblica, which treats of the most 


celebrated Jewish, Romish, Lutheran, and Calvinistic 

expositions of Scripture (best edition, Nostoek, 1713) : 

Best Method of Studying Holy Scripture : — History of 
Martin Luther's German 1 ’ersion of the Bible : — An Ac- 
count of the Moderns who hare written against the Holy 
Scriptures : — An Exposition of the first two Psalms:— 
Tractatus de Osculo Pedum Pont fids Romani: — De 
Fide Baronii et Bellarmini ipsis Pontficiis ambigud. See 
Herzog, Real-Encyklop. ix, 209; Pierer, Uni versal- Lexi- 
con, xi, 35 ; Hook, Biog. Diet, vii, 262. (J. N. P.) 

Mayer, J ohu, D.D., an English divine, flourished 
in the early part of the 17th century. But few memo- 
rials have been discovered to furnish any satisfactory ac- 
count ofhis personal history. It appears from his pref- 
aces that lie labored under infirm health, which unfitted 
him for public services as a clergyman for many years. 
In 1634 lie became minister of Keydou, in Suffolk. He 
published Theological Treatises and Commentaries on the 
English Catechism (Loud. 1621, 4to) : — A Commentary 
on the Old and New Testaments (rare; 6 vols. fob, and 1 
vol. 4to, 1631, ’47, ’52, ’53). See Allibone, Diet. Brit, 
and A mer. A uthors, vol. ii, s. v. ; Darling, Cyclop. Bib- 
Hog. vol. ii, s. v. 

Mayer, Lewis, D.D., a noted American divine of 
that branch of the Christian Church denominated the 
German Reformed , was born at Lancaster, Pa., March 
26, 1783. After having received a liberal education in 
his native place, he removed to Frederick, Md., where 
he devoted his attention for some time to a secular call- 
ing. lie was fond of reading and study. Having be- 
come conscious of a call to the holy ministry, he pursued 
his theological studies with great zeal and success, un- 
der the direction of the Rev. Mr. Wagner, of Frederick, 
Md. He was licensed and ordained in 1807, and became 
pastor of a charge in Sheplierdstown, Ya., where he la- 
bored till 1821. In that year he was called as pastor to 
York, Pa. In 1825 he resigned His charge, having been 
called by the Synod of the German Reformed Church to 
assume the presidency of the theological seminary then 
established at Carlisle, Pa., and afterwards located at 
York, Pa. In this position he labored with great zeal 
till 1835. His health giving way he retired to private 
life, and lived in York, Pa. He devoted his remaining 
strength to the preparation of a History of the German 
Reformed Church, only the first volume of which, how- 
ever, has been published. This volume is chiefly occu- 
pied with an account of the Reformation in Switzerland. 
His labors were brought down to 1770. Dr. Mayer pub- 
lished also a Treatise on the Sin against the Holy Ghost, 
and Lectures on Scripture Subjects. While professor of 
theology he also edited for some years the Magazine 
and the Messenger of the German Reformed Church. 
He died Aug. 25, 1849. See biographical sketeh by the 
Rev. E. Heiner, prefaced to Dr. Mayer's History (Phila. 
1850, 8 vo, pp. 477). 

Mayer, Philip Frederick, D.D., a distinguished 
American Lutheran minister, was born April 1, 1781, in 
the city of New York, where he continued to reside till 
he reached his majority. His earlier years were spent 
at the German school attached to the Lutheran Church. 
Ilis preparation for college was made under the direc- 
tion of Mr. Campbell. He graduated with the first 
honors of his class at Columbia College, New York, in 
1799, then under the administration of Dr. W. S. Johnson. 
He spent three years in the prosecution ofhis theologi- 
cal studies, under the instruction of the Rev. Dr. Kuuze, 
one of the most learned men of his day. He was licensed 
to preach the Gospel in 1802, and soon after took charge 
of the Lutheran Church at Lunenburg (now Athens), 
N. Y. In 1806 he resigned this position, and accepted 
a call as pastor of St John’s (Lutheran) Church, Phila- 
delphia. This was the first exclusively English Lu- 
theran congregation formed in this country. To the 
discharge of his arduous duties Dr. Mayer devoted him- 
self with conscientious fidelity and untiring zeal. He 
was unwearied in his efforts to promote the good ofhis 


MAYHEW 


927 


MAYNE 


own flock, as well as faithful and constant in his aims 
to advance the welfare of the whole community. He 
never withheld his influence from any object which met 
his deliberate and cordial approval. In 1808 he was 
associated with bishop White, Dr. Green, Dr. Rush, and 
others in the formation of the Pennsylvania Bible Soci- 
ety, the first institution of the kind organized in the 
United States, of which he continued to be an active 
and efficient manager, and was at the time of his death 
the presiding officer. lie was also the senior member of 
the board of trustees of the University of Pennsylvania, 
lie was the president of the board of managers of the 
Deaf and Dumb Asylum and of the Philadelphia Dispen- 
sary, and was actively connected with other eleemosy- 
nary institutions. Liberal and enlarged in his views, 
he was at some time identified, either as a patron or di- 
rector, with every philanthropic enterprise of a catholic 
spirit in his adopted city, lie retained his pastoral 
connection with the Church till his death, which oc- 
curred April 16, 1858. Dr. Mayer was no ordinary man, 
or he could never have so successfully sustained him- 
self for so long a period among the same people, and 
enjoyed in so eminent a degree the regard and confi- 
dence of the whole community. He was a man of clear 
intellect and quick perceptions, united with great deli- 
cacy of taste and keen discernment. He was a ripe 
scholar, thoroughly acquainted with the whole range of 
English literature, and in the department of Biblical 
Criticism having few superiors. He received his D.D. 
from Columbia College, New York, and the University 
of Pennsylvania. (M. L. S.) 

Mayhew, Experience, a noted American divine, 
for years actively engaged in missionary labors among 
the Indians, was born Jan. 27, 1673. His father, grand- 
father, and great-grandfather were all most successfully 
engaged as missionaries to the Indians before him. In 
March, 1694, about five years after the death of his fa- 
ther, he began to preach to the Indians, taking the over- 
sight of five or six of their assemblies. The Indian 
language had been familiar to him from infancy, and 
lie was employed by the commissioners of the Society 
for Propagating the Gospel in New England to make a 
new version of the Psalms and John, which work he 
executed with great accuracy in 1709. lie died Nov. 
29, 1758, aged eighty-five. He published a sermon en- 
titled A ll Mankind by Nature equally under Sin (1724) : 
— Indian Converts (1727), in which he gives an account 
of the lives of thirty Indian ministers, and about eighty 
Indian men, women, and youth, worthy of remembrance 
on account of their piety: — Letter on the Lord’s Supper 
(1741): — Grace Defended (1744), in which he contends 
that the offer of salvation made to sinners in the Gospel 
contains in it a conditional promise of the grace given 
in regeneration. In this he says he differs from most j 
Calvinists; yet he supports the doctrines of original sin, 
of eternal decrees, and of the sovereignty of God in the I 
salvation of man. His son Zechariah succeeded him in 
the missionary field, making five generations thus en- 
gaged. The age attained by the Mayhcws is remarka- 
ble: the first, Thomas, died aged ninety; Experience, 
eighty-four; John, grandson of the first John, eighty- 
nine; his brother Jeremiah, eighty-five; Dr. Matthew, ' 
eighty-five; Zechariah, seventy-nine. — Indian Conv., 
Appendix, p. 306, 307 ; Channcv’s Remarks on Lau- 
da Jfs Sermon, p. 23 ; Cyclop . Pel. Knoicledge, s. v. 

Mayhew, Jonathan, D.D., a celebrated Ameri- 
can divine, was born at Martha’s Vineyard Oct. 8, 1720. 
He was a descendant of Thomas Mayhew, the first Eng- 
lish settler of that island. In early childhood Jonathan 
gave indications of great vigor of mind and a strong 
will, lie was fitted for college by his father, who was 
a very intelligent man. During his college course at 
Harvard he was distinguished not only as a fine classi- 
cal scholar, but also for his skill in dialectics and his at- 
tainments in ethical science. lie graduated with great 
honor in 1744. Three years later he received a call 


from West Church, in Boston, and continued in this 
station for the remainder of his life. On the day first 
appointed for his ordination only two clergymen of those 
invited were in attendance, owing, no doubt, to his ex- 
treme rationalism ; and even these two refused to act, 
and a council, consisting of fourteen ministers, had to be 
convoked, June 17, after which the new candidate was 
duly installed in office. Mr. Mayhew’s liberal opinions 
were so unpopular in Boston that he was for some time 
excluded from membership of the Boston Association of 
Congregational Ministers. In 1750 the degree of doctor 
of divinity was conferred upon him by the University 
of Aberdeen. His publications excited great attention 
not only in this country, but also in England. In 1755 
he published a volume of sermons on the Doctrine of 
Grace. At the close of one of these sermons there is a 
note on the doctrine of the Trinity, which was offensive 
alike to those who did and did not endorse his general 
views. Subsequently the doctor himself appears to have 
regretted having written it, and he unsuccessfully en- 
deavored to prevent its being published in the London 
edition. Dr. Mayhew was at this time scribe of the 
Massachusetts Convention of Congregational Ministers. 
In 1763 the Rev. East Arthorp published a pamphlet 
entitled Considerations on the Institution and Conduct of 
the Society for Propagating the Gospel, occasioning a 
violent controversy, in which Dr. Mayhew bore a promi- 
nent part. Dr. Mayhew was extensively known through- 
out Great Britain, and numbered among his correspond- 
ents such men as Lardner, Benson, Kippis, Blackburn, 
and Hollis. He died July 9, 176G. Dr. Mayhew pos- 
sessed a mind of great acuteness and energy, and in his 
principles was a determined republican. He had no lit- 
tle influence in producing the American Revolution. 
Among his best-known publications are the following: 
Seven Seimions (1749, 8 vo): — A Discourse concerning 
Unlimited Submission and Non-resistance to the Higher 
Powers (1750, 8vo). See Mr. Bancroft’s notice of this 
sermon, and his eloquent tribute to May hew, in his Hist, 
of the United States, iv, G0-G2: — Thanksgiving Sermon 
for the Repecd of the Stamp Act (1766): — Sermons to 
Young Men (1767, 2 vols. I2mo). See Memoir of the 
Life and Writings of the Rev. Jonathan Mayhew, by Al- 
den Bradford (1838); Riche, Bibl. Amer. Nova, i, 140, 
145, 153 ; Allibone, Diet. Brit, and A mer. A uthors, s. v. ; 
Sprague, Anneds Amer. Pulpit, vii, 22 sq. 

P«Jayhew, Thomas, a Trinitarian Congregational 
minister, son of Thomas Mayhew, the governor of Mar- 
tha’s Vineyard, was born in Southampton, England, 
about 1621 ; emigrated with his father to New England 
in 1631; resided for a few years in Watertown, Mass.; 
and in 1642 assisted his father in establishing a settle- 
ment at Edgartown, Martha’s Vineyard. Being deeply 
affected by the intellectual and moral degradation of the 
Indians, and possessing good natural talents, and a con- 
siderable knowledge of the Latin, Greek, and Hebrew 
languages, he determined to devote himself to preaching 
to the natives of the island. He soon acquired their 
language, commenced his pulpit ministrations in 1646, 
and labored among them so faithfully that in 1650 he 
had 100 converts, and in 1662, 282, among whom were 
eight pawams or priests. In 1657 he sailed for England 
to obtain aid from the Society for the Propagation of 
the Gospel; but the ship in which he had taken pas- 
sage was lost at sea, and never heard of. Cotton Ma- 
ther says that “ he was so affectionately esteemed by 
the Indians that many years afterwards he was seldom 
named without tears.” lie wrote, in connection with 
John Eliot, Tears of Repentance, Or a Narrative of the 
Progress of the Gospel among the Indians in New Eng- 
land. — Sprague, A muds A merican Pulpit, i, 131 ; Drake, 
Diet. A merican Biography, s. v. 

Maymbourg. See Mai.mbi t rg. 

Mayne, James S., a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in Ravallagh, near Coleraine, Antrim County, Ire- 
land, in 1825. He received a careful academic educa- 


MAYNE 


928 


MAYNOOTH 


tion in his native country, and in 1853 came to America; 
graduated at Princeton College with honor in 1857 ; 
studied divinity at the theological seminary at Prince- 
ton, X. J. ; was licensed in 1859, and in 18G0 commenced 
his labors at May’s Landing, Atlantic City, and Abse- 
con, X. J., where he died, Aug. 30, I860. Mr. Mavne 
was a man noted for his consistent and devoted piety. 
See Wilson, Presb. Hist . A Imanac , I8G2, p. 103. (J. L. S.) 

Mayne, Jasper, an English divine and poet, was 
born in Devonshire in IG04. At the age of nineteen he 
entered Christ-church College, Oxford, and in 1G31 se- 
cured the degree of M.A. He took holy orders, became 
a popular preacher, was presented by his college to two 
neighboring livings, and continued at the same time his 
residence in the university. He was made D.D. in 1646. 
At the time of Cromwell’s usurpation, being firmly de- 
voted to the cause of Charles I, he was deprived of his 
student’s place, and soon lost both of his vicarages. H is 
spirit, however, remained unbroken, and in 1652 we hear 
of his holding a public disputation with a noted Ana- 
baptist preacher. Subsequently he resided, until the 
Restoration, as chaplain in the family of the earl of 
Devonshire; in 1660 he was restored again to his liv- 
ing, was made chaplain in ordinary to the king, a canon 
of Christ Church, and archdeacon of Chichester. He 
died in Oxford in 1672. Dr. Mayne published in 1662 
a translation of a part of Lucian’s Dialogues, also several 
sermons and scattered poems. 

Maynooth College. In consequence of the Eng- 
lish Reformation, the Roman Catholic Church in Ireland 
lost all its rights and possessions. At the Synod of Dub- 
lin, in 1560, seventeen bishops out of nineteen endorsed 
the Act of Uniformity, and, upon the principle that “ ubi 
episcopus ibi ecclesia,” the English Reformed Church 
was declared the only legal Church in Ireland. The 
Roman Catholics were therefore compelled to worship 
in private, and to get their priests educated abroad. 
With the assistance of foreign princes they established, 
during the years 1582-1688, a number of seminaries in 
Spain. Italy, and the Netherlands (namely, at Salaman- 
ca, Alcala, Lisbon, Evora, Dacay, Antwerp, Tournay, 
Lille, Rome, Prague, Caupranica, Toulouse, Bordeaux, 
Poitiers, Nantes, Boulev, and Paris). As most of the 
students were poor and dependent on the aristocracy of 
Ireland, a great attachment grew up between them and 
the class by whom they were patronized. But in con- 
sequence of the French Revolution intercourse between 
Ireland and the Continent became more difficult. The 
Irish colleges of France and Brabant were closed, and 
the necessity became apparent of establishing a semi- 
nary at home. The most opposite political parties 
agreed in supporting this measure : the aristocracy from 
fear that the young priests might imbibe democratic 
ideas abroad, and the democrats from the hope of gain- 
ing over to their views the priests, who had heretofore 
always sided with their patrons. The middle classes 
especially thought to find in home-bred priests useful 
auxiliaries to their emancipation. When therefore the 
Roman Catholic prelates submitted to the lord lieuten- 
ant of Ireland their plan of establishing a college, he 
immediately gave his approval ; the Irish Parliament, 
composed of Protestants, sanctioned it, voted an appro- 
priation of £8000, and readily obtained the approbation 
of the Parliament of England in 1795. A board of 
trustees was organized, consisting of four Protestants, 
the Irish lord chancellor, three chief justices, six Roman 
Catholic laymen, and ten bishops. Dr. Ilussev, who 
had been eminently active In organizing the whole af- 
fair, was elected president of the college. The whole 
care and management of the college was vested in this 
board of managers. The four Protestant members*were 
changed every five years (being replaced by election of 
the other members), and, together with three Roman 
Catholics, fulfilled the duties of inspectors, yet without 
the power of interfering with either the doctrines or the 
discipline of the college. The most liberal among the 


Roman Catholics wished the college to be established at 
Dublin, the seat of the University, and where members 
of the different denominations were already studying 
harmoniously together. But the Roman Catholic bish- 
ops opposed this, as they desired their priests to be edu- 
cated under stricter discipline. The board of managers 
therefore chose the village of Maynooth, eleven miles 
from Dublin, and commenced building a seminary for 
fifty students on a piece of land purchased from the duke 
of Leiuster. When the Irish Parliament was incorpo- 
rated with the English, in 1801, an appropriation was 
made for the College of Maynooth amounting to some 
£8000 a year for the next twenty years. In 1808 some 
£13,000 more was voted for the purpose 'of enlarging the 
seminary, as it was inadequate to educating the number 
of priests required. Indeed in that year there were 478 
obliged to study abroad, chiefly in France, while there 
were only 200 to 250 attending at Maynooth. The sem- 
inary continued a long time without attracting much 
attention ; even the report of the board of trustees, pre- 
sented in 1826 to Parliament, did not throw much light 
on the real character of the institution; in fact, the true 
state of things was rather covered up than revealed in 
that document. But when O’Connell’s agitation broke 
out, it became apparent that its principal champions 
were priests educated in Maynooth College. It was 
also found that the alumni of Maynooth took an active 
part in the Roman Catholic emancipation in 1829 by 
unfairly influencing the elections. The seminary, in- 
stituted for the purpose of suppressing democratic ideas, 
seems thus to have become a centre of political as well 
as religious agitation. But the interior workings of the 
institution remained hidden from the public gaze until 
a zealous Protestant minister, JNPGhee, procured the 
theological text-book of Peter Dens, used at Maynooth, 
which was published to the extent of three thousand 
copies in 1801; another edition of the same number ap- 
peared in 1832. This work, which breathes to the ut- 
most the Roman Catholic spirit of aggression and perse- 
cution, and upholds the most offensive doctrines of that 
Church, was considered there as the highest authority, 
and gives a striking contradiction to the statement so 
often made by interested parties that the Roman Ca- 
tholicism of the 19th century is animated by an entirely 
different spirit from that of former times. These reve- 
lations provoked much opposition to Romanism, and a 
growing desire to abrogate the privileges of the Roman- 
ists. June 28, 1835, a great meeting was held at Exe- 
ter Hall, which was followed by others in various cities 
of England and Scotland. It was proved that the Rom- 
ish Church still displayed the same zeal for the destruc- 
tion of heretics, still claimed to relieve from oaths, re- 
tained auricular confession, with all its attendant evils, 
and all from unequivocal passages in the aforesaid text- 
book. Numberless pamphlets were published on this 
occasion ; Protestant associations were formed in Ireland 
to defend evangelical freedom, and chief among these 
were found the Orangemen. The old hatred between 
the Roman Catholics and the Protestants was thus re- 
vived, and trouble with Ireland seemed imminent. On 
the side of the Romish Church the “liberator of Ireland” 
gained crowds to his party by his eloquence and his 
fiery denunciations of the English ; his attitude became 
so threatening that the government, was obliged to 
prosecute him for high-treason. This repressed the re- 
bellion in its very' infancy, but at the same time embit- 
tered the feelings of the Roman Catholic population. 
Previous experience for seven centuries had shown that 
persecution could indeed weaken, and almost destroy, 
but never conquer Ireland ; and this was still more the 
case with regard to their Church, which the Roman 
Catholic Irish clung -to the more as it was weaker and 
more oppressed. There remained nothing but to try 
whether kindness would succeed where harshness had 
failed. The occasion was favorable, the insurrection 
was suppressed, and, if the victors met the vanquished 
as friends, much might be gained. This Irish question 


MAYNOOTH 


929 


MAYNOOTII 


proved almost insolvable to the English government. 
Cabinet after cabinet were wrecked upon it, without ar- 
riving at any result. And this is not to be wondered 
at, for the civil as well as religious relations in Ireland 
had for a long time been in so abnormal a state that all 
attempts at reform seemed either inefficient or danger- 
ous. Every effort to improve the condition of the peas- 
antry was met by the opposition of the landed aristoc- 
racy, while every assistance rendered to the weak and 
oppressed, but de facto national Church of Ireland, ex- 
asperated the Protestant element of the population. The 
passage of any bill concerning Ireland was a most com- 
plicated piece of politics. But, said an Irish paper, “ Prot- 
estantism is not as powerful as landed property, and re- 
ligion must give way before ground-rents.” Without 
attributing such views — as was often done — to the Brit- 
ish government, for attempts at conciliation were made 
from religious motives, it would appear that Sir Robert 
Peel inclined to this theory when, in 18-15, he presented 
the Maynooth Bill to Parliament. Indeed for the last 
fifty years Parliament had been voting an annual ap- 
propriation of over £8000 for the education of Roman 
Catholic priests; the preceding year the Charitable Be- 
quest Bill had been passed almost unanimously, and the 
Roman Catholic prelates had assured Peel that the pas- 
sage of his new bill would be thankfully received by the 
Roman Catholics as a pledge of reconciliation. But 
hardly had the bill been presented to the House of Com- 
mons when a storm of opposition arose. The Protes- 
tants of the various denominations united to denounce 
it, and to petition against a bill which would modify 
the Protestant character of the administration. A large 
meeting, chiefly of Dissenters, was held at Exeter Hall, 
March 18, 1845, and a Central Anti-Maynooth Commit- 
tee organized to oppose the bill, and to overwhelm the 
Parliament with petitions. On April 3 Peel presented 
the bill to the House of Commons. He attempted to 
prove that there were but three ways of acting : to main- 
tain things as they were, to suppress the usual appro- 
priation, or to increase it. The first he declared imprac- 
ticable, as so insufficient a sum for the purpose could not 
gain much gratitude for the donors ; the second, he said, 
was still less advisable, as the withdrawal of assistance 
to which they had been accustomed for fifty years would 
not fail to exasperate the Irish ; but the third he looked 
upon as a certain remedy. He therefore proposed to 
raise the yearly appropriation for Maynooth to £26,000, 
making it a part of the regular budget, and thus trans- 
forming the grant into a dotation; he moreover pro- 
posed to incorporate the board of trustees, and to vote a 
special grant of £30,000 for building purposes. Besides, 
the existing ex officio inspectors were to be replaced by 
five inspectors appointed by the crown, who, however, 
would leave the control of the doctrines and discipline 
to the three Roman Catholic inspectors. The opposi- 
tion was headed by Sir R. Inglis. He attacked the bill 
on religious ground, as opposed to Protestant principles. 
He did not mean to withdraw the usual appropriation, 
but wanted Roman Catholics, like Dissenters, to educate 
their ministers at their own expense. All those op- 
posed to the Established Church sided with him. The 
bill received 216 votes against 114 at the first reading. 
This, however, was but the prelude. At the seeond 
reading the struggle commenced in earnest, and lasted 
through six sittings. They first argued about the new 
principle, which converted a. yearly grant into a dota- 
tion, for th is gave to the previously ignored Homan Catji- 
olic Church a legal existence and official recognition. 
The friends of the bill sought to defend this principle in 
various ways. Some claimed that it was the duty of the 
Parliament to care for Maynooth, either because, by 
uniting with itself the Irish Parliament, it had assumed 
its charges, or as a sort of restitution for the former pos- 
sessions of which the Church of Rome had been de- 
prived. Yet the assumption of the liabilities of the 
Irish Parliament did not guarantee the continuance of 
the grant louger than twenty years more, and, on the 
V. — N N N 


other hand, calling £26,000 a restitution, when the 
yearly income from the confiscated Church property 
amounted to over £600,000, sounded like bitter mock- 
ery. Others preferred to take the broader ground of 
moral obligation, claiming that it was necessary to aid 
oppressed and impoverished Ireland. Others again, 
leaving the past to consider only the future, argued 
from the political point of view. They hoped that this 
conciliatory measure, and the better education of the 
priests, would open a new tera to Ireland. None of these 
views satisfied Gladstone, who, after criticising them 
all, finally arrived at the negative principle that the 
support granted to Maynooth should only be withdrawn 
at the last extremity, as it -would have the worst conse- 
quences on the relation existing between England and 
Ireland. Some even sought to treat it as a mere edu- 
cational question. Still the majority could not blind 
themselves to the fact that it really involved the 
weighty and difficult question of the relation between 
the English government and the Roman Catholic Church 
in Ireland. The opponents of the bill had an easier 
task. They could readily attack it from an abstract re- 
ligious stand-point. They divided themselves, however, 
into two great sections, according to the ground they 
took. The Churchmen and some of the Dissenters did 
not oppose the continuation of the former support, but its 
increase ; the Dissenters, as a body, opposed this, like all 
other government support towards churches. Both par- 
ties clamored loudly against the abuses of the Church of 
Rome, its political as well as religious tendencies, and 
particularly the Jesuitical spirit inculcated at Maynooth. 
Yet Parliament perceived that something must be done 
to allay the hostile feelings in Ireland, and the bill 
passed the second reading with 323 votes against 176. 
After another protraeted and severe struggle, it received 
at the third reading 317 votes against 189. The discus- 
sion of the bill in the House of Lords was a repetition of 
that in the House of Commons. The most eminent ju- 
rists decided in favor of the bill. Brougham established 
a precedent in bringing forward a previous act in which 
the principle of dotation was dearly expressed. On the 
bench of bishops, six voted in favor of the bill ; among 
them the archbishop of Armagh and the bishops of 
Norwich and St. David. The bill finally went through 
with 181 votes against 50, and received the royal sanc- 
tion on June 30, 1815. While the bill was under dis- 
cussion in Parliament, the opposition outside was very 
active. A large meeting was held on April 13 at Cov- 
ent Garden, in which both Churchmen and Dissenters 
took part. Other meetings were also held in the prin- 
cipal cities. The Dissenters were especially active. 
Churchmen and Dissenters asserted as the ground of 
their opposition: 1, that by increasing the grant to the 
seminary, the papacy would be legally recognised in 
Ireland; 2, that the practice of employing government 
funds for the support of religion is wrong in principle: 
3, that there -were special objections to the bill under 
consideration, namely, the Jesuitical tendencies of May- 
nooth, the danger of the influence over the masses of a 
more thoroughly-educated clergy, the evil of binding 
the clergy to the support of the government, leading 
them to oppose the progressive social tendencies of the 
people ; and, finally, the spirit of aggression inherent to 
the papacy. Some of the Dissenters, however, found 
this platform too indefinite; they wanted the bill re- 
jected wholly on anti-State-Church principles, and on 
May 2 formed a special committee at Salter’s Hall, dis- 
tinct from the original Central Anti-Maynooth Com- 
mittee. On May 20 they held a meeting at Crosby 
Hall, in which 300 ministers and 400 laymen (princi- 
pally Baptists, Presbyterians, Independents, and Cal- 
vinistic and Arminian Methodists of the new Connec- 
tion) took part. They urged the Roman Catholics to 
decline the assistance of the Government to their 
Church for their own sake and that of their religion. 
Sir Culling Eardley, president of the Central Commit- 
tee, spoke in a quite different tone in a letter to O’Con- 


MAYXOOTII 


930 


MAYOW 


nefi. He accused the Iloman Catholic leader of incon- 
sistency if lie accepted the new grant, and threatened 
to use every means in his power to gain his end. An 
Anti-Maynooth Committee was also organized at Dub- 
lin, and in a meeting held on June 5 an address to the 
House of Lords was drawn up, which received 3G27 sig- 
natures, and also a petition to the queen. On the whole 
there were some 10.000 petitions draAvn up against the 
bill, which received about 1,130,000 signatures. The 
government, however, remained unmoved, and the ex- 
citement gradually subsided. It was thought that now 
the Homan Catholic party would rest satisfied, and be 
truly reconciled ; yet at one of the very first synods held 
by them the royal colleges were excommunicated and 
the national school condemned. The Homan Catholic 
prelates in Ireland — Cullen, Slatery, and M‘Hale — had 
already attracted considerable attention by their Ultra- 
montane views, but at this last outrage the old opposi- 
tion spirit kindled again into a flame. Spooner pro- 
voked a visitation of Maynooth College by a bill he 
proposed May II, 1852. Yet more moderate advice pre- 
vailed: it was claimed that the papal aggression in no 
wise affected Ireland, but rather England, and that the 
most Ultramontane among the Irish prelates, Cullen, 
was educated at Home, not at Maynooth. Spooner 
finally withdrew his motion. Yet every year, for some 
time after, the proposition of stopping the appropriation 
was renewed; and was not dropped until quiet had been 
fully restored in Ireland, and general harmony re-estab- 
lished. 

The agitation of the Irish population in late years, 
provoked, no doubt, in a great measure in Ireland, as in 
Poland, by the immaculate emissaries of the pontiff 
of Rome, has led the government of England to con- 
sider the propriety of granting the three millions of 
Irish Romanists such liberty in worship and education 
as should make them as fit subjects as the other twenty 
millions of the northern isles who enjoy the protection 
of the British crown, and worthy associates of their 
English-speaking neighbors. Jn I8G8 Mr. Gladstone, 
whose very earliest work had been “ marked by a plain 
inclination to elevate the Church above the State,” and 
who, in the very maiden-days of his political career, had 
“exhibited an unfailing tenderness for the whims, the 
complaints, and the growing claims of his friends the 
papal prelates,” was called to the premiership of Great 
Britain, to establish, if possible, perfect accord between 
the English and Irish people. Almost the sole aim of 
the policy which the new premier inaugurated was the 
conciliation of the Romanists of Ireland. For this one 
purpose he has labored uninterruptedly. No sooner had 
he succeeded Mr. Disraeli than lie urged the disestab- 
lishment of the Church of England principles as the 
ecclesiastical principles of Ireland. 1 1 is success in this 
attempt is now a matter of history. -See Ireland. 
Flattered by the easy victory gained in his first effort, 
Mr. Gladstone followed it by a proposal for the estab- 
lishment of compulsory education and denominational 
schools. Herein, also, he succeeded, but only measura- 
bly. Encouraged by these repeated successes, he has 
lately come forward with a scheme which only a few 
days ago (February. 1873) threatened his ruin, and even 
now holds him in suspense. His new scheme now on 
foot is a proposition to dismantle Trinity College, long 
the eyesore of Romanists, and to found an immense ed- 
ucational establishment, called the Irish University, in 
which Catholics shall study only their own history and 
philosophy, Protestants a different series, and which 
shall be endowed with a vast revenue from the spolia- 
tion of Trinity and the wrecks of the Established Church. 
Both Dissenters and Conformists are alarmed at the step 
Mr. Gladstone seems determined upon. Even Roman- 
ists disfavor the proposal, for of -the three or four mill- 
ions of Catholic Irish it is probable that not one third 
of suitable age can read and write. The greatest oppo- 
sition, however, has come from Rome, and suddenly the 
premier of Great Britain finds himself confronted by 


those whom he had always had reason to look upon as 
his chief supporters. Well has it lately been said that 
“ the policy of Rome knows neither friendship nor grat- 
itude; to serve ‘the Church’ it strikes indiscriminately 
at its friends or foes; and the British statesman has 
shown himself no match for the Italian priests, who 
have preyed upon his eminent renown, and would now, 
perhaps, exult over his fall. They throw him aside as 
the instrument they can no longer use, and demand that 
Ireland shall be ruled and educated by Catholics alone. 
With medueval mummeries they have dedicated the 
island to ‘ the sacred heart of Jesus,’ and plainly intend 
nothing less than the total subjugation of its Protestant 
population to a priestly despotism.” The endowment 
of Maynooth, and later the establishment of the queen’s 
colleges, and even the open doors of Trinity, eannot and 
will not pacify Borne. She seeks control of Ireland both 
in Church and State; and so long as the papacy shall re- 
main tainted by a zest for temporal power, both Eng- 
land and Prussia will find defilement and abasement, 
aye, not unfrequent ly rebellion in the ranks of those of 
her subjects who claim fidelity to the hierarchy. The 
last days certainly are teaching even the most liberal- 
minded politicians that the Church of Rome is built 
upon a foundation which is political as well as ecclesias- 
tical, and that the severe measures, as inaugurated by 
Bismark, will alone save the Protestant world from ruin 
and decay. * 

Mayo, Daniel, a Presbyterian divine of some note, 
was born in London or vicinity in 1G72. He was edu- 
cated first at home, then went abroad and studied for 
some time in Holland under Witsius. On his return to 
England he preached successively at Tothill Fields, 
Westminster, at Kingston-upon-Thames, and at Hack- 
ney, aud finally settled permanently at Silver Street, 
London, where he died in 1733. Mr. Mayo was a man 
of considerable talents, great zeal and activity, combined 
with prudence. Besides publishing many sermons, he 
wrote, in continuation of Henry’s Exposition , a Com- 
mentary on the Second Epistle to the Corinthians . See 
Allibone, Diet, of Bi'it. and A mer. A uthors , s. v. ; Brown, 
Cyclop, of Religious Knowledge , s. v. 

Mayotta, one of the Comoro Isles (in the Indian 
Ocean), since 1843 under the control of the French, is 
situated in latitude 12° 34: '-13° 4' S., and longitude 44° 
59' 15"-45° 23' E., covering some twenty-one miles 
from north to south, with an average breadth of six or 
seven miles ; if, however, the dangerous coral reefs which 
surround the island be included, the whole occupies a 
space of thirty miles north and south, and twenty-four 
miles east and west, and contains a population of about 
8000, mostly Romanists. The surface of this isle is v.erv 
uneven, and is studded with volcanic-looking peaks, 
some of which exceed 2000 feet in height. Its shores 
are in some places lined with mangrove swamps, which 
are uncovered at low water, and are productive of ma- 
laria and fever; it is in most parts capable of cultiva- 
tion, prominently that of sugar, the only article exported. 
The French themselves live mainly on the island of 
Gaomlzi, inside the chain of reefs on the east side of 
Mayotta. A governor and colonial officer are residents, 
and some 100 French soldiers, besides some natives, were 
stationed there. The Roman Catholic Church alone lias 
a hold here. 

Mayow, Roiieut Wynell, an English divine, was 
born at Salt ash, in the latter half of the 17th century 
(1777); was educated at Exeter College, Oxford; and, 
after serving several curacies in succession, removed to 
Ard wick, near Manchester, but there he died, only three 
months after removal, in 1817. Mr. Mayow is highly 
spoken of as a pulpit orator. A noted English writer 
lias compared him with Sterne for his great humor and 
strong feeling, which the two possessed in common. lie 
published Plain Preaching , or Sermons for the Poor and 
for People of all Banks (Lond. 181G, 12rno) : — Sermons 
and Miscellaneous Pieces, to which is prefixed a Memoir 


MAZARIN 


MAYR 931 


of his Life (1822, 12mo). — Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and 
A mer. A uth. s. v. 

Mayr, Be da, a Benedictine monk, was born at Du- 
itingeu, in Bavaria, in 1742. lie entered the cloister at 
Donauworth in his twentieth year. Finely cultured, 
and classed with the best talent of his day, he sought 
relief from the dulness of convent life by teaching math- 
ematics, poetry, rhetoric, philosophy, canon law, and the- 
ology. He was charged with being liberal to excess, 
and was both feared and distrusted by the clergy of the 
Roman Catholic Church. II is principal work, Defence 
of the Natural, Christian, and Catholic Religion, accord- 
ing to the Necessities of our Time, was published at Augs- 
burg in 1787, and is still mentioned. He died April 28, 
1794. A list of his works is given by During, Gelehrie 
Theol. Deutschlands , vol. ii, s. v. ; see also Wetzer uml 
Yv r elte, Kirch en- Lex ikon, vi, 953. (G. M.) 

Mayr, Colestin, a German theologian, was born 
April 21, 1G79, at Donauworth. In 1698 he entered the 
Benedictine Order at Augsburg ; later he became a stu- 
dent at the University of Salzburg, where in 1711 he 
was appointed professor of philosophy. In 1713 he ob- 
tained the professorship of polemical theology, and the 
inspection of the Salzburg schools. About this time he 
was made doctor of divinity. In 1714 he was appointed 
ecclesiastical counsellor of the duke of Salzburg, and at 
the same time became professor of scholastic theology. 
In 1716 he was appointed vice-rector of the university, 
in 1719 pro-chancellor, and in 1728 chief rector. In 
1731 lie retired from academic life, and thereafter held 
an official relation to the cloister Linzheim, in Neuburg, 
where he died, March 19, 1753. Mayr enjoyed great 
prominence as a writer of theology, but his productions 
have never been collected in book form. They consist 
mainly of dissertations and contributions to different 
journals. For a list of his writings, see Ddring, Gelehrte 
Theol. Deutschlands, vol. ii, s. v. 

Mays art. Sec Meysart. 

Mazarin, Jules (properly Guilio Mazzarind), car- 
dinal, the celebrated prime-minister of king Louis XIV 
of France, the successor of cardinal Richelieu, and inau- 
gurator of a reign noted for attainments in arms, lan- 
guage, tine arts, literature, industry, and a superior de- 
gree of splendor, was born of a noble Sicilian family 
July 14, 1602, most probably at Piscina, near the lake 
of Celano, in Abruzzo Citra, though in the letters of nat- 
uralization granted him in France in 1639 it is stated 
that he was born at Rome. It is certain, however, 
that he received his education at the Eternal City, and 
hence, no doubt, the mistake as to his native place. In 
1G19 Mazarin went to Spain to pursue the study of juris- 
prudence, probably intending to enter the legal profes- 
sion, but, returning to Rome in 1622, a little later he 
entered the military service, and was given a captain’s 
commission in 1625. Soon after this he entered the 
service of the Church, and was employed as companion 
of the papal legate to France, and in this mission dis- 
played great political talents. In the difficulties arising 
out of the contested succession to the duchy of Mantua, 
in which France supported the pretensions of the count 
De Nevers, while the emperor of Germany, the king of 
Spain, and the duke of Savoy supported those of the duke 
of Guastalla. Mazarin was sent by pope Urban to Turin 
as the assistant of cardinal Sacchetti. The latter at 
once perceived his talent, gave him his entire confidence, 
and in fact devolved upon him the entire management 
of the negotiation. It was not immediately successful, 
for in 1629 Louis XIII in person invaded Savoy, took 
Suza, and forced the duke of Savoy to abandon his alli- 
ance with Spain. Finally Sacchetti returned to Rome, 
leaving Mazarin, with the title of “ internuncio, ’’ to con- 
tinue the negotiations. Cardinal Barberini, the pope's 
nephew, returned in Sacchctti’s stead, and Barberini 
found Mazarin as indispensable as had his predecessor. 
Mazarin labored unceasingly to restore peace. He vis- 
ited the contending powers; in 1630 he saw Louis XIII 


and cardinal Richelieu, who both formed a high opinion 
of him, and in 1631 he finally succeeded in effecting the 
treaty of Cheraseo, by which peace was restored* Maz- 
arin at this time displayed considerable trickery in fa- 
vor of France, and by this unfair partiality acquired the 
hatred of the courts of Spain and Germany, but the 
thanks of Louis and Richelieu, who recommended “the 
able negotiator” to the favor of the pope. Shortly after 
he was to receive at the hands of the French cardinal 
and prime-minister the reward due for his great services 
to Louis XIII. In 1634 he was named vice-legate to 
Avignon, but was sent to Paris as nuncio to intercede 
with Louis XIII in favor of the duke of Lorraine, whose 
duchy the king of the French had taken possession of. 
Mazarin, now unequivocally drawn towards Richelieu, 
of course failed to accomplish the task assigned him by 
the holy father. Mazarin returned to Rome in 1636 
as the avowed supporter of French interests, and, on 
the death of Richelieu’s celebrated confidant, father Jo- 
seph, pope Urban was solicited by Louis XIII and his 
minister to bestow- upon Mazarin the cardinal’s hat 
promised for father Joseph, but, as Urban refused, Maz- 
arin in 1G39 quitted Italy for France, and there entered 
the service of the king as a naturalized Frenchman. In 

1640 he was nominated ambassador to Savoy, where, af- 
ter a short war, he lvas enabled to restore peace, and in 

1641 he was at length raised to the rank of cardinal, 
through the persistent efforts of his friend the cardinal 
and prime-minister of France. Mazarin, in France, was 
a faithful and useful assistant to Richelieu, especially 
during the famous conspiracy headed by Henri de Cinq- 
Mars, which ended by his execution in Sept ember, 1G42. 
This was Richelieu’s last triumph. In the following 
December he died, recommending on his death-bed that 
Louis should receive Mazarin as his ow r n successor, and 
Louis, sufficiently predisposed in Mazarin’s favor, gladly 
acceded to the last v T ish of his faithful friend and coun- 
sellor. In 1643 Louis XIII himself died, and Mazarin’s 
position became one of great difficulty amid the in- 
trigues, jealousies, and strifes of the courtiers surround- 
ing Louis XI Y in his minority. By the will of the 
late king he had been declared the sole adviser of the 
queen-regent, Anne of Austria, but the latter assumed 
a decidedly hostile attitude towards the cardinal, and 
it v T as some time before he succeeded in acquiring the 
principal power in the government, as well as the confi- 
dence of the queen-regent, lie used his power at first 
with moderation, and courted popularity by gracious 
and affable manners. lie prosecuted the v T ar against 
Spain which began under his predecessor, and in w hich 
Conde and Turcnne maintained the honor of the French 
arms. A dispute which arose between the court and 
the Parliament of Paris, regarding the registration of 
edicts of taxation, w r as fomented by cardinal De Retz 
into the revolt of the Parisians called “the Day of the 
Barricades” (.Vug. 27, 1648), and was followed by the 
civil war of the Fronde. The court was forced to retire 
to St. Germain, and Mazarin was outlawed by Parlia- 
ment; but, by the truce ofRuel, he still remained min- 
ister. The feeling against him, however. became still 
more inflamed when, at his instigation, the queen-re- 
gent caused the princes of Conde and Conti and the 
duke of Longueville to be arrested in January, 1650. 
Mazarin went in person at the head of the court troops 
to the insurgent provinces, and, after the victory at Be- 
thel, showed so much insolence that the nobles and the 
people of the capital made common cause against him. 
lie found it necessary to secure his safety by flight to 
the Netherlands. The press teemed with violent pub- 
lications against Mazarin, known as Mazarinades (col- 
lected by Moreau in the Bibliographic des Mazarinades 
[Paris, 1850-51,3 vols. 8vo]; a selection of them was 
also published by Moreau under the title Choix des Jfaz- 
arinades [ibid. 1854, 2 vols. 8vo]). After the rebellion 
of the prince of Conde he ventured to return to France; 
but Paris making his removal a condition of its submis- 
sion, he retired again from the court, and it ’.vas not till 


MAZDAIv 


032 


MAZZOCCHI 


Fib. 3, 1053 that lie made a triumphant entry into the 
capital, where he was received with significant silence. 
Vet after a time the skill, patience, and perseverance of 
Mazarin triumphed, and he regained his former popular- 
ity and acquired his former power. See here article 
Louis XIV, p. 526, col. 1. After governing France with 
great ability, and just as Louis XIV was arriving at an 
age when he felt the capacity and desire to sway the 
sceptre himself, 31 azarin died, March 9,1661. In 1690 
some letters, written by Mazarin during the negotiation 
of the peace of the Pyrenees, were published ; additional 
letters were published in 1693, and in 1745 others were 
added, and the whole arranged under the title of Lettres 
dn Cardinal Mazarin, oil Voa voit le secret de negotia- 
tion de hi Paix des Pyrenees. “They were written for 
the information and instruction of the young king, and 
form useful examples of clearness and precision in dip- 
lomatic writings.” II is person was remarkably hand- 
some, and his manners fascinating, and from an oppo- 
nent he turned Anne of Austria, the queen-regent during 
Louis XIV’s minority, into his friend, if not secretly af- 
fianced companion, as has been asserted with much ap- 
pearance of truth. “Mazarin,” says Mignet {Memoires 
relatifs a la succession d'Espagne ), “had a far-seeing 
and inventive mind, a character rather supple than fee- 
ble. His device was ‘ Le Temps et moi.’ ” Under his 
administration the influence of France among the na- 
tions was increased, and in the internal government of 
the country those principles of despotism were estab- 
lished on which Louis XIV afterwards acted. The ad- 
ministration of justice, however, became very corrupt, 
and the commerce and finances of the country sank into 
deep depression. It is admitted that as a financial ad- 
ministrator he was far inferior to Richelieu. Mazarin 
was very niggardly and very avaricious, and had ac- 
quired in various ways, fair and foul, an immense for- 
tune, amounting to 12,000.000 livres, which lie offered 
to the king shortly before he died ; afraid, it is thought, 
that it might be rudely seized from his heirs. Louis 
declined the restitution, which was perhaps what the 
wily minister expected. I n his will Mazarin made many 
ami large bequests to students and literary enterprises; 
indeed, he had always proved himself the friend and 
patron of learning. The College Mazarin was founded 
at his wish, to receive students from the provinces ac- 
quired by the “ peace of the Pyrenees,” and to this same 
institution he presented his library, of immense value 
and size. See the Memoirs of Mazarin’s contemporaries, 
Retz, Madame Motteville, La Rochefoueault, Turonne, 
Grammont, etc.; M me. de Lovgueville, etc., by Victor 
Cousin ; Aubery, llistoire da Cardinal Mazarin (1751) ; 
Capefigue, Richelieu. Mazarin , la Fronde ct la regue de 
Louis XI U (Paris, 1835,8 vols. 8vo); Saint- Aulaire, llis- 
toire de hi Fronde; Bazin, llistoire de France sons le 
M inistere da Cardinal M azarin (Paris, 1842, 2 vols. Svo) ; 
Voltaire. Si'ecle de Louis XI V; Gualdo-Priorato, Vita del 
('ordinal Mazarin (1662); John Calvert, Life of Cardi- 
nal Mazarin (1670); Sismondi, llistoire des Francois; 
( i ram moil t, Memoires ; V. Cousin, La Jeunesse de Maza- 
rin; Iloefer, A 'our. Bing. Gene rale ; Chambers. Cyclop. 
s. v. : English Cyclop, s. v. ; Eraser's Magazine, Novem- 
ber, 1831, and February, 1832. 

Mazdak (or Mazdek),a Persian religious enthu- 
siast, flourished towards the close of the 5th centurv 
(he is believed to have been born about A.D. 470). lie 
professed to be a prophet, and, securing many followers, 
declared for a community of property. Gaining in 
strength among the people, he found favor finally also 
in the eyes of his ruler, king lvobad, and the system of 
communism was adopted, eflecting great changes in the 
social order. The revolution, however, lasted only a 
short time, and gradually the old order of things was 
restored. 

Mazel, Abraiiam, a leader of the French Camisards, 
wa* born at Saint -Jean-du-Gard some time about the 
middle of the 17th century. After the insurrection of 


the Cevennes in 1702 he was imprisoned, but, escaping 
from his captors, he determined to bring the people to a 
more determined stand, and while engaged in this work 
was killed in a skirmish near Uze's in 1710. See Court, 
llistoire des Camisards. See Camisards. 

Maziti'as {Ma^iriaij v. r. Zan'ac), given by er- 
roneous G racism (1 Esdr. ix, 35) in place of the He- 
brew Mattatiiiaii (Ezra x, 43). 

Mazolini, Silvestro, an Italian theologian, is 
usually known by the surname Prierias (after the name 
of his birthplace, Prierio). See Prierias. 

Ma'zor (Heb. Matsor', ^llS'D), a name occurring 
only in the original, and which the translators of the 
A. V. (“besieged places,” 2 Kings xix, 24; Isa. xxxvii, 
25; “fortified cities,” Mieah vii, 12; “defence,” Isa. 
xix, 6) have confounded with a word of the same form 
signifying a fortress (as in Psa. xxxi, 22 ; Hab. ii, 1, 
etc.). Gesenius, however ( Tkesaur . Ileh. p. 815), regards 
it as a title of Egypt , and apparently Lower Egypt, 
as, in three out of the four passages where it occurs, it 
is in the phrase *Vi2S72 “HX?, the streams or canals of 
Egypt , i.e. the branches of the Nile (Isa. xix, 6 ; xxxvii, 
25 ; 2 Kings xix, 24) ; and that it comes from the 
Egpytian word mesduro , a kingdom ; perhaps the sing, 
of the dual form Mizraim, q. d. double Egypt 

(comp. Josephus, Ant. i, 6, 2). Others (see Bocliart, 
Phaleg , iv, 24), as probably the Hebrews themselves, 
considered Egypt to be so called as being strongly forti- 
fied (see Diod. Sic. i, 31). See Egypt; Fortress. 

Maz'zaroth (Heb. Mazzaroth ', TVHJp, a word 
found only in the plural, and occurring but once, Job 
xxxviii, 32, probably by an interchange of liquids for 
rViStf-Dj “planets,” 2 Kings xxiii, 5), an astronomical 
term, probably meaning the twelve signs of the Zodiac 
(see llirzel, Delitzsch, and Conant, severally, ad loc.). 
See Astronomy. “ The Peshito-Syriac renders it by 
iogcilto , the Wain, or Great Bear; and J. D. Micliaelis 
(*$ 'uppl ad Lex. Ucb. No. 1391) is followed by Ewald in 
applying it to the stars of the northern crown (Ewald 
adds the southern), deriving the word from *113, nezer, 
a crown. F first ( Handle . s. v.) understands by Mazza- 
roth the planet Jupiter, the same as the star of Amos 
v. 26. But the interpretation given in the margin of 
our version is supported by the authority of Gesenius 
( Thes . p. 869). On referring to 2 Kings xxiii, 5, we 
find the word mazzdluth (A. A’, the planets), dif- 

fering only from mazzaroth in having the liquid l for 
r, and rendered in the margin ‘the twelve signs,’ as 
in the Vulgate. The Sept, there also has paZovpu)9, 
which points to the same reading in both passages, and 
is by Suidas explained as the ‘Zodiac,’ but by Procopius 
of Gaza as probably ‘ Lucifer, the morning star,’ follow- 
ing the Vulgate of Job xxxviii, 32. In later Jewish 
writings mazzdluth are the signs of the Zodiac, and the 
singular, mazzdl , is used to denote the single signs as 
well as the planets, and also the influence which they 
were believed to exercise upon human destiny (Selden, 
I)e Dis Syr. Synt. i. c. 1). In consequence of this, 
Jarclii, and the Hebrew commentators generally, iden- 
tify mazzaroth and mazzdluth , though their interpreta- 
tions vary. Aben Ezra understands ‘stars’ generally; 
but It. Levi ben-Gershon, ‘a northern constellation.’ 
Gesenius himself is in favor of regarding mazzaroth as 
the older form, signifying strictly ‘premonitions,’ and 
in the concrete sense, ‘stars that give warnings or pre- 
sages,’ from the usage of the root ndzar , in Arabic. 

He deciphered, as lie believed, the same words on some 
Gilieiau coins in the inscription bv *J7 “pPS, which he 
renders as a prayer, ‘may thy pure star (shine) over 
(us)’ {Mon. Phoen. p. 279, tab. 36)” (Smith). 

Mazzocchi (or Mazzoccolo), Alessio Simma- 
cho, an Italian antiquary and Orientalist, was born at 
Santa Maria di Capua in 1684, and afterwards flourished 


MAZZOLA 


933 


McBRYDE 


as professor of Greek and Hebrew at Naples. He died 
in 1771. Mazzocchi was celebrated for his learning far 
beyond the borders of his native land. His many treat- 
ises (written in Latin and Italian) were elaborate and 
scholarly dissertations upon various subjects. The Paris 
Academy of Inscriptions recognised his services to the 
world by making him a member of its body. See Hoefer, 
Nouv . Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Mazzola, Girolamo Bedolo, an Italian painter, 
pronounced the most distinguished pupil of Parmigiano, 
was born near Parma in 1503, and died about 15S0. lie 
excelled as colorist and in perspective. Among his most 
valuable productions are those falling within the domain 
of sacred art. The most worthy of notice are his Ma- 
donna with St. Catharine and Miracle of the Multiplica- 
tion of the Loaves. See Vasari, Lives of the Painters ; 
Hcefer. Nouv. Biog. Generale, s. v. 

Mazzola (or Mazzuola), Girolamo Frances- 
co Maria, an eminent Italian painter, surnamed II Par- 
migiano, the Parmesan , was born at Parma in 1503. He 
visited Rome in 1523, and was employed by Clement 
VII to execute a number of works in that city. His 
style, formed on that of Correggio and Raphael, is char- 
acterized by exceeding grace and delicacy of form and 
softness of coloring. It was said by Mazzola’s admirers 
that “the spirit of Raphael had passed into him.” Maz- 
zola was the first Italian artist who engraved with 
aqua fortis. He died in 1540. Among his masterpieces 
are the Madonna della Rosa, in the gallery of Dresden; 
an Annunciation , in the principal church of Viadana; 
the Madonna with St. Margaret , St. Jerome, etc., in the 
Museum at Bologna ; the Madonna dello Lungo Collo, 
at Florence; and the Vision of St. Jerome, in the Na- 
tional Gallery, London. See Vasari, Lives of the Paint- 
ers ; Affo, Vita di F. Mazzola (1784); Mrs. Jameson, 
Memoirs of Early Italian Painters; Bellini, Cenni in- 
tomo alia Vita ed alle Opere di F. Mazzola (1844) ; 
Mortara, Memoria della Vita di F. Mazzuola (1846). — 
Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Generale, vol. xxxiv, s. v. 

McAdam, Tiiomas, a ruling elder in the Presby- 
terian Church, was born April 10, 1777, near Ballymena, 
Ireland. Being an ardent friend of liberty, the op- 
pressive measures of the British government led him 
to take an active part in the efforts made to obtain free- 
dom in Ireland; in consequence of which he incurred 
the suspicion of the officers of the law, and being in 
danger of losing his life by a summary trial, in 1797 he 
left his native land for America. He was subsequently 
engaged in teaching in Philadelphia ; was for a consid- 
erable time at the head of the mathematical and English 
school connected with the University of Pennsylvania ; 
was ordained a ruling elder in 1801, and for many 
years treasurer of the Board of Missions of the General 
Synod of the Reformed Presbyterian Church. He died 
Nov. 16, 1844. Mr. McAdam was a man of noble and 
generous impulses, dignified in manners, intelligent, and 
truthful. See Wilson, Pi'esb. Hist. Almanac, 1860, p. 
176. (J.L.S.) 

McArthur, James T., a Presbyterian minister, 
was born in Jackson, N. Y., October 22, 1827 ; gradu- 
ated at Union College, Schenectady, N. Y.; studied the- 
ology, first in the Associate Seminary, Canonsburg, Pa., 
and afterwards in the seminary at Xenia, Ohio ; was 
licensed by the Presbytery of Miami, and connected 
with the Presbytery of Cambridge when he died, April 
15, 1859. See Wilson, Presb. llist. Almanac , 1860, p. 
159. 

McAuley, William, an Associate Reformed Pres- 
byterian minister, was born in the north of Ireland about 
1765. His early education was thorough, as he was in- 
tended for some literary profession, and when about fif- 
teen years old he was entered as student at the Uni- 
versity of Glasgow, where he gained high distinctions. 
Both students and professors regarded him as a youth 
of singular promise. Upon graduation he at once en- 
tered upon the study of theology, under the well-known 


and venerable John Brown of Haddington, the professor 
of theology to the Associate Burgher Synod of Scotland, 
and was one of the last class of students taught by that 
great and good man. William McAuley was licensed to 
preach in 1789 by the Associate Presbytery of Armagh, 
and was ordained by that body in 1790, as minister of 
the Associate congregation of Tulliallan, and there he 
labored acceptably until 1794, when he emigrated to the 
United States. Here he was received by the Presby- 
tery of Washington (Synod of New York), and was in- 
stalled in charge of the united congregations of Ivort- 
right, Harpersfield, and Stamford, Delaware County, 
N. Y. As the country developed, his churches grew in 
power, and divisions becoming necessary, he was finally 
confined in his labors to Kortright alone. He held his 
post for over half a century, and died in the harness 
March 24, 1851. Mr. McAuley deserves to be remem- 
bered as one of the pioneers of American Protestantism. 
Ilis task was one requiring energy and perseverance, 
and both these qualities he possessed in an eminent de- 
gree. Though frequently left to struggle against pov- 
erty and sickness in the care of a large family, he never 
faltered, and unhesitatingly pressed forward to advance 
the interests of his Master’s cause. Says Dr. John For- 
syth (in Sprague's Annals of the American Pidpit, ix, 
78): “That he was not an ordinary man, all, I think, will 
admit, who consider the single fact that his ‘natural 
force’ as a preacher was considered as ‘unabated’ by 
the grandchildren and great-grandchildren of those who 
seventy years ago or more settled in a wilderness, which, 
through their instrumentality, has been made to blos- 
som as the rose.'. . . In the central portions of Dela- 
ware County there are thousands who, though they 
never saw him, yet, from what their fathers have told 
them, will cherish with affectionate veneration the name 
of William McAuley.” 

McBride, Matthew, a Presbyterian minister, 
was born in Philadelphia April 27, 1830; graduated at 
the University of Pennsylvania in 1851, and studied in 
the Theological Seminary of the Reformed Presbyterian 
Church; was licensed in 1855 by the Philadelphia Pres- 
bytery, and became a pastor in Mount Vernon, Iowa, 
where he remained until 1861, w hen, compelled by im- 
paired health to resign, he returned to Philadelphia. 
He next became editor and proprietor of The Banner 
of the. Covenant, which he conducted with great accept- 
ance to the Church until his death, May 13, 1863. See 
Wilson, Presb. Ilist. Almanac, 1864. 

McBride, Robert, a Presbyterian minister, was 
born at Franklin Mills, Ohio, in May, 1825; gradu- 
ated with honor at Oberlin College, Ohio; subsequent- 
ly studied theology in the same institution'; and in 
1853 -was licensed by the Western Reserve Conference, 
and ordained by Washtenow Presbytery ; in 1855 ac- 
cepted a call to the Church in Howell, Mich., where he 
labored until his death, Sept. 12, 1860. Mr. McBride 
w r as a man of much devotional piety, and labored zeal- 
ously in building up the Church. See Wilson, Presb. 
llist. A Imanac, 1862, p. 191 . (J. L. S.) 

McBryde, Thomas Livingston, D.D., a Presby- 
terian minister, was born in Abbeville District, S. C., 
Feb. 25, 1817; pursued his literary course in Franklin 
College, Athens, Ga., graduating in 1837 ; entered the 
theological seminary in Columbia, S. C. ; and in 1839 
w f as licensed to preach by Harmony Presbytery; was 
appointed missionary to China in 1839, and sailed for 
Singapore in March, 1840 ; in 1843 returned to this 
country on account of failing health ; and afterwards be- 
came pastor successively of Providence and Rocky Riv- 
er churches in Abbeville District, S. C., and Hopewell 
Church, Pendleton, S. C., in which latter place he la- 
bored till he died, April 15, 1863. He received the de- 
gree of D.D. from Erskine College, S. C. Dr. McBryde 
w'as an able minister, a sound divine, and a wise coun- 
sellor. See Wilson, Presb . llist. Almanac, 1866, p. 355, 
(J.L.S.) 


McCAINE 


934 


McCARTEE 


McCaine, Alexander, an American divine of 
note, was born in Tipperary, Ireland, some time towards 
the close of the last century. lie was educated in Eng- 
land, and wars intended for the ministry of the Church 
of England ; but, emigrating to the United States in 
1791, he joined the Methodist Episcopal Church, and in 
1797 entered the itinerant ministry, and filled several 
important pulpits until 1821 , when he located. lie now 
became one of the agitators of the movement which so 
lately has been successfully carried — lay representa- 
tion. In reply to the adverse decision of the General 
Conference of 1824, he published the somewhat elaborate 
History and Mystery of Methodist Episcopacy (1829), a 
work displaying rare ability. 'When the Methodist 
Protest ant Church was started, he became one of its 
zealous promoters, and was regarded as one of the most 
able and influential ministers of that body. He died 
June 1. 1850. lie was particularly ready with the pen, 
and distinguished for his rare talents in the pulpit. 

McCall, John A., a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in Xew Athens, Ohio, Feb. 23, 1834; graduated at 
Franklin College. Xew Athens, in 1859; studied theol- 
ogy in the seminary at Xenia, Ohio; was licensed by 
the Wheeling Presbytery in 1802, and in 18G3 was or- 
dained by the Xenia Presbytery, and had just accepted 
a eall to Cedarville, Ohio, when he died, Aug. 25, 1803. 
Mr. McCall was a man of more than ordinary talents, 
and remarkable for his sober and studious habits. See 
Wilson, Presb . /list. Almanac , 18G4, p. 351. 

McCall, Joseph Pinckney, a minister of the 
Methodist Episcopal Church South, was born in Missis- 
sippi : professed religion while young ; joined the Meth- 
odist Protestant Church, and was soon after licensed to 
preach. The war breaking out soon after, he went out 
as a volunteer in the Southern army. After the war 
lie was received into the Methodist Episcopal Church 
South, and in due course was recommended to the 
Quarterly Conference and licensed to preach. In 18GG 
he was received into the Memphis Annual Conference, 
and was stationed at Wesley Circuit, with Kev. A. R. 
Wilson as preacher in charge. In 18G7 and 18G8 he 
served at Dresden Station. His last appointment was 
Hickman Station, in Kentucky, where he labored faith- 
fully until his death, April 8, 1870. Mr. McCall was an 
able and faithful minister of the Gospel, and the Church 
greatly mourned her early loss. — Minutes of the M. E. 
Church South, 1870. s. v. 

McCalla, Daniel, D.D., a Congregational minis- 
ter, was born at Xeshaminv, Pa., in 1748; graduated at 
Princeton College. X. J., in 17GG ; was licensed to preach 
July 20, 1772 ; taught an academy in Philadelphia ; was 
ordained pastor of Xew Providence and Charleston, Pa., 
in 1774; acted as chaplain in the Revolutionary War; 
taught afterwards an academy in Hanover County, Va. ; 
and was finally twenty-one years minister at Wappetaw, 
S. C. He died April G, 1809. See Ilolliughead, Ser- 
mons and Essays of I). McCalla (1810, 2 vols.) ; also 
Drake, Diet. oJ\ 1 mer. Bioy. s. v. 

McCalla, William Latta, a Presbyterian min- 
ister. was born near Lexington, Ivy., Xov. 25, 1788. He 
received his preparatory education under the supervis- 
ion of his parents; graduated with honors at the Tran- 
sylvania University, Lexington, Ky. ; afterwards stud- 
ied theology privately; was licensed in 181 G, and after- 
wards ordained pastor of the Presbyterian Church at 
Augusta, Ivy.; in 1823 he went to Philadelphia, and 
was installed pastor of the Scotch Presbyterian Church, 
where he continued to labor until 1835, when impaired 
health prompted him to resign. Subsequently lie took 
charge of the Fourth Presbyterian Church, Philadelphia, 
and under his pulpit ministration the Church became 
large and inthicntial. In 1839 he resigned this charge, 
and spent some time as an itinerant missionary in Tex- , 
as; on his return to Philadelphia, lie successively filled 
the Middletown and Ridley charges, in tiie vicinity of > 
Philadelphia, and Union Church, on Thirteenth Street, | 


In 1853 he removed to St. Louis, Mo., and after preach- 
ing there some time became connected with the Female 
Seminary at St. Charles, Mo. In 1859 he assumed the 
pastorate of a Church in Louisiana, where he labored 
until his death, Oct. 12, 1859. Mr. McCalla possessed 
excellent pulpit talents ; his expository style was rich 
and absorbing, his preaching close and pungent. He 
was the author of many published Sermons and Essays; 
also Discussions with Alexander Campbell on Baptism ; 
with Kneeland on U niversalism ; with Barker on Infidel- 
ity ; a small volume on the Doctorate of Divinity ; and 
Trace Is in Texas . See Wilson, Presb. Ilist. Almanac , 
18G1, p. 99. (J.L.S.) 

McCampbell, John, D.D., a Presbyterian minis- 
ter, was born in Rockbridge County, Va., April 9, 1781 ; 
graduated at Washington College, Lexington, Va. ; sub- 
sequently studied theology with Isaac Anderson, D.D., 
at Maryville, Tenn. ; was licensed in 1805, ordained by 
the Union Presbytery in 1807, and preached successively 
to the Strawberry Plains, Hopewell, and Xew Market 
churches, within the bounds of French Broad Presby- 
tery. He died Sept. 28, 1859. Dr. McCampbell was a 
faithful minister, a good preacher, and an earnest pas- 
tor. See Wilson, Presb. Hist. Almanac, 18G1, p. 191. 

McCarroll, Thomas, a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in Xewlin, Pa., August 12, 
1800. In 1829 he entered the itinerant ministry in the 
Philadelphia Conference, and in 1835 the Xew Jersey 
Conference. He labored as an effective minister for 
thirty -one years. He was three times appointed pre- 
siding elder, and was a member of the General Confer- 
ence of 1852. A thorough student, an eloquent preach- 
er, a faithful pastor, a gentle ruler, he was greatly be- 
loved and esteemed in all his appointments, lie died 
in East Xewark, X. J., May 9, 1860. 

McCarron, Michael, D.D., a Roman Catholic the- 
ologian of note, was born in the County of Monaghan, 
Ireland, in the year 1804. He received his early edu- 
cation in his native place, after the completion of which 
he entered Mavnooth College to pursue his theological 
studies, and on graduation was ordained to the ministry. 
Soon after this he came to the United States. He was 
placed at St. James’s Church (now the cathedral), in 
Brooklyn. Subsequently be was transferred to St. 
James’s Church, Xew York, but very soon afterwards 
was appointed pastor of St. Joseph’s Church, Sixth 
Avenue, where he remained several years. About the 
year 1857 the late archbishop Hughes conferred on him 
the pastorate of the large congregation of St. Mary’s 
Church, corner of Grand and Ridge Streets, Xew York, 
which he retained until his decease, Feb. 23. 1867. At 
the time when father McCarron arrived in this country, 
archbishop Hughes had been actively engaged in the 
work of education, and had succeeded in exciting a deep 
interest among the Catholics on the subject. Father 
McCarron, t hen in the vigor and prime of life, entered 
upon this work with the greatest zeal, and the results 
of his efforts in that noble cause were soon apparent, 
and arc felt at the present time. Father McCarron re- 
ceived evidences of the respect and esteem of his asso- 
ciates hv his advancement to the archdeaconship of the 
archdiocese of Xew York. The date of this appoint- 
ment is not known to us. (E. de P.) 

McCartee, Robert. D.D.. an American Frefbyte- 
rian minister, was born in Xew York City Sepi. 30. 1791, 
and was educated at Columbia College. He chose the 
legal profession, and was engaged in his studies of juris- 
prudence when he was impressed with the duty of de- 
voting himself to the sacred ministry, lie therefore 
entered the Theological Seminary of the Associate Re- 
formed Church at Xew York, and pursued a theological 
course of study, and was licensed to preach in 181 G. lie 
was immediately called to Philadelphia, where he re- 
mained several years; then returned to Xew York to 
take charge of the Orange Street Church, which had at 
that time but thirty members. While he was the pas- 


McCartney 


935 


McCIIEYNE 


tor of this Church it was removed to Canal Street, f 
'When his connection ceased, in 183G, it numbered eight 
hundred members. In 183G lie accepted a call to the 
Church at Port Carbon, Pa., and remained there four 
years. In 1840 lie became the pastor of the Presbyte- 
rian Church at Goshen, N. Y. ; in 1849 of the Union 
Church, at New burg, and in 1856 of the Westminster 
Church in Twenty-second Street (with which the Twen- 
ty-fifth Street Church was united), New York City. 
This was his last pastoral charge. In 1862 his health, 
which for some time had been enfeebled, failing still 
more, lie resigned his charge. lie died at Yonkers, N. Y., 
March 12, 18G5. “All who have known Dr. McCar- 
tee will remember him as one possessed of a genial nat- 
ure, whose warm-hearted friendship was ever finding 
the most fitting expression in words and acts; as a sim- 
ple-minded, fervent Christian, whose love for the Sav- 
iour and his blessed Gospel was never concealed ; and 
as an able minister of the New Testament, whose fervid 
eloquence when proclaiming the glad tidings of salva- 
tion, and in urging them upon the acceptance of perish- 
ing men, was seldom equalled. We have often listened 
with wrapt attention to his solemn appeals, while the 
tears which were flowing down his cheeks, and his ten- 
der words, were answered by the tears of his hearers. 
But his voice is now silent ; his work is done ; he has 
entered into rest” (The Observer , N. Y. March, 1865). 
The degree of D.D. was bestowed on Mr. McCartee by 
Columbia College in 1831. See New Amer. Cyclop. 1865, 
p. 536 ; Wilson. Fresh . Hist. Almanac , 1866, p. 132. 

McCartney, John B., a Presbyterian minister, 
was born near Apollo, Armstrong Co., Pa., June 22, 1835 ; 
graduated at Jefferson College, Canonsburg, Pa.; and in 
1855, at the Western Theological Seminary, Alleghany, 
Pa.; was licensed in 1857, and in 1858 was ordained 
and installed pastor of the churches at Mount Washing- 
ton and Temperanccville, in the vicinity of Pittsburg, 
Pa. In 1864 he aeeepted a call from the Twelfth Pres- 
byterian Church, Baltimore, Md., and was installed its 
pastor May 2, 1865, where he labored until he died, May 
14, 1865. Mr. McCartney was a man of superior abili- 
ties, a close student, and an excellent scholar. See Wil- 
son, Fresh. Hist. A Imanac, 1866, p. 136. (J. L. S.) 

McCartney, William D., a Presbyterian min- 
ister, was bom in Columbia Co., Pa., in 1806 ; graduated 
at Washington College, Washington, Pa., in 1832; stud- 
ied theology at the Western Theological Seminary, Al- 
leghany City, Pa.; was licensed in 1835, and installed 
pastor of West Liberty Church, Pa. ; afterwards labored 
in the Ridge Church, Madison, and Holmesville ehureh- 
es, Ohio, within the bounds of Steubenville and New 
Lisbon Presbyteries, and died July 27, 1863. M r. McCart- 
ney was gifted with superior intellectual powers, logi- 
cal and discriminating in his theological views, an ex- 
cellent scholar, and a successful minister. Sec Wilson, 
Pi'esb. Hist. A Imanac , 1864, p. 175. (J. L. S.) 

McCaul, Alexander, an eminent Anglican divine, 
was born about the opening of this century, and was 
educated at King’s College, London, where he afterwards 
beeame professur of divinity. lie was also prebend of 
St. Paul’s, London, since 1845. lie is noted, however, 
not so much on account of the high positions lie filled 
as an ecclesiastic, as for his missionary labors among 
the Jews, a task for which his great erudition and un- 
common familiarity with the Hebrew language and lit- 
erature peculiarly fitted him. lie died in 1863. Dr. 
McCaul left, besides Sketches of Judaism and the Jeics 
(Loud. 1838, 8vo), The Old Paths, or a Comparison of 
Mod. Judaism with the Rel. of Moses and the Prophets 
(2d ed. 1868, 12mo) ; a lot of minor theological works, 
and a host of sermons ; for a list of which sec Darling, 
Cyclop. Bihliog. ii, 1902. 

McCaulle, Thomas Harris, D.D., a Presbyterian 
minister, was born about the middle of last century; 
graduated at Princeton College, N. J., in 1774; was or- 
dained minister in the western counties of North Caro- 


I lina; was several years president of a college at Wayncs- 
borough, S. C. ; and died in Savannah, Ga., about 1800. 
See Drake, Diet. Amer. Biog. s. v. 

McCay, David, a Presbyterian minister, was born 
in Lewiston, Pa., Feb. 17, 1816; was educated at Jeffer- 
son College (class of 1838) ; studied theology in the 
Princeton Theological Seminary; was licensed by Hunt- 
ingdon Presbytery in 1841 ; and in 1842 was ordained, 
and installed pastor of the united churches of Bcthesda, 
Concord, and Callensburg, Pa., where he continued to 
labor for more than twenty years. In 1861 he aeeepted 
the chaplaincy of the 103d Regiment of Pennsylvania 
Volunteers, in which position he labored until his death, 
June 4, 1862. Mr. McCay possessed an intellect of high 
order, clear, comprehensive, and eminently practical ; 
his attainments in science and literature were varied 
and exact : his piety deep, constant, and heartfelt. See 
Fresh . Hist. Almanac , 1863, p. 191. (J. L. S.) 

McCheyne, Robert Murray, a celebrated Scotch 
preacher and evangelist, was born in Edinburgh, Scot- 
land, May 21, 1813. At five years of age he was quite 
profieient in English. When eight years old he entered 
the high-scliool, where for six years he maintained high 
rank in his classes. In November, 1827, he entered 
Edinburgh University, and during his college course 
gained prizes in various departments of study. He 
studied modern languages privately; was proficient in 
gymnastic exercises, and in music and drawing. This 
last acquisition was advantageous to him afterwards in 
sketching scenes in the Holy Land. The death of his 
eldest brother, David, led to his conversion, or was the 
beginning of the great change in his life, and brought 
him to study for the ministry. In 1831 he entered upon 
his studies in theology and Church history in Divinity 
Ilall, under Dr. Chalmers and Dr. Welsh. In 1835 he 
removed to the Presbytery of Annan, and was licensed 
to preach July 1. November 7 he began his labors at 
Larbert, a parish containing six thousand people, to 
whom he was a devoted pastor. He was also an intense 
student of the Bible, reading it in both the Hebrew and 
the Greek. In 1836 he was called to St. Peter’s Church, 
Dundee, and was ordained there Nov. 24. This charge 
was large, and his labors were so constant that his 
health failed, and he was obliged to retire for a season 
of rest. During this vacation lie went, with three oth- 
er ministers, to Palestine, on a “mission of inquiry to 
the Jews.” Ilis health improved by his travels, and on 
his return lie resumed his work at St. Peter’s, where he 
remained until 1842, when his health again failed. He 
now undertook a preaching tour, with other ministers, 
through the north of England, preaching in the open 
air and in churches of different denominations. Re- 
turning from England, he was obliged by failing health 
to have an assistant in his labors at Dundee. In Feb- 
ruary, 1843, he went on his last tour as an evangelist ; 
on his return from which he was attacked by a fever, 
and died March 25, 1843. Ilis death was a loss not to 
his own congregation or denomination only, but to the 
whole Christian world. Mr. McCheyne was one of the 
most beautiful examples of the true Gospel minister. 
Whether among his own congregation, or in Palestine, 
or travelling as an evangelist, he was always preaching 
by his words and holy life. He was pre-eminent as a 
preacher, as a pastor, and as a Christian, and did a great 
work not merely by the great number of conversions 
which took place direetly or indirectly through his in- 
strumentality, but by the zealous spirit which he in- 
fused into every department of Christian work. He had 
also fine talents for literary and scholastic pursuits. He 
wrote a number of pieces showing a taste for poetry, 
one of which — Greece , hut living Greece no more — was 
written at the age of fourteen. Ilis letters from Pales- 
tine, his lectures, sermons, and letters, show an ability 
for composition rarely surpassed; but he consecrated ail 
his talents and powers to the sendee of Christ, and lived 
only for the salvation of men. His name will long bo 


McCLANAIIAN 


936 


McCLINTOCK 


fragrant in the Church as a model preacher of the Gos- 
pel. See Life and Remains of Letters. Lectures , and Po- 
ems of the Rev. Robert Murray McCheyne , by Rev. An- 
drew A. Bonar (New York, 1857). (II. A. ]>.) 

McClanahan, Alexander W., a Presbyterian 
minister, was born near West Union, Adams County, 
Ohio, Nov. 28, 1821 ; graduated with honor at Miami 
University, Oxford, Ohio, in 1844; studied theology in 
the theological seminary at Oxford; was licensed in 
1847 by the Chilicothc Presbytery; and in 1848 or- 
dained. 1 1 is first and only charge was at Decatur, Ohio, 
lie died Oct. 20, 1862. Mr. McClanahan was noted for 
his kindness of heart and spirit of self-sacrifice; he had 
a massive intellect, capable of broad and comprehen- 
sive views, and, when aroused to high mental activity, 
he wrote and spoke with rare power. See Wilson, 
Presb. Hist. Almanac , 1863, p. 359. (J. L. S.) 

McClaskey, John, an eminent Methodist Episco- 
pal minister, was born in Derry County, Ireland, Jan. 2, 
1756. 1 1 is parents, who were members of the Estab- 

lished Church of England, in 1772 emigrated to New 
Jersey; here John was converted in 1782, and, feeling 
that he was called of God to preach the Gospel, took 
the necessary steps to enter the ministry, and in 1786 
became a member of Conference as an itinerant; in 
1702 was appointed presiding elder on Philadelphia Dis- 
trict; in 1703-94, to Baltimore; in 1795, to Philadelphia; 
in 1706-08, presiding elder on New Jersey District; in 
1709-1801, to New York City; in 1802, to Philadelphia; 
in 1812-13, presiding elder on Chesapeake District, and 
died at Chestertown, Aid., Sept. 2, 1814. Mr. McClas- 
key was a man of deep and earnest piety; versed in 
the Scriptures; and thousands of souls were converted 
through his efforts during a long and useful ministry. — 
Conference M unites , i, 257 ; Sprague, A nnals of the A mer- 
ican Pulpit, vii, 125. 

McClelland, Alexander, D.D., a noted (Dutch) 
Reformed minister and educator, was born at Schenec- 
tady, N. Y., in 1706 ; graduated at Union College in 
1800; studied theology with Rev. John Anderson, D.I)., 
in Western Pennsylvania, and afterwards with Rev. John 
M. Mason, I).D. ; was licensed by the Associate Re- 
formed Presbytery, New York, in 1815; and, when nine- 
teen years only, was elected pastor of Rutgers Street 
Presbyterian Church, New York, as successor of Dr. Mille- 
doler. Here he remained seven years, and established 
his great reputation as a pulpit orator among the fore- 
most men of his day. In 1822 he became professor of 
rhetoric, logic, and metaphysics in Dickinson College, 
Pa.; removed in 1820 to New Brunswick, N. J., as pro- 
fessor of languages in Rutgers College; and in 1832 
was elected professor of Oriental literature and Biblical 
criticism in the Theological Seminary of the Reformed 
Church. He continued, however, to give instruction in 
rhetoric and belles-lettres in the college for several 
years. He resigned his place in the theological semi- 
nary in 1857 ; and, after a tour in Europe, returned to 
New Brunswick, where he lived in retirement until his 
decease in 1861. Ills published works consist of a few 
occasional sermons and pamphlets, and a volume on the 
Canon atul Interpretation of Scripture (New York, 1860, 
pp. 320, 12mo). Dr. McClelland was in almost every re- 
spect a man sui generis, lie was original in thought, 
in style of expression, in oratory, and in the professor’s 
chair. He was humorous and witty, keen and strong, 
robust in mind, thorough in scholarship, impatient of 
dulness and idleness, and exacting to the last degree 
as a teacher. Inspiring his pupils with his own enthu- 
siasm, lie taught them to study and to think accurate- 
ly for themselves. lie gave very short lessons in He- 
brew and in Greek; but the grammar and dictionary 
were always in use, and he required critical accuracy in 
recitations. His written lectures on the Epistles to the 
Romans and Hebrews, and his oral criticisms on Isaiah 
and the Psalms; his condensed Hebrew Grammar, and 
his lectures on the Canon and interpretation of Script- 


ure, were admirable specimens of his skill as an in- 
structor. llis rare pulpit eloquence was quite equalled 
at times by outbursts of his genius and power in the 
professorial chair. Naturally impulsive and irritable, 
he was often sarcastic and severe ; and these tendencies 
were aggravated by protracted and distressing disease. 
Yet his best students overlooked all this in their ad- 
miration of his ability as a teacher. In the pulpit he 
was clear and forcible, brilliant and impassioned, versa- 
tile and learned, simple and profound, electric, and fre- 
quently eccentric. Among his published sermons are a 
few of his memorable discourses; but some that were 
perhaps even more characteristic of his remarkable ora- 
tory were left out of the collection. No printed page 
can reproduce the effects of his mellifluous voice, his 
significant gestures, and the earnestness of his impas- 
sioned power. His peculiarities of temperament and 
manner interfered considerably with his general useful- 
ness, and his independence of thought sometimes led 
him into questionable statements of truth ; and in 1834 
he was arraigned before the General Synod for heresy, 
on the subject of spiritual renovation ; but, having 
made satisfactory explanations, he retained his profess- 
orship and ecclesiastical status. His latter years were 
spent in retirement among his books, and in the quiet 
pursuit of favorite studies, until be was disabled by a 
long and incurable disease; and then, with simple trust 
in Jesus, entered into rest. Quite detailed sketches of 
Dr. McClelland’s life and works, from the pen of Dr. 
Chalmers, of New York City, were published in the 
Christian Intelligencer (New York, 1872, Oct., Nov.). 
(W.J.R.T.) 

McClintock, John, D.D., one of the projectors 
and editors of this Cyclopaedia, was born in the city of 
Philadelphia, Oct. 27, 1814. II is parents were devoted 
members of the Methodist Episcopal Church in that 
city. In the year 1832 he entered the freshman class 
of the University of Pennsylvania, and by strenuous ex- 
ertions completed the whole collegiate course in the 
space of three years. Before his graduation, in the 
year 1835, he had commenced preaching, in the New 
Jersey Annual Conference of the Methodist Episcopal 
Church. In the year 1836 he accepted a call to the 
chair of mathematics in Dickinson College, which had 
been reopened in 1834 under Methodist auspices. In 
this institution he spent twelve most fruitful years. In 
the year 1840 he exchanged the mathematical chair for 
that of the Latin and Greek languages, succeeding his 
friend, the Rev. Robert Emory. As a teacher Dr. Mc- 
Clintock was most successful. Rapid and brilliant, and 
at the same time thorough and accurate, he was the 
beau ideal of a college instructor. In 1846 he com- 
menced, in connection with the writer of this article, a 
series of Latin and Greek text-books, designed to apply 
to these languages the method of ■ k imitation and repe- 
tition” which had been successfully introduced into the 
teaching of modern tongues. The scries was well re- 
ceived, and its method has since been extensively fol- 
lowed. In the year 1848 Dr. McClintock was elected 
by the General Conference of the Methodist Episcopal 
Church the editor of its Quarterly Review. In this of- 
fice he spent eight years. His fine taste, his critical acu- 
men, and his interest in all departments of human knowl- 
edge, were amply illustrated in his conduct of the Re- 
view. Under his care it rose rapidly to the highest 
rank among periodicals of its kind. In 1856 he was, in 
association with bishop Simpson, appointed a delegate 
from the Methodist Episcopal Church to the Wesleyan 
Methodist Conference of England. He was at various 
times elected president of several colleges, but he never 
assumed the active duties of such a position. In 1857 
he became pastor of St. Raul’s Methodist Church, in the 
city of New York. He adapted himself readily to the 
duties of the pastoral office, and speedily became known 
as one of the most eloquent preachers of the metropolis. 
A fine presence, a rich voice, anil a graceful delivery 
gave effect to the utterances of a well-stored mind, llis 


McCLINTOCK 


937 


McCLURE 


charge of this Church expiring by limitation in 1860, 
he accepted the appointment of pastor of the American 
chapel in Paris, then and now under the care of the 
American and Foreign Christian Union. While hold- 
ing this position the great American civil war broke 
out, and Dr. McClintock was not a man to be idle in the 
time of his country’s peril. Appreciating the value to 
the national cause of the friendly opinion of Europe, he 
exerted himself to the utmost in diffusing a right knowl- 
edge of the merits of the controversy in which the 
American Union was involved. In these labors he 
avaded himself of the aid of the count De Gasparin 
and the Rev. Mr. Austin of England. During the en- 
tire war his pen was never idle, and from the plat- 
form, whenever it was practicable, he made eloquent 
pleas for the national cause. During the period of his 
residence abroad, he was also corresponding editor of 
the Methodist , a paper established in 1860 in the city 
of New York. His letters kept the American public 
well advised of the fluctuations of European opinion in 
relation to the war. Upon his return home, in 1864, he 
was for a second time appointed to the pastorate of 
St. Paid’s Church, but, finding his health unequal to the 
discharge of the duties of the office, he resigned it at the 
end of a year. In 1866 he was made chairman of the 
Central Centenary Committee of the Methodist Episco- 
pal Church, to which was given the work of organizing 
the commemoration of the introduction, in 1766, of 
Methodism into the United States. Mr. Daniel Drew, 
of New York, having signified his intention of found- 
ing, in connection with this centenary commemoration, 
a Biblical and Theological School, Dr. McClintock was 
chosen its first president. The school was opened in 
the year 1867, at Madison, New Jersey, under the most 
flattering auspices, and has been from the beginning an 
entire success. Dr. McClintock’s health had, prior to 
his election to the presidency of Drew, shown symptoms 
of decline. Since 1848 he had been frequently pros- 
trated by attacks of illness. From 1867 to 1870 a great 
decay of vitality was perceptible, and on March 4 of 
the latter year the “ wheels of life stood still at last.” 

To the preparation of this Cyclopedia , Dr. MeClin- 
tock had, in company with his co-editor, Dr. Strong, de- 
voted many laborious years. To theology and its kin- 
dred studies his attention had through life been chief!}" 
directed. He lived to- see three volumes completed, and 
the fourth in a state of forwardness. In the year 1847 
he translated, with Prof. C. E. Blumenthal, Neander’s 
Life of Christ, published by Harper and Brothers. In 
1851 he prepared an essay on the Temporal Power of 
the Pope , which was at that time a political question of 
some importance in the United States. The Theologi- 
cal Institutes, by Watson, Dr. McClintock supplied with 
an analysis, which is considered a model work of its 
kind. He was also a frequent contributor to the Method- 
ist Quarterly Review, and an occasional one to several oth- 
er periodicals. Since his death a volume of his sermons 
has been collected and published under the title Living 
Words (N. Y. 1871 , 12mo). Dr. McClintock’s versatility 
of talent is apparent even from this slight sketch. He 
was truly a many-sided man. Yet his attainments were 
solid ; an imperfect understanding of any subject he 
could not tolerate. In facility of acquiring knowledge 
he was very remarkable. He could track a subject, 
never losing the clew, through a labyrinth of books, un- 
til he came into full possession of it, both as a whole and 
in its details. The critical faculty was dominant in 
him. To systematize knowledge, to reduce it to form 
and completeness, was instinctive with him ; yet he had 
at the same time the fervor which makes the orator. 
His eloquence was of the highest order: in power to 
sway an audience he had few if any superiors. He was I 
probably the most complete scholar that his Church has 
produced in the United States. His style as a writer 
was remarkable for clearness, precision, directness, and 
condensation. His personal qualities endeared him to 
hosts of friends ; his death, in the midst of his years, has 


been deplored as a great loss to the cause of religion and 
learning in our country. (G. R. C.) 

McClung, John Alexander, D.D., a Presbyte- 
rian minister, was born in Washington, Ky.. Sept. 25, 
1804. His education was received at a private school 
at Brick Pond, Woodford County, Kv., his instructors 
being Messrs. Thompson and Daly, from the University 
of Dublin, Ireland. In 1823 he entered Princeton The- 
logical Seminary, and in 1828 was licensed to preach. 
Subsequently, his mind becoming unsettled concerning 
the authenticity of some of the books of the Old Testa- 
ment and one or two of the Epistles, he gave up preach- 
ing and entered upon the study of law. During this 
stage of his life he wrote Sketches of Western Advent- 
ures , and otherwise contributed to the press of the day. 
He was admitted to the bar in 1835, and became a reg- 
ular practitioner until 1849, when, his religious princi- 
ples being revived, he was again, in 1851 , licensed and 
ordained, and was called to the First Presbyterian 
Church, Indianapolis, Ind. ; during his pastorate there 
he was elected president of Hanover College, Ind. In 
1857 he accepted a call to Mavsville, Ky., where he la- 
bored until the summer of 1859, when he was drowned. 
Dr. McClung was a man of brilliant intellect and rare 
eloquence; he was a polished scholar, a generous friend, 
and an humble Christian. See Wilson, Presb. Hist, Al- 
manac, 1861, p. 100. (J. L. S.) 

McClure, Alexander Wilson, D.D., an Amer- 
ican divine, was born in Boston, Mass., May 8, 1808; 
was educated at Yale and Amherst colleges and Andover 
Theological Seminary (class of 1880); was settled at 
Mtildcn, Mass., 1830-41 ; then at St. Augustine, Fla., 
1841-44; editor of the Christian Observatory from 1844 
to 1847 ; and pastor again at Maltlen from 1848 to 1852. 
Leaving the Congregational body, he accepted a call to 
the First Reformed Church, Jersey City, N. J., and re- 
mained there three years (1852-55), when he became 
corresponding secretary of the American and Foreign 
Christian Union, 1855. His health having been im- 
paired, he was sent in 1856 as chaplain of the union at 
Rome, Italy. In 1858, broken down by bronchial dis- 
ease, he retired from public service, and lingered a great 
sufferer until his death in 1865. The American Chapel 
in Paris was erected largely by funds which Dr. McClure 
secured with great zeal and labor. Dr. McClure’s con- 
tributions to the periodical press were numerous and 
popular, including valuable articles for the Observatory, 
the New Brunswick Review, and the Literary and Theo- 
logical Review. lie also published The Life-Boat, an 
Allegory: — Four Lectures on Ultra- Universalis?)!, “a 
theological classic, unanswered and unanswerable — .4 
Series of Letters upon the Bible in the Public Schools, 
written in controversy with a Romish priest in Jersey 
City : — Lives of the Chief Fathers of New England (2 
vols.) : — and The Translators Revived, or Biographical 
Articles on the History of the T ranslators of the English 
Bible (New York, 1853, 12mo). The title is somewhat 
unfortunate, but the work is invaluable, the materials 
being drawn from the best sources in Great Britain and 
America, and with the utmost care for many years, to 
secure accuracy and fulness. Dr. McClure was a truly 
learned scholar, a genuine wit, a keen dialectician, and 
a practical controversialist. Ardent and honest as the 
sunlight, abounding in good feeling, and simple in man- 
ners as a child, he was a man of positive convictions, 
fearless of consequences in the advocacy of truth and in 
assailing popular errors. Yet, with all his exuberant 
mirth and knowledge of the world. Dr. McClure was 
pre-eminently a devout and humble Christian minister. 
Chastened by many providential trials, his piety grew 
I more serene, and beautiful, and deep with advancing in- 
firmities and years. II is prayers and preaching were 
solemn, tender, and scriptural. Eternal things were 
seen and felt by him as eternal realities, and his hearers 
often were hushed and melted under his reverential ap- 
peals. His death was triumphant. See Corwin, Man- 


McCOOK 


938 


McCLUEE 

2 nd; Recollections of Dr. X. Adams; Personal Memo- 
ries. (W.J.R.T.) 

McClure, Arthur, a Methodist Episeopal minis- 
ter, was born in East Tennessee, Feb. 1C, 1801 ; was con- 
verted about 1819 ; entered the Tennessee Conference in 
1822, and died Sept. 2G, 1825. He was a young man of 
much promise, excellent in abilities and graces, and an 
eloquent and successful minister. — Conference Minutes , 
i, 550. 

McClure, David, D.D., a Congregational minis- 
ter, was born Nov. 18, 1748, in Newport, II. I. ; gradu- 
ated at Yale College in 1769; was ordained missionary 
to the Indians near Pittsburg, Pa., May 20, 1772. The 
mission was broken up by the troubles with England, 
and McClure became pastor in North Hampton, N. H., 
Nov. 13, 1776; at East Windsor, Conn., June 11, 1786, 
and died June 25, 1820. lie was chosen trustee of 
Dartmouth College in 1778, and made D.D. by the same 
in 1800. Dr. McClure published Sermons on the Moral 
Law (1795, 8vo): — Memoirs of the Rev. Eleazar XVliec- 
lock, D.D.) in connection with the Rev. Dr. Parish (1810) : 
—and a number of occasional sermons and addresses, 
and magazine contributions. See Sprague, A mials, ii, 7. 

McCombs (or McCoombs), Lawrence, an early 
Methodist Episcopal minister, was born in Kent County, 
in the State of Delaware, on the 11th of March, 1769. 
Little is known of his early education, but it is to be 
presumed, from the easy circumstances of his father, 
who was a man of wealth, and the high character of 
the schools and academies of the district in which he 
lived, that he early attained to a good degree of in- 
tellectual culture. In 1792 he was admitted to the 
Philadelphia Conference on probation, and his first ap- 
pointment was to ther Newburg Circuit, in the State of 
New York ; two years later he was appointed to Long 
Island; in 1795, to New London; in 1796, to Middletown; 
in 1797 and 1798, to Poll and; in 1799, to New London; 
in 1800, to Philadelphia; in 1801, to Baltimore City; in 
1802, to Baltimore City and Fell’s Point ; in 1804, to the 
Baltimore Circuit. In 1806 he asked and obtained a 
location, and selected a residence on the eastern shore 
of Maryland, near the head of the Chesapeake Bay. In 
this location he is said to have labored with unabated 
industry and devotion. In 1815 he re-entered the itiner- 
ancy, and took his place in the Philadelphia Conference; 
in that and in the following year he was appointed to 
Smyrna ; in 1817, to Queen Anne’s; and in 1818,to Kent. 
From 1819 to 1822 he was presiding elder of the Jersey 
District; in 1823 he was appointed to Essex and Staten 
Island ; in 1824 and 1825, to St.John’s Church, Philadel- 
phia ; and in 1826, to Wilmington. In 1827 and 1828 he 
was presiding elder of the East. Jersey District ; from 
1829 to 1832. of the Chesapeake Bay ; and in 1833, of the 
South Philadelphia District. In 1834 he was appointed 
to St. Paul’s Church, Philadelphia; in this year, howev- 
er, he was constrained, by his rapidly-failing health, to 
relinquish his active position and become a supernu- 
merary. In 1835 lie took his place among the retired 
and infirm, after having performed an unprecedented 
amount of labor, and left, the impress of his energetic 
character wherever he went. He closed his useful and 
eventful life June 11,1836. An intimate friend, also a 
minister, the Rev. J. Kennaday, has left this beautiful 
tribute to his memory: *• In his religious character Mr. 
McCombs blended great zeal and fidelity with a very 
unusual kindliness of spirit. No hostility could intimi- 
date him in the course of duty, nor could any provoca- 
tion betray bim into petulance or resentment. Meek 
in spirit, intrepid in purpose, gentle and social in man- 
ner, he was greatly respected in the pulpit, and ever 
welcome to the hospitalities of the numerous circles 
which he adorned as the man of God. lie was strong 
in faith, much in prayer, and a great reader of the Bible. 
II is intellectual character was developed more in the 
uniform strength of his faculties than in the marked 
prominence of any one or more of them. 11 is percep- 


tions were quick and clear, and his judgment sober and 
impartial. He had a fine imagination, which, being re- 
strained and regulated by his admirable taste, gave 
beauty and warmth, as the artists say, to all lus pictures. 
In unison with these traits, there were some physical 
qualities that contributed largely to liis power and suc- 
cess. 1 1 is personal appearance was very imposing. In 
stature he was full six feet in height, with a finely-de- 
veloped form; though not corpulent, the breadth of his 
chest indicated the prodigious strength which enabled 
him to perform his almost gigantic labors. The general 
expression of his countenance betokened intelligence, 
gentleness, and energy, while his full, frank face was il- 
lumined by his ever-kindling eye. His voice was full, 
clear, and of great flexibility, sweeping from the lowest 
to the highest tone, and modulated in the most delicate 
manner, in beautiful harmony with his subject. In 
preaching in the field, which was his favorite arena, I 
used to think he was quite an approach to Wliitefield, 
Such was his known power at camp-meetings that the 
announcement that he was to be present on such an oc- 
casion would draw a multitude of people from great dis- 
tances. ... I have thought that in some respects there 
was a striking resemblance between him and the late 
distinguished Dr. John M. Mason, of New York, whom 
I often heard in my boyhood.” See Sprague, A nnals 
A mer . Pulpit , vii, 210 sq. ; Conf. Min. ii, 492. (E. de P.) 

McConaughy, David, D.D., LL.D., a Presbyte- 
rian minister, was born in Menallen township. York 
County, Pa., Sept. 29, 1775, and graduated at Dickinson 
College, Carlisle, in 1795; studied theology fur two 
years; was licensed in 1797, and preaehed frequently as 
a missionary in Philadelphia and New York ; accepted 
a call from the United Christians of Upper Marsh Creek 
and Conewago in 1800, and remained pastor till 1832. 
During this connection he visited Baltimore, Phila- 
delphia, and New York in behalf of the Gettysburg 
Church, and as a minister and a teaeber rendered im- 
portant services. At an early period he interested him- 
self much in the cause of temperance by appointing 
meetings, preaching, and forming a society, of which he 
himself was president, lie removed to Washington in 
1832 to the presidency of the eollege, which he resigned 
in 1849. lie died Jan. 29, 1852. Dr. McConaughy 
published A Brief Summary and Outline of Moral Sci- 
ence (1838): — Discourses, chief if Biographical, of Per- 
sons eminent in Sacred History (1850, 8 vo) : — Two Tracts 
on the Doctrine of the Trinity and on Infant Baptism : — 
Sermons and A cldresses. See Sprague, Annuls , iv, 199. 

McConnell, William L., a Presbyterian minister, 
was born near Canonsburg, Pa., Sept. 19, 1829: gradu- 
ated at Jefferson College, Canonsburg, Pa. ; studied the- 
ology in the Associate Deformed Seminary, Alleghany, 
Pa.; and was licensed and ordained by Alleghany De- 
formed Presbytery in 1857. lie accepted a call to Han- 
over Church, and subsequently to West Newton, Pa., 
where he labored until failing health compelled him to 
desist. 1 le died July 18, 1866. See Wilson, Presb. Ilist. 
Almanac , 1867, p, 363. 

McCook, Robert J., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church South, was born in Wilkinson County, 
Ga., Jan. 5, 1817; professed religion and joined the 
Church when in his fourteenth year, and was impressed 
with a call to preach the Gospel. Resisting this im- 
pression, he lost his religious peace, and finally made 
shipwreck of his faith. At about twenty-two lie again 
connected himself with the Church, but still shrunk 
from obeying his call to the ministry until 1853, when 
he was licensed to preach, and was admitted into the 
Florida Convention in 1854. From that time (except 
during the year 1866, when he was superannuated), he 
labored with devoted zeal and encouraging success, fill- 
ing various important charges with great usefulness un- 
til his death at Key West, Nov. 22, 1870. u He was a 
godly man. ‘ Holiness to the Lord’ was his theme in 
the pulpit, and was illustrated in his daily life. Ilis 


McCOOMBS 


939 


McCRIE 


end was peace, and his works do follow him.” — Confer- 
ence Minutes M, K. Church South , 1871, s. v. 

McCoombs. See McCombs. 

McCorkle, Samuel Eusebius, D.D., a Presbyterian 
minister, was born near Harris Ferry, Lancaster County, 
Pa., Aug. 23, 1740, and graduated at New Jersey Col- 
lege in 1772; was licensed in 1774, and, after laboring 
for two years in Virginia, accepted a call from the con- 
gregation of Thyatira in 1777, About 1785 he opened 
a classical school named Zion Parnassus . which he con- 
tinued ten or twelve years, lie died June 21, 1811. 
Dr. MeCorkle published Four Discourses on the great 
First Principles of Deism and Revelation contrasted 
(1797): — Three Discourses on the Terms of Christian 
Communion: — Occasional Sermons. See Sprague, A n- 
nals , iii, 346. 

McCoy, Isaac, a Baptist minister, was born in Fay- 
ette County, Pa., June 13, 1784; was licensed to preach 
in 1805, and began work as a missionary. Oct. 13, 1810, 
he was ordained pastor of the Church at Maria Creek, 
in Clark County, Ind., where he remained some eight 
years, making occasional missionary tours in the sur- 
rounding country. In 1818 he was appointed a mis- 
sionary to the Indians, and in May, 1820, removed to 
Fort Wayne, where he established a Church ; in the fall 
of the same year he removed to Carey, on the St. Jo- 
seph Biver, and from thence, in 1829, to the Indian coun- 
try, now Kansas. In 1842 he became the first corre- 
sponding secretary and general agent of the American 
Indian Mission Association, at Louisville, Ky. He died 
June 21, 1840. He published a History of Baptist In- 
dian Missions, embracing remarks on the former, pres- 
ent condition, and future prospects of the aboriginal 
tribes (1840, 8vo). See Sprague, *1 nnals, vi, 541, 

McCracken, John Steele, a Presbyterian min- 
ister, was born near Cincinnati, Ohio, April 25, 1804. His 
opportunities in early life for acquiring knowledge were 
poor. In 1833 he entered the preparatory department 
of Miami University, Oxford, Ohio, and graduated in 
1838; studied theology under the care of the First 
Presbytery of Ohio of the Associate Beformed Church, 
and subsequently attended the theological seminary at 
Alleghany City, Pa., and the seminary at Oxford ; was 
licensed in 1841, and then went out as a missionary 
among the newly-formed congregations in Illinois and 
Iowa ; in 1843 he accepted a call from the Church at Ken- 
ton, Ohio, where he labored until his health gave way. 
lie died April 1, 18G3. Mr. McCracken was an able ex- 
pounder and a sound theologian ; his judgment was em- 
inently just and critical; his disposition charitable and 
liberal. See Wilson, Presh. Ilist. A Imanac, 1864, p. 352. 
(J.L. S.) 

McCracken, Samuel W., a Presbyterian min- 
ister, was born near Lexington, Ky., Jan. 12, 1800; was 
educated at Miami University (class of 1831) ; studied 
theology at Maryville, Tenn., and was elected professor 
of mathematics in the college at Maryville; was after- 
wards chosen professor of mathematics in Miami Uni- 
versity; was licensed by Ohiq. First Presbytery in 1835, 
and in 1830 was ordained ; in 1839 accepted a call to 
Hopewell Church, Ohio, and resigned his professorship 
in the university; here he continued to labor until his 
death, Sept. 10, 1859. Mr. McCracken maintained a 
high reputation for talent; prudent and far-sighted, his 
counsels were always worthy of consideration ; opposed 
to all expedients, he made experience the basis of ac- 
tion, See Wilson, Presh. Ilist. A Im. 1801 , p. 209. (J. L. S.) 

McCrary, W. II., a Presbyterian minister, was born 
in Tennessee Jan. 17,1831 ; was educated at Bethel Col- 
lege, Tenn.; was licensed in 1849, after teaching sehool 
for several years ; was ordained in 1854. lie died Sept. 
14, 1858. Mr. McCrary was a good preacher, a success- 
ful teacher, and a fine theologian. See Wilson, Presh. 
Hist. Almanac, 1861, p. 236. 

McCready, Jonathan Sharp, a Presbyterian min- 


ister, was born near New Galilee, Pa., April 15, 1828 ; en- 
joyed in early life the advantage of religious instruc- 
tion, discipline, and example; graduated at Franklin 
College in 1852 ; studied theology in the Associate 
Seminary at Canonsbnrg (class of 1855) ; was licensed 
by the Associate Presbytery of Ohio in October of the 
same year; in 1856 was ordained and installed pastor 
of the Associate congregation of Cadiz, and there con- 
tinued to labor until 1802, when he volunteered in the 
service of the government. While in the army he con- 
tinued to preach, and perform every other ministerial 
duty as occasion offered, until he was killed, Sept. 7, 1864. 
Mr. MeCready was endowed with a clear and penetrating 
intellect; his education was comprehensive, his style 
logical and energetic, his manner positive and emphatic. 
See Wilson, Presh. Hist. A Imanac, 1866, p. 265. (.1 . L. £,) 
McCrie, Thomas, D.D., a noted Scotch divine, cel- 
ebrated as a writer on eeelesiastical history and polem- 
ics, was born at Dunse, in Berwickshire, in November, 
1772. “Dr. McCrie’s parents,” says his biographer, 
“being connected with that branch of the secession 
usually termed Anti-Burghers, he was brought up under 
. . . the primitive strictness of that communion . . . 
and received that thoroughly religious education, of the 
importance of which lie was ever afterwards so strenu- 
ous an advocate, and of the success of which he was 
himself a striking example.” After securing the ru- 
diments of education at the parish school of his native 
place, he entered, in 1788, the University of Edinburgh, 
and in 1791 commenced his theological studies. In 
1795 he was licensed to preach by the Associate Pres- 
bytery of Kelso, and be was immediately afterwards 
chosen pastor of a congregation of the same body in Ed- 
inburgh, where he served the following ten years, ap- 
plying himself with great assiduity to the discharge of 
his professional duties, and occasionally publishing able 
pamphlets on some of the gravest and most difficidt 
subjects of theological inquiry. The differences of opin- 
ion, and the appearance of Xeic-Lights with peculiar 
doctrines quite unknown to the primitive belief of the 
“Secession Church,” caused McCrie in 1806, with five 
friends, among them the celebrated Bruce, to separate 
from the “General Associated Synod,” and to form “the 
Constitutional Associate Presbytery,” avowing “strict 
adherence to the principles of the original secession.” 
(Here compare Hist. Sketch of the Origin of the Secession 
Church , by the Bev. A. Thomson, and the History of 
the Rise of the Relief Church, by the Bev. Gavin Struth- 
ers [Edinburgh, 1858, 12mo]). During the controversy 
which this change provoked he gave himself largely to 
the study of the Beformers, and came to admire so 
much his great countryman, John Knox, that he zeal- 
ously applied himself to the composition of a Life of 
John Knox (Edinb. 1812, 8vo, and often), a masterly 
work, that combines the highest excellences of which 
biography is capable, and was by his contemporaries 
regarded as “a literary phenomenon.” “It placed the 
character of the Scottish lieformer,” says Jamieson ( Cy- 
clop . Rel. Biog. s. v.), “in an entirely new light, and 
showed him to be so widely different from the rude and 
illiterate demagogue he had been hitherto represented, 
that its appearance was hailed with patriotic pride and 
gratitude. It placed the name of McCrie at once in the 
foremost ranks of living historians. The highest liter- 
ary honors were conferred on him” (compare Hetliering- 
ton, Hist. Ch . of Scotland, ii, 3G9). He received from 
the University of Edinburgh the honorary title of D.I)., 
being the first Dissenter to whom that distinction was 
awarded; and his book, besides passing through several 
editions in Scotland, was translated into most of the lan- 
guages of Europe. Encouraged by the success of his 
first literary effort, Dr. McCrie published, as the fruits 
of his researches regarding a later period of Scottish ec- 
clesiastical history, the Biography of Andrew Melville, 
a celebrated champion of Presbyterianism in the reign 
of James VI of Scotland. This work, composed on the 
same principle of combining the memoirs of an ii.divid- 


McCullough 


940 


McDonald 


ual with a narrative of public events (it illustrates the 
formation of the Kirk of Scotland, and the peculiarities 
of the Presbyterian establishment), evinces a vast 
amount of erudition and research. Critics of Anglican 
tendency have always been inclined to accuse McCrie 
of great partisan zeal and unfairness to his opponents: 
thus Mr. Mallam designated his writings as the products 
of Presbyterian Hildebrandism.” But these censures 
are unjust and unmerited. His impartiality and can- 
dor, and his unaffected desire to investigate the truth, 
to whatever conclusion it might lead, have been clearly 
conceded even by liberal opponents, and unmistakably 
impress themselves on every thoughtful reader. A 
writer, commenting oil a later production from Dr. 
McCrie, in the Westminster Review (.Jail. 1857), aptly 
says: “ McCrie belongs to the higher class of writers to 
whose earnestness, thoroughness, and genuine research 
we turn for relief from the superficial second-hand show- 
iness of books written from a transient impulse, in order 
to supply only a transient need.” After McCrie’s forma- 
tion of the “Constitutional Associate Presbytery,” diffi- 
culty arose among his people respecting their Church 
property. The result finally was the building of a new I 
place of worship in West Nicholson Street, and there he 
ministered for nearly thirty years. In 1821 he made a 
tour to the Continent, mainly with a view to study the 
Continental Reformation, and, after continuing his in- 
vestigations until 1827, published the 1 list, of the Ref. 
in Italy , and in 1829 the Hist, of the Ref. in Spain , both 
of which had the honor of being prominently placed in 
the list of the Homan Index of forbidden books, and are 
spoken of “as the very best accounts we possess of the 
protest made against liomisli corruption by the races of 
the South — a protest not less ardent, but unhappily less 
persistent than that of the phlegmatic North.” At the 
time of his death, Aug. 5, 1835, the doctor was engaged 
on a “Life of Calvin,” which unfortunately he left un- 
completed. AH his completed works were published 
under the title of JForLs of the late Thomas McCrie , 
D.D., by his sou Thomas, in 4 vols. 8vo (Edinb. 1855- 
57). They contain, besides the works already men- 
tioned, Discourses on the Unity of the Church (1821): — 
Memoirs of William Veitch and George Bryson (1825): 
— Lectures on the Booh of Esther (1838): — Vindications 
of Christian Faith and his Sermons (183G). See Life 
and Times of Thomas McCrie , D.D., by his son Thomas 
(Edinb. 1840, 8vo); Blackwoods Magazine, xxxviii, 
429; Gentl. Magazine, 1835, pt. ii, p. 434; The Annual 
Biogr. and Obit. (Lond. 1830. Svo), xx, 442; Allibone, 
Diet. Brit, and Amer. Authors, vol. ii, s. v. ; Cunning- 
ham, Hist. Studies , i, 4 1 1. (J. H. W.) 

McCullough, Kobekt, a Presbyterian minister, 
■was born in Ireland. He received a classical education 
in the College of Belfast, Ireland; subsequently emigra- 
ted to this country, and studied theology in Princeton 
Theological Seminary. In 1848 he was licensed, and 
ordained pastor of Mount Grove and Hopewell churches, 
Ohio, where he remained until 1856, when he ■went to 
California. On his return he became connected with 
the New Lisbon Presbytery, in which connection he re- 
mained until his death in 1859. See Wilson, Prcsb. 
J/isf. A Imanac , I860, p. 76. (J. L. S.) 

McCurdy, John, a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church South, was born in Elbert County, Ga., 
July 10, 1800; in 1825 he professed religion, and joined 
the Methodist Episcopal Church; in 1830 was licensed 
to preach, and in 1843 was admitted into the Tennessee 
Annual Conference. From that time till his death he 
labored faithfully on various circuits and missions. 
Much of his time was devoted to missionary work 
among the colored people. In this field he was very 
successful. For the last several -years of his, life his 
health was feeble, and he was on the supernumerary and 
superannuated lists. He died in Williamson County, 
Tenn., Aug. 17, 1870. Mr. McCurdy “was a man of 
sound judgment, good common-sense, and deep and uni- 


form piety. He lived above reproach, and died honored 
by all who knew him.” — Conference Minutes M. E. Ch. 
South , 1870, s. v. 

McCutchen, James B., a minister of the Method- 
ist Episcopal Church South, was born near Murfrees- 
boro, Tenn., Aug. 26, 1829 ; professed religion in his four- 
teenth year, and joined the Methodist Church; was 
licensed to preach, and joined the Memphis Annual Con- 
ference in 1852; was appointed to Camden Circuit in 
1853; Mount Pinson in 1854; Tishomingo in 1855; Clin- 
ton Circuit in 1857; Paducah Circuit in 1858; Murray 
Circuit in 1860; and Tishomingo Circuit in 1861. Dur- 
ing this year he was elected chaplain of the 7th Ken- 
tucky Regiment C. S. A. In this service he continued 
till the close of the Avar, when he resumed his place as a 
travelling preacher, and was appointed in 1866 to Cage- 
ville Circuit; in 1868 to Trenton Circuit, and again to 
Cageville Circuit in 1869. He died Aug. 28, 1870. 
“ Brother McCutchen was a self-made man, having re- 
ceived but a limited education in his youth, but by in- 
dustry and hard study he had acquired a very good 
English education, and no mean acquaintance with the 
Latin and Greek languages. His preaching was of a 
plain, practical character, exhibiting a large acquaint- 
ance with the sacred Scriptures, and with the standard 
literature of the Chnrcli. lie was not of a polemical 
turn of mind, but when our doctrines were attacked, he 
alwaj'S showed himself a fearless champion and a trust- 
worthy debater. But few men in our ranks are better 
prepared to defend our doctrines than he was, and yet 
lie cherished a noble catholicity of sentiment and feel- 
ing that did credit at once to his head and heart. He 
was not merely acceptable, but popular and useful, mak- 
ing many friends wherever he went.” — Conference Min- 
utes M. E. Church South, 1870, s. v. 

McDearmon, James, a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in Amelia County, Ya., April 1, 1799; was educated 
in what were known as the Old Fields Schools of Vir- 
ginia; was early made a ruling elder in the Church, 
and at once identified himself with the cause of temper- 
ance. He was licensed by West Hanover Presbyter)' in 
1834, and in 1838 ordained and installed pastor over 
Iloe Creek and Morris churches, in Campbell County, 
Va. lie died Sept. 15, 1867. Mr. McDearmon was a 
good and useful man, and an earnest apostle of temper- 
ance in his region. See Wilson, Presb. Hist. A Imanac, 
1868, p. 347. 

McDermott, Thomas, a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in Monmouth County, N. J., in 1791 ; was educated 
in the Lawrenceville Lligh School, N. J. ; studied divin- 
ity in the theological seminary at Princeton (class of 
1832), and was licensed and ordained by New Bruns- 
wick Presbytery, as pastor of the Church at Stillwater, 
N. J.; in 1838, removed to Ohio as pastor of llubbard 
and Unity churches; in 1844 accepted a call to Clark- 
son Church ; and in 1846 resigned to become pastor of 
Chippewa Church, where he remained until compelled 
to resign because of failing health. He died June 6, 
1861. Mr. McDermott was a devoted preacher; earnest 
in his work, and industrious in his efforts. See Wilson, 
Presb. Ilist. A Imanac , 1862, p. 109. (J. L. S.) 

McDonald, Andrew, a Scotch minister, was 
born at Leith in 1757 ; was educated at the University 
of Edinburgh ; was ordained deacon in 1775; pastor of 
a congregation at Glasgow in 1777 ; subsequently re- 
moved to London, and devoted himself to the author- 
ship of light literature, and died in the great English 
metropolis, “a victim to sickness, disappointment, and 
misfortune,” in 1790. A list of his works is given by 
Allibone, Diet. Brit, and Amer. Authors, ii, 1166. 

McDonald, Daniel, D.D., an Episcopal minister 
in America, was born near Bedford, Westchester County, 
N. Y., about 1787, and was educated at Middlebury Col- 
lege. Having taught for some time, he was ordained 
in 1810, and became rector of St. Peter’s, Auburn. N. Y. 
He subsequently took charge of the academy in Fair" 


McDonald 


941 


McFarland 


field, Herkimer Co., where he superintended the prepa- 
ration of candidates for holy orders. In 1821 he was 
made D.D. by Columbia College ; removed to Geneva, 
and served for many years as missionary in the village 
of Waterloo. He became professor in the College of Ge- 
neva in 1825, and continued so until his death, March 
25, 1830. His works are A Sermon in the Churchman's 
Magazine , and A Series of Articles in the Gospel Mes- 
senger , signed P. See Sprague, A nnals, v, 525. 

McDonald, John, a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in Brooke County, Va., July 25, 1794 ; was educated 
in Ohio University, Athens, Ohio; was licensed and or- 
dained by Athens Presbytery in 1827, and installed 
pastor of the Church in Burlington, Ohio; subsequently 
served as missionary in Kentucky; in 1832 labored in 
Manchester and Huntington churches, Ohio; and from 
1836 in the Pleasant Prairie Church, 111., until his death, 
Aug. 15, 1866. Mr. McDonald was possessed of rare 
mental strength and discriminating powers; extensive 
religious and literary acquirements; sterling piety, and 
unassuming humility. See Wilson, Presb. Hist. A Ima - 
ncic, 1867, p. 184. (J. L. S.) 

McDonogh, John, an American philanthropist, 
a merchant of New Orleans, was born at Baltimore in 
1778, and in 1800 removed to the Southern city, where, 
after having by hard labor and strict economy amassed 
an immense fortune, he delighted to serve the cause of 
humanity. He founded free schools and asylums for 
orphans, and also aided greatly the cause of the “Amer- 
ican Colonization Society/’ He established himself a 
colony in Africa, and sent thither many of his own ne- 
groes, after having previously provided them with a 
thorough education and a trade, lie died Oct. 26, 1850. 
See Drake, Diet. Amer. Blog. s. v. 

McDowell, Alexander, a Presbyterian minis- 
ter, was born in Ireland, and came to tins country in 
1737; was licensed in 1739; and afterwards itinerated 
through portions of Maryland and Virginia, until, in 
1741, lie was ordained as an evangelist to Virginia, and 
subsequently to itinerate in New Castle Presbytery; in 
1743 took charge of White Clay and Elk River church- 
es ; in 1752 was appointed principal of the Synod’s 
school, which he afterwards removed to Elktown, Aid., 
and in 1767 to Newark. Del. He continued to labor as 
a teacher and preacher until his death, Jan. 12, 1782. 
See Wilson, Presb. Ilist. A Imanac , 1863, p. 48. (J. L. S.) 

McDowell, John, D.D., a Presbyterian minister 
(O.S.), was bom in Bedminster, Somerset County, N. J., 
Sept. 10, 1780; was educated at Princeton College, where 
he graduated A.B. in 1801 ; studied theology with Dr. 
Wood hull, of Freehold; and was licensed by the Pres- 
bytery of New Brunswick in 1804. In December of that 
year he was installed pastor of the Presbyterian Church 
of Elizabethtown, where he remained until 1833. Dur- 
ing his ministry there 1144 persons were added to the 
Church. In May, 1833, he became pastor of the Cen- 
tral Church, Philadelphia, which, from small beginnings, 
grew to be a strong Church under his ministry. In 
1846 he accepted a call to the new Spring-garden Street 
Church, where again his talent for organizing and es- 
tablishing a society was very successfully employed, 
lie remained in this parish till his death, February, 
1863. He published a System of Theology (2 vols.) : — Bi- 
ble Class Manual (2 vols.): — Bible Questions ; etc. For 
nearly fifty years he was a trustee of Princeton College, 
and was a director of the theological seminary from its 
foundation. See Wilson, Presb. Hist . Aim. 1864, p. 186. 

McDowell, William Anderson, D.D., a Pres- 
byterian minister, was born at Eamington, Somerset Co., 
N. J.; in 1809 graduated at Princeton, where he acted 
as tutor for several months ; completed his theological 
studies in 1813; was licensed by the Presbytery of New 
Brunswick, and ordained and installed pastor at Bound 
Brook. In 1814 he became pastor of the Church of 
Morristown, N. J. ; but after a residence of nine years 
his health obliged him to resign ; in 1823 he was installed 


by the Charleston Union Presbytery, served for several 
years, and in 1832 became moderator of the General As- 
sembly, and secretary of the “ Board of Domestic Missions 
of the Presbyterian Church” (Phila.). He subsequently 
visited the South; and preached occasionally in New 
Jersey, where he died, Sept. 17, 1851. See Sprague, A n- 
nals, iv, 495 ; Wilson, Presb. Hist. A Imanac, 1864. 

McElhany, \Y illiaji G., a Presbyterian minister, 
was born in Huntington, Pa. ; graduated at Jefferson 
College, Pa., in 1847 : studied theology in the Associate 
Reformed Seminary at Canonsburg, Va. ; and in 1850 
was licensed by Chartier Presbytery; in 1855 was or- 
dained and installed pastor of the Church in Hoboken, 
N. J., which relation existed until his death, May 28, 
1860. Mr. McElhany was a sound evangelical preach- 
er. See Wilson, Presb. Hist. A Im . 1861, p. 209. ( J. L. S.) 

McFarland, Asa, D.D., a Congregational minis- 
ter, was born April 19, 1769, at Worcester, Mass.; grad- 
uated at Dartmouth College in 1793; was ordained pas- 
tor in Concord, N. II., March 7, 1798, and died there Feb. 
18, 1827. He was made trustee of Dartmouth College 
in 1809, and president of the New Hampshire Mission- 
ary Society in 1811. 1 1 is publications were, Oration be- 

fore the Phi Beta Kappa Society in Dartmouth College 
(1802) : — An Historical View of Heresies and Vindica- 
tion of the Primitive Faith (1808) ; and several occa- 
sional Seimions . See Sprague, Annals , ii, 412. 

McFarland, James, a Presbyterian divine, was 
born in March, 1800, at Dumbarton, within the present 
limits of the city of Glasgow, Scotland, lie entered 
the grammar school in Glasgow when seven years old. 
He next passed to St. Andrew’s College, and afterwards 
to the divinity school of the Established Church, and 
was licensed to preach the Gospel at the age of twentv- 
one. During his college course he served as private 
tutor to an only son of a branch of the great familv of 
Argvle. At the age of twenty-six he became the* as- 
sistant and successor of the Rev. Dr. Mushett. at Shet- 
tleston, a suburb of Glasgow. Soon after he was called 
to the largest and most numerous congregation in the 
whole of Scotland at Aberbrotheck, a seaport and man- 
ufacturing town between Montrose and Aberdeen, situ- 
ate on the German Ocean. In the year 1835 Mr. Mc- 
Farland came to New York, and a little later went to 
Delaware County, settled by Scotch people, many of 
whom were the associates and schoolmates of his boy- 
hood. After a few years he removed to Ulster County, 
and in 1838 was called to be the pastor of the Reformed 
Dutch Church of Bloomingdale. During his ministry 
in that place a beautiful church was erected in the 
neighboring village of Kosendale, principally through 
his personal efforts. Unusual accessions were made to 
the membership, and he continued as pastor of the united 
congregations until the year 1844, when he was called 
to a large and flourishing congregation at Canajoharie. 
In 1848 he became the pastor of the Reformed Dutch 
Church of English Neighborhood, where he remained 
seven years. After a brief visit to Canada, he returned 
to Ulster County as pastor of the Reformed Dutch 
Church of Esopus and St. Remv Chapel. In 1861 he 
relinquished Esopus and St. Remv, and the next year 
became minister of a Presbyterian congregation in Gal- 
wav, Fulton County. From this date until his death 
his ecclesiastical relations were with the Presbyterian 
body. In 1866 he left Galway, and became pastor of a 
congregation at Port Washington, a pleasant summer 
retreat on the Shrewsbury River, Monmouth County, 
N. J. He died March 23, 1870. Mr. McFarland was 
distinguished for his scholarship. He was an excellent 
linguist. “As a preacher, Mr. McFarland was careful in 
his preparations, which lie delighted in making even to 
the last. There was the careful use of language, brev- 
ity in treatment, and such use and application of the 
truth as was suited to excite the spirit of devotion, to 
awaken love and reverence, and to administer satisfying 
consolation to the penitent and mourner. His positions 


McFarland 


942 


McGEE 


in the ministry attest popular qualities, his labors evince 
practical tact, and his success in gathering men and 
women into the fold attest the blessing of the Good 
Shepherd upon his ministrations.” (E. de P.) 

McFarland, James Hunter, a Methodist Epis- 
copal minister, was born in Harrisburg, Pa., March 10, 
1800 ; was converted in 1827. and soon after licensed to 
preach, and admitted to the Philadelphia Conference in 
1830. 1 lis ministerial charges were Trenton Circuit, Es- 
sex, Bergen Neck Mission, Plainfield, Westchester, Bus- 
tleton, Dover, Elkton, Agency for Dickinson College, 
Newcastle, Columbia, Eighth Street, Philadelphia, pre- 
siding eldership of Beading District, Frankford, Borden- 
town, and llaverstraw, N. J. In 1852, while a member 
of the New Jersey Conference, his health failed, and he 
was transferred to the Philadelphia Conference as a su- 
pernumerary. [n June, 1862, he was appointed chaplain 
of the United States Hospital in Philadelphia, and in 
this relation he prosecuted his ministry to the close of 
his life, March 23, I860. I lis last words were addressed 
to his wife: “Mother, I am dying! Lord Jesus, take 
me!" McFarland was for more than twenty years a 
corresponding member of the Academy of Natural Sci- 
ences in Philadelphia, and was also a member of the 
Entomological Society. “He was a very faithful and 
devoted minister of Christ, and did the work of an evan- 
gelist successfully. He was warm in his friendship, 
faithful to the demands of duty, and above everything 
that looked like a compromise of Christian principle.” — 
Conference 31 unites, 1863, p. 47. 

McFarlane, Jessie, a female preacher of the So- 
ciety of Friends, was born about the year 1842; com- 
menced preaching at seventeen, at first to girls and 
women, but later also to men. After eight years of this 
service, she became the wife of Dr. Brodie, of Edinburgh, 
and spent the remainder of her life in more private ac- 
tivity for the cause of her Master. She died about 
1869. Her preaching was impressive, her life one of 
uncommon purity and devotion, her death triumphant. 
She wrote a paper on the scriptural authority for the 
preaching of women, which is inserted in a memoir of 
her life, entitled In Memoriam Jessie McFarlane, by 
J. (f. (Bond. 1872, 12mo). See Friends' Review (Phila.), 
Oct. 12, 1872. 

McFerrin, James, a distinguished minister of the 
Methodist Episcopal Church, was born in 'Washington 
County, Va., March 25, 1784. His ancestors emigrated 
from Ireland to this country about the year 1740. His 
father was a Presbyterian, a farmer, a strict observer of 
the Lord’s day, and esteemed for his sobriety, good judg- 
ment, and intelligence. Mr.McFerrin’s educational ad- 
vantages were very limited, the years of his minority 
being passed on his father’s farm, where, however, he ac- 
quired habits of industry, sobriety, and enterprise. On 
bis twentieth birthday he was married to Jane Camp- 
bell Berry; shortly after which event he removed from 
Virginia to Ilutherford County, Tenn. The country 
was new, the settlements exposed to depredations by 
the Indians: hardships and dangers were consequently 
inseparable from such a condition of things. Mr. Mc- 
Fcrrin gave great attention to military tactics, in which 
he became thoroughly skilled, and, on the breaking out 
of the war with Great Britain in 1812, he was called 
into service, and, as captain of a company of volunteers, 
was engaged in a campaign against the Creek Indians 
under that renowned man, general Jackson. On ac- 
count of his brave conduct at the battle in which the 
Indians were defeated, Mr. McFerrin was elected colonel. 
In his thirty-sixth year his whole course of life was 
changed, the result of which was that he thenceforth de- 
voted himself to the work of the ministry. In 182,3 he 
became a member of the Tennessee Annual Conference, 
and was appointed to the Jackson Circuit, in the north- 
ern part of Alabama. lie had charge of this circuit two 
years, l'hc two subsequent years (1826 and 1827) he 
travelled the Limestone Circuit, and at the close of this 


period removed to the vicinity of Conrtland, Ala., where 
he purchased a farm, and remained for several years. 
This was in the Franklin Circuit, which he travelled 
in the years 1828 and 1829. During this period he at- 
tended the General Conference held in Pittsburg in 
1828. He was also a delegate to the General Confer- 
ence of 1832, held in Philadelphia. At the close o"f his 
labors on the Franklin Circuit he was made presiding 
elder of the Richland District, which he travelled four 
years. In the year 1834, having determined to remove 
to Western Tennessee, he deemed it proper to locate for 
one year, till he should be settled in his new home. In 
1835 he was readmitted into Conference, and appointed 
to the Wesley Circuit, which be travelled two years. 
His next appointment was to Randolph and Harmony, 
for one year; and to the Wesley Circuit for one year 
(1839), which proved to be tbe last of his itinerant life. 
Among his papers is the following record, made in 
1839 : “ Since I joined Conference, Nov. 25, 1823, 1 have 
preached 2088 times, baptized 573 adults and 813 in- 
fants, and have taken into society 3965 members.” Mr. 
McFerrin died Sept. 4, 1840. 

McGaughey, William G., a minister of the Meth- 
odist Episcopal Church South, was born in Davidson 
County, Tenn., Jan. 12, 1812; was converted in 1833; 
was licensed to exhort at Holly Springs, Miss., about 
1843; and shortly after received license to preach, and 
accomplished much good for the Church in this capac- 
ity. lie was also for several years agent for the Amer- 
ican Bible Society. In 1847 he was ordained deacon 
by bishop Soule; elder by bishop Andrew in 1852; 
in 1855 was admitted into Louisiana Conference, and 
appointed to Swan Lake and Pecan Grove; to Lake 
Providence in 1858; Carroll Circuit in 1859; Tensas and 
Elizabeth Chapel in 1861; Tensas Mission in 1863; Wes- 
ley, Tensas, and Jordan Chapel in 1864; Tensas District 
in 1865; Lake Providence District in 1867 ; Carroll Cir- 
cuit in 1870; and in 1871 I,ake Providence. He died 
Jan. 26, 1872. Mr. McGaughey was a devoted Chris- 
tian and an able minister, much esteemed by all who 
knew him. — Conference Minutes of the 31. F. Church 
South, 1872, s. v. 

McGavin, William, a celebrated Scotch layman 
and writer, was born in the parish of Auchinleck, Ayr- 
shire, Aug. 12, 1773. His parents were in very moder- 
ate circumstances, and young McGavin therefore en- 
joyed but slender educational advantages. While yet 
a boy be was apprenticed to a bookseller and printer, 
but soon made himself a host of friends by the great 
literary talent he displayed in frequent contributions to 
the local newspapers. He was intrusted with the care 
of an elementary school, which he. conducted with skill, 
though he hated the drudgery of teaching. He took 
an early opportunity to quit the rostrum, and to seek a 
livelihood in the counting-house. I le became the agent 
of the British Linen Company’s banking establishment 
in Glasgow. Although this business connection gave 
him great care and responsibility, McGavin’s fondness 
of writing would not allow him to withdraw altogether 
from literary labors, and. by habits of unwearied indus- 
try, he was enabled to command leisure for the publi- 
cation of many valuable religious tracts. An ardent 
opponent of Romanism, he attacked it in a series of pa- 
pers entitled the “Protestant” (1818-21), which Dr. Rob- 
ert Hall (Review of Birt’s Popery) pronounced “the full- 
est delineation of the popish system, and the most pow- 
erful confutation of its principles, in a popular style.” 
McGavin also edited John Howie’s Scotch Worthies, 
and John Knox’s Hist, of the Reformation, and frequent- 
ly preached to the poor and the humble in the suburbs 
of Glasgow. He died in 1832. See Chambers’s and 
Thomson’s Blog. Diet, of Eminent Scotsmen (1865), vol. 
iii, s. v.; Jamieson, Diet, of Relig. Biog. s. v. ; Allibone, 
Diet, of Brit, and Amer. Authors, vol. ii, s. v. 

McGee, Willtam 0., a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in Paterson, N. J., Aug. 15, 1816, and was educated 


McGILVARY 


943 


McILVAINE 


at New Jersey College, N. J. (class of 183G), and at the 
theological seminary, Princeton, N. J. In 1841 lie was 
licensed and ordained pastor of Hardwick and Marks- 
borough churches, where he remained until his death, 
May 25, 1867. Mr. McGee, as a preacher, was earnest, 
lucid, and practical; as a pastor, constant and zealous; 
as a citizen, intelligent and public-spirited. See Wil- 
son, Presb. Hist. A Imanac , 18G8, p. 127. (J. L. S.) 

Me Gil vary, Archibald Ik, a minister of the Meth- 
odist Episcopal Church South, was born in the Isle of 
Skye, coast of Scotland, towards the close of the last 
century. He came to this country in 180G, joined the 
South Carolina Conference in 1832, and died at Green- 
ville, S. C., June 0, 18G3. “Brother McGilvarv was a 
modest, cheerful, and agreeable man, a faithful friend, 
and good citizen. As a minister of Christ, he was holy, 
laborious, and useful.” — Conference, Minutes of the M. E. 
Church South, ii, 449. 

McGlashan, Alexander, a Presbyterian minister, 
was born in Queenston, Canada, Feb. 23, 1812; pursued 
his preparatory studies in the academy in Geneva, N. Y. ; 
graduated at ilobart College, Geneva, N.Y., and in 1840 
at the theological seminary in Auburn, N. Y. He was 
licensed and ordained as an evangelist in 1843, and after- 
wards commissioned by the American Tract Society 
as a general agent to the Southern States. While in 
this employ he built a mariner’s church in Mobile, Ala. ; 
subsequently his services were transferred from the tract 
and colportage efforts to the cause of the Seaman’s 
Friend Society. In 1859 he again removed to the 
North, and in 18G3 commenced work for the cause of 
the sailor in New York City, where he established a new 
church, called the Church of the Sea and Land. In 
I860 he removed to St. Catharine’s, Canada, where he 
remained until his death, Sept. 9, 18G7. Mr. McGlashan 
was a mail of extraordinary Christian zeal, peculiar tal- 
ents, and marked success. See Wilson, Presb. Hist . A l- 
manac, 18G8, p. 128. (J. L. S.) 

McGorrisk, Bernard, a Roman Catholic priest, 
was born in Ireland in 1818; went to Paris to pursue 
an academical course, and there also studied theology; 
emigrated to this country early in 1842; was engaged 
for several months as professor of French at St.John’s 
College (Fordham, N. Y.); afterwards went as mission- 
ary priest to the 'West, -where he labored for nearly 
eighteen years, building fifteen or sixteen churches. 
About I860 he removed to Brooklyn, where he built the 
present church of St. Vincent de Paul. lie died Oct. 
29, 18G5. — New Amer. Cyclop . 18G5, p. 654. 

McGregor, David, a Presbyterian minister, was 
bom in Ireland in 1711, and from 173G until his death 
(May 30. 1777) was pastor of Londonderry Church, New 
Hampshire. He received the degree of A.M. from New 
Jersey College. Lie published Sermons and Theolog- 
ical Treatises (1741-74). See Drake, Diet . of Amer. 
Biog. s. v. 

McHenry, Barnabas, a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in one of the eastern coun- 
ties of Virginia Dec. 10, 17G7 ; was converted when only 
fifteen years of age, and shortly after joined the Church. 
Called to preach the Gospel, he entered the itinerancy 
in May, 1787, and was appointed to Yadkin Circuit. 
Thereafter he successively served the cause of his Mas- 
ter in the following appointments: in 1788 at Cumber- 
land Circuit: in 1789 at Danville; in 1790 at Madison; 
in 1791 at Cumberland; was placed in charge of the 
district in 1792, and in 1793 of an enlarged number of 
circuits; in 1794 he was sent to Salt River Circuit; in 
1795 was located on account of impaired health; in 
1819 was readmitted, and appointed presiding elder of 
Salt River District, Tennessee Conference, but his health 
again failed him, and he was finally obliged to retire 
from active work, and take the place of a superannuate. 
He died at Mount Pleasant, near Springfield, Ivy.. June 
16, 1833. “Barnabas McHenry,” is the testimony of 
one, “ was a man of strong mind and able in argument. 


He stood upon the walls of our Zion and defended her 
bulwarks when she was assailed by an enemy.” Bishop 
Bascom says, “ Of the early years of his ministry but 
little is known, except vague yet cherished traditions 
of the beauty, unction, and eloquence of his preaching, 
together with the dangers and hardships to which he 
was exposed as a pioneer missionary in the wilderness 
of the West from 1788 to 1795. . . . Even a century in 
a single community produces few such men as Barnabas 
McHenry and Valentine Cook. They were men by 
themselves, and their memory would adorn the history 
of any Church or age.” See Sprague, A nnals of the 
Amei'ican Pulpit, vii, 143 sq. ; Finley, Sketches of the J/. 
E. Church South; Minutes of Conferences, 1834. 

Mcllvaine (or Macllvaine), Charles Petit, 
D.D., an eminent divine of the Protestant Episcopal 
Church, was born in Burlington, New Jersey, June 
18, 1798. llis father, Joseph Mcllvaine, was a leading 
lawyer and United States senator from New Jersey at 
the time of his death, in 1826. Charles graduated in 1816 
at Princeton; was admitted to deacon’s orders July 4, 
1820, by bishop White, and, having labored in Christ 
Church, Georgetown, Md., he received two years later 
priest’s orders from bishop Kemp, of Maryland. In 
1825 he became professor of ethics and chaplain in 
the United States Military Academy at West Point. In 
1827 he became rector of St. Ann’s Church, Brooklyn, 
N.Y., where he remained until 1832, when he was con- 
secrated bishop of Ohio. While rector at Brooklyn, he 
also held the professorship of evidences of revealed re- 
ligion and sacred antiquities in the University of the 
City of New York. In the episcopacy, Dr. Mcllvaine 
quickly made a name for himself as a man of learning, 
and of unusual kindliness of disposition, not only in his 
own Church, but among all Christians, both in this coun- 
try and in Europe. For the last ten years or more 
he was looked upon as the representative of the Low 
Churchmen of the Protestant Episcopal Church. In 
his death (which occurred at Florence, I talv, while on a 
journey for recreation, March 14. 1873), irenical theol- 
ogy has lost one of its ablest advocates, and the Evan- 
gelical Association one of its most active promoters. 
Bishop Mcllvaine -was a large contributor to theological 
literature. His Lectures on the Evidences of Christianity 
(9th ed. 1857, 12mo, reprinted in England and Scotland), 
delivered in New York University in 1831. were pub- 
lished by request of the Council, and have gone through 
many editions. During the early part of the controversy 
arising out of the Oxford tracts, appeared his Oxford 
Divinity compared with that of the Romish and Anglican 
Chui'ches (Phila. 1841, 8vo ; Loud. 1841, 8vo), which the 
Edinburgh Review recommended as one of the best “ con- 
futations of the Oxford school.” In 1854 he published a 
volume of sermons entitled The Truth and the Life. He 
also compiled two volumes of St led Family and Parish 
Sermons (Columbus, Ohio, 1839, 2 vols. 8vo). Ills other 
works of a minor character are, The Sinner's Justification 
before God (N. Y. 18mo; Lond. 1851, sq.) : — The Holy 
Catholic Church (Phila. 18mo; Lond. 1844, IGmo) : — Xo 
Priest , no Altar, no Sacrifice, but Christ (N. Y. 12mo; 
Lond. 12mo) : — 1 ' aledictory Offering ; Five Se? m mons 
(1853, 12mo) : — A Word in Season to Candidates for 
Confirmation : — The Doctrines of the Prot. Epis. Church 
as to Confirmation; — Chief Danger of the Church: — The 
Truth and the Life; a Series of Twenty-two Discourses 
(N. Y. 1855, 8vo ; Lond. 1855, 8vo ; this volume was 
published at the request of the Convention of the Dio- 
cese of Ohio, together with A Memoir of the Rev. Chas. 
Simeon, both published in New York) ; and contributed 
articles to the N. Y. (quarterly) Review, the Episcopal 
(monthly) Observer, the London (monthly) Christian 
Observer, the Protestant Churchman (New York), the 
Episcopal Recorder (Phila.), and the Western Episco- 
palian (Gambier, Ohio). In 1853 the degree of D.C.L. 
was conferred on him by the University of Oxford, and 
in 1858 that of LL.D. by the University of Cambridge. 
He was distinguished for the soundness and clearness 


McIVER 


944 


McKENDREE 


of his evangelical views, and for the expository charac- 
ter of his preaching. “ That for which as a preacher he 
is most eminent is his power of illustrating Scripture 
by Scripture ; and his mode of doing this shows at once 
the fulness and the accuracy of his knowledge of Script- 
ure and the transparent simplicity of his conception 
.... in all his preaching he aims to lay broad and deep 
the foundations of the Christian character, in strong, 
dear views of man’s sinfulness and need, and Christ’s 
fulness and freeness as a Saviour.” See Fish, Pulpit 
Eloquence of the Nineteenth Century (N. Y. 1S57, 442, q. v.) 
for a notice of this excellent prelate, and a sermon of 
his on the resurrection of Christ. See, also, Western 
Memorabilia ; Knickerbocker, xxx v, 42 ; Darling, Cyclop. 
Bibl. i, 1911; Allibone, Diet. Brit, and Amer. Authors, 
vol. ii, s. v. (J. II. W.) 

Mclver, J. W., a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church South, was born Sept. 19, 1835 ; professed 
religion in 1858; joined the Memphis Conference in 
1861, and filled the Chulahoma and Good Springs cir- 
cuits. lie joined the Confederate army in the late civil 
war. In 1865 and 1866 he was appointed to the Rich- 
land and Cassida circuits; and in 1867 to the Iuka Cir- 
cuit. lie died suddenly, of congestion, while on his 
way to an appointment, Jan. 17, 1868. “Brother Melvor 
was a very promising young preacher, much beloved by 
all the people where he preached, and it is with feel- 
ings of deepest sadness that we record his early death.” 
See Conference Minutes of the M. E. Church South, iii, 
246. 

McKay, William, a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in Columbiana County, Ohio, July 7, 1825; pursued 
his academic course at Jefferson College, Canonsburg, 
Pa.; studied theology at the Western Theological Sem- 
inary, Alleghany City, Pa. ; was licensed by the Pres- 
bytery of New Lisbon, and immediately took temporary 
charge of the Church at Yellow Creek; but, owing to ill- 
health and other causes, had to give up his labors. He 
died Jan. 19, 1863. Mr. McKay possessed an extensive 
knowledge of the Scriptures, and was well versed in 
theologv. See Wilson, Presb. Hist. Almanac, 1864, p. 
187. (J. L. S.) 

McKean, James W., a Presbyterian minister, 
was born in Lawrence County, Pa., April 30, 1833 ; was 
educated at Richmond College and Jefferson College, 
Canonsburg, Pa. (class of 1859), and at the Western 
Theological Seminary; in 1862 was licensed and or- 
dained bv the Ohio Presbytery, with a view to labor as 
a domestic missionary in the Lake Superior region ; in 
1863 was elected principal of the Synodical School at 
llopkinton, Iowa, where he continued to labor until 
May, 1864, when he enlisted in the service of his coun- 
try. lie died while in camp, July 9, 1864. Mr. McKean 
was an accurate scholar, a good teacher, and a model 
of Christian pictv. See Wilson, Presb. llist. Almanac , 
1866, p. 137. (J."l. S.) 

McKean, Joseph, D.D., LL.D., a Congregational 
minister, was born April 19, 1776, in Ipswich, Mass. ; 
graduated at Harvard College in 1794; entered the min- 
istry, and was ordained pastor in Milton, Mass., Nov. 1. 
1797; resigned Oct. 3, 1801; was elected professor of 
mathematics in Harvard College in 1806, but declined, 
and was chosen Boylston professor of rhetoric in 1809. 
He remained in this position until his health failed. 
He died at Havana March 17, 1818, He published a 
Memoir of the Rev. John Eliot, S.T.D., in the Hist. 
Coll., and several occasional sermons and addresses. See 
Sprague, A minis, ii, 414. 

McKearn, Richard, a Baptist minister, was horn 
in Rawdon, Ireland, Aug. 22, 1801, and emigrated with 
his parents, while yet a youth, to the British possessions 
this side the Atlantic, and finally settled at liowdon, 
N. F. Richard was reared in the Episcopal Church, but in 
1820 was converted under the preaching of elder James 
Munro, a Baptist evangelist, and in 1821 finally joined 
the Baptists; he began preaching in 1826, and March 10, 


1828, became the pastor of a congregation at Rowdon. 
In May, 1829, he was called upon to assume the pastor- 
ate of a Baptist congregation at Windsor also, and he 
thereafter preached both at Rowdon and Windsor until 
about 1836, when ill health compelled him to withdraw 
from the ministry. Deprived of the advantages of aca- 
demic training, he had prepared for college while in the 
ministry, and in 1839 matriculated at King’s College, 
and there graduated in due course of time, and took his 
degree of B.A. In 1842, his health still too feeble to re- 
enter the ministry, he removed to Dartmouth, and estab- 
lished himself in business. I ledied Aug. 17,1860, acknowl- 
edged by all who knew him to have been “a conspicu- 
ous example of unbending Christian integrity, and ear- 
nest, steadfast devotion to the cause of Christ.” “As a 
preacher,” says one of his contemporaries and associates, 
“ Mr. McKearn commanded the full attention of his au- 
ditory. His manner was earnest and energetic; liis 
subjects practical, and treated with clearness and preci- 
sion. Their application to the heart and conscience was 
with great power. His language was free and copious, 
bis voice excellent, and capable of great modulation. 
As his subject required, he was earnestly winning and 
persuasive, or denounced with fearful energy the courses 
of the ungodly.” See The Christian Messenyer (Hali- 
fax), Oct. 17, 1860. 

McKeen, Joseph, D.D., a Congregational minis- 
ter, noted as an educator, was born Oct. 15, 1757, in 
Londonderry, N. If.; graduated at Dartmouth in 1774; 
served under general Sullivan in the Revolution; was 
licensed to preach, and ordained pastor in Beverly in 
May, 1785. In 1802 he was chosen first president of 
Bowdoin College, and was inaugurated Sept. 2. lie 
died July 15, 1807. “Dr. McKeen possessed a strong 
and discriminating mind; his manners were concilia- 
ting though dignified, and his spirit mild though firm 
and decided, lie was indefatigable in his exertions to 
promote the interests of science and religion. He was 
respectable for his learning and exemplary for his Chris- 
tian Virtues, being pious without ostentation, and ad- 
hering to evangelical truth without bigotry or supersti- 
tion.” He published his Inaugural A chi r ess and a few 
occasional Sermons . — Sprague, Annals, ii, 216. 

McKendree, William, a bishop of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was bom in King William County, 
Va., July 6, 1757. lie was the subject of frequent re- 
ligious impressions in youth, but be failed to find peace. 
He was an adjutant and commissary in Washington’s 
army for several years, and was present at the surrender 
of Cornwallis at Yorktown in 1781 ; in 1787 he was con- 
verted, during the great revival that occurred under the 
labors of the Rev. John Easter; and entered the itineran- 
cy June 17, 1788. In 1796 lie was made presiding elder; 
in 1801 was sent by the bishops to preside over Kentucky 
District, and to have general superintendence of the 
Western Conference, then embracing Ohio. Kentucky, 
Tennessee, Western Virginia, ami part of Illinois; and in 
1806 was presiding elder on Cumberland District, with 
the same supervision of the Conference. At the General 
Conference in Baltimore, May, 1808, McKendree was 
finally promoted to the highest office in the gift of the 
Church — the episcopacy. lie died March 5, 1835, at his 
brother’s, near Nashville. Tenn., having preached faith- 
fully almost fifty years, been twelve years a presiding 
elder, and nearly twenty-seven years a bishop in the 
Church. Bishop McKendree was one of the most emi- 
nent of all the preachers and pastors of his age. From 
the time of his first efforts he was marked as a man of 
the most vigorous genius, the most genuine modesty, 
and the most devoted piety. Although not classically 
educated, liis broad and grasping mind went on acquir- 
ing and growing until it had digested and could wield 
at will a vast and varied knowledge. His imagination 
was grand and fervid, but always healthy; and could 
give to his knowledge the freshness of romance, or to 
his judgment the spell of prophecy. His utterance was 


McKENNAN 


945 


McKinney 


copious and forcible, and his voice rich, deep, and flexi- 
ble. These elements of mind and means, employed by 
a strong and pathetic heart baptized with the Holy 
Ghost, made him not only the most truly eloquent 
bishop that his Church has ever possessed, but one of 
the best preachers of any Church or age. As a pastor, 
his administrative abilities were unrivalled, lie found 
the economical methods of the Church crude and indef- 
inite, and imparted to them a s}’stematie vigor; and he 
was a distinguished promoter of her benevolent institu- 
tions. As a man and a Christian he was honored by 
every ciass of society. Ilis labors were mighty in lay- 
ing the deep foundations of evangelical religion in the 
Mississippi Valley, and his genius and devotion are still 
a power in the churches, and his memory is blessed. 
See Minutes of Conferences , ii, 402; Life, by B. St. J. 
Fry, in the M. E. S. S. Library; and that by Bp. Paine, 
of the M. E. Church South (Nashville, 1869, 2 vols. 
12 mo) ; Summers, Biog. Sketches , p. 43 ; AVakely, Heroes 
of Methodism, p. 93; Bennett (AY. B.), Memorials of 
Methodism in Virginia (liichm, 1871, 12mo), p. 200 sq. ; 
McFerrin, Hist. Meth. in Tennessee , i, 366 ; Bedford, Hist. 
Meth. in Kentucky , ii, 28. (G. L. T.) 

McKennan, James Wilson, D.D., a Presbyterian 
minister, was born in AVashington, Pa., Sept. 2, 1804 ; 
graduated at Washington College, Pa., in 1822, and then 
studied aud practiced law at Millersburg, Ohio ; subse- 
quently commenced the study of theology with Dr. 
John Anderson, of Upper Buffalo Church, Pa. ; was 
licensed by AA'ashington Presbytery in 1828, and in 1829 
was ordained and installed pastor of the United churches 
of Lower Buffalo and AA’cst Liberty, Pa. In 1835 he 
accepted a call to Indianapolis, but owing to infirm 
health he had to resign. lie was afterwards engaged 
in teaching in AATieeling, and at Moundsville, A^a., and 
also as rector in the preparatory department, and ad- 
junct professor of languages in AA’ashington College, 
lie died July 19, 1861. Dr. McKennan’s character was 
truly remarkable in candor, benevolence, and meekness ; 
in simplicity and directness of purpose ; in strength of 
faith and zeal. His sermons were characterized by 
plainness and directness of style. See AVilson, Presb. 
Hist. Almanac , 1862, p. 109. (J. L. S.) 

McKinley, John, a minister of the Reformed 
Presbyterian Church, was born in Philadelphia, Pa., 
July 18, 1815. He was educated at the University of 
Pennsylvania, which institution he entered when not 
quite fourteen years old, and there he graduated with 
the first honor of his class in 1833. From his very child- 
hood the ministry had been looked to as the profession 
of his life, and he therefore, immediately upon the com- 
\ lotion of his college course, entered upon the study of 
theology at the theological seminary of his Church, then 
under the care of Dr. Samuel B. AVvIie. In 1835 Mr. 
McKinley was licensed to preach by the Presbytery of 
Philadelphia. After filling various minor appointments, 
he was in 1838 called to t lie pastorate of the Bcformcd 
Presbyterian Church at Milton, Pa. Here he labored 
acceptably and successfully until 1841, when failing 
health compelled him to withdraw from active work. 
His precautions had been taken too late, for he failed 
rapidly, and died Oct. 5 of the same year. “All who 
knew him recognised in his death the extinction of one 
of the bright lights of the Church.” His only publica- 
tion is a series of articles on the Slave Trade , which ap- 
peared in a weekly periodical at Milton, Pa. “He was 
a man of cultivated intellect, of sound and discrimina- 
ting judgment, of generous sympathies and noble im- 
pulses, and fervent piety.” See Sprague, Annals of the 
A mer. Pulpit , ix, 87 sq. 

McKinney, Calvin, a Presbyterian minister, was 
born at AY allkill, Orange County, N. Y., Jan. 12, 1819. 
He received a good academic education, afterwards 
studied theology in the Associate Reformed Seminary 
at Newburg, X. Y., and -was licensed and ordained in 
1856. lie labored successivelv at Millport, Mecklen- 
A r . — O oo 


burg, and AVest Groton, N. Y. He died June 9, 1864. 
See AVilson, Presb. Hist. A hnanac , I860, p. 220. (J, L. S.) 

McKinney, David, D.D., a Presbyterian minis- 
ter, was born in Mifflin Count}", Pa., Oct. 23, 1795. He 
was educated at Jefferson College (class of 1821) ; then 
studied theology at the school of divinity at Princeton, 
N. J. ; was licensed to preach by the Presbytery of Phil- 
adelphia in April, 1S24, and ordained and installed at 
Erie, Pa., in May, 1825. In 1835 he removed to the 
bounds of the Presbytery of Huntingdon, and took 
charge of the churches at Sinking Creek and Spring; 
in 1841 he was transferred to Hollidaysburg, in the same 
presbytery. In 1852, having severed his pastoral rela- 
tions, Dr. McKinney removed to Philadelphia, and there 
established the Presbyterian Banner. In 1855 he re- 
moved the office of publication to Pittsburg, and there 
submerged in it the interests of the Presbyterian Advo- 
cate. He sold the paper in 1864, to become librarian 
and treasurer for the Board of Colportage of the Synods 
of Pittsburg and Alleghany, and this position he filled 
until the time of his decease. Dr. McKinney was a pri- 
vate partner, and at one time in connection with the 
editorial staff of the A Northwestern Presbyterian Ban- 
ner. 

McKinney, Isaac Newton, a Presbyterian 
minister, was born in Erie, Pa., Oct. 20, 1828; gradua- 
ted at Jefferson College in 1848, and in 1849 engaged in 
teaching in Alabama; in 1852 he entered the theolog- 
ical seminary at Princeton, but because of failing health 
was obliged to relinquish his studies; in 1856 he accepted 
a license to preach, and in 1857 was ordained and in- 
stalled pastor of Montour’s Church, but soon after ac- 
cepted an appointment as professor of Latin in bis alma 
mater; in 1862 he was engaged in editing the PresbyU- 
rian Banner , and then in originating and conducting t lie 
Family Treasure, and died Nov. 20, 1864. Mr. McKin- 
ney was a scholar, well versed in language — embracing 
Latin, Greek, French, and German. As a preacher, lie 
was ardent, direct, and lucid; as a teacher, he had rare 
capabilities. See AVilson, Presb. Hist. Almanac, 1865, 
p. 103. (J. L. 8.) 

McKinney, James, a Bcformcd Presbyterian 
minister, was born in Cookstown, Tyrone County, Ire- 
land, in 1759. After due preparation lie entered Glas- 
gow College, where lie distinguished himself by close 
application to study and a display of unusual talents. 
His next step was to study medicine, but, called of God 
to preach the Gospel, he finally entered upon the study 
of theology, was licensed in due time, and constituted 
pastor of a congregation at Ivirkhills, Antrim County, 
about 1780. In 1793 lie emigrated to this country, and 
was immediately employed as missionary, Four years 
later he became the pastor of a Reformed Presbyterian 
Church at Galway and Duancsburg, N. Y.. and there he 
remained until 1804, when lie accepted a call to a Church 
at Chester County, 8. C. He went south in May. but 
lived only a few months; he died Sept. 10.1804. Dr. 
McMasters thus comments upon McKinney (in Sprague, 
. ! nnals of the A mer. Pulpit, ix, 2) : “ Of the character of 
Mr. McKinney as a preacher, and of the power of his elo- 
quence, the very large assemblies that everywhere at- 
tended his ministry, and the uniform testimony of all 
well-informed and serious men, of various denomina- 
tions, leave no room for doubt. . . . One feature of his 
ministerial character may perhaps be inferred from the 
plan of a work which he proposed to publish, the intro- 
ductory portion of which only he lived to complete. 
The proposal was a discussion of the Bights of God, the 
Bights of Christ as Mediator, the Rights of the Church, 
and the Rights of Humanity in general. Taking the 
part he published as a specimen of the whole, the reader 
will regret the failure of the purpose. The work would 
have been worthy of the man — not only sound in mat- 
ter, but deep in thought and impressive in style.” An 
Irish journal, commenting on the character of James 
McKinney, says of him : “The character of James Me- 


31c KINNEY 


946 


MoLEOD 


Kinncv never was exceeded in the boldness of its out- 
line and in the distinctness and prominency of its feat- 
ures. 1 lis eloquence was in perfect character. II is 
heart, possessed with the love of the truth as it is in Je- 
sus, was ever set upon its recommendation and enforce- 
ment : and it was when descanting upon the grand Gos- 
pel theme of a crucified Saviour or asserting the Church’s 
rights, or when, with well-sustained pathos, he mourned 
the wrongs of Zion, that his mind assumed a gigantic 
attitude, and put forth its wonderful energies. His dic- 
tion was clear, copious, strong, and full of pertinent and 
often brilliant figures, lie has frequently, in his public 
discourses, caught a flame from the working of his judg- 
ment, imagination, and feelings; and then his concep- 
tions. conveyed in simple, energetic language, or in 
bright imagery, and in bold and apt allusions, produced 
an astonishing effcet. In Ameriea, whose republican in- 
stitutions he had long loved, the land of enterprise and 
freedom, was the iield which just suited the genius of 
McKinney; there his powers had full scope for develop- 
ment and exercise.” 

McKinney, John, a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in Bellefonte, Pa., Aug. 26, 171)7 ; graduated at 
Jefferson College, Cauonsburg, Pa., in 1817; studied 
theology in the seminary at Princeton, N. J., and was 
licensed by Philadelphia Presbytery in 1824; was or- 
dained and installed pastor of the Church at Fredericks- 
burg, Ohio, in 1829 ; subsequently became pastor of the 
Church at Alexandria, Pa., and still later a supply at 
Oswego, 111. He died in 1867. Mr. McKinney’s life 
was one of real sacrifice and great usefulness; he was 
mild, affectionate, trustworthy, and eminently righteous. 
See Wilson, Presb. Hist. A Imanac , 18G8, p. 131. (J. L. S.) 

McKinnon, J., a Presbyterian minister, was born 
in Esquessing, C. W. His early education was com- 
menced iu Oneida Institute, in N. Y., in 1837; in 1838 
he placed himself under the tuition of Dr. Eae, in Ham- 
ilton, C. W. His eollegiate studies were pursued in 
Queen’s College, Kingston, C. W., and Knox College, 
Toronto. In 1844 he was licensed, and became pastor 
successively of the St. Thomas. Owen Sound, and Beck- 
with churches. He died Dec. 24, 18G5. Mr. McKinnon 
was a man of sterling integrity and conscientious fidel- 
ity; he possessed a competent knowledge of the lan- 
guages, but excelled in the logical and mathematical 
faculties. See Wilson, Presb. Hist. Almanac, 18G7, p. 
478. (J. L. S.) 

McLachlan, James, a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in Glasgow, Scotland, in 1797 ; was educated in 
the Glasgow University, and studied divinity in the 
theological seminary of the Old Burgher section of the 
Secession Church ; was licensed in 1827, and ordained 
as a missionary to Southern Afriea, under the patronage 
of the London Missionary Society, but after two years’ 
residence at the Cape of Good Hope he was compelled 
by ill-health to return. In 1830 he was made chaplain 
of the Seamens Chapel in the city of Glasgow; but, be- 
coming dissatisfied with his ecclesiastical connection, he 
joined the Ileformed Presbyterian Church, and in 1834 
was sent by the Scottish Synod of the Church to Can- 
ada West as their missionary. Subsequently be accept- 
ed a call from the congregation at Lisbon, N. Y., where 
lie continued till his death, Nov. 19, 18G4. See Wilson, 
Presb. Hist. Almanac, 18GG, p. 292. (J. L. S.) 

McLain, John, a Presbyterian minister, was born 
near Bloom ingsburg, Ohio, April 2, 1824 ; was educated 
at the South Salem Academy, Ohio, and studied theol- 
ogy with Dr. Carothers and Dev. II. S. Fullerton, and 
for a short time at the Western Theological Seminary, 
Alleghany City, Pa.; was licensed in 1852, and ordained 
in 1853, as pastor of Harmony Church. During the last 
few years of his life he was connected with the* Western 
Reserve Presbytery, and was a commissioner from that 
presbytery to the General Assembly of the Presbyterian 
Church, which met at Columbus, Ohio, in 1862. He 
died June 24, 18G2. Mr. McLain was a man of indom- 


itable energy, great zeal, and geniality of spirit. See 
Wilson, Presb. 11 1st. A Imanac, 18G3, p. 1 93. (J. L. S.) 

McLane, James Woods, D.D., a Presbyterian di- 
vine, was born in Charlotte, N. C., May 22, 1801 ; re- 
ceived his preparatory training in Phillips’ Academy, 
Andover, Mass.; graduated with high honor at Yale 
College in 1828, and in 1834 at Andover Theological 
Seminary ; was licensed by the Andover Congregational 
Association in 1835; was shortly after ordained pastor 
of the Madison Street Presbyterian Church in New York, 
and labored there until 185G, when lie became pastor of 
the Presbyterian Church at Williamsburg, L. I. There 
he labored with untiring zeal until 18G3, when he re- 
signed on account of failing health. During his minis- 
try Dr. McLane contributed frequently to the religious 
press ; was for many years director of the American Bi- 
ble Soeiety, and prepared for this soeiety an improved 
standard edition of the Bible. lie was also for many 
years recorder of the Union Theological Seminary, and 
secretary of the Church Erection Fund. He died at 
Brooklyn, N. Y., Feb. 2G, 18G4. Dr. McLane was a man 
of fine talents and scholarship; as a preacher, earnest 
and practical; as a writer, bold and uncompromising. 
See Wilson, Presb. Hist. A Imanac, 18G5, p. 168; Apple- 
ton, Xeic Amer . Cyclop. 1864, p. 595. 

McLaurin, James, a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in Perthshire, Scotland, in 179G; graduated at Ed- 
inburgh ; studied theology in Glasgow ; and in 1824 was 
licensed and ordained by a presbytery of the Church of 
Scotland. In 1840 he emigrated to the United States, 
became pastor successively of the Plainfield and Paw 
Paw churches, within the bounds of Kalamazoo Presby- 
tery, Mich., and subsequently preached at Birmingham 
anil Fentonville, Mich. He died May 11, I860. Mr. 
McLaurin was an able and learned minister. See Wil- 
son. Presb. Hist. A Imanac, 1861, p. 1G1. 

McLean, Alexander, a Presbyterian minister, 
was born in the Island of North Uist, Scotland, in March, 
1827. His early advantages were poor — bis boyhood be- 
ing a constant battle for existence against the strong 
arm of Romanism. He graduated at the Edinburgh 
! University, and afterwards studied theology; while thus 
I engaged he was associated with the Rev. Mr. Hall in 
the Glasgow Home Mission work. In 1855 he came to 
Canada, and in 1856 was ordained pastor of the East 
Puslineh congregation, where he remained till his death, 
May 25, 1864. Mr. MeLean was an effective minister, 
and an ardent laborer in the mission work. See Wil- 
son, Presb. Hist. A Imanac, 1866, p. 372. (J . L. S.) 

McLean, Charles G., D.D., a Presbyterian minis- 
ter, was born in Armagh County, Ireland, March 17, 1787; 
graduated at the University of Pennsylvania in 1808, 
and studied theology under the Rev. Dr. John M. Ma- 
son, of the Associate Reformed Church ; was licensed in 
1812, and ordained pastor of the Presbyterian Church 
near Gettysburg, Pa., during which pastorate he became 
an Independent". In 1844 he accepted a call from the 
Reformed Dutch Church at Fort Plains, N. Y., and in 
1852 emigrated to the West, and, in connection with his 
son-in-law, established a female seminary at Indianapo- 
lis. I nd. He died July 4, 1860. See Wilson, Presb. Hist. 
Almanac, 1861, p. 101. (J. L. S.) 

McLeod, Alexander, D.D., a minister of the 
Reformed Presbyterian Church, was born in the Island 
of Mull June 1 2, *1774. H is father and grandfather were 
ministers of the Church of Scotland. In 1792 he came 
to America and entered Union College, where lie gradu- 
ated in 1798. In 1799 he was licensed by the Reformed 
Presb vterv at Coldenham, and in 1801 was installed 
pastor of the First Reformed Presbyterian Church. His 
first publication was Xeyro Slavery Unjustifiable (^N. I. 
1802). In 1803 appeared Messiah governing the Xa- 
tions; in 1816, Ecclesiastical Catechism: — The Gospel 
Ministry:— Lectures on the Prophecies: — Sermons on the 

j )j r ar: Life and Power of True Godliness. He was 

[ the chief organizer of the American Colonization Soci- 


McLEOD 


947 


McLEOD 


ety in 1816, and wrote its constitution. During his pas- 
toral earcer he received various calls to other churches, 
to colleges, and to editorships ; but he declined them all, 
and remained in his charge until his death, Feb. 17, 1833. 
See Wiley (Sam. B.), Memoir of A . McLeod , D.I). (N. 5 . I 
1855, 8vo) ; Wilson, Presb. Hist. Almanac, 1862, p. 261 ; 
Sprague, Annals of the Anter. Pulpit, ix, 9 sq. 

McLeod, Cornelius, a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church South, was born about 18*20 ; joined 
the Church when but a boy ; entered the South Carolina 
Conference in 1837, and for nearly thirty years labored 
faithfully and zealously for the cause of the Redeemer. 
His last appointment, was Richland Fork Mission. lie 
died April 9, 1866. “McLeod was a successful laborer, 
and was much beloved by those for whom he labored. 
Remarkably amiable, he won without effort the affec- 
tions of those with whom he was associated ; and now, 
though he has passed away, he lives in the hearts of his 
people.” — Conference Minutes of the M. E. Church South, 
iii, 17. 

McLeod, Norman, D.D., one of the most noted 
Scotch divines of our day, was born at Campbelltown, 
Argyleshire, June 3, 1812. lie was early destined for 
the ministrj' by his father, who was at the time of Nor- 
man’s birth parish minister of Campbelltown, and Nor- 
man was to make the fourth generation of the McLeods 
in the ministry of the Scotch Kirk. To tit him properly 
for the responsible position he was to occupy in the near 
future, his father accepted a parish near Glasgow, and 
Norman made his preparatory studies for college at 
Glasgow. His academic education he obtained at Edin- 
burgh, and he then travelled for some time in Germany 
and the northern countries of Europe. On his return to 
Scotland he studied theology at Edinburgh, enjoying 
especially the counsel and instruction of the celebrated 
Dr. Chalmers. He was licensed to preach in 1838, and 
“ with the Norse tongue in him, and a vigorous Celtic im- 
agination,” he soon found a parish ready to receive him, 
and was ordained pastor of Loudon, in Ayrshire. Here 
he labored faithfully until 1843, the year so eventful to 
the Scotch Kirk. See Scotland. Though Norman 
McLeod had been a pupil of Dr. Chalmers, and greatly 
esteemed the doetor, he refused to leave the establish- 
ment, and even opposed the Free Church movement. 
In consequence of this decision to remain a Churchman 
many offers of promotion came to his door, and he finally 
accepted the parish of Dalkeith, where he resided un- 
til 1851, when he was called to the Barony Church of 
Glasgow, whither he removed, and “substantially began 
the real work of his life,” among a membership of from 
eleven to twelve hundred adults, who by his guidance 
not only walked themselves in the path of righteous- 
ness, but were the means of promoting Christian holi- 
ness and ameliorating the condition of the poor and the 
forsaken. “Commonly,” says his biographer, Dr. Wal- 
ter C. Smith (in Good I Fords, Aug. 1872, p. 513), “he 
preached thrice every Sabbath, besides conducting a 
large class of his own ; and his preaching was no mere 
stringing together of theological commonplaces, but the 
expression of earnest thought about the highest things, 
full of practical help and counsel for living men. . . . 
Neither did he regard his congregation merely as a 
company of people to be preached to. but rather as a 
body of men whom he had to lead unto every good 
work.” Aside from his parish work, extended as it was 
far beyond the labor usually performed by three minis- 
ters, he edited for ten years the Edinburgh Christian 
Magazine, a periodical of the old religions type, which, 
while it existed, did much good to the people who read 
it, but proved a heavy loss both to publisher and editor. 
Til spite of McLeod’s connection with this literary vent- 
ure, Mr. Strahan, the noted British publisher, hesitated 
not to court the services of Dr. McLeod when in 1860 
the publication of Good Words was projected. The 
manner in which the doctor replied to the invitation is 
well worthy of the Christian minister of Glasgow (comp. 


Contemporary Review, 1872, July, p. 29 sq.). The suc- 
cess of Good 1 Fords as a literary venture has been al- 
most unprecedented in the annals of magazine literature. 

“ Wherever the English language is read it has famil- 
iarized the people with the great leaders of theological 
thought; has brought into the cottage specimens of the 
pencil of the most eminent artists; has diffused sound 
information on secular truth; and has been the means 
of introducing to the poor, poets of eminence and writ- 
ers of wholesome fiction. Its pages, too, were often 
graced with the kindly productions of the editor’s own 
pen. Many of his works, now published in hook form, 
and of deservedly high popularity, first appeared in Good 
IFords.” A recognition of his able services came to Dr. 
McLeod in his later years from a quarter where, as a 
member of the Church outside the Anglican establish- 
ment, he could hardly have expected so much — we 
refer to his appointment, upon the death of Dr. Robert 
Lee, to the chaplaincy to the queen of England, a honor 
which never before fell to the lot of any Scotch minis- 
ter cxeept William Carstairs. In the midst of these 
varied labors, while still in fullest sympathy with the 
great life that stirred around him, and full of hope for 
its progress, and doing his full share of the task, death 
came upon him, June 16, 1872, causing a loss deeply 
felt not only by his own Church, but by all evangelical 
denominations, by the rich and the poor, the high and 
the low; for it must be borne in mind that his genial, 
great, noble nature made its influence felt everywhere ; 
and “he considered no work foreign to him if it could 
be called his Master’s business.” “Perhaps no other 
minister of the Church of Scotland was so generally be- 
loved or exercised so potent an influence for good, llis 
charity was remarkable. He extended the hearty hand 
of fellowship to men of all sects believing in Jesus 
Christ and him crucified. In the pulpit his utterances 
were peculiarly fresli and eloquent ; and reproof and in- 
struction, conveyed in a spirit oflove, came home with 
striking efieet to men’s business and bosoms. lie had 
a holy horror of shams in whatever guise they might 
be presented and we do not wonder that the man who 
is most competent to speak of him is constrained to say 
that Dr. Norman McLeod was “the most manly man” 
he ever knew; “ the most genial, the most many-sided, 
and yet the least angular” (John Strahan, publisher of 
Good Words , in Contemporary Review, July, 1872, p. 291 
sq.). “Norman McLeod,” continues Mr. Strahan, “was 
no mere paper, and pulpit, and platform good man, put- 
ting all his goodness into books, and sermons, and 
speeches. Where lie was best known — known as stand- 
ing the crtieial test of the ‘dreary intercourse of daily 
life’ — there he was most respected and beloved. Glas- 
gow had known him for many a year as a most unpre- 
tentious and yet most indefatigable worker for his 
brethren’s weal in this life and beyond this life: and 
money-making Glasgow struck work in the middle of 
the week to show that it felt it had lost its best citizen.” 
It should not be omitted here that Dr. McLeod strove 
hard to advance the cause of the Indian Mission scheme 
of the Church of Scotland by not only obtaining for it 
the contributions ‘of the Church, but by inducing men 
of high Christian and educational attainments to under- 
take the work of preaching the Gospel to the people of 
India. lie himself visited India only a short time be- 
fore his death to inquire into the success of the Mission 
and to advance its interests more ably, llis last speech 
before the last Assembly he attended was to revive the 
mission zeal of the Church. (J. II. W.) 

McLeod, Xavier Donald, a Roman Catholic 
priest, was horn in New York about 1821. and was the 
son of the celebrated Rresbyterian divine. Dr. Alexander 
McLeod. He was educated at Columbia College ; studied 
theology; took orders in the Episcopal Church in 1845; 
sailed for Europe in 1850, and while abroad embraced 
Roman Catholicism. After his return to this country 
he devoted himself to the publication of several works 
of a secular nature, besides a Life of Alary Queen of 


McLOUGHLIN 


948 


McMillan 


Scots (1857). About 1860 he became professor of belles- 
lettres at Mount St. Mary’s College, near Cincinnati; 
subsequently entered the priesthood, and died in Au- 
gust, 1865. — Xeic Amer. Cyclop. 1865, p. G48. 

McLoughlin, F. T., a Roman Catholic priest, was 
horn in the parish of Aglia, Upper Canada, in 1836; 
was educated at the College of St. Michael, Toronto; 
studied for the priesthood in the Seminary of St. Mary’s, 
Baltimore, Md.; was ordained priest in Brooklyn for 
that diocese; died in New York Aug. 3, 1863. lie 
won. by his attention to the best interests of his people, 
t i ! '’■* sincere admiration of all.” — New Amer. Cyclop. 1 865, 
p. 615. 

McLure, Daniel Milton, a Presbyterian minis- 
ter, was born near Flat Rock, 8. C., Dec. 1835; pursued 
his studies at Davidson College, N. C., and subsequent- 
ly at Oglethorpe University, Ga. (class of 1858); stud- 
ied divinity in the theological seminary at Columbia, 
8.C. ; and in 1861 was licensed to preach, and supplied a 
( liurch in Alabama. In 1864 he was regularly ordained 
and installed pastor of Williamsburg Church, and died 
t >et. *25, 1865. Mr. McLure’s mind was of more than or- 
dinary strength ; independence and clearness character- 
ized his thoughts, deliberation and study formed his 
opinions. See Wilson, Fresh, llist. Almanac, 1867. p. 
417. (J.L.S.) ' | 

McMahon, William, a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church South, was born in Dumfries, Prince i 
William County, Va., about 1785; was converted at a 
camp-meeting held near Oldtown, Md. ; was appointed 
class-leader by Peter Cartwright, and afterwards licensed 
to exhort by the Rev. James Quinn, and soon after to 
preach, and was received into the travelling connection j 
in 1811. His first appointment was Silver Creek, in 
the territory of Indiana; in 1812 he was sent to Ken- 
tucky, where he remained four years, and travelled the 
Lexington, Shelby, Jefferson, and Fleming circuits. Un- 
der this four years’ ministry thousands were awakened 
end converted. In 1816 lie was transferred to the Mis- 
sissippi Conference to take charge of a district. lie 
started on his journey with bishop Roberts, but was 
taken sick at Nashville, and there transferred by bishop i 
McKendree to the Tennessee Conference, and was ap- 
pointed to Nashville Circuit. After that time lie be- 
came one of the leading minds of the Tennessee and 
Memphis Conferences. 1 1 is health having failed, lie 
located, and removed from North Alabama to De Soto 
County, Miss,, in December, 1835; was readmitted into 
the travelling connection at the second session of the 
Memphis Conference, held in the fall of 1841, and was 
appointed to Ilolly Springs District, where he remained 
four years, lie continued in the regular work, preach- 
ing with a power and success sticli as but lew men ever 
had, until bis health gave way. For several years be- 
fore his death lie sustained either a supernumcrarv or a 
superannuated relation. He died about 1867 or* 1868. j 
“Few men, during the present century, have exerted | 
a greater influence upon Methodism in the South. For ^ 
fifty years he held up the cross and preached the doc- 
trines of Christianity in Kentucky, Tennessee, Alabama, ' 
and Mississippi, leaving holy foot-prints, and winning I 
votaries to Christ. He was in many respects a most 
remarkable man. No one ever had the reputation that 
he had in North Alabama and Mississippi." — Conference 
Minutes of the M. I'. Church South. 1871). s. v. ; McFerrin, [ 
Methodism in Tennessee, ii, 426; Rod ford, Hist. Meth. in 
Kentucky . ii. 252. 

McMaster, Erasmus D., D.D., a noted Presby- 
terian divine, was born in Pennsylvania in 1806; grad- 
uated at l nion College, N. Y., in 1827 ; was licensed to 
preach in 182!); was ordained in 1831. and made pastor 
at Ballston, X. Y. ; was president of the South Hano- 
ver College. Indiana, from 1838 to 1815. and of Miami 
University, Ohio, from 18 15 to 1849: was professor of 
systematic theology in the New Albany Theological 
Seminary from 1813 to 18G6 ; and was then appointed 


to the same chair in the theological seminary of the 
Northwest. He died at Chicago, Illinois, Dec. 10, 1866. 
Possessed of a vigorous and thoroughly cultured mind 
and a well-balanced judgment, McMaster succeeded in 
all be attempted. “ His expositions of Scripture and his 
religious addresses and sermons were exceedingly rich 
and instructive, and held the attention of all his hearers; 
while his influence over his students was unbounded.” 
He published several sermons and addresses, and minor 
theological t rcatises. See Drake, Diet. A mer. Biog. s. v. ; 
Xew Amer. Cyclop. 1866, p. 463. 

McMaster, Gilbert, D.D., a PresbjTerian minis- 
ter, was born in Ireland, Feb. 13, 1778; came to this 
country when yet a child, and was educated at Jeffer- 
son College, Pa., where he graduated in 1803; was or- 
dained August 8, 1808, and was pastor of Duanesburg 
Church, N. Y., from 1808 to 1840, and of the Church at 
Princeton, Ind., from 1840 to 1846, He died at New Al- 
bany, Ind., March 15, 1854. Ilis works are: An Essay 
hi Defence of some Fundamental Doctrines of Christian- 
ity : — J n Analysis of the Shorter Catechism (1815): — 
An A pologyfor the Book of Psalms The Moral Char- 
acter of Civil Government considered (1832) : — Thoughts 
on Union in the Church of God (1846). See Wilson, 
Fresh. Jlist. Almanac , 1863, p. 368; Sprague, Annals 
A mer. Fid pit, ix, 46 sq. ; Drake, Diet. A mer. Biog. s. v. 

McMillan, Edward, a Presbyterian minister, 
was born in Cumberland County, N. C., Sept. 2, 1804 ; 
was educated under Rev. Samuel Donnell and Rev. 
J.E. Bain.Tenn. ; was licensed by Shiloh Presbytery in 
1827, and ordained in 1828; labored in 1820 in Moulton, 
Ala.; in 1835, in Bethany, Tenn. ; in 1849, in Gallatin, 
Tcnn. ; in 1856, in Carlinville, 111.; and iu 1862 became 
chaplain in the army, in which service he died, Aug. 27, 
1864. Mr. McMillan as a preacher was clear and ana- 
lytical ; as a Christian, confiding, prayerful ; as a man, 
naturally kind, noble, and generous. See Wilson, Fresh. 
Hist. A imanuc, 1866, p. 220. (J. L. S.) 

McMillan, Gavin, a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in Antrim County, Ireland, Feb. G, 1787, and was 
brought to Charleston, S.C., in August of the same year. 
He began bis education under Rev. John Kell, and pur- 
sued his classical studies under the care successively 
of John Orr, Rev. Thomas Donnelly, Rev. E. Newton, 
and Mr. Campbell ; in 1817 he graduated with honor at 
the South Carolina College, S.C. ; afterwards studied di- 
vinity in the Reformed Presbyterian Seminary in Phil- 
adelphia. Pa.; was licensed by the Reformed Philadel- 
phia Presbytery in 1821, and in 1823 was ordained and 
installed pastor of Beech Woods Church, at Morning 
Sun, Ohio, where he labored for fifty years. In 1830 
and 1861 he was moderator of the Synod, lie died Jan. 
25, 1867. Mr. McMillan was eminent as a scholar and 
theologian ; clear and instructive as a preacher ; wise 
and trustful as a counsellor. See Wilson, Fresh. Jlist . 
A Imanac , 1868, p. 390. (J. L. S.) 

McMillan, Gavin Hiley, a Presbyterian min- 
ister, was born in Fairfield District, S. C., Dec. 24, 1824 ; 
was educated in Miami University. Athens, Ohio; grad- 
uated at the theological seminary of the Reformed Pres- 
byterian Church in Philadelphia, Pa.; was licensed in 
1850. and in 1851 was ordained pastor of the Neslianock 
and Ucrmon churches, in Pennsylvania. In 1859 he ac- 
cepted a call to the First Reformed Presbyterian Church 
in Brooklyn, but owing to failing health resigned in 
I860. Subsequently he settled in the West, and be- 
came president of the Union Female Seminary at Xenia, 
Ohio, lie died Jan. 9, 1865. Mr. McMillan was a man 
of good talents — the judgment predominating over the 
imaginative, the practical over the speculative; truth- 
fulness, simplicity, -and humility were the principal 
traits of his character. See Wilson. Fresh. Hist. Alma- 
nac. 1867, p. 395. (.J. L. S.) 

McMillan, Hugh, D.D.. a Presbyterian minister, 
was born in Chester District. S. C., February. 1794; pur- 
sued his collegiate studies at the University of Penn- 


McMLILAN 


949 


McNEISH 


sylvan ia, and graduated with the highest honor ; was 
soon after elected professor of languages in Columbia 
College; but, determining to consecrate himself to the 
ministry, lie entered the theological seminary of the 
Reformed Presbyterian Church, Philadelphia, Pa., and 
in 1820 was licensed to preach. In 1821 he was ordained 
and installed pastor of the Rock Creek Brick Church, 
Chester District, iS. C. II is reputation as a profound 
linguist being now well established, at the public solic- I 
itation he founded an academy at the Brick Church for 
the primary education of young men. In 1828 he ac- 
cepted a call to become pastor of the united congrega- 
tions of Xenia and Massie’s Creek, Ohio, where also, at 
the earnest recpiest of his people, he established an acad- 
emy in 1830. In 1850, his congregation, becoming too 
numerous, divided into two societies, and he removed 
to Cedarville, where he died, Oct. 9, 1800. Dr. Merid- 
ian was a man of deep-toned piety; zealous, faithful, and 
indefatigable as a minister; profound and learned as a 
scholar. See Wilson, Fresh, llist. J Imanac , 1861, p. 218. 
(J. L. 8.) 

McMillan, Robert, a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in Washington County, Pa., March 10, 1829; grad- 
uated at Jefferson College, Canonsburg, Pa., in 1850, then 
taught some months in Darlington, Pa., and afterwards 
took charge of the academy in Cross -Creek village, 
where he labored for three years with great acceptance. 
Subsequently he studied theology at the Western Theo- 
logical Seminary in Alleghany City; was licensed in 
1856, and in 1857 ordained and installed pastor of the 
congregations of Warren and Pine Run, Pa., where he 
labored until his death, Aug. 1, 1864. Mr. McMillan pos- 
sessed a clear mind, a warm heart, and a most unassum- 
ing spirit; his talents were of a high order, cultivated 
by thorough education ; his sermons were of the richest 
ingredients and ihiest mould. See Wilson, Fresh. Hist. 
A Imanac , 1865, p. 105. (J. L. S.) 

McMullen, James Poutes, a Presbyterian minis- 
ter, was born in Abbeville District, S. C., July 21, 1811 ; 
graduated at Franklin College, Athens, Georgia, in 1838; 
studied theology privately, under the direction of his 
brother, Rev. Dr. McMullen, and in 1841 was licensed 
and ordained pastor of the united churches of Mt. Zion, 
Concord, and Carthage, Ala., and afterwards took charge 
of Pleasant Ridge and Bethsaida churches, in Greene 
and Pickens counties, Ala. In 1864 he was appointed 
by the Executive Committee of Domestic Missions of 
the General Assembly of the Church South to labor in 
the Army of Tennessee, in which service he was killed 
in battle, May 16,1864. Mr. McMullen was a man of 
excellent mind and great force of character. See Wil- 
son, Fresh. Hist. A Imanac , 1868, p. 348. (J. L. S.) 

McMurray, William, D.D., a (Dutch) Reformed 
minister, was bom in Salem, N. Y.. in 1784; graduated 
at Union College in 1804; was tutor in same in 1806-7; 
was licensed to preach by the Associate Reformed Church 
in 1808; settled at Lansingburg, N. Y., in 1808-11 ; en- 
tered the Reformed Church as pastor at Rhinebeck Flats, 
N. Y., in 1812-20; then removed to Market Street Re- 
formed Dutch Church, New York, and died in 1835. 11 is 
character was distinguished for its beautiful balance and 
harmony of excellent and gentle qualities. 1 1 is minis- 
try was remarkable for its fervor, diligence, and uniform 
success. His Church in New York grew from very small 
and humble beginnings, and chiefly among a poor peo- 
ple in the then suburbs, to a membership of between 
live and six hundred communicants. Besides frequent 
contributions to the periodical press, Dr. McMurray pub- 
lished several valuable occasional discourses (1825, 1833). 
— Sprague, A nnals , vol. ix : Corwin, Manual (Dutch) Re- 
formed Church, s. v. (W. J. R. T.) 

McNair, John, D.D., a Presbyterian divine, was 
born near Newton, Pa., May 28, 1806. lie was reared 
with an earnest regard to his spiritual welfare, and at 
an early age made a profession of religion. Ho was 
educated at Newton Academy, then at Jefferson College, 


Canonsburg, Pa., graduating in 1828; studied theology 
at Princeton Seminary, N. J. ; was licensed in 1831, and 
ordained in 1833. lie labored for several years as a 
missionary in Pennsylvania, Indiana, and New Jersey; 
but subsequently he was called to Lancaster, Pa., where 
he continued to labor for eleven years. During the re- 
bcdlion he entered the army as chaplain, and when the 
war was over returned and took charge of the Church 
in Strasburg, Pa. He died Jan. 27, 1867. I)r. McNair 
was retiring in his manner and deportment, possessing, 
however, a firmness and integrity of purpose which 
made itself felt in his expressed opinions. His sermons 
evinced a high order of talent, being eloquent, yet plain 
and easily comprehended. See Wilson, Fresh. Hist. A l- 
munac , 1868, p. 132. (J. L. S.) 

McNeill, Angus Currie, a Presbyterian minis- 
ter, was born in Robeson County, N.C., May 4, 1812. lie 
early exhibited an intense fondness for learning, and, 
though he had to struggle against adverse influences, 
managed to secure a good primary education ; his final 
preparation for college was received in the Donaldson 
Academy in Fayetteville, N.C., where he discharged the 
twofold duties of teacher and pupil until 1835, when he 
entered the University of North Carolina, where he 
graduated with the first honor. He studied theology 
in the Union Seminary at Prince Edward, Ya., was 
licensed in 1845, and ordained and installed pastor of 
Carthage, Union, and Cypress churches in North Caro- 
lina. In 1852 he accepted a call to the pastorate of 
Centre Ridge Church, Ala., which relation existed until 
his death, Oct. 14, 1860. Mr. McNeill was an able min- 
ister, an eloquent orator, and a fine scholar. See Wil- 
son, Fresh. Hist. .1 Imanac, 1862, p. 1 10. (J. L. S.) 

McNeill, James H., a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in Fayetteville, N.C., May 23, 1825; entered North 
Carolina University at Chapel Hill,N.C. ; after one year 
went to Yale College, New Haven, and subsequently 
graduated at Delaware College, Newark, Del., in 1844; 
studied divinity in the Union Theological Seminary, 
New York, for two years, and afterwards graduated at 
Princeton, N. J. ; was licensed in 1848, and in 1819 or- 
dained and installed pastor of the Church at Pittsbor- 
ougli, in Chatham County, N. C. ; was made one of the 
corresponding secretaries of the American Bible Society 
at New York in 1853; in 1861 was elected associate ed- 
itor of the North Carolina Freshyterian , which position 
he held until 1862, when he entered the Confederate 
army. He was killed in battle, March 31, 1865. Mr. 
McNeill was a man of stroug will, aud grea.t independ- 
ence of thought and action; his distinct individuality 
was indicative of the highest executive ability ; his ear- 
nestness and vigor made him effective in every sphere. 
See Wilson, Fresh. Hist. A Imanac, I860, p. 356. (J. L. S.) 

McNeish, David, a minister of the (Dutch) Re- 
formed Church, was born in Scotland in 1820; came to 
this country while yet a youth; graduated at Rutgers 
College in 1841, and at the New Brunswick Theological 
Seminary in 181 1. lie consecrated himself to the work 
of domestic missions, for which he was peculiarly fitted 
by his constitutional vigor and enthusiasm, by his un- 
usual gifts as a public speaker, and by the depth and 
activity of his piety. He combined the “ingeniimi per- 
fervidum Scotorum” with a truly American practicality, 
and with a consuming zeal which dared all difficulties 
and endured all trials u for Jesus’s sake.” Few preach- 
ers could be more intensely earnest and solemn in deal- 
ing with the higher themes of the Gospel, and in ap- 
peals to the consciences and the hearts of his hearers. 
One of his sermons on the last judgment seemed to the 
writer of this notice as if it were almost inspired. Its 
realizing power was awful and sublime. But he was 
equally at home in appealing to the tenderest sensibili- 
ties of the soul. Like a master musician, he could sweep 
all the chords of his mighty harp at will. His devotion 
to his missionary work in Michigan and Indiana, where 
all of his ministry was spent, was self-consuming. lie 


McXELLY 


950 


McVEAN 


lived for the Church of God until his earthly career closed 
in is,') I. II is great thought and last uttered wish was 
in full accordance with his high theological belief and 
experience. “Oh, that 1 may be made perfectly holy!’’ 
lie was settled successively at Centreville and Constan- 
tine, Mich. (1844-49) : at South Bend, Ind. (1849-52); 
and again at Constantine (1852-54). But his influence 
was powerful in all the Reformed churches of the West- 
ern States, among which he was a pioneer and a master 
builder. (W. J.R.T.) 

McNelly, George, a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church South, was born Feb. 15, 1793, on 
Drake’s Creek. Davidson (now Sunnier) County, then 
territory south of Ohio, now State of Tennessee; was 
licensed to preach in August, 1814; entered the travel- 
ling connection in the autumn of the same year; was 
ordained deacon in 1816, and elder in 1818, by bishop 
McKendree. Ilis ministerial life was spent in Tennes- 
see, Ohio, and Kentucky. His educational opportuni- 
ties were limited, but by hard study, pursued in the 
midst of the abundant labors of a Methodist itinerant, 
he obtained a good knowledge of Latin, Greek, and He- 
brew, and also of the sciences, lie stood quite high, 
not only as a preacher, but also as a theologian. See 
McFerrin, Methodism in Tennessee, ii, 334. 

McNulty, Jot ix, a Presbyterian minister, was born 
at Ivillala, Ireland, in June, 1829; was educated at Bel- 
fast, Ireland, and, after reaching the United States, in 
the Associate Reformed ►Seminary at Xcwburg, N. Y„ 
Union Seminary, New York City, and the theological 
seminary at Princeton. X. J. In 1853 he was licensed, 
and in 1854 was ordained and installed pastor of the 
Church at Richland City.Wis. ; in 1856 accepted a call 
from the Church of Caledonia in De Kurra,Wis., where 
he labored zealously until he died. May 15, 1861. Mr. 
McNulty was a devoted and zealous worker in the cause | 
of Christ. See Wilson, Presb. Ilist. Almanac, 18G2, p. 
111. (J.L.S.) 

McFheeters, William. D.D., a Presb) terian min- 
ister, was born in Augusta County. Ya. ; was educated 
at Liberty Hall, Lexington, and licensed in 1802. Soon 
after be preached in various parts of Kentucky, ex- 
tended his labors to ( >hio, and took charge of the Church 
at Danville, l\y., and of a male school. In 1804 he vis- 
ited the counties of Greenbriar and Monroe. Subse- 
quently served at New Lebanon and Windy Cove, and 
acted as a stated supply in 1805 at Bethel Church. He 
was ordained in 1806, and took charge of the academy 
and congregation in Raleigh, X. ( ’.. where he remained 
several years. In 1836 he was principal of a school in 
Fayetteville, and was afterwards agent of the Board of 
Domestic Missions of the General Assembly. lie died 
Nov. 7. 1812. — Sprague, .4 nnals, iv. 301. 

McPherson, John Erskine, a Presbyterian min- 
ister, was born in Iredell County. X. C., Aug. 17, 1806; 
was educated at the academy at Beattie’s Ford. X. C. ; 
spent one year in the Union Theological Seminary, Vir- 
ginia. and finished bis studies privately under the Rev. 
R. 11. Morrison, of Davidson College, N.'c. ; was licensed 
in I8.J8. and for several months labored as a missionary 1 
in North Carolina. In 1842 he was ordained, but for ten 
years more continued to labor in the mission work; in ! 
1852 he was called to Prospect Church, in Rowan Coun- 
ty, X. C. ; in 1855 removed to Cherokee County, and 
labored in that missionary region until 1859. He died 
April 9. I860. Mr. McPherson was characterized by a 
patient perseverance and devotion to duty, indicative I 
ol l he highest grade of spiritual life. See Wilson, /Vesk 
Hist. Almanac, 1861, p, 102. (J. L. S.) 

McPherson, Joseph A., a minister of the Meth- 
odist Episcopal Church South, was born in West Feli- 
ciana Parish. La., Dec. 19. 1835; was educated at the 
Centenary College, Jackson, La. (class of 1853) ; spent 
several years in teaching; entered the Mississippi Con- 
ference in 1859, and was appointed to Bolivar Circuit ; 
in 1860 lie was transferred to Fort Adams Circuit, and I 


died June 18, 1861. lie was a faithful and able minis- 
ter of the Gospel, and the Church greatly lamented bis 
early loss. — Conference Minutes of the M. E. Ch. South, 
ii,317. 

McQueen, George, Jr., a Presbyterian missionary, 
was born in Schenectady, X. Y., in 1826; graduated at 
Union College, X. Y., in 1849; studied divinity in the 
seminary at Princeton, X. J. ; was licensed and ordained 
by the presbytery of Albany in 1852, and soon after 
sailed for Africa, as a member of the Corisco Mission, 
where he labored until be died, March 25, 1859. See 
Wilson, Presb. Hist . Almanac, 1860, p. 76. 

McReynolds, Robert Young, a minister of the 
Methodist Episcopal Church South, was born in Allen 
County, Kentucky, in 1818; was converted in his six- 
teenth year; was licensed to preach in bis nineteenth 
year, and joined the Kentucky Conference in 1829. In 
1840 he was transferred to the Rock River Conference, 
and was stationed at Galena; in 1841 was transferred 
back to the Kentucky Conference, and continued in the 
regular work until 1845, when be located until 18G7. 
He was next readmitted to the Louisville Conference, 
and appointed to Portland ; in 1868 to Shepherdsville 
Circuit., and in 1869 to Litchfield Circuit. He died Au- 
gust 23, 1870. Air. McReynolds was “ a benevolent man, 
a cheerful, happy Christian, very zealous and useful in 
the ministry.” — Conference Minutes of the M. E. Church 
South, 1870. s. v. 

McSwain, William Adney, a minister of the 
Methodist Episcopal Church South, was born in Mont- 
gomery (now Stanley) County, X. C., Nov. 5, 1814; was 
converted and joined the Church in 1831; was licensed 
to preach in 1836, and entered the South Carolina Con- 
ference in 1S38. lie served on the following circuits: 
Pleasant Grove in 1843; Rutherford in 1844-45; Union 
in 1846-47, and again in 1854; Neuberry in 1848. and 
again in 1855-56; Black Swamp in 1849-50. In 1851— 
52 he was pastor of Trinity Church, Charleston; in 1853 
of Spartansburg station ; in 1857 tract agent of bis Con- 
ference ; from 1X59-62 presiding elder on the Cokesburv 
District; in 1863-64 pastor of Ninety-six, and in 18G5 
of Laurens Circuit. He died Jan. 7, 1866. Besides the 
trustworthiness indicated in his appointments, he served 
as a delegate to the last two sessions of the Southern 
General Conference, and was elected to that which was 
to meet in 1862. and was at the time of his death presi- 
dent of the Sunday-school Society of the South Carolina 
Conference. “Few men, with similar disadvantages, 
ever attained that measure of ability, degree of emi- 
nence, and width of popularity which constituted that 
honor which was so cheerfully and universally awarded 
by the Church and world to this self-made man. Pos- 
sessed of great versatility of genius, gifted with rare so- 
cial qualities and conversational powers, and blessed with 
a singular descriptive faculty, he was well qualified, from 
his vast fund of general information, to give life, interest, 
and information to the fireside or social circle. His ap- 
pearance in the pulpit, his engaging address, flow of 
language, and tone of voice, and ease and naturalness 
of manner, his own interest in the subject, with the 
general persuasiveness of his style, gave to his sermons, 
which evinced much thought and research, an effective- 
ness which was only equalled by the great popularity of 
the preacher himself. lie was a favorite divine with all 
sects of Christians and all classes of people.” See Con- 
ference Minutes of the M. E. Church South, iii, 17. 

McVean, Daniel Creighton, a Presbyterian min- 
ister, was born in Caledonia, Livingston County, X. Y., 
Oct. 10. 1818; graduated at Union College in 1844; pur- 
sued his theological studies in the Seminary of the As- 
sociate Reformed Synod of New York at Xcwburg. and 
in 1847 was licensed to preach. lie travelled for two 
or three years as a probationer, and in 1850 was ordained 
and installed pastor of the Associate Reformed Church 
of Lyndon, where lie labored for sixteen years. He 
died Sept. 7, 1868. Mr. McYean was a faithful pastor, 


McVICKAK 


951 


McVICKAK 


a useful minister, and an eminently pious man. See 
Wilson, Presb. Hist. Almanac, 1868, p. 274. (J. L. S.) 

McVickar, John, D.D., an eminent clergyman of 
the Protestant Episcopal Church, was bom at New York 
in 1787, and was educated at Columbia College (class 
of 1804), and at Cambridge University, England. He 
entered the ministry in 1811 as rector at Hyde Park, 
N. Y., and remained there until 1817, when he was ap- 
pointed professor of moral philosophy, rhetoric, and 
belles-lettres in Columbia College. The duties of this 
position lie discharged until 1857, when ill-licalth obliged 
him to retire from active duties. In recognition of his 


services he was created Emeritus professor. He also 
acted as chaplain on Governor’s Island. He died at 
Bloonnngdale, N. Y., Oct. 29, 18G8. Ur. McVickar was 
the author of several valuable works; among them the 
following deserve our notice : Early Years of Bishop Ho- 
bart (1834) : — The Professional Years of Bishop Hobart 
(1836) : — A Memoir of the Per. Edmund I). Griffins, ap- 
pended to the “ Remains of the Rev. E. D. Griffins” (1831, 
2 vols.8vo). See Life of the Rev . John Me Yickar, D.D., 
by W. A. McVickar (N. Y. 1871) ; New Atner. Cyclop. 
1868; Drake, Diet. A mer. Biog. s. v. ; Allibone, Diet. Brit, 
and Amer. A uthors, ii, 1198. 



LIST OF ARTICLES IN VOL V. 


Kaab Page 

Kanba 

Kabiler 

Kabzul 

Kades 

Kadesh 

Kadi 

Kadmiel 

Kadraonite 

Kadroma 

Kaftres 

Kagbossmn 

Kahaubarha 

Ivahler 

Kajomorts 

Kaknsanda 

Kalasutra 

K alder on 

Kaldi 

Kali 

Kalighi 

Kaliph 

Kalir 

Kaliyuga 

Kallai 

Kalmucks 

Kalonymns 

Kalottiuocracy 

Kalpa 

Kalpa-Stnra 

Kalteisen 

Kama 

Kamawachani 

Kami 

Kampanton 

Kamtchatka 

Kana 

Kauah, 1 

Kan ah, 2 

Kaune 

Kanoti 

Kanouse 

Kansa 

Kant 

Ivantoplatouism. . . . 

Kapil a 

Karaites 

Kaie th 

Karina 

Karens . 

Kare - Patrepanda- 

ron 

Karg 

Karigites 

Karkaa 

Karkor 

K a r 1 - B o r r o ime a s 

Union 

Karmatliians 

Karn 

Karnkowski 

Karo 

Kart ah 

Kartan 

Kartikeya 

Kasimir 

Katerkamp 

Kathenotheism 

Kathisniata 

Katona 

Kattath 

Katyayaua 

Kantz 

Kay 

Kaye 

Keach 

Keating 

Keblah 

Ke!)le 

Keckermami 

Ivedar 

Kedemah 

Kedemoth 

Kedesh, 1 

Ivedesh, 2 

Kedesh, 3 


II Keel Page 

3 Keeler 

2 Keeling 

2 1 Keene 

2 Keeper 

2 Kehilathah 

3j Keil 

4 Keilah 

4lKeir 

4 Keith, George 

4 Keith, Isaac 

5! Keith, Reuel 

5 Keith, Robert 

5 Keith, William 

5 ! Keithians 

5|Kelaiah 

SIvelita 

5 Kell 

oj Keller, Benjamin. .. 

6 Keller, Emanuel 

7 Keller, Ezra 

7; Keller, Frederick. .. 

7 Keller, Jacob 

7iKellermau 

7 Kelley 

7 1 Kells 

8, Kelly, John 

S Kelly, Thomas 

8|Kelp‘ies 

$ Kelsey 

8 Kelso 

8 1 Kemp, James 

9 Kemp, Thomas 

9 Kemp, van der 

lOjKempe 

30 Kemper 

30 Kempis, John a 

lO Kempis, Thomas a. . 

10 Kemuel, 3 

31 Kemuel, 2 

31 Kemuel, 3 

13 1 Ken 

31 Kenath 

11 Ken ay, 1 

17 Keuay, 2 

17 Kenay, 3 

17 Kenay, 4 


Kendal 
Kendal], George, 3.. 
Kendall, George, 2. . 

Kendall, John 

Kendrick, Bennett. . 
Kendrick, Clark. ... 
Kendrick, Nathan- 
iel 

Keuite 

Kenizzite, 1 

Ivenizzite, 2 

Kennaday 

Kennedy, B. J 

Kennedy, James 

28 Kennedy, John 

24 Kennedy, Samuel... 

24|Kenned3', W. M 

24 ■ Kennedy, W. S 

24 Kennerly 

24 Kennet, Basil 

24 Keunet, White 


Kenney 

Kennicott 

Ken non 

Kenosis 

Kenrick 

Kent, Asa 

Kent, Janies 

Kentigeru 

Kephar 

Kephar-Chananiah . 

Kepler 

Keralay 

Kerchief 

Kerckherdere 

Kerckhove 

Iveren-happuch 

Keri 

Keri, Francis 


2S|Keri, Janos. . ..Page 

2S Kerioth, 3 

2SjKerioth, 2 

28 Iverkassandi 

2S Kernel 

28 Kero 

28 Keros 

28 1 Kerr, George, 1 

29 Kerr, George, 2 

29 Kerr, Henry 

29 Kerr, James 

29 Kerr, John 

30 - Kerr, Joseph 

30 1 Kerr, Joseph R 

30 Kerr, Moses 

30, Kersey 

30,Keryktik 

30 Kesitah 

30 Ivesler 

30 Kessler, Christian.. 

30 Kessler, Johann 

30 Kett 

30 Kettler 

33 Ivetteubach 

31 j Kettle 

31 Kettle well 

31IKettner 

33 Keturab 

32 Kenchenius 

32 Kewley 

32 Key (in heraldry)... 

32 Key 

32 Keyes 

32 Keys 

32 Keys, Power of the. 

32 Keyset* 

33 Kezia 

33 Keziz 

37 Khadijah 

37 Khan 

37 Khatchadnr 

37 Khatchid I 

38 Khatchid II 

38 Khazars 

38 Ivhedr-Al 

38 Khesl 

33 Khlistic 

39 Ivholtah 

39 Ivhonds 

39 Khosru I 

39iKhosrn II 

39 Kibby 

39 1 Kibroth-hattaavah.. 

| Kibzaim 

39 Kid 

39 Kidd 

40 Kidder 

40 Kidney 

41 Kidron 

41 Kief 

41 Kiernander 

41 Kiesliug 

41 Kiftin 

41 Kilburn 

42 Kilbye 

42 Kildare 

42 Kilham 

42 Kiliaii 

42 Killigrew 

43 Kilvert 

44 Kilwardcby 

44 Kintber 

40 Kimchi, David 

46 Kimchi, Joseph 

47 Kimchi, Moses 

47 Kinah 

47 Kindervater 

47 Kiudred 

47Kiue 

48 King 

48 King, Alonzo 

49 King, Barnabas .... 

49 King, Charles 

49 King, Edward 

49 King, Henry 

54, King, James 


55 King, William, 2. . . 

5G Kingdom of God . . 
50 Kingly Office 

56 Kings, Books of. . 
56 King’s Book . 


54 King, John, l..Page SS Kley Page 319 

54 King, John, 2 S8 Kliug 119 

54 King, John, 3 SSKliuge 119 

55 King, John G SS Klingler 319 

55 King, John L 88 Klopstock 119 

55 King, Peter 88 Kluge, David 122 

55 lviDg, Richard SS Kluge, Johann .... 322 

55 King, Thomas 88 Kliipfel, Emanuel.. 122 

55 King, William, 1. . . 89 Klnpfel, Engelbert. 122 

89 Knapp, Albert 122 

89 Knapp, Georg 123 

91 Knapp, Johann 123 

91 ( Knatchbull 124 

99 Knaner 124 

57 King’s Dale 99 Knead 124 

57 King’s Evil 100 Kneading-Trough. 124 

57 Kingsbury, Cyrus.. 100 Knee 124 

57 Kingsbury, Wm. . . 100 Kneeling 124 

5S Kingsley, Calvin. . . lOOjKnepb. 125 

5S Kingsley, James.. . 101 Knibb 120 

58 Kingsley, Phineas. 102 Knife 12G 

58 Kingsmill 102 Knight, James, 1 .. 127 

5S Kinkaid 102 l Ivnight, James, 2 .. 327 

58 Kinkead 102 Knight, Joel 127 

58 Kinnersley 102 Knight, Samuel . . . 327 

5S Kinsman 102 Knighthood 127 

58 Kipling 103, Knill 332 

5S Kippis 104 Knipperdolling. . . . 133 

59 Kir 3(4 Knipstro 333 

59 Kiratarjuniyn 104|KnitteI 333 

59 Kircher, Athana- Knobel 133 

59 sius 104 Knobelsdorft" 134 

GO Kircher, Konrad.. 104 Knock 134 

GO Kirchhofer 104 Knollis 334 

60 Kircliomayr 104 Knollys 134- 

69 Kirchmeier, Johann Knop 134 

G9 1 C 104 Knorr 135 

69 Kirchmeier, Johann Knorr von Rosen- 

Gd' S 105; roth, Abraham . . 335 

69 Kirghis 305 Knorr von Rosen- 

70 Kirjathaim,l 1051 roth, Christian. .. 135 

70 Kirjathaim, 2 105 Knott, Edward.... 135 

70 Kirjath-arba 105| Knott, John 135 

70 Kirjath-hnzoth 106! Know 135 

70 Kirjath-jearim 10G Knowledge 336 

70 Kirjath-sannah 107 Knowledge of God. 13G 

'71 Kirk 307 Knowler 137 

72 Kirkland, John 107 Knowles, Janies D. 137 

72 Kirkland, Samuel.. 107 1 Knowles, James S. 137 

74 Kirkpatrick, Jacob. 307 Knowles, John 337 

74 Kirkpatrick, James 108 Knowles, Thomas. 137 

74 Kirk-Sessions 108 Knowlton 137 

74 Kirkton 108 1 Known Men 137 

74 Kirkwood 308 Knox, John, 1 137 

75 Ivir-Moab lOS Knox, John, 2 340 

75 Kirwan 109 Knox, Vicesimus.. 140 

75 Kish, 1 109|Knutzen, Martin .. 140 

75 Kish, 2 109 |Knutzen, Matthias. 140 

75 Kish, 3 109 Koa 141 

77 Kish, 4 109 Kobarius 141 

77 Kish, 5 109 Kohler 141 

77 Kishim 109 Kobndaisi 141 

77 Kishon 110 Koch, Henry 141 

78 Kisker 112 Koch, John Ilenry. 141 

78 Kiss 312 

78 Kistemaker 313 

78,Kili 113 

79 Kithlish 114 

80 Kitron 114 

80 Kittle 114 

80 Ivitto 114 

50 Klniber 115 

80 Klarenbnch 115 

81 Klauser lb 

51 Klansing lb 

SI Klehitz 115 

82 Klee Ilf. 

82 Klcfeker 116 

82 Klein, Friedrich... 116 

82 Klein, Georg 116 

87 Kleinknecht 116 

87 Klemm 316 

87 Kleptomania 116 

87 Kleschius 119 

87 Klettc....: 119 

SS,Kleuker 119 


Kochauowski 141 

Kochberg 141 

Kochcr 14 1 

Koebergcr 141 

Ko flier 142 

Kogler 142 

Koliath 142 

Koliathite 142 

Kohen, Naphtali . . 142 
Kolicn, Nehemiah. 143 

Kohen, Zedek 143 

Kohl 343 

Kohler, Christian.. 143 

Kohler, Johann 143 

Kohlreif 143 


Koken . 
Kolaiah, 1 . 
Kolaiah, 2 . 

Kollar 

Kolle 

Kollenhusch . 


144 
144 
144 
144 
144 
144 

Kollock, II 144 


954 


LIST OF ARTICLES IN VOL. V. 


Kollock, S Page 

Kolontaj 

Komnuder ......... 

Koniauo-Bikuui. . . 

Komp 

Kouarski 

Kouig, Christian . . 

lvonig, Georg 

Kouig, Johann 

Kouig, Mauritius.. 

Kouig, Samuel 

Konigsdorfcr, Co- 

lestiu 

Kouigsdorfer, Mar- 
tin 

Kouigswarter 

Konrad of Marburg 

Konrad III 

Konradin 

Koolhaas 

Kopascy 

Kopistenski 

Kopitar 

Ivopke 

Koppe 

Koppeu, Daniel . . . 
Koppeu, Friedrich. 

Korah, 1 

Korah, 2 

Ivorah, 3 

Korah ite 

Koraidhites 

Koran 

Kordes 

Ivore, 1 

Kore, 2 

Koreish 

KonnczaiKuiga.. . 

Korner "i 

Kornmanu 

Kornthal 

Kortholt, Christian 
Ivosegarten, Bern- 

hard 

Kosegarten, Hans. 
Kosegarteu, Lud- 
wig 

Kossoff 

Koster, Johann... . 

Koster, Martin 

Koster, Wilhelm. . . 
Kostha, Ibu-Luka.. 

Kotter 

Kotzebur 

Koz, 1 

Ivoz, 2 

Krafft, Adam 

KrafVt, Johan u 

Kraft, Friedrich. . .. 
Kraft, Johann 

Georg 

Kraft, Johann Mel- 
chior 

Kraft, Johann Wil- 
helm 

Kraft, Justus 

Kragh 

Krakewitz 

lvraliz 

Krama 

Krautz, Albert 

Krantz, David 

Krasicki 

Krasinski 

Kraus, Christian .. 

K rails, Johann 

Krause, Friedrich.. 
Kra use, Jolianu 

Christian 

Krause, Johanu 

Friedrich 

Krause, Karl 

Kraut h 

Krebs, Johann 

Friedrich 

Krebs, Johauu To- 
bias 

Krebs, John 

Krebs, William 

Krey 

Kridcr 

Kripner 

Krishna 

Krochmal 

Kromaycr, Jerome 
Kromayer, John.. . 

K rot os 

Krtidener 

Krng, John 

Krug, Wilhelm 


144 Kruger Page 

145 K r u m m acher, 

145 Friedrich Adolpii 
145 K r u m m aeher, 
145 Friedrich Wil- 
145 helm 

145 K r u m m a c h e r , 

140 Gottfried 

140 Krnmmeudyk 

146 Kryptre 

146 Kryptics 

Ktistolatne 

146 K ubel 

Kuchlein 

146 Kuen 

146<Kufic Writing 

146 Kuhlmann 

147 Kuhn 

147 Kuinoel 

147 Kulkzyuski 

147 Kulou 

147 lvumarasambhava. 
147 Kunadus 

147 Kuuibert 

148 Kuuneth 

14s Kunwald 

14S Kunze 

14S Kurdistan 

148 Kurina 

150 Kurtz, Benjamin . . 
150 Kurtz, John Daniel 

150 Kurtz, Johu Nich- 

150! olas 

154 Kushaiah 

151 Kuster, Karl 

154 Kuster, Ludolf. 


160 Ltevinus Page 194 Landsborough Page 227 Latin, Use of .Page 

Lafaye 194 Landsperger 227 Latinisnis 

169 Lalitau 194 Lane 227 Latin Versions 

.Lahad 194 Lane, George 227 Latitudiuariaus 

[Lahmam 194 Laue, Johu 228 Latomius 

109 Lahmi 194 Lauey 228 Latria 

Laidlie 195 Lanlranc 228 Latta, James 

170 Laiuez, Francisco . 195 Lang, Georg II 229; Latta, Samuel A. . . 

170 Laiuez, Iago 195 Lang, Joseph 229,Lattice 

170 Laiug 196 Lang, Lorenz J. . . . 229 Latzembock 

170 Laish, 1 196 Lang, Matthaus. . . . 229 Laud 

170 Lais h, 2 196 Laugbaiue 230 Lauda Sion Salva- 

170 Laish, 3 196 Laugdon 230 torem 

170 Laity 197 Lange, Joachim 230 Landemium. 


170 Lake 

170 Lake, Arthur 

171 Lake, John.. 

171 Lakemacher. , 

171 Lakiu 

171 Lakshmi 19S 

171 Lakum 198 

171 Lalita-Vistaria 198 

172 Lallemaut, Jacques 
172 Lallemant, Pierre.. 

172 La Luzerne 

172 Lama 199 

172 Lamaism 199 

172 La Marck, Evrard 

173 1 de 204 

173 La Marck, Jean 


154 

155 
155 
155 

155 

156 

156 

156 


156 


Kutassy 

Kuvera 

Kuy pers 

Kvasir 

Kydenuinster 

Kypke 

Kyrie 

Kyrle 


Laadah — 
5 Laadan, 1.. 
156 Laadan, 2.. 
156'Labadie.. . 
156 Labagh . . . 

156 Laban, 1 . . 

157 Laban, 2. . 
157 Laban a. . 


174 Baptiste. 

Latub 

174 Lamb of God 

174 Lamb, John 

174 Lamb, Thomas. . . . 

174 Lambdin 

174 Lambert, von Hers- 

174 feld 206 

175 Lambert of Maes- 

207 
207 

207 
20 

208 
2ns 
20S 
208 
208 
208 

209 

210 
210 


175 tricht. 

175 Lambert, Chandley 
175 Lambert, Francis.. 
175 Lambert, George.. 
175 Lambert, Johann.. 

Lambert, John .... 
175 Lambert, Joseph .. 
175 Lambert, Ralph ... 
175 Lambert, St 

175 Lainbrnschiui 

176 Lamech, 1 

176 Lamech, 2 

176 LameuuaiSjFelicite 


197 Lange, Johauu M. . 230 Laudian Manu- 

197 Langeais 231 script 

198 Langeland 231 Lauds 

198 Laugh am 231 Lauffer 

198 Laughorne, John. . 231 Laughter 

Langborue, William 231 Laughton 

Lanigau 231 Laugier 

Laugle 231 Lauuay 

198!Langrcs 232 Lauuoi 

198 Langton 232 Laura 

19S Language 233 Laureate 

Languet de Gergy. 233 Laurence 

Lanneau,BazileE.. 233 Laureutius (auti- 

Laiinean, John pope) 

Francis 234 Laureutius (prelate) 

Launis 234 Laureutius, St 

Laniado, Abraham. 234 Laureutius Valia .. 

Laniado, Samuel... 234 Lauria 

Lanka 234 Laurie 

206 Lansing 234 Laval 

206 Lantern 234 Lavalette 

206 Lantern (in avchi- Lavater, Johann 

tecture) 235 Kasper 

Lanterns, Feast of. 235 Lavater, Louis 

Lantfredus 236 Lavatory 

Laodicea 236 Laver 

Laodicea, Council Lnverty 

of 237 Lavialle 

Laodicean 23S Laviugtou 

Laodiceans, Epistle Law. T. 

to the 23S Law of Moses 

Laos 238 Law, Edmund 

Lao-tzu 239 Law, George Henry 

Lap 241 Law, Isaac 

Lapithse 241 Law, Joseph 

Laphria 241 Law, Samuel 

Lapides Judaici... . 241 Law, William 

Lapidoth 241 Lawrence, Abbot. . 


157 Labarum 


157 Labat 

... 177 La men tations, 

157 Lab be 


157 Labis 


157 Labor 


157:Laborantes 

. . . 178 Lammas-day 

Laborde 


15S Labonderie 


1 Laboureur 


158 Labrador 


Labroussc 

... 179 de 

158 La Brune 



177 Lamennais, Jean.. 213 La Pilonuiftre 241 Lawrence, Amos.. . 


15S,Lacarry 179 Lamourette 

158 Lace 179 Lamp 

158' Lacedaemonian.... 179 Lamp (ceremony).. 

158 Lacey 179 Lamps in the Chris- 

158 La Chaise 179 tiau Church 

158 La Chapelle 180 Lampaclary 

159 Lachish ISO Lampe 

159 Lachmaun 182 Lampetians 

159 Lacombe, Pure 182 Lampillas 

159 Lacombe, Dorn i- [Lamplngh 

159 uiqne 182 Lamprouti 

159 Lacordaire 182 Lam son 

Lacroix 185 Lamy, Bernard 

159 Lacroze 185 Lamy, Francois 

jLactantins 185 Lancaster, Joseph. 

159 Lacticinia 190 Lancaster, Lydia .. 

160 Lacunary Roofs . . . 190 Lancaster, Nathan- 

160 Lacunas 190! icl 

Lacy 190 Lance 

160 Lad l9o Lance, the 1 1 ol 3% 1. 

Ladan 190 Lance, the lloly, 2. 

160 Ladd, Francis 190 Lancellotti,Giovaa- 

160 Ladd, William 191 lii, 1 

160 Ladder 191 Lancellotti,Giovan- 

161 Ladder of Tyrus... 191 ni, 2 

161 Ladislas II 192 Lancelot 

161 Laclislaus of Poland 192 Lancet 

161 Ladvocat 193 Lancet Window. . . 

167 Lady 194 Laud 

167 Lady Chapel 194 Laiidau — 

167 Lady Fast 194 Landed Estate 

167 Lady of Mercy 194 Laudelin 

167 Lady of Montesa.. 194 Land-mark 

168 Lael 194 Lando 

16S,Lietare Sunday.... 194 Landon 


Lawrence, lleury 

Montgomery 

Lawrence, St., Reg- 
ular Canons of . . 

Lawrensou 

Lawyer 

Lawyers 

Lay, Benjamin 

Lay Abbots 

Layard 

Lay Brothers 

Lay Chancellors. . . 

Lay maim 

Lay Preaching .... 
Lay Representation 
Layritz, Johauu 

Georg 

Layritz, Paul Eugeu 


213 Lapis 241 

Laplace, Josue de. . 241 
213 Laplace, Pierre Si- 

219 mon de 242 

219 La Pincette 242 

219 Lapland 242 

219 Lapping 243 

1 Lapse 243 

219 Lapsi 244 

Lapwing 245 

220 Larducr, Dionysius 246 
220 Larduer, Nathaniel 246 

220 Lares 247 

220 Lamed, Sylvester.. 247 
222 L a r n e d, William 

j Augustus 247 

222 Laroche 248 

223 LarochefoncauUl. .. 24S 

223 Laromiguiere 248 Lazre 

223 Laros 249 Lazarists 

223 Larroque, Daniel . . 249 Lazarus, 1 

223 Larroque, Matthieu > Lazarus, 2 

223 de 249 Lazarus (prelate)... 

223 Larue 249 Leach 

223 Lasoea 249 Leacock 

224 La Salle 249, Lead 

224 Lasha 250 l Leade 

224 Lash a ron 250 Leaders 

Lasitius 250 Leaders’ Meetings. 

224 Lasius, Christopho- 'Leaf 

224 rns 251 League 

224 Lasius, Hermann ; League of Cambray 

224 Jacob 251 Leah 

Lasius, Loreuz Otto 251 Leake 

224 Laskary 251 Learning 

Lasko, John ft, 1. .. 251 Leander 

225 Lasko, John ft, 2... 251 Leaug-Oo-Tee 

225 Lasthenes 254 Leannoth 

225 Latchet 254; Learning 

225 Laterau, Church of Leasing 

225 St.John 254 Leather 

225 Laterau Couucils.. 254 Leaven 

225 Latey 25S Lebanah 

227 Lathrop 258 Lebanon 

227 Latimer, Hugh .... 258 Lcbaoth 

227 Latimer, William.. 261 Lebbnens 

227 Latin 261,Lebeuf 


261 

263 

263 

267 
26S 

268 
268 
268 
2GS 
269 

269 

275 

275 

275 

270 

276 

276 
270 
270 
270 
270 

277 
27T 
277 

277 

277 

277 
27S 

278 
278 

278 
27S 

279 
2S0 

280 
280 
282 
2S2 
2S2 

283 

284 
294 
294 

294 

295 
295 
295 
295 
295 

295 

295 

295 

295 
290 

296 
290 
296 
296 
296 
290 
296 
29S 

300 

300 

300 

300 

301 

301 

302 
302 

302 

303 

304 

304 

305 
305 

305 

306 
306 
306 

306 
300 

307 
30T 
307 
307 
307 
307 
309 
309 

314 

315 
315 


955 


LIST OF ARTICLES IN VOL. V. 


Leblond Page 

Lebon 

Lebouah 

Lebrija 

Lebrun 

Lebnin 

Lecah 

Lecene 

Lee key 

Leclerc, David 

Leclerc, James The- 
odore 

Le Clerc, John 

Leclerc, Laurent 

JosiS 

Lecomte 

Lectern 

Lecticarii 

Lectiouarinm 

Lectisternium 

Lector 

Lecturers 

Lectures, M e r - 

chants’ 

Lectures, Monthly. 
Lectures, Morning. 
Lectures, Moyer’s. . 
Lectures, Religious 
Lectures, Warbnr- 

tonian 

Led"e 

Ledieu 

Ledru 

Ledwich 

Lee, Andrew 

Lee, Ann 

Lee, Charles 

Lee, Chauncey 

Lee, Edward 

Lee, Jason 

Lee, Jesse 

Lee, Robert 

Lee, Robert P 

Lee, Samuel, 1 

Lee, Samuel, 2 

Lee, Wilson 

Leek 

Lees 

Leeser 

Left 

Left-handed 

Leg 

Legalists 

Legates 

Legend 

Legend, Golden 

Leger, Antoine, 1 . . 
Leger, Antoine, 2. . 

Leger, Jean 

Legion 

Legion, Theban . .. 
Legion, Thunder- 


Lemur es Page 

Lend 

LenfantjAlexaudre- 
Charles- Anne . . . 
Lent'aut, Jacques . . 

Leng 

Lengerke 

Lenoir 

Lent 

Lentile 

ILentnlns 

31 7! Leo of A Chris 

317' Leo /Egyptus 

Leo Diaconns 

317 Leo the Isaurian... 
317 Leo theMageutiau. 
317 Leo the Philoso- 


pher 

Leo of Saint-Jean. . 

Leo Stypiota 

Leo of Thessalon- 

ica 

Leo the Thracian. . 

Leo I 

_ Leo II 

31P Leo III 

31b Leo IV 

310 Leo V 

Leo VI 

319 Leo VII 

319 Leo VIII 

319 Leo IX 

319 Leo X 

319 Leo XI 

319 Leo XII 

319 Leodegar 

320 Leon da Modena... 
21 Leon, Jacob Jehu- 


321 I dah 
321 Leon, Luis Ponce 

321 i de 

322 Leonard, St 

323 Leonard, George. . . 
323 Leonard, Levi 

323 1 Washburne 

323 LeonartljZenas 


Legrand, Antoine.. 
Legrand, Joachim. 

Legrand, Louis 

Legris-Duval 

Legros, Antoiue'. . . 
Legros, Nicholas . . 

Leliabim 

Lehi 

Lehmanu 

Lehnberg 

Lebnin. 

Leibnitz 

Leidradt 

Leifehild 

Leigh, Edward .... 

Leigh, Egerton 

Leigh, Hezekiah.. . 
Leighliu, Synod of. 
Leighton, Alexan- 
der 

Leighton, Robert. . 
Leipsic, Colloquy of 

Lcitch 

Leitomysl 

Lejay..' 

Lejnive 

Leland, Aaron 

Lelarnl, John, 1 

Leland, John, 2 

Leland, Thomas . . . 

Lelong 

Lemaistre de Saci . . 

Le Mercier 

Lemoine 

L’Emperenr 

Lempridre 

Lemuel 


Lockwood 
Leonardo da Porto 

Manritio 

Leonardo da Vinci. 

Leonidas 

LeonisLe 

Leontes 

Leontius 

Leontius of Antioch 
Leontius of Arabis- 

sns 

Leontius of Arelate 

329 Leontius of Byzan- 

329 1 tinm, 1 

329, Leonti ns of Byzan- 
tium, 2 

330 Leontius of Neapo- 

330 lis 

330 Leopard 

330 Leopold II 

330 Leopold IV 

330 Leporius 

330 Leprosy 

330 Le Qmeu 

331 Leriuo 

331 ! Lesbonax 

33lXeshem 

331 Lesley 

332 Leslie, Charles 

337 Leslie, John 

33S Less, Gottifried 

838; Less, Leonhard. . . . 

33S Lesser 

33S Lessey 

33S Lessing, Gotthold.. 

Lethe 

339 Lethech 

339!Leti. 

339 Letter 

310 Letter, the 

340|Letters of Orders.. 

341 Lettice 

341 Lettus 

341 Letnshim 

341, Leucippus 

342 Leucopetrians 

342 Leiim mini 

342 Lean 

342;Leusden 

3431 Lent a vd 

343 'Levellers 

343 Lever 

343 Levi, 1 

343 Levi, 2 


343 Levi, 3 Page 

343 Levi, 4 

Leviathan 

344 Levi, David 

345 Leviugs 

345 'Lev irate 

345 Levis 

345 Levi son 

345 Levite 

347 Levites, Military. . . 

34S Leviticus 

350 Levity 

350 Lev}' 

351 Lewd 

351 Lewin 

353 Lewis, Isaac 

Lewis, John Nitchie 

354 Lewis, Moses 

355 Lewis, Thomas 

355 Lewis, Zechariah. . 

Leyczon Nobla 

355 Leydecker 

355 Leyden, Lncas van. 
355 Leyden, Schools of. 

358 Leydt 

359 Libanius 

300 Libanus 

300 Libation 

360 Libel 

360 Libellatici 

360 Libel li Pads 

360 Liberality 

361 Liberality ofSenti- 

365 meut 

365 Liberatus 

365 Liber Diurnus 

3G0 Liberia 

Li her ins 

360 Liber Pontificalia.. 

1 Libertine 

366 Libertines 

367 Liberty 

367 Libuah, 1 

Li bn ah, 2 

Libui. . 

Libuite 
Liborius 
Libra 

Libraries 

Libya 
Libyan 
Lice. . .* 

License. 

Licentiate (degree). 
Licentiate (in 
Church) . 
Lichteuber 
363 j Lie 

Liebnecht 
3GSi Lieutenant, 

Life 
SG9] Lift 
Lifters. 

369 Light 

369 Light, George 

370 Lightfoot, John, 1. 

371 Lightfoot, John, 2. 

371 Lightning 

371 Lights 

378 Lign-aloe 

373 Lignori 

373 Li g ure - 

37s Likhi 

373 Lilburne 

379 Lihentlial, Michael. 
379 Lilieuthal, Theodor 

379 Lillie 

379 Lily 

3S0 Limbo 

330 Limborch 

3S0 Lime 

335 Limiua Martyrnm. 

335 Limiter 

3s5 Lincoln 

3.35 Linda 

385 Lindblom 

385 Linde 

385 Linde wood 

385 Lindgerus 

385 Lindsay, John, 1... 

385 Lindsay, John, 2... 

3S5 Lindsey 

3S0 Lindsley, James 

386 Harvey 

386 Jjiiulsley, Philip . . . 

386' Li ne 

3SG Lineage 

387 Linen 

387 Linga 

3SS Lingard 


3SS,Lingendes, Claude 

3SS| de Page 

3SS Lingendes, Jean de 

3S9 Link, Johann 

3S9 ; Link, Weuceslaus . . 
3S9 Linn, John Blair... 

390 Linn, William 

390 [Lintel 

390 Linns 

400 Linz 

400 Lion 

406j Lip 

406 Lipmann 


3GS ] 


Lippe 

Lippomani 

Lipscomb 

Lipsius 

Liptines 

Liquor 

Lismanini 

List 

Litany 

Literre Eucyclicm.. 
Literal Form atm... 

Lith 

Lithuania 

Litter 

Little Christians.. . 

Littlejohn 

Littleton, Adam — 
Littleton, Edward. 

Liturgy 

.Liver 

410 Living Creatures.. 

411 (Livingston, Gilbert 

411 Livingston , Henry . 

412 Livingston, John.. 

4141 Livingston, John 
414) Henry 

416 Livonia 

417 Lizard 

41S Lizel 

420 Llorente 

420 Lloyd, Charles 

421 1 Hooker 

421 (Lloyd, Thomas 

421 Lloyd, William 

421 Loaf 

42lLoammi 

421 , Loan 

421 Loaysa 

421 Lobbes 

423 L 6ber 

423 Lobethan 

Lobo 

423 Lobs te in 

423 Lobwasser 

423 Local Preachers.. . . 

424 Lochmann 

424 Loci Communes 

424! Theologici 

425 Lock 

425 Locke, George 

425 Locke, John 

420[ Locke, Nathaniel. . 

42G Locke, Samuel 

427 [ Locke, William 

427 l Lockyer 

427 Locust 

427|Lodebar 

429 Lodenstein 

430 Lodge 

430 Lodge, Nathau — 
430 Lodge, Robeit 

430 Lodur 

431 Lofiler, Friedrich.. 

431 Loftier, Josias 

431 Loft 

434 Loftus, Dudley 
436 j Field 

436 Loftus, William 

437 1 Kemiett 

437 Log 

437 Logan, David Swift 

437, Logan, John 

437 ( Logic 

437 1 Logos 

437'Logotheta 

43 7 j Loguo 

437 Lohdins 

437|Lohe 

437 Loin 

I Lois 

438 Loki 

438 Lokman 

43.8 Lollards 

439iLombardus 

439 Lombardy 

443 Loin bross 

443iLomtmie 


[Lomus Page 498 

443 Lon . 498 

444 Long, Roger 498 

444 Long, Thomas 498 

444 Long Brothers 49S 

444 Longevity 49S 

444 Longinus 500 

444 Longley 500 

444 Longobardi 501 

445 Longobardi, Niccolo5o2 

445 Louguerne 502 

449|Lougueval 502 

449 Lonsdale 503 

449 1 Loop 503 

450 Loos 503 

450 Lope de Vera 503 

451 Lorance 503 

451 Lord 503 

451 Lordly 504 

451 Lord, Benjamin . . . 504 
451 Lord, Daniel Minor 504 

451 , Lord, Eleazer 504 

453; Lord, Isaiah 504 

453 Lord, James Cooper 504 
454'Lord, Jeremiah S. . 504 
454[Lord, John King .. 505 
455 Lord, Nathan 505 

455 Lord, Nathan L. . . . 505 

456 Lord’s Day 505 

456 Lord’s Prayer 509 

456 

456 

464 

465 

466 
466 
466 


Lord’s Supper 509 

Lorenz 515 

Loreuzo 515 

Loretto 516 

Loria, Isaac 516 

Loria, Salomo 517 

Lorin 517 

Lorsbach 517 

Lorsch 517 

Lort 517 

Loruhamah 518 

Losada 51S 

Loscber, Johann.. . 51S 
Liisc’net, Valentin 

Ernst 51S 

Loskiel 518 

Losner 51 S 

Loss 51S 

Loss, Lewis 519 

Lossius 519 

Lot 519 

Lot (man) 520 

Lotan 523 

Lothaire II 522 

Lothasubus 523 

Lotto 522 

Louis de Grenada.. 522 

Louis 1 523 

Louis VI 525 

Louis VII 525 

Louis IX (St. Louis) 525 

Louis XIV 525 

Louvard 528 

Love 528 

Love, Christopher. 530 

Love, John 530 

Love-feast 531 

Love, Virgins of. . . 531 

Lovejoy, Elijah 531 

Lovejoy, Owen 531 

Loveys 531 

Low Churchmen . . 531 
Lowe, Ben-Bezalel. 531 

Linve, Joel 532 

4SS Lowell, Charles.. . . 532 

4SS Lowell. John 532 

488 Lower Part s 532 

4SS|L6wisohn 532 

Lowman, Abraham 533 
4SS Lowmau, Moses... 533 
'Lowrie, John Mar- 

4SS shall 533 

488 Lowrie, Reuben... 533 
483. Lowrie, Walter Mai- 533 

4SS( colm 533 

4SS Low Sunday 533 

491 Lowth, Robert 533 

492' Lowth, Simon 534 

492 Lowth, William 534 

492 Lojmla 534 

492 Lozon 536 

493 Lubber t 536 

493 Lubrinietski 53G 

493 Lubim 537 

493 Lnbin, Augustin. . . 537 

493 Lubin, Eilhard 537 

497 Luca 537 

497 Lncanius 53S 

497 Lucas 53S 

497, Lucas de Tuy 538 


95G 


LIST OF ARTICLES IX VOL. V. 


Lucas, Frau.. .Page 

Lucas, Richard 

Luce 

Lucernarium 

Lucia 

Lucian 

Lucian, St 

Lucidus 

Lucifer 

Lucifer (bishop)... 

Luciferians 

Lucifugae 

Lucius (consul) 

Lucius of Adriano- 

pie 

Lucius of Alexan- 
dria 

Lucius (of Gyrene). 

Lucius (king) 

Lucius 1 

Lucius II 

Lucius III 

Luck 

Liicke 

Luckeubach 

Lackey 

Lucopetrians 

Lucretius 

Lad, 1 

Lud, 2 

Ludamilia 

Liideke 

Ltidcrwald 

Lndgardis 

Ludicke 

Lud im 

Liidke 

Ludlow, John 

Ludlow, Peter 

Ludolf 

Ludolph 

Liters 

Luft 

Lugo 

Luliith 

Lain! 

Luitpraud (kinj)... 
Lui'praud (histo- 
rian) 

Luke 

Luke, Gospel ac- 
cording to 

Luke of Prague. ... 
Luke’s, St., Day ... 

Lukewarm 

Lull us 

Lully 

Ln minimi Dies 

Lump 

Lumper 

Lumsdeu 

Lunatic 

Lundy 

Lun ford 

Lunt 

Lupetino 

Lupset 

Lupus, St 

Lupus, Servatus . . . 

Luqne 

Lusk 

Lust 

Lustration 

Lutei 

Luther 

Lutheran 

Lutherans in Amer- 
ica 

L'itkemann 

Lut/., Johann Lud- 
wig 

Lut/, Samuel 

Lux Mentis 

Luxnrv 

La/., L 

L’lz, 2 

Luzzatto, Mose 

Ghayim 

Luzzatto, Samuel.. 
Luzzatto, Simone.. 

Lvb )ii 

Ly brand 

Lycaoma 

Lycia 

Lych-gate 

Lych noscope 

Lvcus 

Lydda 

Lydgate 

Lydia, 1 


538 Lydia, 2 Page 

53.8 Lydius, Balthasar.. 

538 Lydius, Jacob 

538 Lydius, Johannes, 1 

538 Lydius, Johannes, 2 

539 Lydius, Martin 

541 Lye, Edward 

542 Lye, Thomas 

542 Lyell 

543 1 Ly ford 

543) Lyle 

543 Lyman, Ilenry 

543 Lyman, Joseph. . . . 
Lyman, William. . . 

544 Lynch 

Lynde 

544 Lyon, Asa 

544 Lyon, Hervey 

544 Lyon, John C 

544 Lyon, Mary. 

545 Lyons 

Lyous, Israel 

Lyons, James G. . . . 

Lyra 

Lysauias 

Lysczyuski 

Lyser 

Lysias, 1 

Lysias, 2 

Lysimachns, 1 

Lysimachus, 2 

Lysons 

547 Lystra 

547 Lytle 

547 Lyttleton, Charles. 
547;Lyttleton, George.. 
548 1 

548 Maacah, I 

548 j Maacah, 2 

548: Maacah, 3 

548 Maacah, 4 

54S | Maacah, 5 

54S: Maacah, 0 

549 1 Maacah, 7 

549 Maacah, 8 

549 Maacah, 9 

549 Maacah, 10 

Maachah 

550 Maacliatlii 

550 Maadai 

Maadiah 

551 Maai 

557 Maaleh-ncrabbim . . 
55s Maaleh-adunimim . 

558 Maan 

558 Maaui 

55S Maarath 

500 Maaseiah, 1 

500 Maaseiah, 2 

500 Maaseiah, 3 

500 Maaseiah, 4 

500 Maaseiah, 5 

500 Maaseiah, 0 

5(50 Maaseiah, 7 

500 Maaseiah, S 

501 Maaseiah,!) 

501 Maaseiah, 10 

501 Maaseiah, 11 

501 Maaseiah, 12 

561 Maaseiah, 13 

562 Maaseiah, 14 

502 Maaseiah, 15 

503 Maaseiah, 10 

503 Maasiai 

503 Maasias 

573 Maath 

Maaz 

579 Maaziah, 1 

582 Maaziah, 2 

Mabdai 

582 Mabillon 

582 Mahon 

552 Maboul 

582 Mac- 

5*>2 Macalon 

582 Macarius, 1 

Macarius, 2 

553 Macarius, 3 

583 .Macarius, 4 

583 Macarius, 5 

583 Macassar 

583 Macaulay, Aulay .. 

583 Macaulay, Zachary. 

584 Macauley 

5S4* Mach ride 

584 Maccabec 

584 Maccabees, Books 

584 of 

5S5 Maccabees, First 
5S5, Book of 


5SG Maccabees, Second 

5S6 [ Book of Page 

580 Maccabees, Third 

580 Book of 

580 Maccabees, Fourth 
587 Book of (a)..-.. .. 
587 Maccabees, Fourth 

587 Book of (b) 

587 Maccabees, Fifth 

587 Book of 

587 Maccabees, Festi- 

587 val of the 

5S7 Maccarthy 

5s7 Maccarty 

587 Macclintock 

587 Maccovins 

5s7 Macdil 

5SS Mace 

588 Macedo, Antonio . . 
5ss,Macedo, Francisco 

5.8S j de 

5SS' Macedonia 

5Ss Macedonian 

588 Mace douius 

589 Mac Gill 

590 Maclnerus 


Machar 

Machanlt, Jacques. 
Machanlt, Jean de. 
Machault, Jean- 
Baptiste de 
Machbanai .. 
Machbenah .. 

Machet 

592 Macki 

592 Maekir, 1 

Machir, 2 

592 ! M achn ade bai 

593 
59S 
59:i 
593 
593 
593 
593 
593 
593 
593 
593 
593 
593 


Machpelah . . 

Mackzor 

Mackee 

Mackellar 

Mackenzie, Charles 
Mackenzie, George 

Mackey 

Mackie 

Mackintosh.. 

Macki an rin . . 

Macklin 

Mac knight .. 

Maclaine 

593[Mac!ay 

593 .Maclean 

593 Maclennnn .. 

593 Macueite 

593 Macon 

593 Macrobins, . . . 

594 Macron 

594 Macurdy. .... 

594 Macwhorter. 

594 Madagascar . 

594 Madai 

594 Madan, Martin 

594 Madan, Spencer, 1. 
594 Madan, Spencer, 2. 

594 Madeira 

594 Madhava 

594 Madhavacharya . . . 

594 Madiabuu 

594 Madison 

594 Madmauuah 

594 Mad men... j 

594 Madruenah 

594 Madness 

594 Madon 

594 Madonna 

594 Madox 

594 Madras 

594 Madrnzzius 

594 Madura, 1 

594 Madura, 2 

595 Mael us 

595 Maflei, Bernard . . . 
595 Maflei, Francisco 

595 Scipioue de 

595 Maffei, Giovanni 

590 Pietro 

590 Maflei, Yegins 

590 Maftit 

590 M a ga 1 h a? n s , G a b riel 

590 de 

590 Magaltuens, Pedro 

590 de..* 

590 Mqrgarita 

590 Magbisli 

590 Magda la 

Magdalen 

000 Magdalen, Order of 

Magdalena 

COG.Magdiel 


Mnged Page 

G0S Magee, Thomas. 
Magee, William. 

011 1 Magi 

j.Magic 

G13 Magician 

Magicians 

614 Magie 

Magill 

C14 Maginnis 

Magister Discipli- 

G15 me 

GlO Magister Sacri Pa- 

61 (5 latii 

GIG Magistrate 

GlO Magistrate 

010 Magistris 

GlO Magnanimity... 

G17|Magnentius 

Magni, John 

G17 Magni, Valerian 

017 Magnificat 

018 Magnus, 1 

CIS Magnus, 2 

G19 1 Magnus, 3 

019 Magnus, 4. 

619 Magnus, John.. 

619 Magnus, Olaus.. 

G19 Magog 

'Magormissabib. 

GlO Magpiash 

G20 Mahabharata. .. 

620 M abaci eva 

G20 Mahadi 

020 Maha-Kala 

0*20 J Mahakasyapa . . 

G20 Mahnlaleel, 1... 

G20 Mahalaleel, 2. . . 

620'Mahalath, 1 

G22 Mahalath, 2 

622 Mahalath Maschil.. 

622'Mahanaim 

022 Mahanehdan ... 

622 Maha-Pralya ... 

G23 Maharai 

G23 M ahasanghika. . 

G23|Mahath,l 

624jMahath, 2 

624 Mahavansa 

624 Mahavira 

G24Mahavitc 

G25 Mahazioth. 

625 Mabershalalhash- 

625 baz 

G25 Mahesa 

625 Mahlah, 1 

G25 Mahlah, 2 

G25 Mahli, 1 

G25 Mahli, 2 

G2C Mahlite 

G20 Mahlon 

G27 Mahmud 

G27 Mnhneuschmidt 

027 Mahol 

G27 Mahrattas 

627 1 Mai 

027 Maianeas 

G27 Maid 

G28 Maignau 

G2S Maigrot 

G28 Mail 

G2S Maildnff 

628 Mail lard 

G2S'Maillat 

G29 Maille de Breze. 

G29 Maimbourg, Louis. 

629 Maimbourg, Thco- 

G29 dore 

G30 Maimou 

630 Maimonides 

630 Main-sail 

630 Maine de Birau. 

030 Main tenon 

Mair 

G30 Mairs 

Maisire, Joseph. 

630 Maitland, Samuel 
630 Maitland, William 

630 Mai trey a 

Major, Georg 

631 Major, Johann. . . 

Major, John 

631 Majorcs.. . . : 

631 Majoristic Contro- 
G31 versy 

631 Mnjoritas. . . . 

632 Makarij 

632 Makaz 

632 Maked 

G32,Makemie — 


632 Makheloth ...Page 071 

G32,Makkedah 671 

632 Makriua, 1 671 

632 Makrina, 2 G71 

639 Maktesh 671 

648 Malabar G71 

G4S Malacca 072 

648 Malachi 673 

649 Mai achy 675 

649 Malagvida 676 

Malakans 676 

649 Mai an 670 

Malay Archipelago. 077 
649 Malays 677 

649 Malcham . 678 

651 Malchiah, 1 G7S 

651 Malchiah, 2 67S 

651, Malchiah, 3....:... C7S 

652 Malchiah, 4 678 

652 Malchiah, 5 G78 

652 Malchiah, 6 G7S 

652 Malchiah, 7 679 

652 Malchiah, 8 C79 

652 Malchiah, 9 079 

652 Malchiah, 10 679 

652 Malchiel 679 

G52 Malchielite 679 

652 Malchiram 679 

653 Malchus 679 

653 Maidive Islands . . . 679 
653 Maldonatus, Joan- 

653 nes, 1 679 

G54 Maldonatns, Joan- 

654 nes, 2 680 

654 Male GsO 

654 Malebraucke GSO 

654 Malec 083 

G54 Malekites 6s3 

654 Malevolence GS3 

654 Maley 083 

655 Malice 683 

655 Malignity 683 

655 j Mall ary 683 

655 'M alios 683 

655 Mai loth i 083 

655 Mallows 6S3 

655 Mai Inch, 1 GS5 

655 Malluch, 2 685 

055 Malluch, 3 GS5 

650 Malluch, 4 685 

650 Malluch, 5 6S5 

050 Malmesbury 0S5 

I Mai on 085 

C5G Maltliie 0S5 

050 Maltby, Edward. . . GS5 

050 Maltby, Henry G>5 

650 Malthas 085 

050 Malvenda 085 

C5G Mamachi CS0 

C5G Mamaias 686 

650 Mamas 086 

657 Mamertus 086 

G57 Mammillariaus .... CSG 

657 Mammon GSO 

657 Mamuitauaimus. . . 687 

65S Mamun 6S7 

659 Mam re 0S7 

G59 Mamuchus 687 

659 Man 6^7 

659 Manaeu 689 

659 Mauagers Gs9 

660 Manahath, 1 689 

660 Manahath, 2 6S9 

600 Manasseh, 1 689 

GG0,Manasseb, Tribe of. GS9 
G60 Manasseh, 2 692 

Manasseh, 3 692 

661 Manasseh, 4 696 

661 Manasseh. 5 696 

601 Manasseh, Ben -Jo- 
000 seph ben-Israel.. 090 

000 Mauasses, 1 090 

667 Man asses, 2 6: 6 

667 Mauasses, 3 696 

607 Mauasses, 4 696 

6G7 Mauasses, Prayer 

669 of 696 

669 Manassitc 697 

669 Maubv 097 

669 Mnnchet 697 

070 Mancius 697 

670 Alnndeville, Bern a id 

670 de 698 

Mandeville, Henry. 698 

670 Mail dingo 698 

670 Mandra 699 

670 Mandrake 099 

671 Mandyas 700 

671 Maneh 700 

671 Mauetho 700 


057 


LIST OF ARTICLES IN VOL. V. 

Manner Pn^-e 705 1 M a r cu s Diado- iMarsena Page S13|M ary, wife of Clo- IMattaniah, 8.. Page SS2 

Mauley '* ..... 706 elms Page 73SJ Mars’ Hill 813' pas Page S45 IMattaniah, 9 882 

Mauharlists 70C;Marcus Eremita... 738iMarsh 813 Mary, mother «f IMattaniah. 10 

70G Marcus of Gaza.... 739 [Marsh, Francis 813| John... 

Maiiichausm TOTjMarciis 

Manipa 

Maniple 

Manitou 

Manley 

Manlius 

Manly 


of IMattaniah, 10 8S2 

.. 845-Mattathah, 1 S82 

* * "l 8S2 


i the lleresi- Marsh, Herbert 813 Mary at Rome S46 Mattathah, 2 882 

739 Marsh, James S14!Mary of Egypt S46 Mattathias, 1 SS2 

5 the Heretic 740 Marsh, John, 1 814 Mary of England... 846 Mattathias, 2 S82 

! iTiPvnmnnn. Mnvsh John. 2 814 Marv Stnart S49 Mattathias. 3 SS2 


Mann, Cyrus 710 Mardochai, 1.. 

Manu, Horace 710 Mardochai, 2.. 


7091 arch.. 

709 Marcus l , . . _ . . 

709 Marcus Hieromona- Marsh, John, 2 814 Mary Stnart 849 Mattathias, 3 SS: 

709 chus 740[Marsh, Narcissns.. S14 Masaccio 855, Mattathias, 4 882 

709 Marcus of Otranto. 740 Marsh, William, 1'. . 814 Masada 855 Mattathias, 5 

709 M arc! och reus 740 Marsh, William, 2. . 815|Masaloth 856 Mattathias, 6 


S82 
882 

40|Marshall, Andrew.. S15 Masaupasa 857, Mattathias,' 7 SS2 

40 Marshall, George . . 815 Mascaron S57’Mattei, S82 


Mann’ William ... 711 Mardochai, 3 740 Marshall, John ... . SmMasch 857 Matteis 882 

]u! mu [ v 711 Mardochai, 4 740 Marshall, Joseph.. . 815 Maschil S57 l Matteuai, 1 882 

Mnuheimer* . 713 Mardochai, 5 740 Marshall, Nathaniel 815 Masclef. 857 Mattenai, 2 8S2 


Manning, James. . . 714 Mardochai, 6 740 Marshall, Samuel. . 815,Mash. . . . 


Manning, Owen ... 714 Mardochai, 7 740 Marshall, Stephen. 816 

Mannus 714 Marechal, Ambroise 740 Marshall, Thomas. 816 

Manoah 71 1 Marechal, Bernard. 741 

Manse 714 Marechal, Pierre 

Mansel 715j Sylvaiu 741 

Mansi 715 Mareshah, 1 741 

Mansionarii 715 Mareshah, 2 741 

Manslayer 71G,Mareshah, 3 741 

Mansus Ecclesice. . . 716 Maresius, Jean de. . 741 
Mant, Richard, 1... 716 Maresius, Samuel. . 741 

Muut, Richard, 2... 717 Mnrezoll 742 

Mnntchuria 717 Margaret, St 742,Martel, 

Mantelet 717 Margaret of France 742 Martene 


S57 1 Mattenai, 3 8S2 


Marshall, Walter .. 816 
Marshall, William. S1G 

Marsham 81 G 

Marshman 816 

Marsiac 817 

Marsile 817 

Marsilius 817 

Mart SIS 

Marteilhe 818 

818 
SIS 


Mantle 717 Margaret of Orleans 743 

Mantua 719: Margaret of Scot- 

Mantuan 719] land 743 

Mautz 719 Margarit 743 

Mann 719 Margarita 743 

Manuductor 7I9,Margil 743 

Manuel Charitopu- Margnuius 743 

lus 719 Marheineke 743 

Manuel Comnenus. 719 Maria Angelica. ... 744 

Mamie] of Coustan- Maria Theresa .... 744 

tinople 720 Mariales 74-1 


Martha 


819 


Matter 8S2 

Matter, Jacques... SS5 

Matthai SS5 

Matthseus 885 

Matthnt, 1 886 

Matthat, 2 8S6 

Matthelas SS6 

Matthes SSG 

Matthew SSG 


Masham 858 I 

Masias 85S 1 

Masius 8581 

Mask 858 1 

M asm an 85S ] 

Mason 85S ) 

Mason, Erskine... . 859 I 
Mason, Francis, 1 . . 859 ] 

Mason, Francis, 2.. 859 1 

Mason, John, 1 S59 Matthew, Gospel of SS7 

Mason, John, 2 . ... S59 Matthew of Cracow S97 
Mason, John M ... . 859 Matthew of Paris. . 897 

Mason, Lowell SCO Matthew of West- 

Mason, William ... SGOl minster SOS 

Martha, Order of .. 819 Masorah 860, Matthew of York. . 89S 

Marthe 819 Maspha, 1 862 Matthews, AlfordA. S9S 

Martianuv S19 Maspha, 2 SG2 Matthews, Henry.. SOS 

Martien.' S20 Masrekah 862, Matthews, John ... 898 

Martin of Braga. .. 820 Mass 863, Mat thews, William. S99 

Martin of Duuiu. . . 820 Mass Penny 8G8 Matthew’s, St., Hay 899 

Martin of Tours. . . . 821 Mass Priests S68 Matthia 899 

Martin of Troves. . . 821 Massa SGSAIatthias 899 

Martin I S22, Massa Candida 86S Matthias (profane 


Martin II.. 
Martin IIL . . 


822 Massagetie .... 
822 Mnssah 


868 1 historian), 1 S99 

868 Matthias, 2. 899 


Manuel Holobolus. 720,Mariamn£, 1 744 — 

Mauuel, Niclaus... 720 Mariamue, 2 744 Martin IV 822 Massalians 80S Matthias, 3 899 

Manure 721 Mariana 744 Martin V 822 Massnrius S69 Matthias (impostor) 899 


Martin, Andre 823 Massias 

Martin, Asa S23 Massie 

Martin, Claude 823 Massieu 

Martin, C. F 823 Massilinns 

Martin, David S24 Massillon 

Martin, Enoch It. . . 824 Masson, John 

Martin, Gregory 824, Masson, Philip ... . STOMatthias’s Day . . . . 9(30 

Martin, Jacques de. 8241 Masson, Samuel. . . S70 Mattison, Hiram. . . 901 

747 Martin, Janies S24|Massuet S70 1 Mattison, Seth 902 

747 Mart’ll, John, 1 . . . . 824 Mast.* 870 Mattison, Spencer. 902 

« — •*- S71 Mattithiah,! 902 


Mannscripts 721 [Marianas Scotus. .. 746 

Maock 729|Mariastein 746 

ISIaon, 1 729 Mariazell 746 

Muon, 2 729 Marie la Coque .. 746 

Maonite 729 Marie de lTncarua- 

Maphrian 729 tion 747 

Mapletoft 729 Marietu 747 

Mappa 730 Marillac 747 

Mara 730, Marin.. 

Mara (Iliudti diva). 730 Mariner . . . , 

Marabuts 730 Marini 747 Mart :, John, 2.... 824 Master. 


869 Matthias Corvinus. 699 
869 Matthias of Kuu- 
869 S walde 900 

869 Matthias 1 300 

869, Matthias, John B. . 900 

870 Matthias, John J. . . COO 


Marofoschi 730 Marino... 


747,Martin, John Kich- (Master (Christian).. STliMnttithinh, 2, 902 

Marah 730 Marinas 747 1 olas 825 Masters of the Mattithiah, 3 902 

Maralah 730 Mario l:\try 747 Martin, Margaret M. S25 Church S71 Mattithiah, 4 902 

Maranatha 730 Marion 754 Martin, Mar-Prelate S25 Mastianx. 871 Mattithiah, 5 902 

Marauos 731 Maris 754 Marlin, Saint 825|Mastic 871 Mattithiah, 6 902 

Mnran 731, Marius Aventicus. . 755 ‘Martin, Sarah 826]Mnsudi S72 M at took 902 

Maratta 731 Marius Mercator. . . 755 Martin, Thomas. . . 826 Matali 872 Maturin 902 

Maraviglia 731 Mark 755 Martin, William W. 826 Mater Dolorosa.... S72 Mauburne 902 

Marbach 731 Mark, Gospel of... 756 Martin Brethren. . . 826 Mater Speciosa S72 Mauduit 903 

‘ ~~ — ' ' ■ "'‘" Materialism S72,Mauermanu 903 

Mather, Alexander. 874 Maul 903 

Mather, Cotton 875|Maulbronu 903 

Mather, Eleazer. .. 876 Maulmont 904 

Mather, Increase. .. S7G Maunday Thursday 905 

Mather, Moses S77 Mauuoir 905 

Mather, Nathaniel. S77 Manpas du Tour. . . 905 

Mather, Richard. . . S77 Maupin 905 

Mather, Samuel, 1 . 877 Manr, Congrega- 

Mather, Samuel, 2. S77 tiou of 905 

Mathesius STS Maurand 90S 


Marban 731 Mark on the Per- Martina 826 

Marbeck 731 son 7G2 Martindale, Ste- 

Marble 731 Miirk 762 phen 826 

Marburg Bible 732 Market 763 Martindale, Theo- 

MarburgConference 732 Aliirklin 763 doreD S2G 

Marbury 733|Mnrks 763 Martinet S27 

Marca 733 Mark’s, St., Day... . 763 Martini, Antonio . . S27 

Marcella 733 Marlatt 763 Martini, Corneille.. 827 

Marcellians 733 Marlay 764 Martini, Giambat- 

Marcellina 733 Marl oral us 764 tista 827 

Mareellinus 733 Marmontel 765 Martini, Martino. . . 827 

Marcellas, St., 1 .. . 734 Marmoth 765 Martini, Raymond. S27 | Mathetie 878 Maurice of Saxony. 90S 

Marcellas, St., 2 .. . 734 Marne 765 Martinique 828 Mathew S7S Maurice, Antoine, 1 910 

Marcellas, St., 3 . . . 734 Marnix 765 Martinists 826 Mathews 878 Maurice, Antoine, 2 910 

Marcel Ins, St., 4 . . . 734 Maron 766 Mnrtinius 82S Mathilda, St 878 Maurice, Frederick 

Marcellusof Ancvra 734,Maronites 766 Martinmas S2$iMathilda of Tus- | Denison 910 

Marcellas of Apa- Marot 770 Martinus 826] cany S7S Maurice, Henry. .. . 912 

mea, 1 734 Maroth 771 Martyu 828 Mnthnrins 879 Maurice, Thomas. . 912 

Marcellas of Apa- Mnrozia 771 Martyr S29 Matins 

mea, 2 734 Marquesas Isles... . 771 Martyr, Peter 829 Mat red 

Marcellas 1 735 Marquette 772 Martyrdom S30 Matri 

Marcellus II 735 Marquez 772 Martyriarius S30|Matriculn. . . 

Mareellus, Aaron . . 735 Marquis, James E.. 772 Martyrinm 830 Matrieularii . 

Marcheshvan 735 Marquis, Thomas. . 772 Martyrology 830 Matrimony S79 Mawmoisine 914 

Marchetti, Fraufois 735 Maracci 772 Martyrs 831 Matsya 881 Clawson 914 

Marelietti, Giovanni 735 Marriage 772 Martyrs, Canouiza- Mattan, 1 SSI Maxcy 914 

Marcion. 735 Marriage, Christian 78s noil of. S82|Mnttan, 2 SSI Mnxtield 915 

Marcites 737 Marriage, Heathen. 796 Martyrs, Festivals * (Mattan. 3 881 Maximinnists 915 

Marck 737 Marron 810 of the 832 Mattanah 881 Maximilian 1 915 

Marconville 737 Marrow 810 Maritf el-Karkhi... 833 Mattaniah, 1 881 Maximilian II 916 

Marcomani 737 Marrow Controver- Marut S 33 Mattaniah, 2 SSI Maximin 1 916 

Mnrcosians 7371 sv Sll Maruthns 833 Mattaniah, 3 SSI Maximin II 916 

Marcus, Pope 737 Mars Sll Marv, the Virgin. . . S33, Mattaniah, 4 882 Maximus Alexan- 

Mareus of Alexan- Mars, St 812 Mary Magdalene.. . 841 Mattaniah, 5 662 drinns 917 

dria 738 Marsav 812 Mary, sister of Laz- Mattaniah, 6 882 Maximus Confessor 917 

Marcus of Arethusa 738,Marsden S12| ariis S44 1 Mattauiab, 7 SS2 Maximus the Greek 913 


879 Mauritius 912 

879 Mauruy 913 

879 Maury 913 

. . . . 879 Mauzzim 914 

.879 Maw 914 


95S 

Maximus of Jerusa- 
lem Page 

Maximus Philoso- 
phic, 1 

Maximus Philoso- 
phic, 2 

Maximus Philoso- 
phic, 3 : 

Maximus Philoso- 
phic, 4 

Maximus of Turin. 
Maximus of Tyre.. 
Maxwell, Darcy — 
Maxwell, Robert... 
Maxwell, Samuel.. 
Maxwell, William.. 

May, E. II 

May, James 

May, Samuel 

Maya 

Mayence 

Mayence, Councils 

at 

Mayer, Jacob 

Mayer, Johann .... 
Mayer. Johann C. . 
M a y e r, Johann 

Friedrich 

Mayer, John 

Mayer, Lewis 

Mayer, Philip 

May liew, Experi- 
ence. . . ; 

Mayhew, Jonathan. 
Mayhew, Thomas. . 
Mayne, James S.. . . 

Mayne, Jasper 

Mayuooth College. . 


LIST OF ARTICLES IN VOL. V. 


Mayo Page 

9IS Mayotta 

Mavow 

919 1 May r, Beda 

Mayr, Colestin 

919 Mazarin 

Mazdak 

919 Maze] 

[Mazitias 

919 Mazolini 

919 Mazos 

920 Mazzaroth 

920 Mazzocchi 

920 Mnzzola, Girolamo 
920 Bedolo 

920 Mazzola, Girolamo 

921 Francisco 

921 McAdam 

921 McArthur 

921 Me A ill ey 

921 McBride, Matthew. 

McBride, Robert . . . 
925 McBryde 

925 McCaine 

920 McCall, John 

926 McCall, Joseph. . . . 
iMcCalla, Daniel . . . 

926 McCalla, William. . 
926 McCampbell 

926 Me Carr oil 

92G McCarron 

McCartee 

927 McCartney, John . . 
927,McCartney, Wil- 

927 liam 

927 McCnul 

92« McCaulle 

92SMcCay 


930|McCheyue Page 

930 McClanahan 

930 McClaskcy 

931 McClelland 

931 McClintock 

931 McCI ung 

932 McClure, Alexan- 
932 1 der 
932 
932 
932 
932 
932 


John 

Sam- 


McClure, Arthur. . . 

McClure, David 

McCombs 

McCounughy 

McConnell 

McCook 

McCorkle.. . 

McCoy 

McCracken, 

Steele 

McCracken, 

uel W 

McCrary 

McC'ready 

McCrie 

McCullough 

McCurdy 

McCutchen 

McDearmon 

934 McDermott 

934 McDonald, An- 

9341 drew 

934 McDonald, Daniel. . 

934 McDonald, John... 

935 McDouogh 

McDowell, Alexan- 

935 1 der 

935:McDowell, John. .. 
935 [McDowell, William 
935j Anderson 


935 McElhany ... .Page 941|McLeod, Alexan- 

936 McFarland, Asa.. . . 941 der Page 

936 McFarland, James. 941 'McLeod, Cornelius. 
936 McFarland, James McLeod, Norman. . 

936 Hunter 942 McLeod, Xavier 

937 McFarlane 942 Donald 

McFerrin 942 McLoughlin 

937 McGanghey 942 McLurc 

938 McGavin 942 McMahon 

938 McGee 942 [McMaster, Erasmus 

938 McGilvary 943 D 

938 McGlashan 943 McMaster, Gilbert.. 

938 McGorrisk 943 McMillan, Edward. 

93s McGregor 943 McMillan, Gavin. . . 

939 McIIenry 943 McMillan, Gavin 

939 Mcllvaine 943| Riley 

iMclver 944 McMillan, Hugh... 

939 McKay 944 McMillan, Robert. . 

McKean, James W. 944 McMullen 

939 McKean, Joseph... 944 McMnrray 

939 i McKenrn 944 McNair 

939 McKeeu 944 McNeill, Angus Cur- 

939 McKendree 944: vie 

940 McKenuan 945 McNeil, James H. . . 

940' McKinley 945 McNeish 

940 McKinney, Calvin. 945 McNelly 

940 McKinney, David . . 945 McNulty 

940 McKinney, Isaac McPheeters 

■ Newton 945 McPherson, John 

940 McKinney, James.. 945 Erskine 

940 McKinney, John. . . 946 McPherson, Joseph 

941 McKinnon 946 A 

941 McLachlan 946,McQneen 


946 

947 
947 

947 
94S 
94S 
94S 

94S 

94S 

94S 

948 

94S 

943 

949 
949 
949 
949 

949 

949 

949 

950 
950 
950 


McLain 946 McReynolds. 

94l'McLane 946 McSwaiu 

941|McLaurin 940'McVean 

McLean, Alexander 94G[McYickar. . . . 
941 jMcLean, Charles G. 9461 


950 

950 

950 

950 

950 

950 

951 


END OF VOL, V* 






J 





















jr. 




• * 









<^3R0A , t 



u 

riuWSP ^ I 





r • V 




apO 



ISBiiSk 




• ‘.V- S' 

^If ' ■ /OT^I 


>■ 















ft.. 


■ \ ,:- 




: •■: 

m 

■ 

t 








V 






T'" - 






1 7 




• ' 



